KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 The network of the Netherlands The network of the Netherlands Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Contents In preparing this Integrated Annual Report, we have taken the principles of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) into account. For the CSR information included in this report, we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Option: Comprehensive. We follow the EU directive on Non-Financial Reporting and also we have taken the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into account. KPN recognizes the importance of disclosure on environmental, social and governance matters. We do so by integrating disclosure of this information with other financial and non-financial information, based on materiality considerations, in this Integrated Annual Report. 2 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices KPN at a glance Financial Statements CEO letter to the stakeholders 4 Consolidated Financial Statements 98 Our purpose and the world around us 8 Corporate Financial Statements 158 Strategy, key performance and value creation model 12 Other Information 165 The value we create Appendices Our value for stakeholders Appendix 1: Alternative performance measures 174 – Customer value 18 Appendix 2: Connectivity of non-financial information 176 – Shareholder value 21 Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement  180 Long-term and short-term impact on society 26 Appendix 4: List of top risks 194 Appendix 5: Glossary 201 Our performance – Converged smart infrastructure 32 Digital appendices – Flexible, simple and converged products and services 35 Please see www.kpn.com/annualreport for the following – Focused innovation and digitalization 39 appendices: – Safeguarded privacy and security 42 Appendix 6: Social figures – Sustainable employability 45 Appendix 7: Environmental figures – Environmental performance and Appendix 8: Supply chain responsible supply chain 48 Appendix 9: GRI Index Our valuable assets 56 Note: The Board of Management Report consist of pages 1 79. KPN’s policy regarding board diversity is described on pages Safeguarding long-term value 73 75. The detailed list of top risks can be found in Appendix 4. Corporate governance 58 Tax and regulations 63 Compliance and risk 66 Composition of the boards 73 Supervisory Board Report 80 Remuneration Report 86 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 3 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create CEO letter to the stakeholders The network of the Netherlands Worldwide, the Netherlands is one of the frontrunners in KPN delivers connectivity and related services for consumers, digitalization. Telecommunications companies play an important business customers and wholesale clients through our KPN role in facilitating the ongoing technological transformation and network, the network of the Netherlands. Our customers digitalization, and building the infrastructure for the next recognize KPN for the quality and reliability of our networks generations a key foundation for the future success of Dutch and services, our high security standards and the sustainable society. Compared to other countries in Europe, the quality of way we run our business. Their appreciation is reflected in Dutch networks is highly regarded because of the large all-time high Net Promoter Scores in both fixed and mobile penetration of high-speed and high-availability of fixed and services for consumers. KPN’s strong reputation was one of the mobile networks. Dutch providers are acknowledged for that. triggers to start implementing the one-brand strategy in 2019. At the same time, the Dutch telecommunications sector is very competitive, with three strong players in the market. Within this The leadership team and all people within KPN are fully aware playing field KPN plays a very important role. that the status quo is not an option, given the speed of digitalization in society. We therefore have a clear strategy in It is in this context that I took over the helm of the company place to achieve organic sustainable growth. 2019 was the first after Maximo Ibarra left as CEO at the end of September 2019. full year of executing our three-pillar strategy, which is based I am honored to have been offered this responsibility. Together on building the best network, focusing on profitable growth with the new team of board members, we consider it a major segments, and accelerating the simplification and digitalization responsibility to serve the interests of all KPN’s stakeholders: of our organization. our customers, our shareholders, our employees, our business partners and Dutch society at large. In 2019, we made good progress in delivering on our strategy. We started the ramp up of the roll-out of fiber-to-the-home 4 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 5 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create CEO letter to the stakeholders with the aim of connecting another one million households simplify and digitalize the company and our processes. We have by the end of 2021 on top of the 2.3 million FttH households taken several steps to create a more flexible organization and to by the end of 2018. Fiber is the most future-proof technology enhance the time to market of new services. In addition, we have in which we are heavily investing. Our plans are ambitious, introduced more focus through divestments of non-core assets. although we have to deal with construction capacity constraints we are committed to continue the roll-out at full speed. At the We delivered on all our financial guidance aspects for 2019 and same time, we are modernizing our mobile network to become showed slight growth in adjusted EBITDA after leases (EBITDA future-proof and making it 5G-ready. The roll-out of fiber and AL), Capex of EUR 1.1bn, free cash flow of more than EUR 700m 5G will contribute to the further digitalization of Dutch society and a progressive regular dividend per share. Due to our strong and will in particular support businesses in developing new and disciplined cost control, leading to significant savings in applications and optimizing their processes. In our field labs, 2019, we position us well to deliver on our 2019 2021 savings we have co-created several 5G use cases with our business program. In the consumer market, we faced some decline of our partners, business customers and government institutions for customer base due to the competitive environment in the sectors such as agriculture, transport and automotive, including Netherlands and the rationalization of our brands. Meanwhile, testing applications in urban areas. a solid Wholesale performance contributed to our strong position in the Netherlands. In the Business segment, KPN focuses on Through our services, KPN wants to offer consumers and value over volume, to develop more profitable revenues in the businesses the best solutions at home, in the office and on the years to come. We are in the process of migrating our business move. Our customers’ needs are driven by a demand for customers to the new future-proof portfolio. 74% of our small/ flexibility, autonomy and personalized experiences combined medium enterprise customers and 53% of our large enterprise with fixed-mobile converged services. To cater to these needs, customers have been migrated. we have introduced KPN Hussel for consumers and small businesses. KPN Hussel is a fully converged proposition that I am proud to see how committed our entire workforce was gives customers complete freedom to mix and match our menu to delivering KPN’s services to all our customers, in helping of services to meet their needs at any moment. To service our to execute our strategy and to delivering on our financial business customers we are simplifying our product portfolio and objectives. I want to thank all employees for contributing to focusing on flexible standard propositions, for connectivity and these achievements. The leadership team recognizes that KPN’s IT services such as security, cloud and workspaces. In this way, transformation brings challenges for our employees. We strongly we are becoming a one-stop-shop. believe in continuously developing and investing in our people to The fast-changing world creates challenges and opportunities enable them to adapt to changing requirements and strengthen in terms of transforming our organization. It is vital to further their resilience for a new future inside or outside KPN. “I am proud to see how committed our entire workforce was in delivering KPN’s services to all our customers” 6 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices “ KPN is ready for the future delivering on its ambition to become the undisputed quality leader in the Netherlands” Joost Farwerck, CEO Specifically, I would like to acknowledge that our brand strategy Over the past several years, KPN has built a strong track record has not been an easy process for our XS4ALL employees, given in doing business in a sustainable manner. We firmly believe that their strong identification with XS4ALL and dedication to its this is vital if we are to preserve our competitive advantage and customers. I respect their engagement and expertise, which is why secure the long-term interests of all our stakeholders. With our I would like every XS4ALL employee to continue to work for KPN. services we intend to also contribute to solving societal issues, like reducing waste and promoting circular solutions. For several The networks of KPN play an important role in the digitalization years we have received top rankings – placed second in 2019 – of the Netherlands and we will support this with our strategy in the in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for Telecommunication future as well. Everything will be connected with everything and Services. This testifies not only our climate performance. It also Artificial Intelligence will give valuable insights. New technology such attests, for instance, to our performance in security and as 5G and cloudification, will be crucial for these developments. everything we do through the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. KPN is deeply rooted in the Netherlands, people in our country are daily served via our networks directly or indirectly. By watching KPN has connected people in the Netherlands for more than TV, using internet, using work space at work, using wifi in the train, 100 years and will continue to do so going forward, in a doing payments at home or in a shop, to name a few; everyone responsible and sustainable way. My board colleagues and is connected through The KPN network. In that perspective, I intend to continue on this path, and look forward to 2020 and we should mention here the disruption to our network which beyond. Together with our employees and business partners, affected the accessibility of the 112 emergency number. we will build an even stronger KPN. A KPN that is ready for the Following this very unfortunate event, measures have been taken future, delivering on our ambition to become the undisputed to improve network robustness and to secure the availability of quality leader for our customers, shareholders, employees, 112. It goes without saying that we are doing this in close contact business partners and Dutch society. Thank you for trusting with the government and other operators. us to operate the network of the Netherlands. Joost Farwerck, CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management KPN KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 7 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our purpose and the world around us Investing in future-proof telecom infrastructure Our purpose Our role in society We aim to connect everything and everybody in an innovative, KPN is at the center of the new technological developments reliable and sustainable way. This makes our customers’ lives reshaping our society. We aim to generate long-term value and more free, fun and easy. Our core activities therefore encompass contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as building and maintaining a fixed and mobile infrastructure and well. These were adopted by all UN member states in 2015 as a delivering connectivity in a sustainable way. This will enable our universal call to create a more sustainable future for all by 2030. customers and their assets to communicate and function Looking at current societal challenges, we can make a difference increasingly efficiently, supporting the transition towards a on three areas that are very important for the coming years: low-carbon and climate change-resilient economy as further • Secure, future-proof connectivity (Please see chapters explained in our business model on pages 12 to 15. Our business ‘Converged smart infrastructure’ and ‘Focused innovation and model also highlights our long-term impact on society in terms digitalization’) of secure future-proof connectivity and social inclusion. The • Social inclusion (Please see chapters ‘Sustainable business model starts with our basis, which includes our employability’, ‘Focused innovation and digitalization’ and customer base, workforce and partnerships. Please also see ‘Long-term and short-term impact on society’) chapter ‘Long-term and short-term impact on society’ on pages • Environmental impact (Please see chapters ‘Environmental 26 to 29 which describes our value for society and contribution performance and responsible supply chain’ chapter). to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We are closely linked to the Netherlands in every way and in Our position in the value chain almost every sector. As our society grows ever more dependent on IT and connectivity, our services become more relevant, In an environment where digitalization is transforming our helping the economy and society to advance and become more industry and power is concentrated among a small number of sustainable. This includes providing critical communication global tech players, telecom companies are moving towards the services for the police, armed forces, transport and healthcare sweet spot in their markets. At one end, there are infrastructure sector. players focused purely on delivering the best infrastructure without direct customer relationships. At the other end, there Our competitive position are telecom players developing a full suite of digital services and acquiring rich content offerings for end-customers. Compared to most other European countries, the Netherlands is Thanks to our infrastructure and brand reputation, we have a characterized by a high penetration of high-speed, high-quality strong market position in the Netherlands. We envisage KPN’s fixed and mobile broadband access. The fixed network position in the ecosystem as that of a lean, high-quality topography consists of two nationwide operators with extensive connectivity provider with Consumer, Business and Wholesale broadband coverage (KPN and VodafoneZiggo) and a few customer relations. We do not foresee entering into full-scale smaller local or regional players. Our network has always been competition with scaled OTT players. We will deliver our core asset, and together with our skilled employees we aim connectivity and adjacent services as an aggregator via the to help shape new business models and markets where right partnerships. In addition, we are exploring new roles to technology interacts with societal trends. foster innovation in our focus areas of security, connected things (Internet of Things and smart home), data-driven digital business models and IT services, for example in digital healthcare. Our IT and network will be integrated, delivering a digital platform, which helps facilitate the delivery and integration of partner services to our end-users. 8 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Competition in the consumer market Competition in the wholesale market The Dutch consumer market for telecommunications includes In the mobile wholesale market we are competing with network household broadband access, voice services and media operators T-Mobile and VodafoneZiggo. We observe an offerings (via traditional TV and/or OTT). The consumer market increasing demand for data usage in this market, along with a is characterized by fierce competition in high quality networks higher number of data users. In the fixed wholesale market, we in both fixed and mobile, a shift to fixed-mobile convergence may face competition from VodafoneZiggo, which is required to (FMC) and the speed of adoption of digital services (e.g. OTT provide wholesale access based on the current Wholesale Fixed services). Access decision by ACM. And in the business market, Eurofiber offers wholesale services. Other local network operators also Competition in the business market offer wholesale access services. The business market structure, developments and our position and competitive performance within the market give rise to Technology trends several challenges and opportunities. Firstly, competitors are emerging with cheaper alternatives to traditional connectivity, In 2019, the development of quantum technology, open which threatens our installed base share. Secondly, traditional platforms and virtual reality is progressing to rapidly change telco competition is focusing on regaining market share by our daily lives in the future. Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial retention pricing, fixed-mobile convergence and an aggressive intelligence (AI) are becoming mainstream and ever more challenger pricing strategy. Finally, a shift towards cloud-based frequently deployed. alternatives has facilitated a growth of the IT market. This untapped potential offers KPN a growth opportunity, but also AI, in particular, with its amazing ability to recognize patterns, means we need to compete with specialized, digital-native IT is making progress and will completely change entire industries. providers. When it comes to chatbots, AI and machine learning will improve the way bots interact with people. We started preparing for the roll-out of 5G in 2019. While last year was all about experimenting, in 2020 we are making a product start on the realization. That is not only about upgrading antennas, but also introducing Edge computing to support the 5G services. (See ‘Converged smart infrastructure’ chapter) The success of this next-generation mobile technology depends on the number of suitable use cases. The trend is to combine different technologies to create new applications. For instance, innovative IoT applications will use 5G and AI running in the Edge cloud, to be exposed via secure APIs for integration with existing business applications. “We aim to help shape These developments lead to new solutions, but also raise new questions. For instance, developments related to the use of new business models personal data require great care in terms of privacy. With KPN Ventures and our innovation department KPN Open Innovation Hub, we aim to stay on top of new developments. and markets where technology interacts with societal trends” KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 9 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our purpose and the world around us Our SWOT Acting on the changes in society is an important factor in the success of our business and in strengthening our market position as a leading telecommunications and IT provider in the Netherlands. The following summary of our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) provides a brief overview of the evaluation of our competitive position in the environment in which we operate. “Thanks to our infrastructure and brand reputation, we have a strong market position in the Netherlands” 10 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Strengths Opportunities • A strong brand reputation within the Dutch • Digitalization of customer interactions offers opportunities to telecommunications market: reliable and offering products and improve processes and helps customers to operate digitally. services with a good price-quality ratio. • New technologies enable us to manage network capacity in a • Cost control resulting in stronger EBITDA-AL margins. dynamic way. • Externally recognized for sustainability contribution, as • Technological developments in infrastructure, software and illustrated by positive benchmark results. virtual networks, and IoT accelerate innovation, creating • Strong competences in network security and cybersecurity to solutions to meet the societal challenges that come with ensure customer data privacy. urbanization, a higher life expectancy and individualization. • Increased customer satisfaction demonstrated by a higher In addition, this also facilitates the digitalization and Net Promoter Score (NPS). simplification of our processes, enabling a cost reductions. • Attractive combination of bundled services and broad • Leverage strong distribution, customer and household business and consumer service offering for fixed, mobile and relations footprint to develop new business models. IT services. • Leverage data and analytics capabilities to create value in the • An attractive employer with skilled and motivated employees. current business model and develop new business models. • Trusted provider of critical communication services. • Significant growth in usage of communication networks and new applications on our networks makes us highly relevant. • Substitution of existing products and services with alternatives in the short term with lower greenhouse gas emissions. • Security as a basis for every business network and KPN business service is becoming a basic need Weaknesses Threats • For the FttH roll-out we need to put cash before the return. • Dependency for telecommunications equipment on suppliers • In some areas, slower time to market than desirable. that are subject to international geopolitical discussions. • Gender diversity, especially in middle management functions. • Confidentiality, integrity and availability of networks, systems • Limited integration across platforms with solid but complex IT or customer data need continued attention. systems and processes. This presents difficulties in driving • Challenging labor market for sufficient qualified staff. customized client solutions and providing a totally integrated • Fierce competition from international network providers. service portfolio. • New restrictive regulation in the EU and the Netherlands for • Extensive customized business market portfolio and processes telecommunication companies. for large enterprises. • Disruptive technologies and new business models that we • Required time it takes to simplify and digitize customer need to adapt to. front-end in B2B solutions. • Most services increasingly based on technology standards, limiting the possibilities for differentiation from competitors. • Increased price of energy commodities on the medium term due to embedded greenhouse gas regulation tariffs. • Precipitation impact on our technical infrastructure due to medium term impact of climate change. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 11 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Strategy, key performance and value creation model Executing our strategy at full speed In 2019, KPN went full speed ahead with the execution of its strategy, positioning itself as a future-proof, high-quality, lean telco with premium consumer, business and wholesale customer relations. KPN continues to invest in its infrastructure to become the undisputed quality leader in the Netherlands. KPN aims for organic and sustainable growth of adjusted EBITDA AL and free cash flow in 2019–2021, enabling progressive dividend payments and deleveraging. Strategic priorities Main pillars Main goals 2021 Progress per year-end Ref. to 2019-2021 2019 chapter Building the best • Acceleration of fiber roll-out • Full mobile network •+  1 million FttH households compared to end 2018 • +~120k FttH households Converged smart infrastructure (p. 32) converged smart modernization • Moving to all-IP • 100% 5G ready • Mobile network modernization started, around 640 sites 5G ready infrastructure • ~ 45% of households at 1Gbps • 31% of households at 1Gbps¹ • ~ 70% of households at 200Mbps • 61% of households at 200Mbps • ~ 50% virtualized network functions • 26% virtualized network functions • 100% all-IP • Migration to IP portfolio well on track: ~175k legacy lines vs ~775k legacy lines end 2018 Focusing on Consumer •Best household access and •+  300k converged households • +59k converged households Customer profitable growth customer experience value (p. 18), • Growing converged customer • 7 0% postpaid base converged • 63% postpaid base coverage Products & segments base and product penetration services (p. 35) • Focus on delivering value Business • Converged simplified product • M  igrate 100% of SME base from legacy² • 74% of SME base migrated Customer portfolio value (p. 18), • Transformation of operating •M  igrate 100% of LE base from legacy² • 53% of LE base migrated Products & platform services (p. 35) • Lean and digital operations •V  alue over volume in LE & Corporate • Significantly less revenues from low margin hardware deals • S tabilized end-to-end adj. EBITDA AL • In progress by mid-2020 • Reduce IT systems by 75% • Ongoing IT integration Accelerating • New multi-year opex reduction program • ~ € 350m net indirect opex savings • Net indirect opex savings € 141m Shareholder value (p. 21), simplification and • Lean operating model • Digital customer journeys • F rom 20 to 2 converged IT stacks, one for consumer and one for B2B • Reduction converged IT stacks in progress Customer value (p. 18), digitalization • Automated back-end tasks Focused innovation & • F rom 5 to 1 core network(s) • 3 core networks digitalization (p. 39) • S implified end-to-end organization • Disposals of NLDC, KPN International, Argeweb and announced disposal of KPN consulting 1 Based on FttH broadband speed potential. As of March 2020, KPN will make this broadband speed commercially available for designated FttH areas. 2 Traditional fixed-voice and legacy broadband. 12 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Adjusted Adjusted Free cash Capital Shareholder return EBITDA AL1,2 EBITDA AL flow 1,4 expenditure1 € million margin1,2 € million € million Return on capital employed⁵ 9.0% 9.2% 20183 2019 Regular dividend ordinary share €12 ct €12.5 ct 2018 2019 Total shareholder return (TSR) KPN 7.5% 2019 Telco index 5.1% 2019 3.20 3.00 2.80 2.60 2.40 2.20 2,290 2,317 41% 42% 795 726 1,106 1,115 2.00 Jan 19 Mar 19 May 19 Jul 19 Sep19 Nov19 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 KPN Restated³ Restated³ Restated³ Stoxx Europe 600 Telecommunications Index⁶ Network speed Energy consumption in petajoules Average 4G download speed Average maximum download speed Energy consumed by KPN Estimated energy consumption mobile network per year-end broadband fixed per year-end saving by KPN customers⁸ 58Mbps 53Mbps 68Mbps 202Mbps 221Mbps 236Mbps 2.832 2.841 2.728 1.804 2.511 2.527 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017⁷ 2018⁷ 2019 2017⁷ 2018⁷ 2019 Converged services Customer satisfaction Transformation of operating platform Households in fixed-mobile bundles9 Net Promoter Score in Consumer % SME base migrated from legacy services¹⁰ 42% 46% 49% 13 14 19 9% 41% 74% 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles Net Promoter Score in Business Reputation RepTrak Pulse score 51% 57% 63% -1 -1 -4 70.5 72.6 74.4 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018¹¹ 2019 2017 2018 2019 1 Based on continuing operations. 6 Rebased to KPN’s closing price of the last trading day of prior year. 2 KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation (incl. impairments) of PP&E 7 Restated for the sale of NLDC. and amortization (incl. impairments) of intangible assets. Adjusted EBITDA after leases are 8 Estimated energy consumption saved by customers from using our IT solutions. See derived from EBITDA and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and Appendix 3 for further details. incidentals (‘adjusted’) and for lease costs, incl. depreciation of right-of-use assets and 9 As percentage of broadband customers. interest on lease liabilities (‘after leases’ or ‘AL’). Reconciliations can be found in Appendix 1. 10 Percentage of SME customers migrated from traditional fixed-voice or legacy broadband 3 Comparative financial information for 2018 has been restated to reflect the implementation services starting August 2017. of IFRS 16. 11 N  PS Business 2018 has been restated, see Appendix 3 for the new NPS Business 4 Free cash flow after leases excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend. calculation. The reported figure for 2017 has not been restated. 5 Net operating profit less adjustments for taxes divided by capital employed. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 13 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Strategy, key performance and value creation model Delivering value on the short and long term Our valuable assets Purpose: We make life more free, fun and easy. We aim to connect everything and everybody in an innovative, reliable and Loyal customer sustainable way. (p.8) base and digital era demands (p. 56) Ambition: To be at the very heart of our customers’ connected life, Strong partnerships we want to be their trusted companion by offering and supplier base best-in-class quality in terms of access, service and (p. 56) customer experience. Strategic priorities: Future-proof • Building the best converged smart infrastructure. infrastructure and • Focusing on profitable growth segments. mobile spectrum • Accelerating simplification and digitalization. (p. 57) (p. 12) Core activities: • Invest in a future-proof secure, reliable, Skilled and motivated high-quality network. workforce (p. 57) • Offer high-quality products and services with a best-in-class customer experience. • Automating and digitalizing where possible, thereby simplifying IT stacks, networks and our organization. Solid financial basis (p. 57) How we operate: Deliver end-to-end teamwork, speed in execution and first time right for our customers. Green energy (p. 57) Governance Risk and (p. 58) Compliance control (p. 66) (p. 66) 14 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our performance Value we create Long–term impact on society Converged smart infrastructure (p. 32) Flexible, simple and converged products and services (p. 35) Customer value: Secure, future-proof Customer in control connectivity (p. 26) of secure, reliable and Focused innovation seamless connectivity and digitalization (p. 18) (p. 39) Safeguarded privacy Social and and security (p. 42) digital inclusion Shareholder value: (p. 26) Organic sustainable growth (p. 21) Sustainable employability (p. 45) Environmental impact (p. 26) Environmental performance and responsible supply chain (p. 48) KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 15 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create 16 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Network of the future continues growing “ Proud that we can connect households with the most future-proof network there is — Willem Offerhaus Director Executive Relations & Strategic Projects ” For more than 100 years, KPN has Amsterdam is the next big city to get speeds. Data usage will continue to ensured that everyone in the Netherlands fiber connections. increase substantially in the coming is properly connected – with each other years, not only through more intensive and now, with all the exciting things made “We are proud to be able to roll out fiber internet usage and an increasing number possible by the latest digital techniques. in our Dutch capital, and thus fulfill our of devices, but also because of online We will continue doing this in the future. main social responsibility: connecting gaming, Artificial Intelligence and the KPN’s ambition is to have about one households with the most future-proof Internet of Things. million additional FttH households network there is,” says Willem Offerhaus, throughout the Netherlands by the end KPN director Executive Relations & of 2021, on top of the 2.3 million Strategic Projects. “What’s more, we’re households by end 2018. Construction talking about a substantial investment, or advanced preparation for this have because the installation of fiber optic in already begun in more than 70 areas. a city like Amsterdam is complex.” Following Zwolle, Apeldoorn, Nijmegen, Fiber is very stable, has huge capacity, Arnhem, Alkmaar and The Hague, and offers equal download and upload KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 17 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our value for stakeholders: Customer value Building a satisfied and loyal customer base We started our integration activities in 2019 and will continue our efforts in 2020, aligned with our strategy to simplify our service offerings. Understanding and engaging with our customers is essential. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 NPS Consumer 19 14 NPS Fixed-Mobile converged 30 25 NPS Business1 -4 -1 1 NPS Business 2018 has been restated, see Appendix 3 for the new NPS Business calculation. Customer satisfaction Consumer To create sustainable customer value, it is vital to build a We have made the strategic decision to simplify our brand satisfied, loyal customer base. Happy customers stay with us for portfolio and focus fully on the KPN brand. This way, we can longer, use more of our services and refer other people to us. pool our resources and offer the best of all our brands to a Customers can only be satisfied if they enjoy excellent wider group of customers. We started brand integration in the experiences when they use services and/or interact with KPN. second quarter. In 2019, KPN saw solid growth in its converged customer base and NPS even increased to 30. We use Net Promoter Score (NPS) We closed down Telfort stores and started the migration to to measure our customers’ satisfaction and as an indication for KPN of existing Telfort prepaid mobile customers, while the their loyalty. acquisition of new customers via the Telfort brand was ended per 1 May 2019. Regarding the integration of XS4ALL we will Driven by the negative impact of our portfolio rationalization, maintain the brand and foster its front-end strenghts while migrations and temporary consequences of the ongoing integrating the technology at the back-end. restructuring, Business NPS decreased to -4. On the other hand, Consumer NPS hit a record high of +19. According to KPN We aim to be transparent in communication with customers customers, ‘KPN offers the best service’ and ‘KPN has the best about our brand rationalization, the logic behind it, and the services’. Furthermore, iTV NPS increased further to 28, showing expected consequences. that customers are satisfied with the stability of iTV. KPN’s iTV customers were never more willing to recommend iTV. They are Customer journey especially more satisfied with the screen stability and find iTV We aim to match the process of our new products and services increasingly easy to use. with the experiences our customers expect. To facilitate the right experience, we put extra focus on four customer journeys, which we identified as key for target customer groups, ranging from consumers to large corporate enterprises. 18 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Last year we saw a substantial drop in the number of customer Business calls and complaints see graph below. We proactively involved employees on our first-line helpdesk to achieve this. By better In Business, we continue to implement the ‘value over volume’ using the available tools and providing more hands-on training strategy and focus on migrating customers to our future-proof and coaching, we were able to to provide more solutions to propositions (i.e. KPN Small Business, KPN ÉÉN MKB, KPN customers in the first-line helpdesk and thus preventing these Smart Combinations & KPN Smart Integration) and network customer cases from ending up in the complaints process. upgrades with improved access speeds. We are moving away Fine-tuned tools and processes, data cleaning and the from single-play services towards a one-stop-shop model of prevention of data pollution also helps to prevent customer standardized and converged solutions. Customers gain flexibility complaints. That is why we continue to invest in these. and freedom of choice to put together combinations of products from our portfolio. Number 3500 of customer complaints in 2019 We have developed clearly targeted segment propositions that 3000 address the needs of our SoHo, SME and Large & Corporate 2500 Enterprise customers. These propositions are smart combinations of network, ICT and security services. Where we 2000 focused on offering connectivity (always accessible) for fixed 1500 and mobile in the past, now we want to focus our offerings on a broader perspective: always in business. This means that our 1000 customers can be contacted anytime and anywhere, not only 500 by telephone but also via the workplace. There is a strong 0 connectivity foundation and customers can always access all their information, in a safe environment supported by our Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 security services. Target Total We now also offer services for SMEs that focus on cloud, workspace and security services. For the Large & Corporate Enterprise segment, we also provide workplace management, CHALLENGE IT management, cybersecurity and information and communication technologies based on fiber and prepared for 5G. Online accessibility Customers value the quality and reliability of our network. Through KPN Smart Integration, we are really going one Customers expect more ease in using the KPN website and step further by taking responsibility for such things as the a seamless online experience. We know we need to improve management of operational IT processes and the management the digitalization of our own processes in order to improve of suppliers. the customer experience, and last year we took measures to accelerate this, including the appointment of an Executive We will continue migrating customers of legacy brands and Vice President Digital for Business and Consumer. We want services to a future-proof portfolio as smoothly as possible. to move towards one MijnKPN (MyKPN) online environment, where customers can easily conduct all their business with us. Engaging with customers It is essential that we engage with our customers to understand what drives them, what is important in their “connected” lives and subsequently what role KPN may play For this, we use various types of market research in addition to our daily contacts with customers. Last year, we began measuring the customer experience of our key customer journeys as a whole, in addition to measuring single contacts such as shop visits, customer service calls and engineer visits. For example, we now also ask customers how they perceived the entire process of upgrading from a copper to a fiber connection, instead of only inquiring how our engineer KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 19 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our value for stakeholders: Customer value performed. We plan to complete this transition towards customer journey measurement in 2020, so our customer feedback better reflects our customers’ overall experience during their KPN journey and so we can use those insights to Stijn Nuijten, enhance customer experience. Executive Vice President Marketing & Products: At our KPN Customer Experience Lab, we continue to test business and consumer customers’ needs and experiences. We interview customers and observe their behavior in the lab to “By focusing on the KPN brand, determine their needs and expectations, test prototypes and validate solutions. In 2019, we conducted around 100 Experience we are able to simplify and center Lab experiments. our IT and customer data. That way, We also run consumer panels, monthly market research, and round table discussions, to gain insight in the needs of we can make the customer journey customers. In 2019, more than 0.4 million customers responded to our surveys, providing feedback which we use to improve the perfectly digital and simple” customer experience. Recognition Brand Finance, a leading independent consultancy firm, recognized KPN as the strongest brand in the Netherlands, with a Brand Strength Index (BSI score) of 85.2 out of a 100 and a corresponding brand strength of AAA. According to Brand Finance, we have established ourselves as a trustworthy and reputable brand in consumers’ minds by sticking to our goal of installing and simplifying the telecom infrastructure of the future and accelerating digitalization. We also use RepTrak, a method developed by the Reputation Institute, to objectively monitors our reputation. In 2019, the Dutch general public gave KPN a RepTrak Pulse score of 74.4 (2018: 72.6). Customer recognition is also evidenced by several awards and award nominations. We received the first prize at the annual Retailer of the Year event, winning ‘Best Dutch Chain Store’ in the category telecom. Our subsidiary InSpark won Microsoft’s ‘Global Security & Compliance Partner of the Year 2019’ award and the KPN EEN platform was nominated as ‘Best offer for SME’ by Computable. The Dutch consumer association consumentenbond named KPN ‘Best mobile provider’ in the Netherlands. 20 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our value for stakeholders: Shareholder value Strengthening our position in an ongoing competitive market We are on track with the execution of our strategy and delivered on our financial guidance aspects for 2019. We are transforming the company to a flexible organization, enabling faster time-to-market and innovation to customers. We streamlined our organization through the disposal of non-core assets and ongoing simplification and digitalization. Our strong and disciplined cost control resulted in EUR 141m net indirect opex savings in 2019, positioning us well to deliver on our 2019 – 2021 savings program. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 (Restated2) Adjusted EBITDA after leases1 € 2,317m € 2,290m Capex € 1,115m € 1,106m Free cash flow after leases (excl. Telefónica Deutschland dividend)1 € 726m € 795m Net indirect opex savings € 141m N/a 1 For definition see Appendix 5: Glossary 2 Comparative financial information has been restated to reflect the implementation of IFRS 16 Financial review KPN’s focus on value enabled it to further strengthen its position Adjusted revenues in Business declined 4.4% y-on-y in 2019. as a leading converged operator in the Netherlands. In Consumer, Revenues from Communication Services declined 8.4% y-on-y, we started our strategic actions around the brand strategy and mainly driven by lower revenues from Fixed-Voice (-19% y-on-y) our new converged household proposition. In Business, as proactive migrations to KPN EEN cloud telephony continued. customer migrations and our ‘value over volume’ approach have Another factor was lower mobile service revenues (-9.1% y-on-y), had a negative short-term impact on revenues, but at the same due to the ongoing competitive environment, particularly in the time enabled us to simplify and digitalize our operations. We Large Enterprise segment. This was partly offset by the growth position ourselves to become the undisputed quality leader in of KPN’s IoT solution (15% y-on-y). Revenues from IT Services the Netherlands, which is the foundation of our strategy focused increased 0.5% y-on-y in 2019, mainly driven by security and on driving organic sustainable growth. workspace services. Revenues from Professional Services & Consultancy grew 3.8% y-on-y. This was mainly driven by cross Revenue and other income and up-sell on existing customers. Adjusted revenues and other income were 2.7% lower y-on-y in 2019. As part of our strategy, we sold Argeweb and International Network Services in 2019. Also, we announced the divestment Adjusted revenues in Consumer were 2.3% lower, fully driven of KPN Consulting in December. by lower mobile service revenues and lower mobile handset revenues. Mobile service revenues declined 6.5% y-on-y, mainly Adjusted revenues in Wholesale increased by 0.7 % y-on-y in driven by lower postpaid ARPU and continued pressure on the 2019. Higher mobile service revenues were driven by a higher mobile customer base. number of data users and increasing data usage. Solid KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 21 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our value for stakeholders: Shareholder value performance of KPN’s Wholesale Broadband Access (WBA) portfolio was offset by the sale of NLDC, lower revenues from international and national terminating traffic, and from traditional fixed portfolio (WLR, MDF). Adjusted revenues in € million -2.7% 5,639 70 95 5 7 5,486 Adj. revenues Consumer Business Wholesale Other (incl. Adj. revenues 2018 eliminations) 2019 Adjusted EBITDA AL in € million +1.2% 14 2,317 58 2,290 153 76 31 40.6% 1 42.2%1 1 Adjusted EBITDA AL margin 2 Incl. lease-related expenses Adj. EBITDA Revenues Costs of Personnel IT/TI Other Adj. EBITDA after leases goods & expenses operating after leases 2018 services expenses2 2019 Free cash flow in € million 2,578 51 9 329 7 1,115 340 726 3 Incl. EUR 171m book profit from the sale of NLDC in Q3 2019, EUR 25m book profit from the sale of International Network Services in Q4 2019 and EUR 141m repayments of lease liabilities. EBITDA Change in Change in Interest Corporate Capex Other3 FCF (excl. FY 2019 provisions working paid income tax TEFD dividend) capital paid 2019 22 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Adjusted EBITDA AL Net profit Adjusted EBITDA AL increased by 1.2% (EUR 27m) y-on-y. Net profit for 2019 has more than doubled y-on-y to EUR 626m, Lower revenues were offset by ongoing savings from simplifying driven by book profits from the sale of subsidiaries NLDC, and digitalizing our services. In 2019, costs of goods & services International Network Services and Argeweb, and lower tax declined 2.3% y-on-y. Personnel expenses declined 6.9% y-on-y, expenses compared to 2018. This was partly offset by higher due to a reduction in own and temporary personnel. IT/TI finance expenses related to the repurchase of USD 405m senior expenses declined 14% y-on-y in 2019, largely driven by network bonds. rationalization and contract renegotiations with suppliers. Restatement of 2018 financial information In 2019, restructuring costs were recognized for the amount of In 2019, KPN has applied IFRS 16 Leases for the first time. This EUR 115m (2018: EUR 101m). The net positive impact of standard replaces IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 and introduces on balance incidentals in 2019 was EUR 210m, consisting of the book gains sheet accounting for almost all leases. For lessees, the on sale of NLDC (EUR 171m) and International Network Services distinction between financial leases (‘on balance’) and operating (EUR 25m) and changes in provisions (EUR 14m). In 2018, leases (‘off balance’) is removed. For lessors, the accounting the net negative impact of incidentals of EUR 16m consisted of requirements remained substantially unchanged and the two changes to the asset retirement obligation (EUR 11m) and types of leases remain in place. Comparative financial information provisions (EUR 5m). See Appendix 1 for the reconciliation of for 2018 has been restated. EBITDA AL. The adjusted EBITDA AL margin increased to 42.2% (2018: 40.6%), supported by a strong cost focus in all areas of IFRS 16 has a significant impact on KPN as a lessee. The main the business. impact was: For information on financial and operational performance per • Recognition of the lease liability against a corresponding segment, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. right-of-use asset. Carrying values of leases classified as financial leases under IAS 17 have been recalculated under Operating profit application of IFRS 16. Group operating profit (EBIT) increased 27% y-on-y to • Lease expenses previously reported under operating EUR 1,041m in 2019. This was mainly driven by book profits on expenses have been replaced by depreciation of the the sale of NLDC, International Network Services and Argeweb. right-of-use assets and interest expense from the lease Excluding these effects, EBIT would have grown 2.6% y-on-y, liabilities. mainly driven by disciplined cost control, offsetting the decrease • Cash flows related to the payment on lease liabilities in revenue. transferred from cash flow from operating activities to cash flows used in financing activities. The interest paid on the Financial income and expenses lease liabilities remained part of cash flow from operating Net finance expenses increased in 2019 by EUR 76m to activities. EUR 372m, mainly due to higher finance costs related to For more information regarding IFRS 16 see Note 2 and Note 19 the repurchase of USD 405m senior bonds (EUR 95m) and of the Consolidated Financial Statements. EUR 30m lower dividend income on TEFD shares. This is partly offset by lower finance cost due to the redemption of the 7.5% Free cash flow EUR 465m senior bond and lower interest on financial leases. Free cash flow (FCF) of EUR 726, excluding the EUR 24m Income taxes dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland (2018: EUR In 2019, KPN recognized a tax expense of EUR 49m (2018: 54m), was EUR 69m (-8.6%) lower y-on-y. Drivers of 2019 free EUR 224m). KPN’s effective tax rate for 2019 is 7.3% (2018: cash flow were EUR 329m cash interest paid (2018: EUR 339m) 42.7%). Changes in the Dutch tax rates resulted in a benefit of and a negative change in provisions of EUR 51m (2018: EUR EUR 48m in 2019 (2018: loss of EUR 110m). +56m). The negative impact from change in working capital was EUR 9m (2018: EUR -8m) as the effect of increased installments KPN continues to qualify as an innovative company and paid to fiber contractors was largely offset by enhanced working therefore benefits from the innovation box tax regime, capital management. a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 7%. For 2020, the effective tax rate is expected to be ~23%. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on KPN’s tax position. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 23 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our value for stakeholders: Shareholder value Solid financial position Capital allocation and shareholder remuneration Net debt to EBITDA KPN continuously invests in its network infrastructure, products As per 31 December 2019, net debt amounted to EUR 5.1bn, and customers, resulting in high-quality fixed and mobile a decrease of EUR 0.7bn compared to the end of 2018. The networks and improved customer satisfaction ratings. KPN movement in net debt was mainly driven by free cash flow continues to focus on improving the customer experience by generation during 2019 and proceeds from disposals including further investing in the capacity, reliability and stability of its NLDC, International Network Services, Argeweb and the integrated network. KPN’s free cash flow generation (after remaining shareholding in TEFD. This was partly offset by capital expenditure) forms the basis of its policy related to additional dividend payments and premiums paid in relation regular dividends. to the repurchase of USD 405m senior bonds. KPN aims for sustainable Free cash flow (excl. TEFD dividend) KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile growth, driving a progressive regular dividend per share and and aims for a net debt to EBITDA ratio of <2.5x in the medium deleveraging. KPN intends to pay a regular dividend per share term. As per 31 December 2019, the net debt to EBITDA ratio of EUR 12.5 cents in respect of 2019. The final regular dividend was 2.2x (2018: 2.5x). This includes the equity credit on the of EUR 8.3 cents per share is subject to shareholder approval hybrid bonds representing 0.2x net debt to EBITDA. The at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 15 April 2020. average coupon on senior bonds declined y-on-y to 3.2% (2018: The provisional ex-dividend date is 17 April 2020 and the 3.8%), mainly due to bond redemptions and the tender offer on provisional payment date is 22 April 2020. the USD senior bonds. Outlook Outlook is based on composition of the Group as per 31 December 2019, also taking into account the completion of the sale of KPN Consulting, which is planned in the first half of 2020. Outlook is based on comparable basis corrected for divestments. The historical comparable basis figures are based on management estimates and are not audited. Outlook 2020 Michelle Baker, • Adjusted EBITDA AL: stable to slightly growing compared to Chief Procurement Officer: 20191 “We can save costs without • Capex: EUR 1.1bn • Free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend): At least mid-single reducing quality. These savings digit percentage growth compared to 20192 • Regular dividend per share: EUR 13.0ct can then be used to improve 2019-2021 ambitions the customer experience and • Adjusted EBITDA AL: organic growth • Capex: stable at EUR 1.1bn annually position us to win in • Free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend): three-year mid-single digit CAGR3 Dutch market” • Progressive dividend, supported by FCF 1 FY 2019 Adjusted EBITDA AL of EUR 2,287m, corrected for divestments. 2 FY 2019 FCF (excl. TEFD dividend) of EUR 718m, corrected for divestments. 3 Three-year CAGR calculated from the end of 2018 to the end of 2021, based on FY 2018 FCF of EUR 772m, corrected for divestments. 24 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 25 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our value for stakeholders: Long-term impact on society Contributing to solutions for global challenges Since their adoption in September 2015, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have become one of the major international reference points on sustainability uniting stakeholders across countries and industries. As an organization at the center of society, we committed ourselves to the SDGs from the very beginning. Our first step was to link our activities to a selection of the decided to categorize our efforts in health innovation under SDG 17 goals. Each of these SDGs presents an opportunity for us to 9. Together with efforts in other sectors, such as public services, provide solutions while challenging us to act in a responsible agriculture and smart industries, we aim to foster innovation and manner. We developed an approach for the short and long term, build resilient infrastructure across the Netherlands. For a more and linked our material themes and KPIs to them, summarized detailed overview that links all of our non-financial KPIs and 2019 below. We highlighted SDG 3 separately in 2018, but this year we results with the SDGs, see Appendix 2. SDG 11: Improve life in cities and remote areas through comfortable, safe and secure connections SDG 9: Drive futureproof innovation Digital across various sectors, transformation driving SDG 12: Offer energy such as health and public positive impact at scale efficient solutions for services, and critical our customers communication SDG 9: Safeguard Responsibility to SDG 12: Reduce privacy mitigate potential environmental impacts and security of of our products and our customers negative impact services SDG 11: Balance face-to-face and virtual interaction and avoid social exclusion 26 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Ambition Responsibility • Drive future-proof innovation across various sectors, such as health • Protect customers against security and privacy threats, as and public services, and critical communications. communication devices and data systems become increasingly • Safeguard privacy and security of our customers. interconnected. Approach Long-term contribution • We maintain a country-wide network, acting as a vital infrastructure for • We support economic development and human well-being. critical communications fostering and protecting public and private • We facilitate partners to keep healthcare accessible and affordable, and interests in the Netherlands. Smart deployment of IT and collaboration are developing several industries towards becoming smart industries. allow customers to focus more efficiently on their primary tasks. Key 2019 results Material topics • 75% of all households have access to at least 100Mbps • Data & information protection • Average 4G download speed: 68Mbps • Innovation in products and services • Network quality, reliability & availability Targets • Responsible operations • +1 million FttH households compared to end 2018 (by end 2021) • Average 4G download speed of 75Mbps in 2020 Ambition Responsibility • Improve life in cities and remote areas through comfortable, safe and • We work to avoid the social exclusion of groups that is caused by secure connections. the digital transformation. • Balance face-to-face and virtual interaction and avoid social exclusion. Long-term contribution Approach • We contribute to growing economic and social activities in remote • We make people feel more comfortable and safe, increase the efficiency areas, releasing the pressure on increasingly densely populated cities. of businesses and healthcare, and reduce traffic by facilitating remote working. Key 2019 results • We provide the means to make cities smarter and cleaner, facilitating • ~100% of customers helped who are unintentional infected by malware services like smart parking, smart traffic lights, autonomous driving and (within 8 hours) crowd control. • 68% of Dutch people believe their data is safe with KPN Material topics Targets • Customer interaction • Monitoring of all Dutch municipalities for cybersecurity attacks so that • Data & information protection the appropriate mitigation can take place (2020: 40%, 2021: 70%) • Network quality, reliability & availability • 55,000 of healthcare professionals have secure digital access to healthcare information in 2020 Ambition Responsibility • Offer energy efficient solutions for our customers. • Disconnect increasing data traffic demands from decreasing relative • Reduce environmental impacts of our products and services. energy consumption. • Aim to use fewer materials, enhance product lifespans and take Approach measures to reduce our waste production to zero, in line with our • We constantly deploy our infrastructure and networks to co-create commitment to the principles of a circular economy. solutions for a more sustainable use of the environment. • We reduce negative environmental impacts by the way that we Long-term contribution produce, use and recycle our equipment. • We enable our customers to reduce the energy consumption in their business while using our services. Material topics • Supplier selection & good governance • Energy usage Key 2019 results • 30% reduction on KPN Group energy consumption compared to 2010 • Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group: 93% Targets • Close to 100% circular operations and services in 2025 • Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group: 94% by 2020 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 27 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our value for stakeholders: Short-term impact on society Zooming in on impact Besides the direct impact we have with our core business, we the health and well-being of workers and their relatives. also have an impact on society as a whole. For example, we Furthermore, jobs provide social contact and cohesion, contribute to the growth of the Dutch economy through our contributing to a person’s satisfaction with life and sense broadband connectivity services. That being said, providing of identity. access to unlimited entertainment can also impact the health of people negatively. To enable a more focused approach to The study also helped to clarify the elements needed to draft a enhance our positive impact and mitigate potential adverse more robust impact measurement. Existing scientific studies on impact, more robust insights are needed. As such, we conducted the impact of broadband connectivity appear to be of limited an impact study in 2019 on five different externalities. We use, for instance due to a much higher variation in speed across explored the monetary impact of broadband connectivity on other countries compared to the Netherlands. Furthermore, national GDP and housing prices. We also reviewed the effects the reliability and availability of scientific resources is sometimes on employment, sleep deprivation and social media addiction. limited because of the rapid developments within our sector. This presents a risk of results being outdated or too limited. Although the methodology was limited due to the various assumptions made, the process helped to confirm that some of In 2020, we will continue our journey to reach more quantitative our assumptions appear to be correct. For example, the positive insights in our contribution to long-term positive and negative relationship between the internet and GDP growth was backed societal impacts, among others through the Groene Netten up by various studies. A similar indication for a positive initiative of MVO Nederland. The Groene Netten initiative is a relationship was found for employment, measured in the total collaboration between several national infrastructure providers number of jobs in the Netherlands. The creation of jobs is a that aims to achieve a climate-neutral and circular infrastructure particularly important societal indicator, thanks to the numerous across the Netherlands. positive effects. It helps to avoid poverty and thereby improves Brechtje Spoorenberg, Manager Corporate Social Responsibility: “ICT is key in solving many of the societal challenges we face today. We aim to make KPN a more sustainable company that enables our customers to become more sustainable too” 28 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our value for stakeholders: sponsorship and KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Social inclusion Football KPN has been the main sponsor of the Dutch Premier League Including people who have difficulty fulfilling payments and partner of the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB) KPN and NVVK, an association for debt assistance and social since 2017. The partnership’s goals are to increase brand banking, have entered into a first ‘new-style covenant’ for debt preference, brand recognition and NPS, and to sell KPN collection, making arrangements concerning the policy for products and services, including Fox Sports. In 2019, KPN people with debt problems. This accelerates the debt provided more than 13,000 tickets to customers for Dutch rescheduling process considerably and helps keep people with Premier League matches and matches played by the Dutch men’s debt problems as customers. and women’s football teams. We organized football camps and clinics for 770 children at the KNVB campus. KPN shares the concern regarding the increasing number of people in financial difficulty and the social harm it causes, such TEAMKPN Sportfonds as poverty and social exclusion. The covenant with NVVK Through the TEAMKPN Sportfonds, KPN supports sports teams includes some new provisions, including KPN’s promise that it representing the Netherlands at high-level sporting events. will always agree to an amicable settlement proposal by NVVK In 2019, the fund supported six national teams in women’s members. In addition, KPN will ‘freeze’ outstanding claims at the canoeing, men’s handball, men’s fencing, men’s wheelchair request of a debt counselor. This combination of measures rugby, women’s beach volleyball and men’s 49 sailing. serves to obviate the accumulation of costs. Art and culture Preparing young people for the future of Artificial Intelligence KPN is a partner in the National AI (Artificial Intelligence) course KPN main sponsor of the Rijksmuseum for high school students. AI is one of the innovative As a main sponsor, KPN aims to make the Rijksmuseum’s collection technological developments of our time. Some say that AI will accessible to everyone in the Netherlands, both in the museum bring about more change than the internet. The course aims to and online. In 2019, KPN launched livestreams of the restoration teach young people, in particular 13-to-15-year-olds, about AI’s of Rembrandt’s most famous painting, The Night Watch. In potential and challenges. It comprises five modules and a free November, we welcomed 1,141 customers to the KPN Klantdagen teaching package. (customer days) at the Rijksmuseum. KPN is also partner of the Royal Concertgebouw and Museum Boijmans van Beuningen. Sports sponsorship KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Ice-skating KPN has been the main sponsor of the Royal Dutch Ice-Skating Connecting lonely people Association (KNSB) since 2010. In 2019, over 14,000 customers With more than one million adults saying they feel lonely, of KPN received tickets to national and international speed skate loneliness is a major issue in Dutch society. Since 2007, the KPN championships in the Netherlands. To encourage children to Mooiste Contact Fonds has supported vulnerable groups ice-skate, KPN supports the IJSTIJD! Kidsclub, where children experiencing loneliness by financing a number of large projects learned to ice-skate. In 2019, more than 1.9 million skating fans together with NGOs. The foundation is supported by KPN visited schaatsen.nl, the interactive portal that KPN developed employees, our IT resources and financial assistance. We with the KNSB. Together with Fonds Gehandicaptensport, we received 1,278 voluntary contributions to our foundation in 2019. organized the KPN Schaatsvriendendag – a day for disabled We connected 495 chronically ill children to KlasseContact, ice-skating fans. KPN decided in 2019 to stop sponsoring KNSB so they could continue to follow their classes at school and stay as of 1 June 2020, in order to focus on Dutch football as a in contact with their classmates. We organized the KPN Mooiste sponsor of the Royal Dutch Football Association and the Dutch Contact Dagen in the Rijksmuseum, with around 200 KPN Premier League. volunteers joining up with more than 200 guests. Together with the Dutch Premier League, we organized 17 KPN Mooiste Contact Diners for over 750 lonely elderly people at a number of the league’s football clubs. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 29 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create 30 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Joining forces to combat social isolation “ KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds has been bringing people together for nearly 12 years — Mark Versteegen ” Head of Sponsorships Lending a sympathetic ear to people who The extra volunteers receive professional Head of Sponsorships. “I am proud that we suffer from anxieties, sadness and other training in conversational and listening have been able to make a contribution to problems: this is what Luisterlijn skills, and can work from home. They this initiative. Together with De Zonnebloem volunteers have been doing for more have conversations that can be meaningful and Luisterlijn, we lend a sympathetic ear than 60 years. In 2018, Luisterlijn received not only for the other person but also to more and more people and helping almost half a million calls. Regrettably, for themselves. At the same time, they them emerge from their social isolation.” only 330,000 of those went answered help reduce the shortage of volunteers, due to a lack of volunteers. meaning that fewer phone calls go unanswered. To improve the situation, last year KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds (KPN MCF) KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds supports the initiated a cooperation between initiative financially and by providing Luisterlijn and Nationale Vereniging de volunteers, allowing us to show that we Zonnebloem (National Association The are genuinely the network of the Sunflower), a volunteer organization that Netherlands. “KPN MCF has been helps people with a physical disability. connecting people with one another for nearly 12 years,” says Mark Versteegen, KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 31 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Converged smart infrastructure Realizing a future-proof smart and converged network We made robust steps towards achieving our strategic infrastructure objectives and continued to modernize our mobile network. We are testing 5G to optimize and digitalize business processes and improve the customer experience. Although network stability improved further, we experienced a major disruption which led to additional measures to respond more quickly to network issues. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 # FttH households 2.47m 2.35m Weighted downtime -36% -25% Average download speed 4G per yearend 68Mbps 53Mbps Average maximum download speed broadband fixed per yearend 236Mbps 221Mbps To achieve our ambition of providing the best customer We decided to install two PON technologies, G-PON, which experience, we need to offer the best infrastructure, enabling enables 1 Gbps connections, and XGS-PON, which allows for 10 people, businesses and society to connect. We are building a Gbps connections to homes. The 10 Gbps connections are not future-proof smart and converged network. ‘Smart’ means being used yet, but installing them now in streets will prepare us our sophisticated network runs at a high level of automation, for the future, when demand for broadband capacity will be using artificial intelligence and zero-touch operations. Fixed and even higher. In 2019, we installed 1 Gb PON connections for mobile connections will converge in our network, so that around 7,000 FttH households. In our copper network, we customers can switch between the two and enjoy the best continued efforts to increase speed by switching customers experience whenever and wherever they want. from DSL to VDSL connections. The average maximum download speed for broadband fixed increased to 236Mbps by Accelerating our fiber roll-out the end of 2019. We made progress in 2019 towards achieving our strategic Rolling out a fiber network is needed to meet the growing infrastructure objectives, resulting in 2.47 million FttH households demand for bandwidth. KPN is not the only party in the at the end of 2019. We increased the number of new FttH Netherlands that is installing a fiber network, but we are the connections from 1,000 per week in the early months of the year only party investing in the network in the Netherlands on such a to around 4,000 per week by year-end. very large scale. During the fiber roll-out, we sometimes operate in the same regions as other fiber operators. The Dutch At the end points of our fiber network the last stretch between Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM) checks whether the network and individual households we are in the process of competition is fair. In October 2019, the authority concluded switching from Active Optical Network (AON) to Passive Optical that KPN may hamper competition, although the regulator Network (PON) technology, allowing us to provide fiber agreed that KPN does not break any laws. KPN disagrees with connection to households in a faster and more efficient manner. the image portrayed by the ACM of the market dynamics. 32 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Where KPN encounters competitors in the construction of fiber, we look for solutions through cooperation. This helps us prevent Tom Poelhekken, excavation work causing nuisance for the municipality and its Chief Technology Officer: residents. “5G is especially suitable for CHALLENGE supporting the digitalization Fiber roll-out of industry segments. We face two major challenges in the roll-out of our fiber network. Our first concern is the speed of the roll-out, While 4G connects people, which is highly dependent on obtaining permits and the capacity of contractors. 5G will connect society” Furthermore, we often come across other operators who also want to roll out a fiber network. Our aim is to roll out the network at the right place and time, with a focus on profitable growth segments. Modernizing our mobile network KPN and Tampnet have entered into a partnership to expand 4G coverage in the North Sea for business customers. Laying an We continued modernizing our mobile network and making it offshore antenna network will expand the coverage area of the ready for 5G. We introduced higher order MIMO (multiple input, KPN network by more than 5,000 km2 – an area similar in size multiple output, 4x2, 4x4, 8x8) and ‘massive’ MIMO (64x64) to the province of North Brabant. In 2020, business users who technology for our mobile sites antennas. MIMO technology work offshore up to 300 kilometers from the Dutch coast will boosts connection capacity by increasing the number of have mobile coverage; that is an increase of 285 kilometers. channels per antenna and user speeds. We use MIMO These include people working on drilling platforms and wind technology in rural areas and nationwide, and the even more farms, as well as fishermen and military personnel, wo are powerful massive MIMO for antennas in cities and other densely currently making use of more expensive satellite and radio-relay populated areas. connections. We began to gradually enhance the link between our antennas and our fixed core network, upgrading backhaul capacity from KPN finished updating the Digitenne wireless TV network in 1 Gbps to 10 Gbps. Thanks to modernization of our mobile July by transferring to the new technical standard for digital network and the introduction of MIMO technology, we will be able ether television, DVB-T2, with the associated HD image quality. to provide broadband internet access across the Netherlands, including in sparsely populated rural areas. As well as getting Testing 5G ready for 5G, we invested in improving our 4G network by We continued our 5G pilot projects in our 5G Field Labs, where increasing the number of frequency bands with two new bands we are studying how 5G can optimize and digitalize business at sites where we are replacing hardware. The average 4G processes and improve the customer experience. We are testing download speed increased to 68 Mbps by the end of 2019. how the 5G network can be used in combination with other technologies for smart applications, such as using drones to We modernized around 640 of our approximately 5,000 sites to assess the condition of crops in fields or the Internet of Things make them 5G-ready in 2019. We expect this process to gather to manage crowds at football stadiums. steam in 2020 and believe we are on track to achieve our strategic goal of being 100% 5G-ready by end 2021 and replace We successfully tested the 5G network between multiple all antennas and radio hardware. locations in the Netherlands. Phone calls, video calls and data sessions were conducted from the latest 5G smartphones between the 5G indoor network in the Johan Cruijff ArenA in Amsterdam, the 5G Field Lab in the Port of Rotterdam and KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 33 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Converged smart infrastructure KPN’s Technology Lab in The Hague. During these tests, The problem was caused by a fault in the software which working with the newest smartphones that support 5G, occurred simultaneously in the four routing systems. After we achieved a download speed of 1.3 Gbps. resolving the disruption, we immediately increased the monitoring of our systems and commissioned an independent Although there is no evidence that electromagnetic radiation study by external experts. We have taken measures to increase of mobile equipment or base stations poses any health risks, the stability and reliability of the system to ensure we can we take concerns about the introduction of 5G very seriously. respond more quickly to network issues and to prevent traffic We strive to be transparent about our 5G initiatives and from not reaching the 112 platform. These measures should help technology, and provide data for further scientific research. prevent a disruption with such an impact from happening again. Mobile technology and the research into its effects are We were in close contact with the Dutch government during continuously in development. KPN keeps track of these this exceptional disruption and are cooperating fully with developments and agrees that it remains important for the Agentschap Telecom, the authority investigating this incident Dutch public to be kept well informed. on behalf of the government. Like all mobile providers, we have signed an agreement with the Improved network stability government regarding maximum radiation levels. The basis for Notwithstanding the major disruption, overall network stability has exposure limits has been determined by an international group improved. In 2019, both the weighted network downtime and the of independent scientists, the International Commission on number of major disturbances in the network decreased compared Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). In 2019, the norms to 2018. The decrease in the total number of disturbances can be were being revised in order to include the latest scientific explained by a significant decrease in copper cable disruptions insights. We always remain within the exposure limits. and fewer IT disruptions due to simplification of the IT landscape. From five to one core network CHALLENGE We have two strategic objectives for the simplification of our infrastructure. The first objective is to reduce the number of Network expansion core networks from five to one by the end of 2021. We have KPN wants to deliver the best possible network for its already shut down two of these networks. As per our customers which requires an increase in the use of antennas. rationalization plans, we intend to shut down two more networks At the same time, we observe increasing resistance to the by 2021, leaving just one core network. placement of antennas, not only among citizens, but in some cases also among local government officials. Another strategic objective is to reduce the number of lines using older-generation technologies, which already declined Weighted Downtime from approximately 1.5 million at the start of 2018 to 175k by the We report on the KPI ‘weighted downtime’ (compared to last end of 2019. In 2019, we finished our migration of PSTN single year). With this KPI, we aim to measure the actual downtime services. of a disruption and try to represent the impact on individual customers and society. ISDN (1/2) and PSTN multiple services will be phased out in Our main goal is to reduce weighted downtime and April 2020. Looking ahead to 2020 -2021, we will further especially critical and major disturbances year-on-year. rationalize our infrastructure by shutting down more services. The weighted impact is the total downtime of all major We also intend to shut down the 3G network in 2022. disruptions. The downtime is weighted by impact. A disruption with a higher impact counts for more than an Major disruption with impact on 112 disruption with a relatively lower impact. However, after the largest network disturbance in 2019 we concluded that this On 24 June 2019, a disruption occurred in our telephone KPI does not represent the impact on large groups of network. As a result, customers could not make or receive calls customers and society well enough. via KPN’s fixed and mobile network for approximately three We are currently considering alternative KPIs for 2020 hours. The emergency number 112 was also inaccessible. The in order to challenge ourselves to keep optimizing and mobile data network (3G/4G) remained accessible, as did the representing the stability of our network. fixed internet connections. We set up a crisis team to find a solution and after around three hours were able to recover our services, making 112 accessible again. 34 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our performance: Flexible, simple and converged products and services Intensifying our focus on value and convergence We are focusing our energy on simplifying and enhancing customer experience into a seamless one-stopshop experience, emphasizing value over volume, and further streamlining product portfolios. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 Converged households +59k +91k Converged penetration postpaid base 63% 57% Consumer fixed: average revenue per user € 47 € 44 % SME base migrated from legacy services 74% 41% Wholesale connections (mobile and fixed) 1,734k 1,710k Consumer group of customers. By focusing our energy and effort into a Last year saw our systems and products continue to converge, single brand, we can more effectively simplify and enhance the simplify and digitalize, in our ambition to make KPN the customer experience. Our aim is to create a seamless one-stopundisputed quality leader in the Netherlands with the best shop digital experience for all customers. services, service level and networks. Service quality is a crucial driver of customer satisfaction and We have made a strategic decision to focus on the high-value loyalty. Customer satisfaction increased again in 2019, with KPN brand, so we can offer the best of all our brands to a wider consumer NPS reaching a record high of +19 (2018: +14). Convergence strategy Multi-brand strategy Focus brand where everybody feels welcome KPN Telfort XS4ALL KPN: The network of the Netherlands Product portfolio aimed at the individual Converged portfolio aimed on households Mobile Fixed Content Services KPN Hussel: Internet, mobile, TV, entertainment and more. Complex customer journey One simplified ecosystem Different service kpn.com structure channels for different Fragmented process based on Mijn KPN at the heart of the omnichannel journey. service questions communication organizational structure KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 35 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Flexible, simple and converged products and services Choice and flexibility CHALLENGE Our focus on the KPN brand requires us to broaden its appeal to an even wider group of people. as such, we repositioned the The simplification and convergence of our product brand last year, launching a new inclusive campaign around the portfolio will create value for our company and an slogan ‘The network of the Netherlands’. We subsequently enhanced customer experience in the longer term. But in introduced KPN Hussel, a modular proposition that enables the short term, the actions this strategic decision consumers and small businesses to combine mobile and fixed necessitates can cause uncertainty and frustration telephone, internet and entertainment services of their choice in among some customers as they give up familiar brands a single subscription, taking only the services to suit their need. or legacy products. As KPN, we need to explore how we With the diversity of content such as TV, film and music can successfully help to migrate customers as smoothly changing so fast, KPN Hussel is a future-proof proposition ready and seamlessly to our KPN portfolio, to maintain loyalty for new innovations and partnerships, like the ones that we and prevent churn. already have with companies such as Spotify and Amazon Prime Video. Business Our aim is to ensure that customers have the best TV experience, by improving our product and updating our range of channels In the Business segment, we emphasize customer value over and content providers. For customers of KPN Interactive TV, volume. We want to leverage KPN’s leading market positions, we expanded the range by adding such channels as njam!, high-quality brand perception and solid reputation to generate Love Nature, TV538 and DreamWorks, a 24-hour entertainment more profitable revenues in the years to come. To achieve this channel for children and families. Furthermore, FOX Sports 1, strategy, we are focusing on a future-proof, simplified product which features live Eredivisie football matches, is now available portfolio and network upgrades with improved access speeds for all KPN Interactive TV subscribers. for our customers. Simplifying our portfolio allows us to innovate faster for our customers and strengthen our relationships with a Speed and access focused number of partners. We make clear choices for The quality and reliability of our network is our top priority, technology vendors. Last year, for example, we introduced a and the speed of our fixed network has a direct effect on cloud-based managed workplace based on Microsoft Office 365, customer satisfaction. We further upgraded our network to which combines connectivity, ease of use and security. increase access speeds and continued to boost broadband through our ongoing roll-out of fiber. New propositions We have identified three main areas of customer need: client We increased the speed for ‘Sneller Internet Buitengebied’ interaction, organizational performance and employee (faster internet in rural areas) in the rural areas in the productivity. These customer needs are translated into clearly Netherlands by increasing the LTE boost. Thanks to an targeted segment propositions that combine network, ICT and innovative combination of our fixed and mobile networks, security services. The business market portfolio ranges from inhabitants of rural areas gained extra speed up to 50 Mbps access & connectivity, cloud & workspace and security & on top of their fixed connection. business continuity. Our KPN Small Business customer base grew with 30k, while KPN ÉÉN products grew with 158k. In addition, we supported 176k customers in optimizing their WiFi signal through the WiFi Tuner, an online tool that allows In July 2019, we introduced KPN Smart Combinations , a modular people to check coverage in their home and get customized and converged proposition for large and corporate enterprises advice to help improve wireless quality where needed. that combines network, ICT and security services. These Smart Combinations – which we are developing in collaboration with Fixed-mobile convergence firms such as Cisco and Microsoft, based on their standard solutions Last year, we increased our fixed-mobile customer base and – are being introduced in phases. Cloud communications and converged postpaid customers base. secure networking were introduced in 2019. Connected Workplace Our converged household base grew 4% to 1.4 million, will be introduced in 2020. representing 49% of broadband customers (2018: 46%). The converged postpaid customer base grew 8% to 2.4 million, KPN Smart Integration, which we plan to introduce in 2020, representing 63% of postpaid customers (2018: 57%). Fixedwill offer an additional level of integration, for our top 100 mobile penetration for the KPN brand postpaid customers business customers. This proposition will see us integrate reached 73% (2018: 70%). and manage products and services from both KPN and other large service providers into a seamless, hassle free customer experience. 36 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Go-to-market strategy based on clearly targeted segment propositions Business segment: Go-to-market strategy based on Smart Combinations of network, ICT & security services Customer outcomes Client Organizational Employee Interaction Performance Productivity Propositions Inter sting net Ho upp Benefits Secu ort tion ina S rity Access, Internet Fixed Voice Platform as a 3rd Party Access, Internet 3rd Party Service ice Security Cloud & IT mb ed Vo & Media & UC Cloud Service Services & Media Services Cloud & KPN Co Host Small Business Internet Television Workspace Workspace ce Networking Mobile Networking Mobile spa Services Services Mo bile Work Mobile Fixed voice Ne n two isio Security & 3rd Party Security & 3rd Party 3rd Party rk Telev Continuity Services Continuity Services Services I n te g ra t i o n KPN SMALL KPN EEN KPN SMART KPN SMART BUSINESS MKB COMBINATIONS INTEGRATION Segments 1 10 employees 2 150 employees > 150 employees Top 100 customers Portfolio Access & Cloud & Security & Connectivity Workspace Business Continuity Simplification New contracts As part of our portfolio simplification, we are phasing out Last year we entered into several new contracts. KPN Security products and services such as ISDN (1/2) single/multiple and won the tender for municipal procurement of ‘GGI-Veilig’, PSTN multiple. We ended the service for ISDN (1/2) single/ meaning that we will deliver security products and services multiple and PSTN multiple for new customers last September, to more than 330 municipalities and municipal partnerships in and are now closing these lines in phases ahead of the definitive the Netherlands. shutdown of the service in April 2020. Since 2018, together with Geldmaat, we are building a new efficient bank-independent ATM network. KPN has been Since announcing the end of ISDN in 2017, we have invested selected to take the bandwidth and security to the desired level. a lot of time and effort in informing customers. Customers can switch to future-proof alternatives such as KPN ÉÉN MKB, KPN Small Business, KPN Smart Combinations or KPN Business CHALLENGE Connect, which offer improved customer experience and value creation. By the end of 2019, 74% of SME customers and 53% of Deciding how to optimize investment and allocate large enterprise (LE) customers eligible for migration had migrated resources is a constant challenge for KPN. We must from traditional fixed-voice or legacy broadband services. continuously weigh up our options in order to set priorities. One of the questions, for instance, is if we first Security integration invest in rolling out fiber to all business parks or invest in In April 2019, we integrated all our security services under the digitalizing KPN systems and processes. name of KPN Security, creating a complete package of security solutions and becoming one of the biggest players on the Dutch IT security market. KPN Security serves the entire breadth of the business market, covering small and medium-sized businesses, large companies and the government. For small businesses, KPN Security offers mainly off-the-shelf security services. Medium-sized companies that want to outsource their security can acquire managed security services from KPN Security, ranging from protection and detection to response and prevention. Security solutions for large companies and the government are offered by KPN as part of an integrated package of services within our Smart Integration offering. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 37 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Flexible, simple and converged products and services Wholesale Partnerships In 2019, KPN renewed its partnerships with Nuts Group (formerly NLE) and M7 on future-proof fixed access portfolio. In terms of wholesale media services, we signed contracts with a number of service integrators for TV services in hospitality Jilles Limburg, organizations. KPN Wholesale looks after the strategic Executive Vice President Marketing: partnership between KPN and iBasis with the new owner Tofane, which now enables international carrier services for KPN’s customers. “We want to make work easier for Following the sale of NLDC, NLDC will continue to deliver data companies. By simplifying our center services to KPN as a preferred supplier and services to customers will continue uninterrupted. In terms of roaming, we services, we allow companies to connected AT&T, Swisscom and Orange France to our LTE-M network. Customers of Telenor Denmark, AT&T, Verizon and focus on what they do best” KDDI can now use VoLTE while roaming on the KPN network. Product development KPN strives to further streamline its wholesale product portfolio and migrate wholesale customers to future-proof technologies. The migration of fixed wholesale customers from regulated unbundled local loop (ULL) services to commercially agreed virtual unbundled local access (VULA) and wholesale broadband access (WBA) services continued in 2019. KPN also announced the expansion of its VULA/WBA service to future fiber roll-out based on PON technology. In terms of mobile services, wholesale customers now have access to 4G, which means 3G can be switched off. Good progress has been made in the voice domain as well. ISDN is set to be phased out by April 2020 and interconnections with other operators are now based on IP rather than legacy technologies. Our internet and interconnect exchange NL-IX introduced a so-called converged exchange proposition in 2019. This proposition fulfills the need of large digital-driven companies for managed and secure data interconnectivity between their networks, data centers and main application and security providers. 38 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our performance: Focused innovation and digitalization Breaking new ground with technological innovations We see innovation as a key enabler for delivering excellent customer experience and journeys, and for driving the upsell of value-added services to support customer loyalty. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 IoT revenues € 53m € 47m M2M subscribers (#SIMs) ~6.3m ~5.0m #people with secure digital access to healthcare 43,432 31,990 To be able to help Dutch society to connect even more, we work KPN Ventures’ investments to break new ground with technological innovations. Connected things Data-driven digital IT services (e.g. Spearheading innovation at KPN are three interconnected Security (IoT and smart home) business models digital healthcare) departments that work closely together: KPN Ventures, Cybersprint (2018) Wirepas (2019) 1 Sentiance (2017) Pharmeon (2019) 1 KPN Open Innovation Hub and KPN Technology Labs. ZecOps (2018) Minut (2019) 1 Sensara (2017) CUJO.AI (2018) CUJO.AI (2018) CardioSecur (2017) KPN Ventures invests in scalable innovations by providing EclecticIQ (2016) Viloc (2016) capital and enabling access to our network infrastructure, Actility (2015) our customer base and our expertise. 1 2019 investments are explained in more detail in the following paragraphs. KPN Open Innovation Hub develops the innovations of tomorrow, constantly seeking interesting companies to partner with and ensuring our collaborations deliver value. Paul Slot, Executive Vice President KPN Technology Labs are a collection of multidisciplinary Access & Core Networks: telecommunications labs. Ideas for products or services are tested by the public in our technology labs. “Replacing old networks Our innovation efforts are focused on growth sectors connected with IP technology to our telecom and IT activities. Our focus areas for innovation are security, connected things (Internet of Things and smart will result in noticeable home), data-driven digital business models and IT services, for example in digital healthcare. improvements, such as a more stable network, more proactive service and communication, and quicker development and innovation” KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 39 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Focused innovation and digitalization Security The starter set consists of a home base, two smart lightbulbs and a window/door sensor to give customers a sense of safety. KPN Security, the largest Dutch cybersecurity company, is the When the customer is not at home, the lightbulbs act through result of integrating earlier acquisitions DearBytes and QSight. the smart program of the house guardian to make it seem as if KPN Security continues our investment in the Cyber Central there is actually somebody at home. Besides the standard foundation, a foundation focusing on the human behavioral SmartLife package, the customer can choose from a range of more aspects in the cybersecurity chain. than 175 different products that make the house even smarter. In 2019, KPN became the first provider in the Netherlands to Last year, KPN Ventures invested in Minut, the Swedish introduce a tool to help users log in more securely. With Mobile manufacturer of the Point smart home alarm. This WiFiConnect, users can log in to websites and online applications connected device uses five sensors to monitor the safety of a using a mobile device and a single five-digit PIN, alleviating the house or apartment and alerts the owner, the family or need to remember many different passwords. neighbors if something seems wrong. KPN Ventures participated in the 2019 follow-up investment Data-driven digital business models rounds for threat intelligence platform provider EclecticIQ and automated breach analysis tool ZecOps. KPN Security started KPN created the Data Services Hub, a real-time streaming working with ZecOps in 2019 and became a distribution partner platform service that facilitates the secure and reliable exchange for digital risk protection company Cybersprint, offering their of information between people, machines and organizations. technology to Dutch customers. Using this hub, public and private parties can cooperate digitally while still retaining control over their own datasets. Connected things KPN takes part in Talking Traffic, a nationwide smart mobility Internet of Things (IoT) program initiated by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water KPN is exponentially growing in IoT connections by offering Management. Within that program, KPN works together with innovative connectivity services, based on a broad range of IoT various partners. Dynniq Nederland B.V. developed the networks, through 4G, LTE-M and LoRa networks. In our 5G field GreenFlow for BlueLights service to facilitate the labs, we are exploring new use cases for the new 5G network. communication between emergency vehicles and intelligent traffic lights in order to gain priority and increase safety. Based Through KPN Things’ end-to-end IoT solutions, hardware and on the same platform, Dynniq is also deploying the GreenFlow data management propositions, we are helping organizations to for Trucks service, to improve the throughput of heavy vehicles change their business using scalable IoT. At the IoT Academy, on intersections and thereby save fuel and reduce emission. co-founded by KPN, we show customers the possibilities of IoT These applications are developed using the KPN Data Services and how it can create value. Hub (our event-driven, low-latency streaming platform). This platform is one the fundamental basics of KPN’s mobility KPN strategically selects domain partners, combining our IoT ecosystem. expertise and our partners’ domain-specific knowledge to jointly deliver relevant solutions in a B2B2C or B2B2B manner. For Artificial Intelligence (AI) example, last year we enabled Alcochem Hygiene, a global KPN joined the Nederlandse Artificial Intelligence (AI) Coalitie, a supplier of professional non-chemical pest control products, public-private partnership to stimulate Dutch activities in AI and to deliver M2M ‘connected’ insect traps to food manufacturing provide support where necessary. We also participate in the AI plants. Another example is our partnership with Visser Assen, platform of FME, the Netherlands’ technology industry an equipment supplier in the construction sector, to resell our association, which focuses on AI development in the technology track & trace solution for valuable construction equipment. industry. In 2019, KPN Ventures invested in Wirepas, a Finnish IoT KPN designs FttH (for PON and PtP) and FttS roll-out based on company that has created a new software protocol to wirelessly AI models. The AI model generates an overview of all cables and connect thousands of devices with each other in a mesh devices needed to roll out fiber for all households and sites. network for industrial applications, such as in the logistics sector. Using the automated detection of defects in our processes and systems, we can proactively detect and resolve disruptions to Smart home limit the inconvenience for our customers. For instance, we can In 2015, KPN Open Innovation Hub started multiple experiments see from the data if and where a cable is broken, and then in the smart home domain and introduced KPN SmartLife. immediately send an engineer to fix it. KPN SmartLife is the primary building block for a smart house. 40 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices IT Services Fund-in-fund investments Investments in so-called tech transfer funds, which focus on the Digital healthcare early-stage financing of commercial spin-offs from university KPN Health focuses on offering secure connections and data research centers, help expand KPN’s network of potential exchange in the healthcare sector, through its subsidiary innovative technology partners. In 2019, KPN Ventures invested CAM-IT solutions, one of the largest electronic workspace in two tech funds based in Lisbon and Cambridge, spanning platforms in the Dutch healthcare sector. In 2019, KPN further technology from sensors and network technology to AI. The invested in platforms for the safe exchange of medical data and Armilar Tech Transfer Fund is a pan-European technology introduced a new platform-based strategy for ZorgVrij, adding investment fund focused on commercializing technological several new partners to our portfolio. In partnership with innovations spun off from, developed or co-developed at ZIVVER, we now offer a secure email exchange to help prevent Portuguese universities, such as Técnico Lisboa, Portugal’s largest any data leaks of sensitive patient information. technical university. The IQ Capital Fund invests in thought leaders in deep-tech coming from the Cambridge and London technology The divestment of our activities in remote monitoring to health ecosystems, as well as other academic and research centers in institution Ksyos is in line with the focus of KPN Health. the UK. KPN Ventures has now partnered with eight external investment funds across Europe. In 2019, KPN Ventures also KPN Ventures last year invested in Pharmeon, a provider of participated in the Dutch Security TechFund, a new investment websites and patient portals to first-line care providers such as fund focused on early stage investments in security companies, general practitioners, dentists and pharmacists. With this also partnering with The Hague Security Delta (HSD). investment, Pharmeon will further develop its UwZorgOnline digital patient engagement platform to facilitate communication We are collaborating with several Dutch universities. The most and data exchange between patients and care providers, important goal for KPN in these working relationships is to building on KPN Health’s secure communication infrastructure enable thought leadership and positioning in relevant research and professional network in the healthcare sector. areas through strategic cooperation with top universities and engage with data science talents through Master and PhD KPN API Store thesis projects. The subjects vary from what a future network KPN officially launched the KPN API Store in April 2019. This will look like to how KPN can stay relevant in emerging digital one-stop shop offers a range of standardized APIs that ecosystems. businesses can integrate into their applications. As technical standardized building blocks, the APIs allow other businesses Intellectual property to interact and connect with other digital platforms. The store KPN’s current portfolio of intellectual property rights consists of offers KPN’s own APIs and APIs from selected partners. 228 registered trademarks relating to KPN’s core brands and approximately 320 patent families. We take appropriate steps to CHALLENGE protect our intellectual property rights and generate value from these rights where appropriate. Energy usage In the next few years remains a challenge. We will further explore how we can enhance energy KPN uses a combination of patents, trademarks, service marks, savings in our networks. So far, we have reduced energy trade secrets, copyrights, database protection, confidentiality use mostly by migration from ISDN and other olderagreements with employees and third parties and protective generation networks. One of the energy-saving contractual provisions. Approximately 70 of the patent families approaches we will explore is temporarily shutting off that KPN owns are declared essential for the commercial surplus capacity in our network during periods when exploitation of telecommunication technology and services, usage is low. including in the field of 5G and virtual reality. Throughout 2019, KPN’s patent positions in the area of 5G were confirmed. Partnership and collaboration We continue to invest in the growth of our intellectual property rights portfolio, among others, through our targeted long-term By joining forces with ambitious technology companies working research and development program in close cooperation with on the applications of tomorrow, we can provide better and TNO-ICT. more innovative products to customers more quickly. We support startups, scale-ups and other partners in our innovation ecosystem to connect with KPN and get access to expertise, infrastructure, KPN partners and customers, and financial support. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 41 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Safeguarded privacy and security Safeguarding privacy beyond legislation and compliance We take the responsibility to protect our customers against threats to cybersecurity and privacy very seriously. In promoting our customers right to privacy, our efforts go beyond legislation and compliance frameworks. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 68% 69% % customers helped who were unintentionally infected by malware (within 8 hours) ~100% ~99% Trust academia. The event was live-streamed, so that colleagues could watch the event at home or in the office, and a recording As devices and systems become more interconnected and of the event is available on our intranet. The recording includes sophisticated, so do the threats to cybersecurity and privacy. case studies and dilemmas that illustrate different ethical Customers trust us to keep their data safe and private. We take considerations and perspectives. this responsibility very seriously: we want everyone to enjoy the benefits of connectivity without having to worry about All new colleagues must complete the mandatory compliance information security or violations of their privacy. and integrity e-learning Spot On. They also conduct a number of specific privacy e-learnings, such as the Privacy and Cyber Privacy Security workouts. This ensures that all staff are up to speed on privacy matters in their work. It is crucial that customers can trust us to handle their data with great care and in a way that puts their interests first. In 2019, Last year, we continued with developing a Human Resource 68% of Dutch people said they believe their information is safe Privacy Statement, in which KPN sets out rules and principles with KPN (2018: 69%). for the handling and compliant processing of its employees’ personal data. As a large company and a telecom provider, KPN is extensively governed by laws and regulations around privacy. Yet to us, Lawful intercept safeguarding privacy goes beyond legislation or compliance We respect our customers’ right to privacy. At the same time, frameworks. It is a crucial component of the trustworthiness and we are legally obliged to disclose certain information, initially reliability we want to offer our stakeholders. It is therefore obtained by intercept, to national investigation agencies. important to embed ethical awareness of and responsibility for Our infrastructure must facilitate this and we must privacy in the mindset of all employees. cooperate with law enforcement agencies as specified in the Telecommunications Act. To this end, a liaison office is available Employee awareness 24/7 to facilitate interaction with law enforcement for all KPN All employees are subject to the KPN Code of Conduct which brands. We assess incoming warrants and conduct checks to includes guidelines on how to deal with customer information filter out any uncertainties. If we discover discrepancies, we and privacy. How we value privacy is an integral part of the KPN reject the warrant, inform the agency involved and follow the Code of Conduct (subcode 3). relevant procedures. In 2019, a mismatch was found in 1.7% of warrants received. Of the interception orders, 99.6% concerned For the second year running, KPN organized a privacy event for telephone numbers and in 0.4% of cases we were ordered to our employees. Speakers came from the worlds of business and intercept IP addresses. 42 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Within the context of KPN’s Notice and Take Down code of that we can only achieve if organizations across the public conduct, KPN received five complaints in 2019. These and private domain work together and pro-actively share complaints regarded copyright and intellectual property knowledge. disputes. In most instances, we were able to establish direct contact between the complainer and the accused in order to At KPN, we share our security knowledge and innovations with reach a bilateral understanding. In none of the cases did KPN the world around us to help improve security in society. We provide the requested identity information. continued our Guest Hacker programs, hosting outside experts on topics such as high-tech crime to ensure that insights from Security inspiring speakers become widely available. Another event we organized was Kids Cyber Day for kids and their parents. KPN As the world is challenged by ever more sophisticated cyber was the main partner for the Dutch Alert Online campaign in attacks, keeping KPN’s systems safe and secure demands 2019, as we have been for the past seven years. Our ethical constant vigilance and rapid adaptability. We work continuously hackers team won the third prize in the Global Cyberlympics, to improve security for our customers and society, by making a prestigious international cybersecurity championship. the KPN network and use of the network safer, now and for the future. This is vital to our strategy of delivering the most secure We made our KPN Security Policy (KSP) app available for Android and trusted network. via the Google Play store. The purpose of the KSP is to provide an unambiguous set of measures and requirements that KPN KPN’s security approach is based on the security lifecycle model: uses for security, continuity of services and products. prevent, detect, respond and verify. Our Strategy & Policy team works to prevent vulnerabilities and incidents, while our Innovation for future-proof security REDteam of ethical hackers proactively detects vulnerabilities We continued the research on post-quantum cryptography across the organization. We have a Security Operations Center together with Radboud University. The aim of the research is (SOC) to monitor our networks and infrastructures 24/7 and to modify current cryptographic protocols to make them reactively detect vulnerabilities, and a Computer Emergency quantum-resistant. The results of the research are expected in Response Team (CERT) to provide rapid incident response. 2020. Together with Radboud University, we also conducted a We have a team of senior security officers to verify the background study into cryptanalysis on post-quantum signatures. implementation and effectiveness of our security measures. Finally, our Labs team is an R&D innovation unit which aims to KPN and QuTech signed a new cooperative agreement to work improve security for customers and make KPN future-proof. together on making the quantum internet a reality. Enhancing security for customers Securing our network and operations To improve security for customers, we started developing a We deployed a central log management environment and project in 2018 using robotics to automate the manual issuance implemented a monitoring environment for active security of digital security certificates, thereby improving the resolution incident and event monitoring of networks and infrastructures of common SSL vulnerabilities and minimizing the risk of errors. by the SOC. We continued this development in 2019 and are embedding this automation in the process of issuing certificates for our We also continued developing our business continuity customers and for internal use. We also developed a better management tool, Q-carbon. We are also using DANE (an understanding of network traffic by deploying Flowmon probes internet security protocol) for KPN email servers, with which we in the KPN network. follow the ‘comply or explain’ rules of the Dutch government. We implemented a central multi-tenant platform for end-point In terms of security awareness, we organized a company-wide protection, which will eventually manage all KPN’s servers. As workshop on the mitigation of insider threats and introduced part of our partnership with the supplier, we are able to share an e-learning module to raise security awareness. This was our knowledge and experience in end-point detection and mandatory for all KPN employees. response. Our end-point protection for workspaces and mobile devices is live and operational. Detecting and resolving breaches In 2019, more than 10,000 processed virus notifications were Enhancing security for – and with – society detected based on information from trusted partners. In ~100% Cyber security involves offensive and defensive activities of cases, our KPN Abuse team could act on information within between parties with significantly different cyber capabilities, eight hours to help customers infected by malware, exceeding strategies and tactics. This requires fundamental cooperation our 98% target. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 43 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Safeguarded privacy and security Bribery and corruption In 2019, 207 internal fraud cases were found (2018: 175). These concerned such things as theft from goods and illegal orders or We expect our employees to report any suspicion of nonsubscriptions. We imposed sanctions and took action to repair compliance with the Code of Conduct. Following a report, a KPN the shortcomings in procedures and systems in order to prevent Security and/or KPN Compliance expert investigates the similar issues in the future. Furthermore, 12 employees had their potential violation. The outcome may lead to disciplinary action. contract terminated. In 42 cases, we prematurely terminated the The severity of the disciplinary action is determined by the contracts of temporary staff. nature and circumstances of the incident, and may include termination of employment. If desired, employees can also use None of the fraud cases are related to corruption or bribery the SpeakUp Line, an anonymous reporting procedure managed incidents, so we did not define any KPIs on these topics. Our by an independent organization. KPN Security Policy on Incident Management describes how we deal with incidents if they occur. The KPN Corporate Security In 2019, we performed an annual Fraud Risk Assessment (FRA) Office has a procedure in place to investigate reported in order to comply with internal and external fraud regulations incidences of internal fraud by employees. (including KPI GRI-G4 disclosure SO3), to increase fraud risk awareness and to evaluate the control framework for fraud Our stringent approach to bribery and corruption is based on (risks and controls). Fraud risks identified hardly changed multiple policies. These policies are listed in the table below. compared to 2018. Fraud risks are largely mitigated by internal We distinguish between bribery and corruption in the supply control activities. Residual fraud risk is sufficiently mitigated with chain and bribery and corruption among customers and process and soft controls. employees (such as fraud, verbal abuse or discrimination). Reference table on bribary and corruption Our policy and outcomes Risks and mitigating measures Customers and This paragraph describes our policy and the outcome of our policy. For more details, see: See Compliance and risk, employees Subcode 2 How we interact with third parties Appendix 4, https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7050/code-of-conduct.html GRI Supply chain Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described in ‘Environmental performance and responsible supply Appendix 4 chain’, p48-53. For more details, see: Appendix 2 https://overons.kpn/content/downloads/KPN_SUPPLIER-CODE-OF-CONDUCT.pdf, art 5.1, 5.2 Jeroen Jongenelen, Data protection officer: “The use of Artificial Intelligence will offer new opportunities and risks for technologies such as chatbots, personalization and deep learning. KPN has a role in ensuring that the privacy of the customers remains guaranteed” 44 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our performance: Sustainable employability Creating a more simple, effective and inclusive organization Focus on people and organization plays an important role in the transformation required to achieve sustainable, organic growth. We are in the process of creating an organization with fewer layers; one that is simpler and more effective, inclusive and diverse. We must also acquire, develop and retain the right people and skills, to ultimately become a stronger, more agile and profitable business. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 Employee survey score for engagement 77% 77% Overall % women at KPN 21% 22% Sustainable employability: % of employees with a new job within 1 year of leaving KPN 85% 85% People make the difference respondents feel engaged at KPN, which is stable compared to last year (2018). The survey revealed that during the year Our employees make the difference. This is supported by the employee optimism about the future of KPN increased by 8% decision to include a Chief People Officer in the Board of at the end of 2019. Management in 2019. We want our technologies and solutions to make a difference for our customers, employees and society. In order to improve engagement, we initiated ‘Ask Us Anything We can only do that by investing in the people who work with Live’ in which KPN’s Executive Committee and Supervisory and develop these technologies and solutions. Supporting the Board discuss strategy with employees, explain their choices transformation of KPN requires a more comprehensive people and decisions, and answer employee questions. approach, one in which employee experience, business needs and our role in society are paramount. Activities will be focused Learning & development on the most important journeys in an employee’s lifecycle at Our technologies and solutions make the difference to our KPN: Join & Next Step, Grow & Develop and Daily Experience. clients, colleagues and society. We can only achieve that by investing in our people. The right leadership is crucial to allow Engaged and qualified employees our people to grow in an ever-changing environment where We are committed to engaged and proud employees. We want they are happy to work and can make a difference to customers. to be recognized for that, both in-house and externally, and so make KPN a great place to work, both now and in the future. For the long term, KPN believes that we have to invest in young talents. With our award winning strategic Young Talent Each individual employee is responsible for their own vitality program, we try to stay attractive as employer in the war for and health. As an employer, we want to support our employees talent. In 2019, this program was awarded the price for by giving them a working environment and opportunities that ‘Best Traineeship Benelux’. KPN was also recognized by enable them to take that responsibility. In 2019, we continued Intermediair as the most favorable employer within the telco to offer our staff the opportunity to take part in the extended industry. program in KPN Academy via their employability budget. Around 70% of staff participated in the employee engagement KPN wants employees to take ownership of their long-term surveys of 2019. The last survey showed that 77% of employability – that is, their own future. In 2019, we expanded KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 45 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Sustainable employability our efforts in this area and increased the employability budget Gender diversity for courses and training from EUR 1,000 to at least EUR 1,500 Our ambition is to be best-in-class with diversity and inclusion for every employee. in our sector. In June 2019, we won the Diamond Award from ‘Talent naar de Top’ in recognition of our achievements in gender diversity within our sector. We scored 21% in 2019 CHALLENGE (22% in 2018) and our diversity policies are clear. It is our ambition to have at least 30% women in senior Digital transformation management at our company in 2023. With the new Board of This year, we started a three-year organizational Management composition per 1 December 2019, KPN now transformation program in which we redesigned units meets the threshold of more than 30% in the Board of based on an end-to-end view. With this, we aim to create Management. Following the proposed appointment of Ms. a more effective and efficient organization. Guillouard to the Supervisory Board per 15 April 2020, KPN will also meet this threshold for the Supervisory Board. KPN will have to complete a major digital transformation in the coming years. Work processes will be further The policies to increase gender diversity in 2019 were the same digitalized. As a result, we aim to gain better insights that as in 2018: can help us become faster and more flexible. We will be • Vacancies at and above salary scale 12 are only allowed to be working in an even more data-driven and fact-based filled when women form at least half of the shortlist. fashion, and use this to realize efficiency gain. • At least one in three of the appointed functions at and above salary scale 12 should be filled by a woman. We need to prepare the organization for the future in all • Making diversity targets part of the discretionary factor for the aspects. We face the challenge of having to perform work bonus plan (STI) for senior management. with fewer people, and at the same time find qualified This also applies to the composition of the Board of Management employees for new functions and tasks. This has resulted and Supervisory Board, excluding reappointments. in a large turnover of employees: 2,362 employees have left KPN and we welcomed 337 new employees in 2019. We also run several activities like mentoring and talent programs, leadership events with a focus on diversity and diverse communications on the intranet to inform, inspire and create awareness on this topic. Redeployment KPN increased the likelihood of employee in-house deployment KPN believes that investing in women in IT and technical jobs is in the new social plan. This means that employees who are or important. That’s why we have a specific focus on attracting may be affected by a reorganization and for whom there is a women to the technical departments of our company. We do suitable in-house position will not be made redundant; they will this by offering an internal network, being visible at women in instead be redeployed to this position. KPN Match (Internal tech fairs and organize inspiring internal events. In 2020, we Mobility) supports employees with finding the most suitable want to offer specific education for women to reand upskill into position at KPN by cooperating closely with business. In 2019, the technical domains. 463 employees received IMC support. KPN’s in-house database of vacancies and personal profiles was LGBTQI+ replaced in 2019 by the platform Match!, which offers employees We are committed to creating a workplace where lesbian, gay, the most suitable new positions more efficiently and makes bisexual and transgender, queer, intersexual people and people matching easier. with other sexual and/or gender identities (LGBTQI+) can be themselves and are valued. Our platform KPN Pride addresses Diversity and inclusion LGBTQI+ issues directly related to working at KPN. We want to be a great and safe workplace where every person In 2019, we sponsored an academic chair for research and can be themselves and we provide equal opportunities for a teaching in LGBTQI+ topics. successful career. We believe that the diversity of our employees We participated in Amsterdam Pride and Rotterdam Pride, and will increase the variety of skills and competences. This also held various events at our offices and retail stores during other applies for our ‘Leer en Werkbedrijf’, we create an unique Prides, Coming Out Day and Pink Saturday. opportunity within KPN for people with poor job prospects. We created a documentary short film featuring two gay men talking about love called ‘Timeless Love Connection’. This film was nominated for the Workplace Pride Leadership Awards. 46 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices We started sponsoring a new foundation called Studentpride, which will coordinate all LGBTQI+ initiatives at universities, Lisette Oosterbroek, colleges for higher vocational training and student associations. Vice President Organization Development & Change: Reserve forces KPN and the Royal Netherlands Army are strategic partners in “We have to shape a KPN that keeping the Netherlands safe. The context and challenges of Defense are changing, and this also impacts their employees. really puts our strategy into KPN wants to contribute to these challenges, so started two practice. Technology is nothing initiatives in 2019. We created a facility for people in the reserve forces to have five without people and we want our more days off a year to do their yearly basic training to stay in technologies to match our brand the reserves. We have 20 positions for young military people to do an internship in important fields of work in the army, like promise. Whatever you want to cybersecurity and data science. be on the outside, you must Social entrepreneurship and SROI also be on the inside” Government authorities stipulate a lot of requirements for social return on investment (SROI) in their contracts in order to stimulate the market for social impact. KPN adheres to these criteria and is intrinsically motivated to include people with poor job prospects. We also started a new group at our office in Enschede in 2019, hiring 15 people with with poor job prospects and offering them We hire at least 20 employees with poor job prospects every training at an intermediate vocational level. year. We offer them training at an intermediate vocational (MBO) level combined with professional work in the Customer Human rights Service department. They can graduate within one year at MBO level. We do this at our department at our office in Amsterdam. We explicitly endorse the United Nations Guiding Principles on businesses and human rights. The obligation to respect human In 2019, 75% of these employees graduated and 40% of them rights is the basis for our way of working and is reflected in our found a paid job inside or outside KPN. The number of people Code of Conduct and in the requirements we impose on our with poor job prospects joining KPN in 2019 increased 50% suppliers. Human rights matter most to us for three different compared to 2018. This is part of our firm commitment to the stakeholder groups. The table below provides an overview on sustainable employment of this target group. the relevant information. Reference table on human rights policies and outcomes Risks and Materiality Our policy and outcomes KPIs mitigating measures Customers High for Data Information Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described in the section ‘Safeguarded Safeguarded privacy Compliance and risk, Protection and Customer privacy and security’, p. 42, section Customer Value, p. 18 and section ‘Converged, and security Appendix 4 Interaction smart infrastructure’, p. 32. p. 42 Medium for Responsible Appendix 2 Operations Privacy and security. For more details, see: https://www.kpn.com/algemeen/missie-en-privacystatement/ see Appendix 3 onze-missie.htm Topic ‘Privacy and security’ at https://jobs.kpn.com/over-ons/onze-mensen/human-rights/ Employees Medium for KPN’s Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described (Regarding privacy) Compliance and risk, Corporate Governance and in this paragraph. For more details, see: Fines Appendix 4 Human Rights Compliance https://jobs.kpn.com/over-ons/onze-mensen/human-rights/ # incidents reported to regulators, see Appendix 3 (Compliance and risk, p. 81) Supply Chain High for Supplier Selection Our policy and the outcome of our policy is described in section Environmental Appendix 4 & Good Governance ‘Environmental performance and responsible supply chain’, p. 48. Performance and For more details, see: responsible supply How we identify low/medium/ high risk suppliers, see: chain, p. 48 https://overons.kpn/content/downloads/Supply-Chain.pdf and What we expect from our suppliers on human rights, see: Appendix 2 https://overons.kpn/content/downloads/KPN_SUPPLIER-CODE-OF-CONDUCT.pdf KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 47 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Environmental performance and responsible supply chain Collaborating on a more sustainable value chain Over the past decade, we positioned ourselves as one of the world’s greenest telecom companies driven by our belief that sustainable business is better business. To maintain this position, we set ourselves far-reaching goals by continually reducing our impact on the environment. KPI Result 2019 Result 2018 % Reduction in KPN Group energy consumption compared to 20101 30% 27% Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group1 93% 88% % Reuse and recycling 76% 75% Products with improved design for circularity2 4 N/a Fleet inflow of CO₂e neutral cars 33% 17% Reduction of value chain CO₂e (scope 3)3 16% 16% 1 The 2018 result is changed due to the sale of NL|DC. 2 Cumulative number of products as indicator of progress vs target of a minimum of 15 typical KPN/telco products with improved design for Jeroen Cox, circularity by 2022. 3 Reduction of CO₂e vs base year 2014 (scope 3 emissions). Senior Manager Energy & Environment: “With the return and trade-in programs we have for our in-home equipment and mobile phones, our customers will have noticed our environmental efforts. What’s more, our new UHD TV receiver has an energysaving sleep mode and needs 64% less plastic to produce” 48 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our ambition for 2025 and beyond Close to To achieve our goal to be close to 100% circular by 2025, we have set concrete targets, and use a roadmap to track our 100% circular progress in reducing our materials impact. For inflow of materials, we have initially focused on the redesign of a minimum of 15 typical KPN/telco products in our efforts to 0% CO₂e achieve circular design. These includes in-home equipment like set-top boxes or remote controls, and outdoor equipment like emissions street cabinets. Product design can also be improved by, for example, substituting more sustainable materials or using more from new cars modular design. We analyze product improvement via product passports. Furthermore, these learnings help us to set stricter 2025 requirements to suppliers for the products we procure. Improved circular product designs will in time lead to better reuse and recycling. For customer equipment, our circular ambition is a closed-loop supply chain. Our return rate improved from 67% to 78%. -44% energy For outflow of waste and materials, 76% of the weight is reused consumption or recycled. By 2025 we aim to have almost no incineration and landfill. We aim to save energy and reduce our use of materials vs 2010 by replacing some of our hardware with software. 2030 We will reduce CO₂e emissions from our company-car fleet by gradually introducing 100% CO₂e -neutral vehicles. From 2025, all the vehicles we add to our fleet must be 100% CO₂e -neutral. This means we will become 100% climate-neutral without compensation for car fuels by 2030. -50% CO₂e By 2030 we aim to reduce our energy consumption by 44% compared to 2010. We aim to reduce emissions in our supply emissions in the chain with 25% by 2025 and 50% by 2040 compared to 2014. Our CO₂e-reduction targets have been approved by the Science supply chain vs 2014 Based Targets initiative, which means they are in line with the agreed limit of a 1.5 °C increase in global warming set in the Paris 2040 Agreement. These targets cover our own CO₂e emissions as well as reducing CO₂e emissions in the supply chain, from the equipment production stage right through to when our customers use this equipment and our services. Detailed environmental figures, including intensity figures, targets and avoided energy consumption by our customers can be found in Appendix 7: Environmental figures. An overview of major KPIs is shown in Appendix 2, calculation methods in Appendix 3 and GRI application in Appendix 9. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 49 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Environmental performance and responsible supply chain Suppliers and recyclers Reuse & Energy Landfill Suppliers Procurement Network, real estate, Products and Recycling recovery fleet services Integrated value chain approach our gross scope 1 and scope 2 location-based CO₂e emissions Through our approach to sustainability, we aim to influence the would be 283 kTon CO₂e. Our emissions in the supply chain environmental impact of our total supply chain, from suppliers to (scope 3 emissions) are 877 kTon CO₂e. To be climate-neutral, customers. This includes our procurement process, operations, we use 100% green electricity generated by local and European and the impact of our products and services before, during and wind farms. Other CO₂e emissions (8%) from gas (buildings), after use. gasoline and petrol (cars and emergency power) are compensated by Gold Standard projects and REDD+ forest Risks related to climate change and compliance with new compensation projects. environmental legislations are incorporated in our risk management and control systems. Please see the Compliance Energy consumption compared to data communication growth and risk chapter and Appendix 4 for an overview of the top risks In petajoules for KPN. We have also taken the recommendations of the Task 4.5 1,800% Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into 4.0 1,600% account. The TCFD recommendations cover matters such as 3.5 1,400% governance, climate strategy, risk and opportunity assessment, 3.0 1,200% and key performance indicators (see overview in Appendix 3). 2.5 1,000% 2.0 800% Energy and CO₂e reduction 1.5 600% Our total energy consumption in 2019 was 2.728 petajoules. 1.0 400% Compared to base year 2010 this is a reduction of 30%, whilst 0.5 200% the data communication volume has increased almost 16-fold 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 in the same period. KPN has been climate-neutral for own operations since 2015. If we were not using green energy, Offices and Shops Cars Network Data communication growth (%) CO₂e emissions own operations Scope 1 and 2 (in kTon) Gross scope 1 and scope 2 location based Net scope 1 and scope 2 market based 2019 2018 2010 base year 2019 2018 2010 base year Scope 1 NL 26.3 30.5 58.8 – – 58.8 Scope 2 NL 256.3 262.1 301.6 – – 35.9 KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) 282.6 292.6 360.4 – – 94.7 KPN non-NL entities – – 25.0 – – 25.0 NL|DC (sold in 2019)1 34.7 44.9 44.2 – – 44.2 Total 317.3 337.5 429.6 – – 163.9 1 NL|DC is reported separately until 1 October 2019 due the sale of NL|DC. Previous years for NL|DC are based on full year basis. 50 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Circular economy approach Reduce Extend Recycle Energy efficiency Use of virgin materials Use products longer and High-end second life of Reducing energy usage and • Virtualization better products and materials increased energy efficiency • Dematerialization • Lifespan extension • Reuse • Reused products • Rates of utilization • Recycling • Recycled / biobased materials Supporting actions Goal: zero waste Becoming circular in our operations plastics and metals can be recycled or separated is key to KPN is committed to the principles of a circular economy, which achieving this objective. After updating our Supplier Code of means we aim to use fewer materials, enhance product lifespans Conduct in 2018 to include circular principles we now also and take measures to reduce our waste production to zero. incorporate circular requirements in our Requests for Proposals. We strive to improve our value chain impact through a We use certified partners to improve the circularity of our procurement process based on sustainable requirements. By the products. Based on the information they provide, we plan to end of 2019, 18 suppliers who support our ambition signed the reduce the use of virgin materials in the future and replace them KPN Circular Manifesto. This represents more than 70% of with products and materials designed to be recycled, i.e. with a spend on materials. lifecycle perspective in mind. So far, the following typical KPN/ telco products have been improved for circularity: Digitenne TV The KPN Circular Manifesto is based on four levers: reduce, receiver, IPTV receiver, remote control and street cabinet. extend, recycle and energy efficiency. We also address the reduction of CO₂e emissions in our supply chain and have Networks started projects with our suppliers to improve circularity linked Our fixed and mobile networks account for most of our to the manifesto levers. electricity consumption (94%). We remove old equipment, replace it with energy-efficient models, and improve cooling. CHALLENGE At the same time, we continue to improve the quality and speed of our fixed and mobile networks. Due to the divestment of When it comes to extending the lifespan of equipment, NL|DC, we have restated our energy usage figures. we face a dilemma. Our efforts in this area potentially conflict with efforts to enhance energy efficiency as this As part of our circular ambition, our network components are involves replacing equipment with newer, more migrating to cloud solutions and network function virtualization. energy-efficient equipment. That is why we have A pilot case on server virtualization shows a potential for gross included energy efficiency in our circular economy CO₂e-emission reduction versus using separate servers. The approach, ensuring our efforts to reduce energy are study shows a fourfold CO₂e-reduction potential in the aligned with our circular goal of using fewer materials. production phase and even ninefold in the use phase. This may result in less hardware being used in the future. We set up a product passport for our current street cabinet, which is over The role of procurement in our circular strategy three times lighter than its predecessor and more circular due to Our suppliers play a major part in the extent to which KPN can application of recycled aluminum instead of steel. With the help operate as a circular company. As such, we take their of AI applications, we can better understand our energy environmental and social performance into account. Our circular consumption and as a result make a more detailed estimate of goal is to ensure that the equipment we buy from our suppliers the energy needs of our network and platforms. This helps to is designed in such a way that it can easily be separated into procure power more accurately and further reduce energy reusable parts or recyclable materials. Knowledge of which consumption in the network. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 51 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our performance: Environmental performance and responsible supply chain Real estate Services We focus on ensuring that the buildings we rent are flexible in IT can play a significant role in activities to combat climate terms of both function and layout. Besides flexibility, we also aim change and its global impact. As demonstrated in the GeSI for circularity by, among other things, covering a portion of the report ‘Digital with Purpose: Delivering a SMARTer2030’, digital square meters we use with carpet tiles that contain recycled technologies can have a positive societal value. KPN believes materials. Some of our furniture is reused or recycled. Our offices that positive value on environmental impact is linked to our have saved 47% in energy compared to 2010 by optimizing work commitment to SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and space and implementing an energy-savings program. production patterns, and the Paris Agreement. Fleet As KPN’s own operations are climate-neutral, all our services are From 2025 onwards, we aim to only add new CO₂e-neutral low-carbon services. Moreover, our customers can reduce their company cars. In the meantime, we will continue to reduce the own energy consumption and CO₂e emissions. By using our maximum CO₂e emissions allowed of our vehicles by switching cloud services, video conferencing and audio conferencing, for to models with cleaner engines. In 2019 our absolute savings on example, our business customers can meet online, so reducing car fuel compared to 2010 was 49%, meaning we met our target. the need to commute or office space. This in turn reduces traffic and so energy consumption, CO₂e emissions and particulate We encourage employees to work at home if possible and so matter. reduce emissions caused by commuting. Given the increased availability of fully electric cars with a longer range, it is possible By 2020, we want our services to save an amount of energy for for all employees entitled to a company lease car to select a fully our customers that equates to 94% of KPN’s own energy electric vehicle. Our engineers continued their efforts last year to consumption. We measure this avoided energy consumption by use CO₂e-neutral transport as an alternative to petrol cars, to calculating the impact on our consumer and business customers reduce emissions of particulate matter and CO₂e. In 2019, we added for specific products and services (see Appendix 7, table 9). We 249 electric cars and 16 biogas cars to continue transforming our realized 93% savings in 2019, which exceeds our target of 88%. fleet, which equates to an inflow of 33% CO₂e-neutral cars (lease and engineers). This is higher than our 2019 target of 20%. Using these services helped our customers to avoid around 200kTon CO2e emissions, 400 ton PM10 emissions and to save Products around EUR 88m in energy costs. Most of these savings were Most customer-related products are modems, TV set-top boxes due to reduced car-fuel consumption (52 million liters). This is or mobile handsets. For modems and TV set-top boxes, the equivalent of the fuel that 61,000 cars use in a year. See standardization is a good way to ensure reuse and upgrading. Appendix 3 for further information. Our 4K Ultra HD TV receiver, which was introduced in 2019, Procurement and suppliers is more than two times as small as its predecessor. It contains 64% less plastic and its covers are made of 33% recycled plastic. Risks related to the selection and qualification of suppliers/ Our TV receivers will be more energy efficient thanks to a sleep partners, products and services mode, which was not available in the previous model. Last year, As a large company, we purchase many products and services we also started using recycled steel for the covers of our from suppliers. We strive to only do business with suppliers who Digitenne TV receiver. comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. This sets out our social and environmental requirements for suppliers. The code To improve the circularity of our product portfolio, we continue is inspired by the Charter of the United Nations and based on to offer refurbished phones. Our customers can also choose to the core conventions of the International Labor Organization have their mobile handsets repaired through our repair service (ILO). It contains conditions relating to human rights, labor or insurance service. We introduced a trade-in offering for conditions, privacy, safety, environment, bribery and fraud. The customers for mobile phones. With Apple, we introduced a code of conduct forms part of our general purchasing conditions. service to hand in phones beyond repair to harvest parts for recycling. Our goal is to ensure a circular treatment of phones by An intensive and increasingly public discussion about the selling them to other customers or using spare parts for repair security of telecom networks and services has developed in the via our partner network. Netherlands in the past year. There are similar discussions in other European countries. The Dutch government has developed a policy that aims to prohibit suppliers from certain countries from critical parts of telecom networks in the Netherlands. The process was finalized with a regulation that sets technical and other requirements for the systems, and for 52 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices operational security. KPN announced in April that it would in Sustainability checks future use Western suppliers for core parts of its network and comply with any further rules. Working with Joint Audit Cooperation KPN is a member of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC). JAC is In 2019 we started integrating a CSR assessment to evaluate an association of 17 telecom operators (AT&T, Deutsche how well a company has integrated the principles of CSR into its Telekom, Elisa, KPN, MTS, Proximus, Orange, Rogers, Swisscom, business and management system. Although this assessment is Telefónica, Telenor, Telia, Telstra, TIM, Veon, Verizon and Vodafone) part of our tender process, we also started asking our approved aiming to verify, assess and develop CSR implementation across supplier base to cooperate in doing this assessment. the manufacturing centers of important multinational suppliers The scope criteria cover four themes: environment, labor & in the ICT industry. JAC members share resources and best human rights (employee health & safety, working conditions, practices to develop long-term CSR implementation in the social dialogue, child labor, forced labor & human trafficking, different layers or tiers of the global ICT supply chain. diversity, discrimination and external stakeholder human rights), ethics, and the environment and sustainable procurement. Social audits In 2019, all procurement staff involved in purchasing decisions KPN worked together with JAC in 2019 to audit 41% of our were given the opportunity to take part in a training and critical Tier I, Tier II, Tier III and Tier IV suppliers. Thanks to a consultation in order to analyze the EcoVadis CSR scores and gradual increase in the number of members of JAC, 82% of our encourage challenging conversations with suppliers to improve high-risk suppliers were audited between 2014 and 2019. The their CSR impact. aim is to audit critical suppliers every two to four years. Between 2010 and 2019, in cooperation with other JAC members, 639 Our sourcing process is based on a competitive comparison of audits were carried out in production plants (Tier I, II, III and IV) suppliers, and applies economic, technical and in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Oceania, and covered ethical criteria to select suppliers. Since 2018, we have a total of more than 1.3 million workers. The suppliers included in incorporated standard CSR criteria into our tender process. the audit campaign were from the production sectors for user These criteria are: devices and appliances, network appliances and IT equipment. • Complying with KPN’s Supplier Code of Conduct. • Conflict minerals: We ask our suppliers to undertake Non-conformities reasonable due diligence within their supply chains to ensure The table below shows the non-conformities recorded during the raw materials used in the product under the RFP are on-site audits conducted in 2015-2019. sourced only from mines and smelters outside the “conflict 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 region” (originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo) Business Ethics 3 4 11 7 19 or mines and smelters that have been certified by an Discrimination 2 1 independent third party as “conflict-free” if sourced within the Disciplinary practices 1 2 “conflict region”). Environment 17 8 12 18 15 • Promoting the reduction of so-called virgin materials, i.e. new, Freedom of association 1 1 1 1 2 materials not previously used. Health & safety 39 23 27 31 45 • Promoting reuse and recycling of KPN products to reduce the Labor 4 2 5 amount of landfill. Unlawful labor 5 1 8 Wages & compensation 3 4 3 6 5 • Extending the lifecycle of products. Working hours 6 7 15 16 9 • Promoting the energy efficiency of KPN products. Other 1 71 57 72 83 108 As suppliers have a direct influence on the communities in which they operate, KPN reviews their impact on the Corrective action plans based on audits conducted by KPN environment and the working conditions of staff by means of a For all the non-conformities encountered, we drew up specific set of criteria. Our sourcing process (new, extension, renewal) corrective action plans (CAPs) that include resolution includes a qualification process, which means classifying the procedures and timetables. Suppliers and production plants are supplier based on the potential social and environmental risks responsible for following up on these corrective action plans. that their operations, products and services represent. For JAC members monitor the implementation of these plans on a details reference is made to Appendix 8. monthly basis. CAPs set clear deadlines aiming to complete all corrective actions within 12 months. Although all our suppliers are committed to completing all corrective action plans, we have found that some issues are hard to resolve within one year. In 2019, we closed 88% of all non-conformities raised between 2016 and 2018. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 53 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create 54 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices 5G a step closer “ 5G is an essential catalyst for further digitalizing Dutch society — Babak Fouladi Chief Technology & Digital Officer ” KPN is working to ensure its mobile the 700 MHz band, which will be limited for consumers, but B2B will really network is technically prepared for 5G. available for 5G in the Netherlands after benefit from 5G, certainly in the industrial In our five 5G Field Labs, we are the spectrum auction in 2020, and the 3.5 sector. That makes 5G an essential cooperating with customers and GHz band, which is expected to be catalyst for further digitalizing Dutch technology partners to study the added available from 2022. The 26 GHz band society,” says KPN Chief Technology & value of 5G applications. This involves will also be used for testing. The release Digital Officer Babak Fouladi. carrying out extensive tests on the latest date in the Netherlands is not yet known. radio technology and antennas, and using 5G frequencies in combination with As well as higher download and upload the latest generation of smartphones. speeds, 5G provides lower latency and A mobile download speed of 1.3 Gbps has greater precision. That is of particular already been achieved in one of those value for the ever-increasing use of tests. mobile video applications, including augmented and virtual reality. To carry out the 5G tests, KPN is using two 5G frequency bands that will be “5G will create countless new possibilities. the first to be made available in Europe: In the beginning the added value will be KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 55 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Our valuable assets Brief overview of our valuable assets Our organization is fueled by six key capitals, enabling us to contribute to the digital transformation arena. Each of the capitals is vital to maximize the value we create for our organization, our stakeholders and society at large in the short and the long term. Loyal customer base and digital era demands We aim to build a satisfied customer base, providing customer journeys designed to accommodate the digital needs of our customers, ranging from consumers to large corporate enterprises. 2019 2018 Consumer and Business postpaid customer base 5,425k 5,466k Consumer and Business broadband customer base 3,163k 3,223k Interactive TV customer base 2,170k 2,168k Fixed-mobile households 1,402k 1,343k Wholesale fixed lines 972k 933k Strong partnerships and supplier base We join forces with ambitious technology companies to work on the applications of tomorrow, providing better and more innovative products to our customers while reducing adverse impacts across the supply chain. 2019 2018 Partnering innovative startups & entrepreneurs: ~57 ~90 Partnering research centers & universities 4 3 KPN Ventures Fund size € 70m € 70m #of critical suppliers 39 53 56 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Future-proof infrastructure and mobile spectrum We connect telecom and IT activities through investments, partnerships and research in innovations strengthening the capacity of our network and IT infrastructure. 2019 2018 Capital expenditure € 1,115m € 1,106m Average 4G download speed mobile network 68Mbps 53Mbps Solid Average maximum download financial basis speed broadband fixed 236Mbps 221Mbps We focus on value and convergence aiming to realize a return on investment for our capital providers that outperforms the cost of capital while solidifying our financial and competitive position. 2019 2018 Return on capital employed 9.2% 9.0% Market capitalization € 11.1bn € 10.8bn Skilled and Leverage ratio Credit ratings 2.2x 2.5x Baa3/BBB/BBB Baa3/BBB-/BBB motivated workforce We create a more simple, effective and inclusive organization by acquiring, developing and retaining the right people and skills to become a stronger, more agile and profitable business. 2019 2018 Full-time personnel 11,248 12,431 Average training cost per FTE € 2,047 € 1,895 Green Employee score for engagement 77% 77% energy We mitigate our adverse environmental impacts driven by our belief that sustainable business is better business and expressed in our climate-neutral operations and our commitment to a circular economy. 2019 2018 Green electricity consumption 100% 100% Energy consumption 2.728PJ 2.841PJ1 1 Restated for the sale of NLDC KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 57 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Corporate governance Steering the company The corporate governance framework of KPN is in line with the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and applicable laws and regulations, including securities laws, and is aligned with our strategy. Furthermore, the company is governed by its Articles of Association and internal procedures, such as the by-laws of the Board of Management and the by-laws of the Supervisory Board. Legal structure of the company Shareholders Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established Share capital, listings and indices under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed on KPN’s authorized share capital totals EUR 720m, divided into Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association of KPN were nine billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine billion last amended on 20 April 2018. KPN has a two-tier management preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. As of 31 December 2019, structure with a Board of Management and a Supervisory Board. a total of 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding. Since KPN qualifies as a ‘large company’ (structuurvennootschap) 13 June 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been listed on within the meaning of the Dutch Civil Code and applies the Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a Level I ADR relevant rules of Dutch corporate law. The Board of Management program, which allows investors to trade KPN ADRs in the is entrusted with the management of the company. The Supervisory United States on the over-the-counter market (ticker symbol: Board oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the KKPNY). KPN shares are included in a number of leading Board of Management and the way in which it manages and indices, including: AEX, the EURO STOXX Telecommunications directs KPN’s operations. In the performance of their duties, Index and the STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications Index. the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board are guided by the interests of the company and the General Meeting of Shareholders enterprise connected therewith and take the relevant The General Meeting of Shareholders holds all powers that have stakeholder interests into account. The Board of Management is not been granted to other company bodies. It has the authority accountable to the General Meeting of Shareholders in to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, upon binding accordance with Dutch legislation. nomination by the Supervisory Board and to dismiss the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details furthermore adopts the Financial Statements, releases the of KPN’s legal structure. members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board from liability, determines the dividend, determines the remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board and approves the remuneration policy and share (option) plans for the Board of Management. Furthermore, certain decisions are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders, including decisions entailing a significant change in the identity or character of the company or its business and corporate matters, such as amendments to the Articles of Association of the company, a (de)merger or the dissolution of the company, and the issuance of shares or reduction of the issued capital of the company. Within four months of the end of every fiscal year, the Board of Management prepares Financial Statements, accompanied by an Integrated Annual Report. The Financial Statements are submitted to the Supervisory Board for approval, and subsequently (within six months from the end of the fiscal year) to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) for adoption, and to the Central Works Council for information 58 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices purposes. Adoption of the Financial Statements does not Supervisory Board automatically discharge the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board from liability. This requires a separate The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Board of resolution by the AGM. Further General Meetings of Management, guided by the interests of the company and the Shareholders are held as often as the Supervisory Board or enterprise connected therewith and taking into account the Board of Management deem necessary. The Board of interests of the stakeholders. Major investments, acquisitions Management and the Supervisory Board determine the agenda and various corporate matters are subject to Supervisory Board of the General Meetings of Shareholders. Shareholders who approval. individually or collectively represent at least 1% of the issued capital or who, according to the Official Price List of Euronext Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the Amsterdam, represent at least a value of EUR 50m have the General Meeting of Shareholders upon binding nomination by right to propose items for the agenda, within the boundaries the Supervisory Board. The Central Works Council has an of the law. Every shareholder has the right to attend a General enhanced right to recommend persons for nomination to the Meeting of Shareholders, in person or through written proxy, Supervisory Board for up to one-third of its members. The to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights. Supervisory Board must nominate the recommended persons unless it is of the opinion that any such person would be Obligations to disclose holdings unsuitable to fulfill the duties of a Supervisory Board member or Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft, Wet op such appointment would cause the Supervisory Board to be het financieel toezicht), legal entities as well as natural persons improperly constituted. Pursuant to a specific arrangement with must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for the Financial América Móvil, América Móvil has the right to designate one Markets (AFM) when a shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls person to be nominated by the Supervisory Board for below certain thresholds of the issued capital. The AFM appointment as a member of the Supervisory Board. According incorporates these notifications in the public register, which is to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board must available on its website. See Note 23 to the Financial Statements comprise of at least five and not more than nine members. for the KPN shareholding as at 31 December 2019. Please see Members of the Supervisory Board resign according to a ‘Composition of the boards’ starting on page 73 for information schedule set by the Supervisory Board. A member steps down at on the composition of the Board of Management and the the first AGM following their first term in office. In accordance Supervisory Board, insider transactions and share ownership with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, members of the by the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Supervisory Board can be reappointed once for a four-year term Board. and thereafter for a maximum of two terms of two years, stating reasons for such further reappointment. The Supervisory Board Purchase of shares in the company’s own capital and issuance has determined its ‘profile’, defining the basic principles for its of new shares composition. All nominees for election to the Supervisory Board With the general aim of flexibility in financing of the company, must fit this profile. According to this profile, the Supervisory the AGM authorized the Board of Management to purchase Board must be composed in such a way that members of the shares in the company’s own capital and also decided to reduce Supervisory Board are able to operate independently of each the issued capital through cancellation of own shares held by other and of the Board of Management. The profile is available the company by a number that could be determined by the on KPN’s website. Board of Management. Furthermore, the AGM also designated The by-laws of the Supervisory Board comprise, inter alia, rules the Board of Management as the body authorized to issue regarding the members’ duties, powers, working methods and ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for ordinary decision-making, what decisions by the Board of Management it shares and to restrict or exclude statutory pre-emptive rights of must approve, training and conflict handling. The by-laws are existing shareholders upon such issuance or granting of rights. available on KPN’s website. The above authorities and decisions are limited to a maximum of 10% of the issued capital as of 10 April 2019 and are Committees of the Supervisory Board applicable until 10 October 2020. Resolutions by the Board of The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Management implementing the above are subject to the Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating approval of the Supervisory Board. The authorities were not & Corporate Governance Committee and the Strategy & used during 2019. Organization Committee. These committees assist the Supervisory Board in its decision-making and report their findings to the Supervisory Board. Their tasks are laid down in charters, which are available on KPN’s website. Further information on the activities of the committees in 2019 can be found in the Supervisory Board Report, starting on page 80 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 59 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Corporate governance Board of Management Compliance with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code KPN complies with all best practices of the Dutch Corporate The Board of Management is responsible for setting KPN’s Governance Code. An overview of all principles and best strategy and for managing KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial, practices of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as well as operational, CSR and organizational matters. The Board of KPN’s application thereof in accordance with the ‘comply or Management is accountable for its performance to the explain’ principle is available on KPN’s website. Supervisory Board and to the shareholders of the company at the AGM. In performing their duties, the Board of Management Conflict of interest focusses on long-term value creation for the company and the The handling of conflicts of interest between the company enterprise connected therewith, taking into account the and members of the Board of Management or Supervisory interests of the stakeholders. Board is governed by Dutch law, the relevant provisions of The members of the Board of Management are appointed and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the by-laws of the dismissed by the Supervisory Board. Members of the Board of respective boards. Management are appointed for a four-year term, which ends at the first AGM after that term expires. A board member is required to immediately report any (potential) conflict of interest that is of material significance to Until 1 December 2019, the Board of Management managed its the company and/or to the member concerned to the chairman business operations jointly with a number of senior business of the Supervisory Board (or, in case of the chairman, to the and staff officers in an Executive Committee. This Executive vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board). The relevant board Committee was dissolved with the expansion of the Board of member shall not take part in discussions or decision-making on Management on 1 December 2019. a subject in which they have a conflict of interest. Decisions to The by-laws of the Board of Management contain, among other enter into transactions in which there are conflicts of interest things, rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, working with members of each of these company bodies that are of methods and decision-making and conflict-handling. The material significance to the company or such member require by-laws are available on KPN’s website. the approval of the Supervisory Board. There were no conflicts of interest in 2019. Corporate social responsibility governance For the Statement by the Board of Management and Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is embedded in KPN’s Responsibility Statement, see page 72. organizational structure. CSR themes are defined and approved by the Board of Management, including their ambitions and KPIs. Every CSR theme is assigned to a member of the senior External auditor management who, as theme owner, is responsible for stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress and results. Each theme The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the Financial owner heads a committee, consisting of management of the key Statements. The AGM appoints the external auditor on a yearly departments involved in this theme. basis, upon a proposal by the Supervisory Board. The external The theme owners report to KPN’s CSR Manager, who is auditor reports to the Board of Management, the Audit responsible for the overall reporting, approach and cohesion. Committee and the Supervisory Board to discuss findings The CSR Manager reports to the Director Corporate pertaining to their agreed upon procedures for the quarterly Communication & CSR, who in turn reports to the CEO. Four financial results and audit of the annual financial results. The times a year, CSR data is included in the overall set of business external auditor attends the AGM to answer questions KPIs that is reported to and discussed with the Board of pertaining to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report, as Management. In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, included in the Integrated Annual Report. The Audit Committee stakeholder dialogues are held with external experts to advise approves every engagement of the external auditor, after KPN on its approach to CSR in general and more in-depth on pre-approval by the internal auditor, to ensure the external the CSR themes. Climate-related risks and opportunities are auditor’s independence. All Audit Committee meetings were considered integral to the governance of operations and CSR. attended by the external auditor. For the role of the internal Further details on governance and risk can be found in chapter auditor, see page 71. ‘Compliance and risk’. 60 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN) KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation), to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding the total issued number of ordinary shares, minus one share and minus any shares already issued to the Foundation. Upon exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value of EUR 4ct per Class B preference share needs to be paid by the Foundation. According to its Articles of Association, the statutory goal of the Foundation is “to protect KPN’s interests (which includes the interests of stakeholders, such as customers, shareholders and employees), by, among others, protecting KPN from influences that may threaten its continuity, independence and identity”. Consequently, in the event of any circumstances where the company is subject to influences as described above and taking public security considerations into account, the board of the Foundation may decide to exercise the call option, with a view to enabling the company to determine its position in relation to the circumstances as referred to above, and seek alternatives. The board of the Foundation is of the opinion that under normal circumstances it should not exercise its voting rights for longer than a limited period. The members of the board of the Foundation are J.H. Schraven (Chairman), A.P. Aris, P. Wakkie, F.J.G.M. Cremers and F. van der Wel. The Board of Management has concluded that the board of the Foundation is independent from KPN in accordance with parts c and d of the first subsection of article 5:71 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. The views of the board of the Foundation, summarized above, have been published on the Foundation’s website (www.prefs-kpn.nl). KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 61 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create 62 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Tax and regulations Monitoring developments proactively Tax The overall tax position and optimal use of subsidy opportunities • Restatement IFRS 15 and 9: The final outcome of the is managed by KPN’s Corporate Tax Department, whereby KPN discussion with the Dutch tax authorities on the change in adheres to its Tax Strategy and Policy (see ir.kpn.com). accounting of our mobile propositions was in line with the expected outcome recorded in 2018. It is important to KPN to create sufficient tax awareness • Changes in the corporate structure, such as mergers, throughout the organization. KPN regularly organizes meetings, liquidations, divestments and other changes like brand knowledge updates and trainings, to ensure employees act with integrations, bond issues (including tenders), etc. integrity and adhere to KPN’s tax strategy and policy. • Tax allowance for labor costs relating to R&D activities In line with the tax strategy and policy, KPN’s Tax Control (“WBSO”); KPN is continuously monitoring its innovation Framework (TCF) is continuously monitored and optimized. activities to substantiate the tax allowance for labor costs. KPN’s TCF is also part of the RFR GRIP Framework (see page 68 • Update of the definition of KPN’s tax strategy and policy (see Compliance and Risk). Furthermore, the audit by EY includes the ir.kpn.com) and formalizing its mission and vision. review by EY tax specialists as the assessment process is • Further improvement of KPN’s TCF, especially with regard to complex and subject to judgement (see page 170). The relation the VAT position, which has been acknowledged and with the Dutch tax authorities is based on the principles of confirmed by the Dutch tax authorities. mutual trust, understanding and transparency and is formalized • Good progress in further automation of the CIT compliance through a covenant. KPN is self-assessing and discusses, process; increasing quality and limiting lead time. pro-actively and transparently, current and potential future tax issues with the Dutch tax authorities. In line with its new policy, Taxes paid (€ million) that applies for the 100 largest and most complex organizations, the Dutch tax authorities will replace, in 2020, the current VAT: Wage tax 596 (54%) and social covenant with an Individual Monitoring Plan (“individueel 591 (53%) security: Toezicht Plan”). As the relation will continue to be based on 443 (40%) aforementioned principles, KPN does not anticipate a significant 451 (40%) change in this respect. Dividend tax: Other: 63 (6%) 4 (0%) 61 (5%) 9 (1%) In 2019, the following main developments and projects were relevant to KPN from a tax perspective: Total Corporate • Changed Dutch corporate income tax rates; for 2020 and 2021 tax: income tax: a change in corporate income tax rates has been enacted 1,114 (100%) 7 (1%) 1,120 (100%) 9 (1%) during Q4 2019 which impacts the valuation of our deferred tax asset (see Note 8, pages 120-123). • 2019 • 2018 • The enactment of rules that changed the fiscal unity regime, which required KPN to intensively research the developments as of 1989 in the group structure. • The Dutch State Secretary of Finance published a new Dutch VAT decree regarding the VAT treatment of vouchers at the end of December 2018. The VAT decree regarding ‘Telefoonkaarten en mobiele telefoonabonnementen’ that was in place until the end of 2018 has been withdrawn. Based on this new VAT decree, KPN discontinued the lower remittance of VAT (see also pages 153 and 197). • Restatement IFRS 16: The Implementation of IFRS 16 resulted in two new significant temporary differences: one on the right-of-use assets and one on the lease liabilities. For tax purposes, the former IFRS principles continue to apply (see also Note 2 page 105). KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 63 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Tax and regulations Forward-looking The following tax metrics apply for 2019 Based on current projections, KPN expects to fully utilize its Dutch realized and unrealized losses well within the expiration limits of applicable tax law. Through offset of available losses Eff. tax rate (ETR) 7.3% in the Netherlands, KPN expects to pay limited but increasing in 2018: amounts of corporate income tax for the coming years. 42.7% KPN will continue to extend and optimize its tax control framework, supported by simplification and automation. To obtain additional assurance, KPN engaged a third party to perform an objective review of KPN’s corporate income tax EBIT tax Normalized Cash tax position. rate 23.1% rate 1.1% in 2018: ETR 21.6% in 2018: KPN expects to continue the discussions with the Dutch tax 23.7% 1.7% in 2018: 22.7% authorities on the change in the VAT calculation methodology regarding vouchers. KPN continues active participation in representative associations The reported difference between the effective tax rate and the that seek to develop best practice around disclosures. cash tax rate is mainly caused by the impact of available tax Furthermore, KPN is closely monitoring developments on tax, losses (carry forward). See also Note 8 page 120. The reported such as the initiative of The Dutch government to explore a corporate income taxes paid relate to taxable profits that cannot reform of the Corporate Income Tax Act. be offset against these losses (payable by entities not part of the relevant tax group). The EBIT tax rate is lower than the statutory rate mainly due to the impact of the innovation box facility. Tax overview for continuing operations per country Corporate Other tax In € million Total Total Profit before tax Corporate Corporate Income tax cash flow Property or FTE unrelated related excl. associates income income tax receivable/ mainly VAT plant and Employees income¹ income¹ and joint ventures tax expense ETR cash flow payable & payroll equipment end of year NL 2019 5,633 453 678 -49 7.2% -6 – -1,106 5,432 11,241 (regular operating activities) 2018 5,465 558 535 -223 41.2% -7 1 -1,111 5,593 12,226 GERM 2019 1 9 – – – -1 – – – 7 (regular operating activities) 2018 1 5 – – – – – – 2 15 IRL 2019 – 6 2 – – – – – – – (main activity: insurance) 2018 – 5 3 – – – – – – – UK 2019 – – -5 – – – – – – – (main activity: pension)2 2018 3 1 -11 – – – – – – 11 USA 2019 1 2 -5 – – – – – – – (main activity: pension)2 2018 219 3 -5 – – -2 – – – 149 2019 1 1 -1 – – – – – – – Other 2018 – – 1 – – – -1 – – 30 Total 2019 5,636 471 669 -49 7.3% -7 – -1,106 5,432 11,248 Total 2018 5,691 574 523 -224 42.7% -9 – -1,111 5,595 12,431 1 Unrelated income is the total of revenues and (other) financial income. 2 See Note 17 Retirement benefits (page 145 – 147) 64 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Regulation affects our business Spectrum licenses The preparations for an auction in 2020 of the 700, 1,400 KPN is subject to sector-specific regulation and enforcement (L-band) and 2,100 MHz bands are ongoing. In December 2019, thereof by regulatory authorities, such as the Netherlands a consultation started on the draft rules of the auction, which is Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM). As described expected to start at the end of Q2 2020. The consulted rules in the chapter ‘Compliance and risk’, KPN’s internal risk include spectrum caps for operators of 40% of available management and control systems are designed to minimize spectrum, both in lower spectrum bands (under 1 GHz) and in the risk of non-compliance with regulation. total, and define usage and roll-out obligations for the spectrum and minimum prices. Although the 3.5GHz band at European European developments level is seen as the primary band for 5G, severe restrictions on Regulation of the electronic communications markets is largely the use of this spectrum still apply in the Netherlands to prevent based on European legislation. The EU’s roaming and open interference by the use of this band with an earth satellite internet access regulations are directly applicable in all member station of the Dutch Ministry of Defense. It was announced in states. The application of the regulation of operators with December 2018 that this spectrum will be released for 5G, significant market power is enforced nationally, but under after an alternative has been found for the satellite earth station. coordination of the European Commission. This still affects KPN This spectrum is currently expected to be available by in some fixed markets and on fixed and mobile call termination September 2022. An auction is expected to be scheduled in 2022. services. Licensing regimes for frequencies are based on national law. Increasingly, also other regulation (such as privacy Market analysis decisions in the Netherlands law and content-related law) has an impact. A decision related to the market for unbundled access to fixed networks came into effect on 1 October 2018. KPN and The national implementation of the 2018 European Electronic VodafoneZiggo were designated by ACM as having joint Communications Code, which amends the regulation for the significant market power in this market. Consequently, both KPN electronic communications sector, should be finalized by and VodafoneZiggo must offer (virtual) access to their networks. 21 December 2020. The scope of this amended regulation Is ACM’s decision is under appeal. extended to all interpersonal communications services (including over-the-top), thereby creating an increased level playing field for comparable services. A draft new e-Privacy Regulation (in addition to the General Data Protection Regulation, replacing the existing e-Privacy Directive) is still being discussed by the EU institutions. Various legislative instruments that may have impact on KPN (though sometimes to a lesser extent) are also still being discussed (such as a draft e-Evidence Regulation). Security concerns based on geopolitical developments Both at the European and national level increased attention has been given to security concerns in relation to control over telecom operators via investment and to potential security risks in networks. A Foreign Direct Investment Screening Regulation will come to effect on 11 October 2020, aimed at information exchange between EU member states on potential risks for national security and public order in relation to investments. At national level, a draft sector specific regulation, creating new powers for the government to prevent undesirable control (related to security risks for public order or national security) over telecom operators which have a significant role in the market, is still in discussion in parliament. Furthermore, discussions have started at EU level on security requirements for 5G networks. In the Netherlands, legislation has come into effect which allows the minister to impose specific security requirements for network equipment and to mandate operators not to use equipment from certain vendors in specifically designated critical parts of their networks. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 65 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Compliance and risk Maintaining effective risk management Deploying effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing our company’s objectives. For this reason, KPN has implemented Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The underlying methodology is based on relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Key components of the systems are discussed in more detail below. 1 2 3 Implement Objective Define risk strong and strategyappetite risk culture setting 5 4 Report Assess risks top risks, and countertrends and measures Our Internal Risk Management and incidents Control Systems and methodology Maintaining effective Internal Risk Management and Control (ir.kpn.com), our intranet, via a mandatory e-learning training Systems requires a continuous and iterative process involving for all our employees and via online learning interventions several steps. A strong risk culture and control environment (‘Workouts’) that target specific segments of the employee forms an important foundation of our control systems. After population. We have a stringent approach to bribery and setting the strategy, the Board of Management defines its corruption (see page 44), fraud and all other forms of (illegal) willingness to accept risks (risk appetite) in the pursuit of misconduct, including facilitation payments. The effectiveness strategic objectives. Management subsequently assesses the of, and compliance with, the Code is structurally assessed by: main risks that could hinder the realization of the strategic – Actively detecting and investigating any alleged misconduct objectives and defines and implements countermeasures to and taking appropriate disciplinary action if misconduct is mitigate such risks, taking into account the risk appetite. substantiated. Periodically, KPN’s performance, top risks, countermeasures, – Monitoring that all staff (both internal and external) trends and incidents are reported to and discussed with the completed the e-learning training for the Code. Board of Management, which defines further remedial actions if – Structural reporting of incidents to the Board of necessary. Management and (at least annually) to the Supervisory Board. 1. Implement a strong risk culture (control • To strengthen the tone at the top and in other management environment) levels, we frequently conduct fraud risk assessments, including a risk assessment on attitude and behavior, and provide KPN strives for a business culture in which compliance and integrity training. integrity are self-evident for all employees. This is, among • To emphasize our desired company culture and behavior and others, realized by the following actions: create awareness in the business, we have implemented a communication and training program on compliance and • The KPN Code of Conduct (the Code) applies to all KPN integrity subjects. Information that is important to share employees, including the Board of Management, the because of (changes in) applicable policies, laws or regulations Supervisory Board and temporary staff. It describes how we or because of a necessity or demand in business (risk or work in an open, transparent, honest and socially responsible need-based) is shared by e-learning, workshop or classroom way. We communicate the Code on our corporate website training. 66 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices • The Business Control Framework (BCF) comprises all systems as much as possible. We implement strict policies to corporate policies and guidelines that are mandatory for all keep our customer data private, safe and secure. of KPN’s segments and entities. In 2019, KPN conducted a • Financial risks: We strive for the right balance between a complete review of the BCF and updated the policies where prudent financing policy, sufficient investments in the business necessary. and fair shareholder remuneration. KPN is committed to an • KPN requires all employees and encourages external parties investment-grade credit profile. See Note 12 to the Financial to (anonymously, if desired) report any misconduct by KPN Statements. For tax matters, KPN has defined a detailed tax employees (or suspicion thereof). Our whistleblower policy risk appetite dashboard. complies with the Dutch Whistleblower Act. • Compliance risks: We are committed to fully complying with • We periodically measure the state of organizational culture, relevant laws and regulations and have a zero tolerance compliance and integrity as perceived by our employees and approach to bribery and corruption, fraud and all other forms report results as well as plans for improvement to senior of (illegal) misconduct. management, and initiate responses, if deemed necessary. • Financial reporting risks: We have effective control frameworks • The Board of Management has a discretionary authority to in place to minimize the risk of material misstatements and adapt the variable compensation of senior executives, based errors in our financial statements. on their demonstrable efforts in promoting a culture of compliance and integrity. 4. Assess risks and countermeasures 2. Objective and strategy setting KPN has implemented effective Internal Risk Management and Control Systems to manage its main risks. The main part of KPN’s objectives and strategy are described on page 12. During these systems comprises seven KPN Internal Control Systems, the objectiveand strategy-setting process, top management that cover the most relevant risk areas for KPN, as summarized takes into account the company’s known risks and opportunities, in the table below: and its risk appetite (see next step). The objectives and strategy are discussed with the Supervisory Board. KPN Control System Control system objective Liquidity Management and Financial Maintaining sufficient liquidity for Framework continuity purposes and maintaining 3. Define risk appetite financing flexibility Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking risks. Year Plan & Year Outlook Creating value Risks can jeopardize achieving those objectives in various ways. Each type of risk encountered is being dealt with in a manner that matches the risk appetite of the Board of Management. Network Service Levels Maintaining customer service The risk appetite is the total residual impact of risks that KPN is delivery levels willing to accept in the pursuit of its (strategic) objectives. The risk appetite per strategic objective or risk area is determined RFR GRIP Framework Maintaining investor trust annually by the Board of Management. These risk areas comprise themes such as financial, operational, strategic, compliance and (information) security themes. Compliance Frameworks Maintaining licenses to operate Risk areas with a low risk appetite, and hence a low acceptable residual risk, require strong risk management and strong Main non-financial KPIs Measuring strategic success internal controls. Risk areas with a high risk appetite require & integrated reporting relatively less risk management and internal control effort. Our main risks and our response to those risks are summarized on IT Security and Continuity Mitigating cyber threats page 70 of this Integrated Annual Report. KPN has a prudent risk appetite, which can be described per risk category as follows: • Strategic risks: In the pursuit of our strategic objectives, KPN is willing to accept reasonable risks in a responsible way, taking into account our stakeholders’ interests. • Operational risks: KPN is committed to a high quality of customer service resulting in an increasing NPS. We aim to limit the number of interruptions in our networks, services and KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 67 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Compliance and risk For each category of objectives (strategic, operational, financial, pages 48-53). Read more in Appendix 3 Transparency, compliance and reliable financial reporting) KPN has defined materiality and stakeholder engagement on our alignment in different control systems. our reporting with the TCFD framework (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures). Strategic objectives Every year, we assess the top risks at Group (top down Circularity approach) and Segment level (bottom up) and, if necessary, Circular Economy aims to reduce the impact of using materials we implement countermeasures to mitigate them within the for the product and services we put on market. This strategy not defined risk appetite. We conducted risk assessments with our only reduces risk of future materials price volatility, but also Commercial and Operations segments, as well as with selected prepares our company for future market demands, as our staff functions in the Corporate Center. The business objectives society aims to become more sustainable and decrease its are detailed in a strategic business plan. Every quarter, carbon impact. At the same time circular business models segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast four to six quarters require rethinking the business and new innovations arise. ahead on their main financials and key performance indicators We have also noticed the importance of a leading sustainable (the rolling forecast). Segments update main risks and strategy to attract and retain talent. opportunities, resulting in a bandwidth of outcomes around expected performance. Each month, segment management Sustainable employability discusses their actual performance with the Board of Management. See chapter Sustainable employability on pages 45-47. Operational objectives Financial objectives KPN has business continuity plans in place to safeguard the KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages risks related to continuity of services to customers and critical systems and cash positions, finance agreements, credit ratings, currency and processes. To manage our information security and privacy risks, interest exposures, and non-life insurance (see Note 12 to the we have implemented the KPN Security Policy as part of the Financial Statements). Corporate Treasury has defined policies BCF (for more details, see chapter Safeguarded privacy and with clear boundaries for these risks. Compliance with these security on pages 42-44). policies is monitored frequently. We have implemented ISO standards in designated areas to As part of KPN’s tax strategy, the Corporate Tax department certify operational processes. Additionally, we continuously recommends the most tax-efficient and responsible approach in simplify and digitalize services and processes. We implemented the interest of all stakeholders, while adhering to KPN’s tax quality improvement plans and continued to focus on improving policy and complying with all relevant tax laws and regulations. NPS. This determines KPN’s overall tax risk appetite. As KPN proactively engages with (Dutch) tax authorities, tax exposures Our main suppliers comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. (if any) are contained and under control. Besides a potential tax Via this code, suppliers confirm that they support and respect exposure, reputational risk is always part of the consideration to the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and apply particular tax planning. See also the separate Tax and operate in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations (e.g. by regulations chapter on pages 63-65. preventing discrimination, child labor or forced labor, and by recognizing and respecting the environment in their business Financial reporting objectives operations). Compliance with environmental law is covered by Our internal controls for Reliable Financial Reporting (also our ISO14001 certificate. known as RFR GRIP Framework) ensure that material misstatements in KPN’s Financial Statements are prevented or Sustainability objectives detected in a timely manner. Each quarter, Risk Management Risks related to climate change and compliance with new and KPN Audit assess the overall effectiveness of the controls environmental legislations are incorporated in our risk before publication of the quarterly figures. management and control systems. For example, flooding risks (caused by heavy rainfall or rising sea levels) or continuing The Disclosure Committee examines all reports and documents drought and heat could damage our networks, systems and containing financial information that are intended for external cables. As such, these risks are managed in KPN’s business publication, to ensure that these fairly present KPN’s financial continuity strategy. With our climate-neutral performance for position and results. our own operations and continued focus on absolute energy reduction, we are in a very good position to meet new regulations and customers’ expectations (see chapter Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, 68 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Compliance objectives implementing the best converged smart infrastructure e.g. by Our compliance risk assessment (CRA) framework comprises an accelerating fiber roll-out and full modernization of our mobile integrated framework that oversees risks mainly related to network. See also Appendix 4, page 194. compliance with telecommunications, competition, financial • Continued climate changes in the future could lead to rising services (e.g. credit) and privacy legislation. Additionally, we sea levels, extreme rainfall or extreme heat and drought. These monitor compliance with Solvency II requirements (KPN weather conditions could disrupt our systems and networks Insurance). For compliance risks, relevant processes and and consequently could negatively affect the quality of our controls have been implemented and are continuously services and customer satisfaction. KPN manages this monitored. For risks related to our regulated business (as upcoming risk by investing in a high quality and resilient designated by the Netherlands Authority for Consumers & design of our networks. Additionally, KPN has a strong Markets to have significant market power), compliance controls Business Continuity Management program, with adequate are tested by dedicated staff all year round. back-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies. See also Appendix 4, pages 195-196. 5. Report top risks, trends and incidents As stated in section 3 sub 1.c of the Non-financial Information Segment management provides the Board of Management with Disclosure Decree (Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële a quarterly assurance letter regarding the reliability of their informatie) of 14 March 2017, KPN identified and assessed its financial reporting, the effectiveness of their internal controls main risks regarding environmental, social and personnel over financial reporting, risk management and compliance with matters, human rights and anti-bribery and corruption. For more telecommunication laws, internal policies and other laws and details on these risks, see Appendix 4. regulations. Twice a year, Corporate Control reports top risks and countermeasures to the Board of Management, including The table on pages 189-191 of Appendix 3 provides an overview main improvement actions, if any. of parties for whom we consider ourselves responsible for the implementation of our non-financial policy. Summary of main risks and countermeasures The table on page 70 provides a summary of KPN’s main risks and countermeasures, including the expected trends and impact. It also lists a selection of KPIs that are used to monitor the development of the risks and the realization of our risk appetite. The KPIs are frequently monitored in KPN’s planning and control cycle and discussed in the Board of Management’s business reviews with segment management, including improvement actions where necessary. This is important as the risks of increasing competition, service interruptions, threats to confidentiality, integrity or availability of networks and increased costs as a result of frequency auctions might directly affect our external stakeholders and the value that we create. For a more extensive list of our risks and countermeasures, see Appendix 4. This extensive list also reflects three emerging risks that KPN identifies for the near term: • Geopolitical volatility, driven by rising international tensions, protectionism and security concerns, may impact our ability to do business in any part of the world. These concerns could lead to international bans and other sanctions on suppliers of hardware and software. See also Appendix 4, page 199. • The increase in new entrants offering alternative or private networks, e.g. for telecom or IoT services. Due to these alternative networks, customers are no longer dependent on the networks of existing providers, which could lead to higher churn in the longer run and lower cash flows to finance new investments. KPN addresses this upcoming risk by KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 69 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Compliance and risk Risk category and Strategic objective Risk risk appetite Main countermeasures (summary) Impact Organic sustainable growth; Increased competition from Strategic risk • Offer converged services such as High: the described risk could Focusing on profitable current competitors or new KPN ÉÉN MKB and KPN Hussel lead to lower profitability as well growth segments market entrants, or new KPN is willing to accept • Implement the best converged as lower market shares. emerging disruptive reasonable risks in a smart infrastructure e.g. by In the longer run, it could impact technologies. responsible way. accelerating fiber roll-out and full our continuity. modernization of mobile network • Focus on profitable segments and Monitoring KPI: Trend: high-value customers with one Market shares strong KPN brand Service revenues • Improve NPS and offer high quality of service to customers • Develop new additional services for customers Best converged smart Damage, service interruptions, Operational risk • Accelerating fiber roll-out and full Medium; the incidents could infrastructure; operational issues in KPN’s modernization of mobile network, negatively impact KPN’s Accelerating simplification technical infrastructure and IT KPN is committed to a high moving to All IP customer satisfaction, reputation and digitalization Insufficient transformation quality of customer • Network stability program to ensure and profitability. progress by reducing services and to limit availability of our (critical) services complexity, legacy and costs in disruptions as much as • Business Continuity Management, Monitoring KPI: KPN’s operations possible. back-up and recovery plans in case NPS of emergencies (e.g. ‘be alert’ Weighted downtime procedures) reduction Trend: • Implement lean operating model, # Major incidents including digitalization, rationalization of networks, IT and portfolio Best converged smart Threats to the confidentiality, Operational risk • Continue and reinforce strategic High; the incidents could lead to infrastructure; integrity or availability of KPN’s security programs, such as loss/theft of customer data, Organic sustainable growth networks, systems or KPN is committed to Permanent Vulnerability higher costs, penalties (customer) data caused by limiting incidents as much Management and reputational damage. This cyber attacks or terrorism as possible and • Continue implementation of the risk could impact our continuity. implements strict policies KPN Security Policy to keep our • Continue and strengthen Security Monitoring KPI: customer data private, safe Operations Center Potential harm Trend: and secure. of security incident # data leakages Organic sustainable growth New regulatory decisions in Compliance risk • Proactive stakeholder and Medium; the risk could affect the EU and the Netherlands. reputation management including KPN’s future operations and Non-compliance with KPN is committed to full dialogue with regulators profitability and cause regulation, including compliance with relevant • Strengthening the effectiveness of reputational damage. privacy and tax regulations laws and regulations. the compliance organization and internal controls Monitoring KPI: • Proactive internal compliance Fines Trend: investigations # incidents reported to regulators Best converged smart Spectrum auctions in Strategic and financial risk • Preparation of auctions by High; KPN could infrastructure (100% 5G the Netherlands could KPN is willing to accept experienced KPN team and pay a high price for the ready by end 2021) entail high costs. reasonable risks in a external experts; simulation of required spectrum. This risk responsible way. auctions could impact our continuity. • Investigate alternative Trend: combinations of spectrum and Monitoring KPI: advanced techniques to meet N/a customer demands risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (improving) 70 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Governance of risk management and compliance – three lines Description and evaluation of the Internal Risk Management of defense and Control Systems Although the Board of Management is ultimately responsible for As stated in principle 1.2 of the Dutch Corporate Governance risk management and compliance, it is business management’s Code and related best practice provisions, KPN has designed duty to effectively identify, assess and manage the main risks of and implemented Internal Risk Management and Control the company, in line with the steps discussed in the previous Systems to identify and manage the risks associated with the paragraphs (first line of defense). The Risk Management and company’s strategy and activities. In 2019, KPN Audit Compliance departments (second line) are responsible for the systematically assessed the effectiveness of these systems. design of the risk management and compliance policies, and to A summary of the main Internal Risk Management and Control support and challenge business management in their Systems is provided in the preceding paragraphs. assessment and management of top risks. KPN Audit (third line) During the assessment of the design and operating performs, where necessary, independent reviews of the design effectiveness of the systems, certain weaknesses and and operational effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management improvement actions were identified and implemented. and Control Systems. The main results of both the risk However, none of these were classified as a major failing, assessments and the evaluation of the internal Risk as referred to in best practice provision 1.4.2 sub iii. Management and Control Systems are shared with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and discussed with the Despite our strong Internal Risk Management and Control external auditor. Systems, KPN faced a number incidents in 2019, including most notably: Internal audit • A critical network disruption on 24 June 2019 took KPN’s fixed KPN’s internal audit function (KPN Audit) assesses, in line with and mobile services, including the primary emergency services Dutch Corporate Governance requirements, the design and number 112, out of service. KPN took immediate action to effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control resolve the outage and, after thorough investigations by Systems and provides assurance to both the Board of experts, implemented improvement actions to prevent Management and the Audit Committee concerning the ‘In recurrence in the future. See page 34 for more information on Control status’ of KPN’s organization and processes. Moreover, this subject. KPN Audit conducts ad hoc financial, information technology, • On 13 September 2019, ACM ruled that KPN had violated the strategic and operational audits and special investigations. KPN transparency obligations towards consumers on the websites Audit conducts its activities in a manner based on a continuous of Telfort and Simyo, on 1) reference to a fair use policy in evaluation of perceived business risks and has full and combination with an ‘unlimited’ proposition, and 2) wrong unrestricted access to all activities, documents, records, page-positioning of the information on the one-time costs. properties and staff. The Chief Auditor reports to KPN’s CEO, This decision, with a fine of EUR 3.4m, was published on quarterly KPN Audit reports are submitted to and discussed 30 December 2019. KPN has appealed this decision. with both the Board of Management and the Audit Committee. KPN Audit liaises extensively with the external auditor, inter alia, based on International Standard on Auditing 610. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 71 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Compliance and risk Statement by the Board of Management and Responsibility Statement Statement by the Board of Management Responsibility Statement The Board of Management is responsible for the effectiveness With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial of the design and operation of KPN’s Internal Risk Management Markets Supervision Act, the Board of Management states that, and Control Systems. These have been designed to manage the to the best of its knowledge: risks that may prevent KPN from achieving its objectives. • The Financial Statements of 2019 give a true and fair view of However, these Internal Risk Management and Control Systems the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of KPN cannot provide absolute assurance that material misstatements, and its consolidated companies. fraud and violations of laws and regulations have been avoided. • The Integrated Annual Report gives a true and fair review of the position as at 31 December 2019, the development during The Board of Management reviewed and analyzed: 2019 of KPN and its group companies included in the Financial • The strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and Statements, together with a description of the top risks KPN regulatory and compliance risks, as discussed in section faces. Summary of main risks and countermeasures on pages 69 and 70; and Rotterdam, 21 February 2020 • The design and operational effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems, as discussed on pages 66 Joost Farwerck to 69 of this Integrated Annual Report. Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer The results of this review and analysis were shared with the Audit Committee and Supervisory Board and discussed with Jan Kees de Jager KPN’s external auditors. Member of the Board of Management With reference to best practice provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch Chris Figee Corporate Governance Code and the chapter ‘Compliance and Member of the Board of Management and risk’, including Appendix 4, in this Integrated Annual Report, the Chief Financial Officer Board of Management states that, to the best of its knowledge: i. This Integrated Annual Report provides sufficient insights Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke into major failings in the effectiveness of the Internal Risk Member of the Board of Management and Management and Control Systems. There are no major Chief Consumer Market failings to report, see also paragraph ‘Description and evaluation of the Internal Risk Management and Control Marieke Snoep Systems’ on page 71. Member of the Board of Management and ii. The aforementioned systems provide reasonable Chief Business Market assurance that the financial reporting, as included in the Financial Statements on pages 98 to 164, does not contain Babak Fouladi any material inaccuracies. Member of the Board of Management and iii. Based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the Chief Technology and Digital Officer financial reporting, as included in the Financial Statements on pages 98 to 164, is prepared on a going concern basis. Hilde Garssen iv. This Integrated Annual Report states those material risks Member of the Board of Management and and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of Chief People Officer the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of this report. 72 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the boards Board of Management The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial, CSR and organizational matters. The Board of Management currently consists of seven members. Mr. Ibarra resigned from office as Chairman of the Board of 1 December 2019. Mr. De Jager will resign as CFO on 1 February Management and CEO effective 30 September 2019. He was 2020 and as member of the Board of Management on 1 March succeeded by Mr. Farwerck (until 1 December 2019 on an ad 2020. Mr. Figee was appointed as member of the Board of interim basis). Following the decision to expand the Board of Management and CFO on 1 February 2020. Management to include technology, key business and people leaders Mr. Van Overbeke (Chief Consumer Market), Ms. Snoep All members of the Board of Management comply with clause (Chief Business Market), Mr. Fouladi (Chief Technology and 2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of Digital Officer) and Ms. Garssen (Chief People Officer) were positions on a supervisory or management board that a director appointed as members of the Board of Management effective may hold. Composition of the Board of Management Name Position Year of birth Start of term End of current term J.F.E. Farwerck Chairman of the Board of Management 1965 April 2013/ 2024 Chief Executive Officer April 2017*/ December 2019* September 2014 J.C. de Jager Board member 1969 1 March 2020 April 2018* H.C. Figee Board member and Chief Financial Officer 1972 February 2020 2024 J.-P. Van Overbeke Board member and Chief Consumer Market 1965 December 2019 2024 M.W.M. Snoep Board member and Chief Business Market 1971 December 2019 2024 B. Fouladi Board member and Chief Technology and Digital Officer 1969 December 2019 2024 H. Garssen Board member and Chief People Officer 1973 December 2019 2024 * Reappointment KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 73 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Composition of the boards Joost Farwerck Mr. Farwerck was appointed as Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 2019. He has been a member of the Board of Management since September 2014. Mr. Farwerck started working at KPN in 1994 and has held senior management positions in various divisions. In February 2012, he was appointed as Managing Director Netherlands, so becoming responsible for all of KPN’s activities in the Netherlands. In September 2014, he became Chief Operating Officer and took on responsibility for KPN’s operating activities. Mr. Farwerck is a member of the executive committee of VNO-NCW, a member of the board of NL-ICT, of the board of FME and a member of the Cyber Security Council. Mr. Farwerck is a Dutch citizen. Jan Kees de Jager Mr. De Jager is a member of the Board of Management. From November 2014 until 1 February 2020 he was Chief Financial Officer at KPN. From 2007 to 2012, Mr. De Jager was a member of the Dutch government, first as State Secretary for Finance (from 2007 to 2010), thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to 2012). As Minister of Finance, Mr. De Jager’s responsibilities encompassed the budget, general financial and economic policy, supervision of financial markets and cooperation with international financial institutions. As State Secretary for Finance, Mr. De Jager was responsible for many change processes, among others within the Dutch Tax and Customs Administration. From 1992 to 2007, Mr. De Jager founded and was Managing Partner at ISM eCompany, an e-business solutions company, for which he acted as special advisor after resigning from the Dutch Cabinet until he was appointed to the board of KPN in September 2014. Mr. De Jager is a member of the board of Stichting AECA Nederland, the chair of the Economic Board Zuid-Holland and member of the Supervisory Board of KLM N.V. Mr. De Jager is a Dutch citizen. Chris Figee Mr. Figee has been a member of the Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer since 1 February 2020. Prior to his appointment at KPN, Mr. Figee was CFO of ASR Nederland N.V. Before joining ASR, Mr. Figee worked for five years at Achmea, most recently as a member of the Achmea Group Committee and Director of Group Finance. In 1999, he joined McKinsey, where he rose to the role of partner in 2006, a role he fulfilled until he joined Achmea in 2009. Mr. Figee started his career at Aegon, where he held various positions, including that of Senior Portfolio Manager. Mr. Figee is currently also a member of the Supervisory Board of UNICEF Netherlands. Mr. Figee is a Dutch citizen. 74 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke Mr. Van Overbeke has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 December 2019 and Chief Consumer Market since 1 September 2018. In this role, he oversees the day-to-day operations of KPN’s Consumer activities. Mr. Van Overbeke is a senior executive with extensive strategic, commercial and operational experience in the B2C telecommunications market. In addition, he also has a broad expertise in transforming telecom companies to digital players. Prior to joining KPN, Mr. Van Overbeke served as Executive Director of SFR. Before that, he was Deputy Group CEO of Lebara, Group Chief Operating Officer at Maxis Communications Group, and Chief Marketing Officer and Chief Commercial Officer at Orange. In his earlier career, he was Head of Trade Marketing, Director Marketing residential market and Director Strategy & Transformation Programs at Mobistar. Mr. Van Overbeke is a Belgian citizen. Marieke Snoep Ms. Snoep has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 December 2019. She was appointed as Chief Business Market effective on 1 February 2019. As Chief Business Market, Ms. Snoep oversees the day-to-day operations of KPN’s Business activities. She is a senior executive with extensive strategic and commercial experience in the Dutch telecommunications market. Prior to joining KPN, Ms. Snoep was a member of the Board of T-Mobile Netherlands since 2012. She served as Chief Commercial Officer Consumer at T-Mobile Netherlands from October 2017 onwards. Since 2002, Ms. Snoep held numerous management positions in her time at T-Mobile Netherlands, including Chief Commercial Officer Business, CCO Enterprise and Chief Customer Operations, and Director Sales Operations & Process Management. In her earlier career, she held consultancy roles with Solvision (currently Ordina) and Atos Origin. Ms. Snoep is a Dutch citizen. Babak Fouladi Mr. Fouladi has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 December 2019. He was appointed as Chief Technology & Digital Officer on 4 December 2018. In this role, he is responsible for KPN’s network technologies and the digitalization of processes and services. Mr. Fouladi is an executive with extensive experience in the telecommunications, media and ICT sectors. He has broad expertise in strategy and technology, and a proven track record in digital transformation, product and systems development, network deployment, infrastructure and operations. Prior to joining KPN, Mr. Fouladi has served as Group Chief Technology and Information Officer at MTN Group (South Africa) since 2016. Before that, he formed part of the executive team as Chief Technology Officer of Vodafone Spain and Vodafone Romania. He was also Director for IT Development and Vice President for Multimedia and System Integration in the UK and later Vice President, Systems Integration in Russia for Ericsson. Mr. Fouladi is a British citizen. Hilde Garssen Ms. Garssen has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 December 2019. She was appointed as Chief People Officer effective on 10 December 2018. In this role, she is responsible for implementing KPN’s HR policy. Ms. Garssen is an experienced HR executive with more than 20 years of experience in developing HR strategies to meet changing business needs, creating innovative and effective HR strategies to attract and retain talent, and establishing talent management processes. Prior to joining KPN, Ms. Garssen served as Senior Managing Director Business Services at ABN AMRO Bank for over two years. Since 1998, she has held numerous HR roles at ABN AMRO Bank, including Chief Human Resources Officer and Managing Director Change, Integration and Management Group Coordination & Reward. Ms. Garssen is a Dutch citizen. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 75 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Composition of the boards Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of positions on policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in a supervisory or management board that a director may hold. which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. KPN’s One vacancy will arise at the closure of the AGM of Shareholders Supervisory Board currently consists of eight members. in 2020, as Mr. Van Bommel will be stepping down, having At the AGM on 10 April 2019, Ms. Sap and Mr. Hartman were reached the end of his four-year term of office. Mr. Spanbroek, reappointed as members of the Supervisory Board. General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as secretary to the All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause 2:142a Supervisory Board. Strategy & Nominating & Year of End of Organization Corporate Governance Audit Remuneration Name birth Start of term current term Committee Committee Committee Committee D.W. Sickinghe 1958 9 April 2014 2022 x x x (Chairman Supervisory Board) 18 April 2018* P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 12 April 2012 2020 x 13 April 2016* C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 10 April 2013 2021 x 12 April 2017* D.J. Haank 1953 7 April 2009 2021 x x x (Vice-Chairman) 10 April 2013* 12 April 2017* P.F. Hartman 1949 15 April 2015 2023 x x x 10 April 2019* E.J.C. Overbeek 1967 4 September 2017 2021 x J.C.M. Sap 1963 15 April 2015 2023 x 10 April 2019* 9 April 2014 C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 1962 2022 x x x 18 April 2018* * Reappointment X Chairman X Member D.W. Sickinghe P.A.M. van Bommel Mr. Sickinghe was (re)appointed Mr. Van Bommel was (re)appointed as a member of the Supervisory as a member of the Supervisory Board on 18 April 2018 and has Board on 13 April 2016 and his chaired the Supervisory Board current (second) term expires in since 15 April 2015. His current 2020. Mr. Van Bommel is currently (second) term of office ends in member of the board of 2022. Mr. Sickinghe is Managing management and CFO of ASM Director of Fortino Capital International N.V. and, as part (Belgium). Furthermore, he is of that position, also a nonChairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Eeghen & Co (the executive director of ASM PT (Hong Kong). Mr. Van Bommel is Netherlands), member of the board of uniBreda (Belgium) and also member of the Supervisory Board of Neways Electronics member of the board of Guberna (Belgium). Mr. Sickinghe was International N.V. Before his appointment as CFO at ASMI, previously Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Mr. Van Bommel was CFO at Odersun (a start-up company in Telenet N.V. (Belgium) in the period 2001-2013. Prior to that, the solar industry), CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions he held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard of Phillips. Mr. Van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. (Switzerland), NeXT Computer (France), Wolters Kluwer (the Netherlands) and was founder of Software Direct (France). Mr. Sickinghe is a Dutch citizen. 76 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices C.J. García Moreno Elizondo D.J. Haank Mr. García Moreno Elizondo was Mr. Haank was (re)appointed as (re)appointed as a member of a member of the Supervisory the Supervisory Board on 12 April Board on 12 April 2017 and is its 2017 and his current (second) Vice-Chairman. His current term ends in 2021. Mr. García (third) term of office ends in Moreno Elizondo is currently 2021. Mr. Haank is currently Chief Financial Officer of América Chairman of the Supervisory Móvil. Mr. García Moreno Board of TomTom N.V., a member Elizondo holds several supervisory and advisory positions, of the Supervisory Board of including those of Banco Inbursa and Nacional Financiera. Prior Singel Uitgeverijen, a member of the Supervisory Board of to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held a Albelli B.V. and a non-executive board member of SPI Technologies range of positions, including at the Mexican Ministry of Finance Singapore. Mr. Haank was the CEO of SpringerNature, and prior as the Director General of Public Credit and at the Swiss bank to that the CEO of Elsevier Science and Executive Board Corporation Warburg as executive director and managing member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen. director. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen. E.J.C. Overbeek P.F. Hartman Mr. Overbeek was appointed as a Mr. Hartman was appointed as a member of the Supervisory member of the Supervisory Board on 4 September 2017. His Board on 15 April 2015. His current (first) term of office ends current (second) term of office in 2021. Mr. Overbeek is Chief ends in 2023. Mr. Hartman is the Executive Officer of HERE chairman of the Supervisory Technologies. Having spent Board of Fokker Technologies nearly 30 years in the ICT Group and of Texel Airport N.V., industry, Mr. Overbeek has non-executive director of gained extensive experience in the global digital and Constellium B.V. and member of Advisory Board of AviationGlass communication industry. Prior to joining HERE Technologies, & Technology. He has been vice-chair of the Supervisory Board he held several management roles at Cisco, including leading of Air France/KLM Group in 2013 2017. Before that, he spent the global services organization and the Asia-Pacific, Japan & 40 years working for KLM, the last seven of those as CEO. China region. Mr. Overbeek is a Dutch citizen. Mr. Hartman is a Dutch citizen. J.C.M. Sap C.J.G. Zuiderwijk Ms. Sap was appointed as a Ms. Zuiderwijk was (re)appointed member of the Supervisory as a member of the Supervisory Board on 15 April 2015. Her Board on 18 April 2018 and her current (second) term of office current (second) term of office ends in 2023. Ms. Sap dedicates ends in 2022. herself to making the business Ms. Zuiderwijk is chair of the world and society at large more Board of Management of the sustainable. She occupies several Dutch Chamber of Commerce. supervisory and other functions, In addition, she is a member of including chairing the Supervisory Boards of the GGZ affiliate the supervisory boards of APG and a member of Forum Smart Arkin, the Netherlands Public Health Federation and Fairfood Industry and the NL2025 network. Between 1993 and 2003, International. Ms. Sap is also a member of the Supervisory Board Ms. Zuiderwijk worked at PinkRoccade, holding various of KPMG N.V. and non-executive director of Renewi PLC. management posts. Thereafter, Ms. Zuiderwijk was chair of the Between 2008 and 2012, Ms. Sap represented the Dutch Green board of the Hilversum hospital and – following the merger with Party, GroenLinks, in the lower house of the Dutch parliament, the Gooi Noord hospital – chair of the board of the Tergooi during the last two years of which she was party leader. Before hospitals. Ms. Zuiderwijk was also a member of the Innovation that she worked as an economist in the fields of science, policy Platform of the Dutch government (2007 2010) and a member and business. She was, inter alia, head of the Incomes Policy of the Care Innovation Platform of the Dutch Ministry of Health department at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, (2008 2010). Ms. Zuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen. and director of the LEEFtijd center of expertise, a consultancy for sustainable employment issues. Ms. Sap is a Dutch citizen. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 77 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Composition of the boards Insider transactions KPN employees who have access to inside information because securities by such employees. Members of the Board of of their role profession or duties, including all members of the Management and Supervisory Board are furthermore subject to Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, are subject to reporting obligations to the AFM. The following table provides the Code of Conduct ‘Inside Information’. This Code of Conduct an overview of transactions in 2019 by members of KPN’s Board comprises rules for the possession of and transactions in KPN of Management and Supervisory Board. Date Name Transaction Price per share 11 April J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 195,170 conditional KPN shares EUR 11 April M. Ibarra Award of 437,962 conditional KPN shares EUR 11 April J.C. de Jager Award of 210,784 conditional KPN shares EUR 15 April J.F.E. Farwerck Vesting of 42.50% of the 149,424 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2016 EUR into 37,917 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax) 15 April J.C. de Jager Vesting of 42.50% of the 162,417 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2016 EUR into 41,215 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax) 1 December J.-P. Van Overbeke Award of 311,509 conditional KPN shares EUR 1 December M.W.M. Snoep Award of 156,136 conditional KPN shares EUR 1 December B. Fouladi Award of 196,732 conditional KPN shares EUR 1 December H. Garssen Award of 62,454 conditional KPN shares EUR Share ownership Board of Management 1 Number of ordinary shares 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 J.F.E. Farwerck 407,153 369,236 J.C. de Jager 532,499 491,284 J.-P. Van Overbeke 311,509 – M. Snoep 156,136 – B. Fouladi 196,732 – H. Garssen 62,454 – 1 Shares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. A share ownership applies, under which the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire company shares equal to 150% of the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and 250% of the annual fixed compensation for the CEO. Share ownership Supervisory Board Number of ordinary shares 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 D.W. Sickinghe 380,000 380,000 P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 114,000 D.J. Haank 24,351 24,351 78 Safeguarding long-term value Financial statements Appendices KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 79 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report 2019 was a year with two different focus points for KPN’s Supervisory Board. First of all, it was the first full year of the implementation of the company’s strategic plan, as announced during the Capital Markets Day in November 2018, of which progress was closely monitored by the Supervisory Board. Secondly, the Supervisory Board was confronted with the unexpected resignation of Mr. Ibarra as CEO, which ultimately lead to changes to the governance of the company. In all its efforts, the Supervisory Board strives to safeguard the long-term value of our company, in the interest of its various stakeholders – most notably our customers, shareholders and employees. By enabling our employees to use their talents and skills to provide the best services to our customers, we create returns to our shareholders’ investments in a sustainable manner – a balance we constantly seek. The year 2019 the progress, most notably around Telfort and XS4ALL. We took note of the public debate that emerged around the integration Strategy and Business of XS4ALL. Taking the different stakeholder interests into The company’s strategy, presented at the Capital Markets Day in account, we believe the chosen approach is ultimately in the November 2018, got off to a good start in 2019. The Supervisory best interest of the company and its stakeholders. Board reviewed key aspects of the implementation of the 2019-2021 strategic plan. In 2019, we most notably paid attention On the afternoon of 24 June, a critical network disruption took to the fiber roll-out strategy, the mobile network upgrade, the KPN’s fixed and mobile services, including the primary brand strategy and its impact, and the impact of our continued emergency services number 112, out of service. KPN took focus on simplification on our employees and the employment immediate action to resolve the outage, but clearly this had a at KPN. During its regular meetings, the Supervisory Board major impact. The Supervisory Board reviewed the analysis by structurally discussed and reviewed the business performance the Board of Management, including expert investigations. It and related financial performance. also monitored the implementation of the improvement actions defined, to ensure that the chances of such outages occurring The roll-out of our fiber network gained traction over the course again are kept to the absolute minimum. of the year. We strongly support the investments in fiber, as this is our main asset for long-ter m value creation. We discussed In the first quarter of the year, the Supervisory Board monitored with the Board of Management the vendor strategy, in particular the closing of the intended sale of iBasis to Tofane. Throughout in the mobile network, and noted that careful considerations the year, it reviewed the intended divestment of a number of were made in light of geopolitical developments and security assets that were, in light of the company’s strategy, no longer considerations. We support the choices made by the Board of seen as core. The divestments of NLDC (data centers), Management to implement the multi-vendor strategy and opt International Network Services, KPN Consulting and Argeweb for Western suppliers in our mobile core network, while choosing are in line with the strategy to accelerate the simplification of Huawei as supplier for our radio access network. We follow the the company. The Supervisory Board reviewed the strategic ongoing dialogue with the government on security matters. rationale as well as the key terms of such transactions and, where required, ultimately granted its approval thereto. Another key element of the strategy that we carefully monitored was our brand strategy, with the goal of focusing fully on the Corporate social responsibility (‘CSR’) has, in the past years, KPN brand, including the (future) integration of services offered become an integral part of KPN’s strategy. KPN is conscious of under the Telfort, Yes Telecom and XS4ALL brands into the its contributions to society and the UN Sustainable KPN brand. We discussed the various stakeholder interests with Development Goals, whether directly through its products and the Board of Management, and were kept closely informed on services, through the way it runs its business, or via its charity 80 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices fund ‘KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds’. At the same time, it is very entrepreneurial career. We are grateful to Mr. De Jager for his much aware that this requires ongoing focus to further reduce leadership and contribution to the company. its electricity consumption levels, remain CO₂e-neutral, and to become close to circular by 2025. The Supervisory Board Finally, the Supervisory Board decided to amend the governance continues to support this integral approach towards structure of the company per 1 December 2019, with an sustainability. expansion of the Board of Management to six members: next to the CEO, CFO, the positions of Chief Commercial Market, In order to stay abreast of developments in the industry, the Chief Business Market, Chief Technology and Digital Officer and Supervisory Board took note of the views of independent the Chief People Officer were added to the Board of Management. consultants on their views on key challenges – and potential The incumbents on these positions (Mr. Van Overbeke, Ms. Snoep, scenario’s – for telecom operators going forward. As part of its Mr. Fouladi and Ms. Garssen, respectively) became members of regular practices, the Board also evaluated its procedures and the Board of Management. This decision emphasizes the joint readiness for responding to a potential take-over attempt on the (statutory) responsibility of this team to manage the company company or its assets. as a whole, and ensures continuity for the longer term. The Executive Committee was dissolved per the same date. Governance In terms of the governance, an unexpected occurence was By combining all these decisions – a new CEO, a new CFO and an Mr. Ibarra’s decision in late June to resign from his position as expansion of the Board of Management – the Supervisory Board CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management, effective intended to create immediate clarity on the future leadership of September, due to pressing family reasons. It was unfortunate the company for all stakeholders. We are also very pleased that that this announcement coincided with the major network the new Board of Management now has two female members, outage. which is a third of the Management Board. This is in line with our aim to increase diversity and to comply with the The Supervisory Board immediately began a succession recommendation of the Dutch law (Wet Bestuur en Toezicht) of process, evaluating both internal and external options, and at least 30% female board members. appointed Ms. Dominique Leroy as the intended CEO. Shortly after this announcement however, Belgian authorities (both the Although Mr. Ibarra’s resignation and the appointment process financial markets regulator FSMA and the public prosecutor’s following that were certainly not a scenario we could have office) started an investigation into a share transaction by Ms. foreseen, we believe that with Joost Farwerck as the new CEO, Leroy in shares of Proximus. The Supervisory Board closely and an extended Board of Management, we have a very strong, monitored the situation, and heard the views of various experienced and motivated team to lead KPN into the future. stakeholders and advisors on the matter. Ultimately, we had to The Supervisory Board continued to have a regular dialogue conclude that the duration of the investigation was uncertain with the Central Works Council, and appreciates the open and and unpredictable, which we believed not to be in the interest of professional relationship between the Central Works Council, our company and its stakeholders. Late September, we therefore the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. decided to withdraw the intended appointment of Ms. Leroy. About the Supervisory Board Soon after, we nominated Mr. Joost Farwerck as the company’s new CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management. His The composition of the Supervisory Board remained unextensive experience at KPN and in the sector, his knowledge of amended in 2019, with the reappointments of the Ms. Sap and the company, his strong network in the Netherlands, his Mr. Hartman at the shareholders meeting in April. The execution skills, his support from both management and other Supervisory Board has a strong mix of backgrounds and employees, and his support for the strategy made him the best experience, supporting a diverse view on a wide range of topics. candidate to lead the Board of Management, and continue the For an overview of the current skills and competences in the execution and further shaping of the strategy. Supervisory Board, please see the skills matrix. See Note 23 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on At the same time, we announced the intended appointment of related party transactions. Mr. Chris Figee as the company’s new CFO per 1 February 2020. Mr. Figee was previously CFO of ASR Nederland, and prior to At all times, the composition of the Supervisory Board was such, that held various positions at Achmea, McKinsey and Aegon. that the members were able to act critically and independently Mr. Figee succeeded Mr. De Jager, who held the position of CFO of one another, the Board of Management and any particular for the past five years. He will leave KPN to continue his interest involved, as provided for under best practice provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 81 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Report by the Supervisory Board D.W. D.J. P.A.M. van C.J. García C.J.G. P.F. J.C.M. E.J.C. Skills / Characteristics Sickinghe Haank Bommel Moreno Zuiderwijk Hartman Sap Overbeek Business leadership x x x x x x x Industry knowledge (Telco) x x x Industry knowledge (IT) x x x Commercial x x x x x Operational x x x x Employment / social relations x x x Society / government relations x x x Corporate Social Responsibility x Financial markets x x x x Finance, Audit & Risk x x x x x Audit Committee Financial Experts x x International experience x x x x x x Executive / Non-executive (Full-time) Executive position at another company x x x x x x Mainly non-executive role x x Diversity Male x x x x x x Female x x Throughout the year, seven members of the Supervisory Board, With the appointment of Ms. Guillouard, as of April 2020, the including the Chairman, were independent from the company Supervisory Board will consist of three women and five men, within the meaning of these provisions. Mr. García Moreno and hence comply with the recommendation in Dutch law to Elizondo, who was appointed upon the nomination of América have at least 30% female board members. We continue to Móvil, is not considered independent under provision 2.1.8 of the endorse the principle, whether enacted or not, that a Board Dutch Corporate Governance Code. should have a diverse composition, in gender, but also with regard to skills and experience. Our skills matrix, as set out At the end of the 2020 AGM, Mr. Van Bommel will have reached above, helps us in evaluating our own diversity and setting the the end of his second term of office, and will therefore step right profile for vacancies arising. down. In line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, Mr. Van Bommel will not be nominated for reappointment. The Supervisory Board annually evaluates its own performance. The Supervisory Board is grateful to Mr. Van Bommel for his This year’s evaluation was carried out in March/April with the eight-year contribution to the company, with his extensive support of an independent expert. The evaluation was based on financial knowledge. interviews with the members of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management and the Executive Committee, as well as For the vacancy thus arising, the Supervisory Board has written questionnaires. The expert reported on its findings nominated Ms. Catherine Guillouard, currently chairwoman and during a board meeting, and the Supervisory Board discussed CEO of the French public transport company RATP Group. these findings. A number of actions and next steps were defined, Ms. Guillouard brings a wealth of financial knowledge and including as to the composition of the Supervisory Board expertise to the Board, as well as executive experience in large (increase number of female members, international background), companies and network industries. The Central Works Council the effectiveness of board meetings (making good use of closed and the Board of Management support the nomination. Please sessions, improved agenda setting), information provision to the also see the activities of the Nominating & Corporate Board (clear expression of needs by the Board), the balance Governance Committee below on this nomination. between committees and the Board (role of the Strategy & Organization Committee; evaluation of the Board of Management) and the interaction with the Central Works Council. 82 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Meetings lower at 85%, e.g. due to travel schedules or conflicting The Supervisory Board met on 23 occasions in 2019, of which commitments. An overview of attendance per member of the seven were regularly scheduled. The high number of meetings Supervisory Board and per Committee is provided in the table was mainly due to the deliberations around the CEO succession. below. In the event members could not join a meeting, the The overall attendance at the Supervisory Board meetings was Chairman discussed the matters at hand before and/or after the 87%. Attendance at regularly scheduled meetings was 91%. As meeting, in order to obtain the input and views of all Supervisory ad hoc meetings were sometimes scheduled only shortly before Board members. Supervisory Board members were also in the meeting took place, the attendance rate was somewhat frequent contact outside of formal board meetings. Name Board (23) Audit (6) RemCo (6) NomCo (8) SOC (0)1 Mr. Van Bommel 83% 100% Mr. García Moreno 65% 50% Mr. Hartman 96% 100% 100% Mr. Haank 83% 83% 88% N/a Mr. Overbeek 87% N/a Ms. Sap1 96% 100% 0% Mr. Sickinghe 100% 100% 100% N/a Ms. Zuiderwijk 87% 100% 100% Total 87% 83% 92% 97% N/a 1 As of 1 December 2019, Ms. Sap became a member of the Remuneration Committee by law, as she was appointed on the nomination of the Works Council. Due to a conflicting meeting schedule, she could not attend the meeting in December. Meetings of the Supervisory Board normally commence with a Audit Committee closed part, in which only the members of the Board and (partly) The Audit Committee had six meetings in 2019 (of which five the CEO participate. In the quarterly meetings, this closed had been regularly scheduled), all of which were also attended session is typically followed by a meeting in which all members (at least in part) by the CFO, the external auditor Ernst & Young of the Board of Management are present. This ‘open’ part of the Accountants LLP (‘EY’), the internal auditor and the Director meeting typically starts with presentations by management on Corporate Control. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board the state of the business, followed by a discussion on one or attended the meetings when this was deemed relevant. The more strategic or otherwise relevant topics, the review of the Audit Committee – as well as the Chairman of the Supervisory quarterly disclosures and any decisions that need to be taken. Board – met separately with the external auditor. When deemed relevant, the meetings may also end with a ‘closed’ part. The meetings around the CEO succession in 2019 In line with its tasks, the Audit Committee reviews and discusses took place without the members of the Board of Management all financially relevant matters that are presented to the attending. In such meetings, the Company Secretary and Chief Supervisory Board, most notably the quarterly and annual People Officer often supported the Supervisory Board. reporting and (the financial and risk-related aspects of) the business plan. It has a specific focus on the effectiveness and Committee Reporting outcome of the internal control framework and the riskmanagement systems of the company, for which it receives and The Supervisory Board has established four Committees: The reviews reports by the internal auditor, the Compliance Office Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee (RemCo), the and the Disclosure Committee. Each quarter, the Audit Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee (NomCo) Committee also reviews the conclusions of the external auditor, and the Strategy and Organization Committee (SOC). The main as included in its Board Report. Overall, the Committee is considerations and conclusions of each Committee were shared satisfied with the processes around external reporting as with the full Supervisory Board. operated by the company, as is also confirmed by the reports from the internal and external auditors. The audit plans, both for the internal and external auditor, are annually reviewed by the Committee, and are subsequently submitted to the full Supervisory Board for its approval. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 83 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Report by the Supervisory Board During 2019, the Audit Committee also monitored KPN’s Remuneration Committee financing policy and profile. It reviewed and supported the The Remuneration Committee met on six occasions during 2019. proposals for dividend payments throughout the year and The CEO attended parts of the Committee meetings. The concluded that, although the total dividend paid over 2018 was Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in executing and slightly higher than the profit available for distribution, and reviewing KPN’s remuneration policy and ensuring that therefore required a withdrawal from the freely distributable members of the Board of Management are compensated reserves, such decision could be taken in reason, taking into consistently with that policy. account the stakeholders’ interests. The Committee also oversaw the divestment of the final stake in Telefónica As part of its annually recurring tasks, the Committee defined Deutschland, the closure of a EUR 300m credit facility from the the level of pay-out for individual members of the Board of EIB, the tender of a USD 1bn bond and the issuance of a new Management as part of the STI plan 2018 and LTI grant 2016, EUR 500m hybrid bond. and determined the financial and non-financial targets and performance criteria for the STI and LTI plans 2019 for the Board In a special meeting, the Committee reviewed the implementation of Management. of IFRS 16 accounting standard for leases that had a material impact on KPN’s balance sheet and P&L accounts. For In the first months of 2019, the Committee finalized its review of transparency purposes and internal steering, the Committee the remuneration policy by proposing a number of amendments supported the introduction of a new alternative performance thereto to the AGM. The main elements of the change include metric of adjusted EBITDA after leases (adjusted EBITDA AL). (i) an adjustment of the targets of the LTI plan, consisting of a reduction in the number of performance criteria, a rebalancing The Audit Committee furthermore discussed other topics that of the weight between the financialand non-financial criteria, were within its scope of attention, including compliance, fraud the introduction of strategic performance criteria and an management, tax (including tax risk analysis) and cybersecurity. extended holding period for vested shares; (ii) increased share Specific attention was paid to safety matters, where an ownership guidelines (including partial payment of the annual increasing number of incidents of aggression, most notably STI variable pay in shares until such guidelines have been met) against our mechanics and shop employees, was noted. and (iii) an updated employment market reference peer groups. Although it concluded that KPN’s practices were agreed overall, Reference is made to the remuneration report, included on page and the risk appetite for such incidents was low, it urged 87 of this Integrated Annual Report 2019. management to stay on top thereof. The Remuneration Committee was involved in determining the Finally, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance remuneration packages (in line with the company’s evaluation of EY over 2019. It concluded, also based on inputs remuneration policy) for both Ms. Leroy, Mr. Farwerck, Mr. Figee, from management and the internal auditor, that EY had done and the four members of the Executive Committee that were a good job, had sufficient objectivity and independence, being appointed to the Board of Management per 1 December 2019. both critical when necessary, and constructive when possible. It therefore recommended to the full Supervisory Board to During an annual evaluation meeting with the individual nominate EY for appointment to the 2020 General Meeting of members of the Board of Management, the Committee took Shareholders as the company’s independent external auditor for note of the views of their members on their own remuneration. the financial year 2021. The Committee also reviewed the remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee. Further details on the remuneration Strategy and Organization Committee policy are provided in the ‘Remuneration Report’ starting on The Strategy and Organization Committee functions as a page 86. standing sounding committee on strategic matters for the Board of Management. During 2019, its members had ad hoc contacts Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee with the CEO or other members of the Board of Management on The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee met on specific matters related to the strategy, including the follow-up eight occasions in 2019. The Committee steered the selection on the network outage in June, the vendor strategy in light of process for a new CEO upon the departure of Mr. Ibarra, the geopolitical debate, and divestments. No formal meetings including the intended appointment of Ms. Leroy, the were held, as the choice was made to have the more subsequent withdrawal thereof, and the appointment of a new fundamental discussions on the strategy in the full Supervisory Board of Management, headed by Mr. Farwerck. Given the Board. impact of this matter for the company, most meetings around this process were held with the full Board. Reference is made to the description of the process under ‘Governance’, above. 84 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The Committee also steered the selection process for a new Final remarks CFO, ultimately leading to the appointment of Mr. Figee on 1 February 2020, and was pleased this process could be The Supervisory Board remains grateful to all stakeholders for dovetailed perfectly with the other changes to the Board of their contribution to our company. We thank our customers for Management, as announced on 1 October. With Mr. Figee, the their trust. Our employees strive to improve our services to our Committee believes to have found a strong and experienced customers every day. Our shareholders and bondholders enable CFO, that can lead KPN and its finance function into the next era. us to reach our goals through their financial means. Together, we create The network of the Netherlands. With the new top structure, based on an enlarged Board of Management, and without the Executive Committee, it was also necessary to update the Board of Management By-Laws, as well Duco W. Sickinghe, Chairman as related provisions in other corporate documentation. The Peter A.M. van Bommel Nominating Committee oversaw this process and recommended Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo the adoption thereof to the full Supervisory Board. Derk J. Haank Peter F. Hartman Given the upcoming end of the second term of appointment for Edzard J.C. Overbeek Mr. van Bommel, the Committee also set out to search for a Jolande C.M. Sap successor for him. Given the skills matrix of the Supervisory Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk Board, and in light of the knowledge and experience that would be lost with the departure of Mr. van Bommel, the Committee set out to search for a candidate with a strong financial and audit profile. Given the overall profile of the Supervisory Board and the skills matrix, the candidate needed to have an international (business) background, ideally with experience in telecommunications or other network-related industries. Given the current composition, the candidate also preferably needed to be female, and have an international background. With support from a recruitment firm, a number of candidates was selected, and the Committee could finally recommend Ms. Catherine Guillouard, currently chairwomen and CEO of RATP to the Supervisory Board, which happily accepted this recommendation. Ms. Guillouard brings along a wealth of financial and managerial experience in both telecom (satellite) and other network-related industries (airlines, public transport). The Committee is very pleased that, with the changes announced in 2019, both the Board of Management (two out of six) and the Supervisory Board (three out of eight) will have more than 30% female members. We continue to believe that a diverse composition of teams, whether they are formal Boards or management teams within the company, both in terms of gender and other characteristics, is beneficial to the company and its stakeholders in both short and longer term. Financial Statements The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2019, were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, is included in the ‘Other Information’ on pages 165 173. The Supervisory Board recommends that the AGM adopts these Financial Statements. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 85 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Remuneration Board of Management Remuneration Report Introduction The objective of the remuneration policy for the Board of Remuneration policy Board of Management Management is to attract, reward and retain necessary The main principles of KPN’s remuneration policy as described leadership talent, in order to support the execution of the below are based on a balanced approach between market company’s strategic objectives. We aim for organic, sustainable competitive standards, the ratio between fixed and variable pay growth. Our focus is on creating value over volume, and building and the economic and social contribution of the company linked an efficient and simple organization supported by our three to the non-financial parameters of the variable pay: strategic pillars: • Paying at market-competitive level (considering all fixed and 1. Offering the best converged smart infrastructure variable components of the remuneration policy) achieved 2. Focus on profitable growth segments through benchmarking against an employment market peer 3. Acceleration of simplification and digitalization group • Pay-for-performance by driving financial and non-financial We made good progress on the execution of our strategy and performance that generates long-term sustainable and our financial results in 2019 were solid and continue to reflect a profitable growth. Target remuneration aims at 30-40% of pay mix of an ongoing competitive environment and the impact of our in base pay and 60-70% in variable pay in order to maintain a strategic actions. strong alignment with the company’s financial performance goals and long-term value creation strategy The integrated remuneration policy was subject to an internal review • Differentiating by experience and responsibility through in 2018/2019 to ensure further alignment with the company’s alignment of the pay with the responsibilities, relevant strategic direction. The proposed adjustments to the integrated experience, required competences and performance of remuneration policy (enhancing simplicity, long-term focus and individual jobholders share ownership) were approved by the AGM in April 2019. • Balancing all stakeholder interests, including the views of Annually, the Remuneration Committee prepares this shareholders and society (a.o. dialogue with works council) remuneration report on the application of the remuneration by complying with best practices in corporate governance, policy and the individual remuneration of members of the defining targets for the variable pay plans based on financial Board of Management. This remuneration report was prepared and non-financial targets and a transparent and clear as much as possible in line with the new requirements stemming remuneration policy. from the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in Dutch law, noting however that it refers to the Remuneration The following pie charts represent the fix/variable pay mix Policy 2019, which was not yet based on this new legislation. for both the CEO and other board members in the case of an This report will be submitted to the General Meeting of on-target performance: Shareholders for an advisory vote. Compensation Compensation policy policy CEO CEO Other Board members Other Board members Executives Executives Base Base Base Base STI STI STI STI LTI LTI LTI LTI 30% 30% 36% 36% 42% 42% 40% 40% 28% 28% 24% 24% 86 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The following adjustments to the remuneration policy were Shareholder Return (TSR) measured against the STOXX proposed to and approved by the AGM in 2019: Europe 600 Telecommunications index. 1 A revised employment market peer group, comprising 50% • 30% based on non-financial targets determined at the start AEX companies and 50% industry peers: of a new plan by the Supervisory Board from the following categories: Akzo Nobel Telecom Austria – ­ (I) Sustainability DSM Iliad – ­ (II) Reputation – ­ (III) Social Randstad Telia Company – ­ (IV) Key business projects – ­ (V) Market share Ahold Delhaize Telecom Italia Philips Telenor 3 Increase in the share ownership guideline for the CEO from 200% to 250% of annual base salary, and for the other ASML Proximus members of the Board of Management from 100% to 150% Signify Swisscom of annual base salary. To further stimulate reaching the anticipated share ownership levels, any payments under the short-term incentive (STI) plan, after deduction of taxes, are 2 Adjusted targets for the long-term incentive (LTI) plan: paid for a maximum of 50% in shares, if the share ownership • 70% based on financial targets, of which 45% on cumulative guideline levels have not yet been reached. free cash flow over the plan period and 25% on relative Total 4 Holding period for any shares received under the LTI plan adjusted from two to three years. Main features of the short and long-term incentive plan Short-term incentive (STI) plan 2019 Component Short-term incentives Form of compensation Cash, possible pay-out for maximum 50% in shares, if share ownership guideline levels have not yet been reached Value determination (on-target level) CEO: 90% of base salary and other members Board of Management: 60% of base salary Financialand non-financial targets Financial (70% weight) and Non-financial targets (30% weight), subject to the financial circuit-breaker; linear vesting Scenario at or below threshold performance At threshold: 25% of the on-target incentive paid. Below threshold no pay-out Scenario on-target performance 100% of the on-target incentive paid Scenario maximum performance 150% of the on-target incentive paid Discretionary factor A factor between 0.7, reducing the incentive by 30%, and 1.3, increasing the incentive by 30% Long-term incentive (LTI) plan 2019 Component Long-term incentives Form of compensation Shares Value determination (on-target level) CEO: 135% of base salary and other members of Board of Management: 90% of base salary Financialand non-financial targets Financial (70% weight) and non-financial targets (30% weight); linear vesting Scenario at or below threshold performance At threshold: 25% of granted shares vest (TSR 75%, i.e. 50th percentile peer group). Below threshold: no vesting. Scenario on-target performance 100% of the granted shares vest (for TSR linear between 50th percentile and first position peer group). Scenario maximum performance 200% of the granted shares vest (for TSR first position in the peer group) Holding period 3 years after vesting KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 87 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Remuneration Board of Management Composition Board of Management forfeited as of 30 September 2019 and the agreed one-off The composition of the Board of Management changed retention fee was not due as the agreed terms and conditions importantly in 2019, with the appointments of Joost Farwerck as were not fulfilled. He was also not entitled to a severance CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management per 1 October payment. 2019, Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke as Chief Consumer Market (CCM), Marieke Snoep as Chief Business Market (CBM), Babak Fouladi Jan Kees de Jager will resign from the Board of Management as Chief Technology and Digital Officer (CTDO), Hilde Garssen per 1 March 2020. As part of the arrangements made around his as Chief People Officer (CPO), all per 1 December 2019, and resignation, he is entitled to a severance payment in 2020 equal Chris Figee as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) as of 1 February to one year’s base salary, and will be treated as a good leaver 2020. All appointments were made for a period of four years. under the outstanding STI and LTI plans. As Maximo Ibarra decided to resign from his position as Remuneration Board of Management in 2019 CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management effective The actual remuneration of the members of the Board of 30 September 2019, he was not entitled to any payment as part Management has been determined by the Supervisory Board of the STI 2019 plan. In addition, all outstanding LTI grants according to the remuneration policy as approved by the AGM. Remuneration packages individual current members of the Board of Management: On-target STI On-target LTI Member Position Base salary (% annual base salary) (% annual base salary) Joost Farwerck CEO EUR 875,000 90% 135% Jan Kees de Jager1 CFO EUR 675,000 60% 90% Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke CCM EUR 650,000 60% 90% Marieke Snoep CBM EUR 650,000 60% 90% Babak Fouladi CTDO EUR 650,000 60% 90% Hilde Garssen CPO EUR 500,000 60% 90% 1) Chris Figee appointed as CFO effective as of 1 February 2020 based on the same remuneration package. Details actual pay-out level STI 2019 Bandwidth pay-out level Plan Target Weight Minimum On-target Maximum Actual performance STI 2019 Financials (70% weighting): Adjusted EBITDA-AL 25% 25% 100% 150% Between on-target and maximum level Total Revenue 15% 25% 100% 150% Slightly below on-target level FCF (excl. TEFD dividend) 30% 25% 100% 150% Maximum level Non-financials (30% weighting): NPS NL 15% 25% 100% 150% Slightly above on-target level Employee engagement 15% 25% 100% 150% Below minimum threshold level Total pay-out level 100% 104% of on-target level1-2 1 With the exception of Mr. De Jager, it is assumed that other board members will obtain 50% of the STI pay-out in shares to further stimulate reaching the anticipated share ownership levels. The Supervisory Board did not deviate from the standard discretionary factor of 1.0. 2 Pay-out CLA population around 141% of on-target The STI 2019 outcome in the overview above reflects the fact on the future of the company and their individual contribution that we delivered on our financial guidance aspects for 2019, to the strategy supported by further simplification of processes. supported by a strong Consumer NPS performance and a Although the employees were overall more optimistic about the continued solid progress on simplification and digitalization. We future of the company and their individual contribution, the continued to execute disciplined cost control resulting in solid threshold of the employee engagement target was not reached, growth in adjusted EBITDA after leases. The employee predominantly the result of a continuing need for improvement engagement target for 2019 was related to the employee’s views on processes as part of a more simplified operating model. 88 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Details actual pay-out (vesting) level LTI 2017: vesting period 2017-2019 Bandwidth pay-out level Plan Target Weight Minimum On-target Maximum Outcome Actual vesting % LTI 2017 Financials (75% weighting): 75% 100% 200% TSR versus peer group 25% 6th position 5th position 1st position 75% 18.75% peer group peer group peer group Free cash flow 25% 25% 100% 200% 28% 7.10% Earnings per share (EPS) 25% 25% 100% 200% 0% 0.0% Non-financials (25% weighting) Reputation target 12.5% 25% 100% 200% 200% 25.0% Energy reduction target 12.5% 25% 100% 200% 103% 12.93% Vesting % 100% 63.78% (on-target) (total vesting) The LTI plan 2017 vests in April 2020 and final TSR was and ‘being fair in the way it does business’, stressing the belief measured mid-February 2020. The plan vested based on the that customer and societal satisfaction, whilst at the same time TSR performance with a 6th position in the peer group, being financially solid, are vital for the company’s license-tosupported by KPN’s progressive dividend policy. During the operate. The composite performance of the three attributes was vesting period 2017-2019, KPN’s results on free cash flow 71.4 and outperformed the maximum level of the bandwidth set performed slightly above the ambitious threshold level of the at 70.0, indicating a significant growth and a steep improvement bandwidth which contributed to a progressive regular dividend of KPN’s reputation during the vesting period 2017-2019. and deleveraging. Earnings per share (EPS) performed below the threshold and therefore did not contribute to the vesting of Targets LTI 2019, vesting period 2019-2021 the LTI plan. EPS performance was, for example, partly impacted For the LTI plan issued in 2019, the financial targets are based by additional finance expenses related to the repurchase of USD on relative TSR, 25% weight, and free cash flow, 45% weight and 405m senior bonds in 2019, a transaction that lowers KPN’s the non-financial targets have been determined based on interest expenses going forward, delivering significant value. circularity and reputation, each with a weight of 15%. The energy reduction target was aligned with a reduction of Circularity was selected as a non-financial target to reflect our KPN’s energy consumption during the vesting period compared long-term ambition on sustainability. We built a road-map to to the baseline in 2016. The energy reduction (compared to the reach our ambition of having close-to-100% circular operations baseline in 2016) during the vesting period was equal to -5.02% by 2025. This road-map is governed by the Energy & and resulted in a vesting slightly above the on-target level which Environmental Board. The circularity target was aligned to a was set at -4.9%. This was the result of additional energy savings close to 100% performance on re-use and recycling (i.e. outflow in our networks, data centers and offices, despite an exponential of materials and waste) by 2025. The on-target ambition for increase in the volume of our IT services. The energy figures are 2021 on re-use and recycling was set at 82% versus a baseline of based on external sources and validated by both our internal on or about 75% in 2018. The measurement and conduct of the and external auditors. sustainability KPI’s has been included in Appendix 3. The reputation target is set based on external data, which are Reputation was selected as a non-financial target to maintain measured and conducted by the Reputation Institute, the continued focus on our role in Dutch society during the leading international organization devoted to advancing execution of the new strategy, that is, next to offering the best knowledge about corporate reputations. The external data are converged smart infrastructure and focus on profitable growth measured by the Reputation Institute through an online survey segments, also based on acceleration of simplification and among a representative sample of the general public. The digitalization. The 2 attributes “excellent managers” and bandwidth of the reputation target is based on the 12-month “well-organized company” were selected as main drivers to moving averages of the data collected by the Reputation measure the successful implementation and execution of the Institute prior to the vesting period. The reputation target for new strategy, while the attribute “positive influence on society” the LTI plan 2017 was measured based on three attributes, i.e. was selected for KPN’s continuous commitment to Dutch ‘providing good value for money’, ‘being a profitable company’ society. The on-target ambition for the composite performance of the three new attributes was set at 67.2. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 89 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Remuneration Board of Management Total remuneration of the Board of Management – individual remuneration received by current members of the Board of Management during the year shown by each pay component (in thousands of EUR). See Note 5 for full disclosure of remuneration cost under IFRS principles (also including former members). Actual vested Pension cost and % Name Position Year Base STI1 LTI1 social security Total4 % Fixed5 Variable5 Joost Farwerck2 CEO 2019 688 497 382 162 1,729 44% 56% COO 2018 625 393 219 147 1384 51% 49% Jan Kees de Jager CFO 2019 675 421 386 134 1,616 46% 54% CFO 2018 668 382 238 131 1419 52% 48% Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke3 CCM 2019 54 34 – 10 98 61% 39% Marieke Snoep3 CBM 2019 54 34 – 9 97 61% 39% Babak Fouladi3 CTDO 2019 54 34 – 9 97 61% 39% Hilde Garssen3 CPO 2019 42 26 – 7 75 62% 38% 1 Final measurement of the 2017 share grant was conducted in February 2020, which leads to 63.78% vesting of the shares in April 2020. The amounts give an indication of the value of the shares that will vest based on the closing share price of KPN at 14 February 2020 (EUR 2.50). The STI 2019 is paid in 2020. 2 Actual total remuneration as COO and CEO. 3 Actual remuneration since appointment in the Board of Management with an effective date of 1 December 2019. 4 All remuneration was borne by KPN B.V, please see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the individual pension benefits. 5 Excluding pension cost and social security. Change in remuneration for members of the Board of Management versus company performance over five years and remuneration of average employee. The tables includes the current members of the Board of Management and a comparison is disclosed over the last five years as far as a ‘like for like’ comparison was possible (i.e. full year appointment during the five years period). 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Remuneration Joost Farwerck 1,260,000 1,418,000 1,904,000 1,384,000 1,733,000 (Appointed April 2013) -Year-on-year difference (EUR) +391,000 +158,000 +486,000 -520,000 +349,000 -Year-on-year difference (%) +45% + 13% +34% -27% +25% Remuneration Jan Kees de Jager 1,270,000 1,490,000 2,022,000 1,419,000 1,632,000 (Appointed September 2014) -Year on year difference ( EUR) Not comparable +220,000 +532,000 -603,000 +213,000 -Year on year difference (%) Not comparable +17% +36% -30% +15% TSR position (part of LTI) Position peer group 8th (no vesting) 6th (75% vesting) 3rd (150% vesting) 8th (no vesting) 6th (75% vesting) Free cash flow (part of STI/LTI) Performance: Performance: Performance: Performance: Performance: STI bandwidth pay-out level Maximum Close to target Maximum Around maximum Maximum LTI bandwidth pay-out level Not applicable Below threshold Between on-target Below threshold Slightly above threshold and maximum EBITDA (part of STI) Performance: Performance: Performance: Performance: Performance: Pay-out level STI bandwidth Around maximum Between threshold and Between threshold and Around on-target Between on-target on-target on-target and maximum Average cost per FTE (IFRS) 70,658 79,924 82,967 85,355 88,445 Pay ratio CEO (IFRS) 42 33 36 29 30 90 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The main drivers for the fluctuation in actual pay levels during the five reference years is predominantly the result of the outcome of the STI and LTI combined with the relative high emphasis on pay for performance reflected in the short and long-term incentives. The STI pay-out (in terms of performance versus the assigned targets) was aligned with the level of pay-out to senior management and the CLA employees as the same financial and non-financial targets were applied in these variable pay plans when compared to the assigned targets of the Board of Management. The average STI pay-out over the five-year period is close to 95% of the on-target level and the LTI plans vested over the five-year period on average close to 70% of the on-target level reflecting the ambitious targets set for variable incentive plans. Considering the five years outcome, variable pay on financial and non-financial targets is strongly linked with KPN’s performance against peers (TSR) and its outcomes on key metrics FCF and EBITDA ensuring alignment with financial performance goals and long-term value creation strategy. Lower revenues were offset by ongoing savings from simplification and digitalization of services. KPN generates FCF which supports a progressive regular dividend and deleveraging and remains committed to an investment grade credit profile. KPN’s internal pay ratio To ensure transparency and clarity, KPN applies a methodology to calculate the internal pay ratio that is IFRS-driven. KPN’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total CEO compensation under IFRS principles divided by the average employee compensation (total personnel expenses of KPN employees divided by the average number of KPN FTEs). In the 5-years table the pay ratio for the years 2015-2017 relates to Eelco Blok and for the year 2018 to Maximo Ibarra. When calculating the pay ratio for 2019, the CEO compensation for 2019 was based on the total remuneration of Joost Farwerck in his position as COO and CEO during the calendar year. Consequently, KPN’s calculated pay ratio in 2019 is 22 (2018: 29). The pay ratio in 2019 was 30 if Joost Farwerck had been CEO for the full 12 months of 2019. This outcome is in line with KPN’s acceptable bandwidths. For further details, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 91 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Remuneration Board of Management The table below presents the number of shares and current share plans for the current Board members. Pre-tax market value Pre-tax fair on vesting Granted as of Granted or As of 31 value on date or end of 1 January forfeited in December grant date lock-up in End of lock-up Grant date 2019 Vested 2019¹,² 2019 (EUR)³ 2019 (EUR) period Joost Farwerck 11 April 2019 – – 302,514 302,514 874,265 – 11 April 2025 19 April 2018 227,733 – 227,733 498,735 – 19 April 2023 13 April 2017 202,396 – – 202,396 542,421 – 13 April 2022 14 April 2016⁴ 162,938 -72,068 -90,870 473,674 218,693 14 April 2021 Jan Kees de Jager 11 April 2019 – – 210,784 210,784 609,166 – 11 April 2025 19 April 2018 245,951 – – 245,951 538,633 – 19 April 2023 13 April 2017 210,492 – – 210,492 564,119 – 13 April 2022 14 April 2016⁴ 177,106 -85,419 -91,687 514,862 237,656 14 April 2021 Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke 11 April 2019 – – 196,732 196,732 568,555 11 April 2024 19 April 2018 114,777 – – 114,777 251,362 – 19 April 2023 Marieke Snoep 11 April 2019 – – 156,136 156,136 451,233 – 11 April 2024 Babak Fouladi 11 April 2019 – – 196,732 196,732 568,555 – 11 April 2024 Hilde Garssen 11 April 2019 – – 62,454 62,454 180,492 – 11 April 2024 1 The shares granted to the Board of Management represent 34% (2018: 25%) of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2019 to all employees. The 2019 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. 2 The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additionally granted in shares. 3 Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards by the fair value at grant date. 4 Final TSR measurement for the 2016 share grant was conducted in February 2019, which resulted in 42.5% vesting in April 2019. See page 78 for stock ownership of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board and see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description and valuation of the share plans. Claw-back clause The reason for the proposed forfeiture of the STI discretionary The claw-back clause was not applied in 2019. factor lies in the fact that the use of such a factor is no longer perceived to be in line with common market practice and Developments for 2020 evolving insights of good corporate governance practices. This The integral remuneration policy for 2020 onwards has been conclusion is also supported by the collected input and views written in accordance with the new requirements stemming from the stakeholder engagement process. from the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in Dutch law per 1 December 2019 and will be submitted for No other adjustments to the current remuneration policy of the approval by the AGM in April 2020 in line with the Board of Management are proposed in 2020, also considering implementation of the Shareholders Rights Directive in Dutch the recent adjustments proposed to and approved by the AGM law per 1 December 2019. in April 2019. The Supervisory Board proposes to remove the discretionary factor as part of the Short Term Incentive (i.e. STI) plan design. 92 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Remuneration Supervisory Board The objective of the remuneration policy for the Supervisory AEX-listed companies with a two-tier board serve as a reference Board is to reward the members appropriately for their work to determine market-competitive fee levels. Supervisory Board based on market-competitive fee levels. Members are appointed members do not receive any variable compensation and are not for a four-year term. To the extent applicable, the same granted any shares as a form of pay. principles of the Board of Management remuneration policy apply to the Supervisory Board remuneration policy. As a policy, the company does not provide loans or guarantees to its Supervisory Board members. KPN has a fixed annual fee and annual committee membership fees for the members of the Supervisory Board. Members The table below shows the annual fixed fee structure for the receive an additional fee of EUR 1,500 per meeting. members of the Supervisory Board and the members of the if a meeting is held in a country other than the member’s committees, which did not change in the last 5 years. country of residence. Position Annual fee in EUR Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 Vice-chairman Supervisory Board 70,000 Member Supervisory Board 60,000 Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 Member Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee 12,500 Member Strategy & Organization Committee 7,500 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 Member Remuneration Committee 5,000 Chairman Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 Member Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 5,000 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 93 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Remuneration Supervisory Board Supervisory Board The table below shows the actual fee each current member of the Supervisory Board received in 2015-2019. Committee and Membership international Amounts in € fee 2019 meeting fee 2019 Total 2019 Total 2018¹ Total 2017¹ Total 2016¹ Total 2015¹ D.W. Sickinghe 100,000 15,000 115,000 116,875 122,500 123,929 112,916 Chairman D.J. Haank 70,000 17,500 87,500 86,250 82,500 84,643 100,417 Vice-chairman P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 20,000 80,000 80,000 80,000 77,143 70,000 Member C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 60,000 13,000 73,000 73,000 73,000 73,000 73,000 Member C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 60,000 10,000 70,000 71,875 77,500 77,500 75,313 Member P.F. Hartman 60,000 15,000 75,000 76,875 82,500 80,357 53,125 Member J.C.M. Sap 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 70,000 70,000 49,583 Member E. Overbeek 60,000 12,500 72,500 71,250 16,875 Member Total 530,000 113,000 643,000 646,125 604,875 586,572 534,354 1 Restated for international meeting fees Developments for 2020 The eligibility for committee fees will be limited to two committees. If a member of the Supervisory Board is a member of more than two committees, such member will be entitled to two membership fees of the committees attended. The international meeting fee of EUR 1,500 will no longer be applicable for new appointments or re-appointments to the Supervisory Board. The integral remuneration policy for the Supervisory Board will be submitted for approval by the AGM in April 2020 in line with the implementation of the Shareholders Rights Directive in Dutch law per 1 December 2019. 94 Financial Statements Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 98 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income  99 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  100 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  102 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  103 General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement  104 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss  112 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  125 Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  154 Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss  158 Corporate Statement of Financial Position  159 Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements  161 Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report  165 Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report  173 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 97 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss For the year ended 31 December € million Notes 2019 2018 (Restated) Revenues [4.1] 5,499 5,633 Other income [4.2, 21] 202 6 Total revenues and other income 5,702 5,639 Cost of goods & services 1,301 1,332 Personnel expenses [5] 1,027 1,103 Information technology/Technical infrastructure 353 412 Other operating expenses [6] 443 439 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [10/11, 19] 1,537 1,533 Total operating expenses 4,661 4,819 Operating profit 1,041 820 Finance income 24 55 Finance costs -307 -348 Other financial results -90 -3 Financial income and expenses [7, 19] -372 -296 Share of the profit/loss (-) of associates -6 -9 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 663 515 Income taxes [8] -49 -224 Profit for the year from continuing operations 614 292 Profit/loss (-) for the year from discontinued operations [15] 12 -10 Profit for the year 626 282 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests – – Profit attributable to equity holders of the company 626 281 Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the [9] company for the year in EUR > Basic (continuing operations) 0.15 0.06 > Diluted (continuing operations) 0.15 0.06 > Basic (discontinued operations) – – > Diluted (discontinued operations) – – > Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.15 0.06 > Diluted (total, including discontinued operations) 0.15 0.06 98 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 December € million Notes 2019 2018 (Restated) Profit for the year 626 282 Other comprehensive income, net of tax Other comprehensive income to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Net gain/loss (-) on cash flow hedges [16] 115 -20 Currency translation differences1 [16] -21 4 Net other comprehensive income/loss (-) to be reclassified to profit or loss in 94 -16 subsequent periods Items of other comprehensive income not to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Retirement benefits remeasurements 8 -1 Net gain/loss (-) on equity instruments designated at fair value through other [12] -84 -116 comprehensive income Net other comprehensive income/loss (-) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in -76 -117 subsequent periods Other comprehensive income/loss (-) for the year, net of tax 18 -133 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 644 149 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to: Equity holders of the company 644 149 Non-controlling interests – – 644 149 Total comprehensive income/loss (-) attributable to equity holders of the company arises from: Continuing operations 644 159 Discontinued operations1 – -10 1 In 2019, EUR 11m of cumulative currency translation gains were recycled to the profit or loss and included in the book result on the sale of iBasis, resulting in a total comprehensive income from discontinued operations of nil. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 99 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Assets 31 December 2018 1 January 2018 Notes € million 31 December 2019 (Restated) (Restated) Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment [10] 5,432 5,595 5,755 Intangible assets [11] 2,995 3,169 3,341 Right-of-use assets [19] 847 878 971 Equity investments accounted for using the equity method 3 17 21 Equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [12.1] 32 26 20 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 236 185 168 Deferred income tax assets [8] 662 720 927 Trade and other receivables [13.1] 111 197 138 Contract assets and contract costs [13.2] 32 33 35 10,350 10,820 11,377 Current assets Inventories 54 58 54 Trade and other receivables [13.1] 756 780 717 Contract assets and contract costs [13.2] 37 106 287 Income tax receivables [8] – – 1 Equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [12.1] – 449 1,071 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 22 – – Other current financial assets [12.1] 275 50 329 Cash and cash equivalents [14] 766 594 856 1,909 2,036 3,314 Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [15] 44 148 1 Total assets 12,304 13,005 14,692 100 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Equity and liabilities 31 December 2018 1 January 2018 Notes € million 31 December 2019 (Restated) (Restated) Equity Share capital 168 168 168 Share premium 8,445 8,445 8,445 Other reserves -300 -398 -402 Retained earnings -6,302 -6,338 -5,885 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 496 – 1,089 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company 2,507 1,877 3,415 Non-controlling interests 1 – – Total equity [16] 2,507 1,878 3,415 Non-current liabilities Borrowings [12.2] 5,722 6,939 7,523 Lease liabilities [19] 785 827 930 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 136 302 328 Deferred income tax liabilities [8] – – 1 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [17] 188 206 218 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [18] 105 110 93 Contract liabilities [20] 184 206 155 Other payables [20] 12 5 9 7,132 8,596 9,257 Current liabilities Trade and other payables [20] 1,256 1,357 1,517 Contract liabilities [20] 228 253 270 Borrowings [12.2] 937 580 8 Lease liabilities [19] 145 149 142 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 4 16 – Income tax payables [8] – – 16 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [18] 63 78 66 2,634 2,434 2,020 Liabilities directly associated with the assets and disposal groups classified [15] 30 98 – as held for sale Total equity and liabilities 12,304 13,005 14,692 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 101 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Equity attributable Equity to holders attributable of to equity perpetual holders of Non€ million, except number of Subscribed Share Share Other Retained capital the controlling Notes shares ordinary shares capital premium reserves earnings securities company interests Total equity Balance at 1 January 2018 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -402 -5,818 1,089 3,482 – 3,482 Transition impact IFRS 16 [2] – – – -67 – -67 – -67 Balance at 1 January 2018 Restated 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -402 -5,885 1,089 3,415 – 3,415 Profit for the year – – – 281 – 281 – 282 Other comprehensive income for the year – – -16 -117 – -133 – -133 Total comprehensive income – – -16 165 – 149 – 149 for the year Share-based compensation [5] – – – -15 – -15 – -15 Sold treasury shares – – 20 – – 20 – 20 Repayment of EUR hybrid – – – -73 -1,089 -1,162 – -1,162 bond (including paid coupon)¹ Dividends paid – – – -529 – -529 – -529 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly – – 20 -618 -1,089 -1,687 – -1,687 in equity Balance at 31 December 2018 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -398 -6,338 – 1,877 – 1,878 Restated Profit for the year – – – 626 – 626 – 626 Other comprehensive income for the year – – 94 -76 – 18 – 18 Total comprehensive income – – 94 550 – 644 – 644 for the year Share-based compensation [5] – – – -2 – -2 – -2 Sold treasury shares – – 4 – – 4 – 4 Issuance of EUR hybrid bond [12.2] – – – – 496 496 – 496 Dividends paid – – – -512 – -512 – -512 Other – – – – – – 1 1 Total transactions with owners, recognized directly – – 4 -514 496 -14 1 -14 in equity Balance at 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -300 -6,302 496 2,507 1 2,507 31 December 2019 1 As of 1 January 2019, IAS 12 Income Taxes has been amended and as a result, the income tax gain on the EUR hybrid bond dividends of EUR 12m has been recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss. See page 161 for more information. 102 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 31 December € million Notes 2019 2018 (Restated) Profit before income tax from continuing operations 663 515 Adjustments for: – Net financial expense [7] 372 296 – Share-based compensation [5] 2 -3 – Share of the profit/loss (-) of associates 6 9 – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [10/11, 19] 1,537 1,533 – Other non-cash income and expense -202 -5 – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) -51 56 Changes in working capital relating to: – Current assets 61 54 – Current liabilities -70 -62 Dividends received [12.1] 24 54 Income taxes paid/received -7 -9 Interest paid -329 -339 Net cash flow from operating activities from continuing operations 2,005 2,099 Net cash flow from operating activities from discontinued operations 1 9 Net cash flow from operating activities 2,006 2,108 Disposal of equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income [12.1] 347 464 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (net of acquired cash) -3 -17 Disposal of subsidiaries and associates (net of cash) [21] 258 1 Investments in software -255 -289 Investments in other intangible assets – -1 Investments in property, plant and equipment -859 -817 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 4 5 Changes in other current financial assets [12.1] -233 274 Net cash flow from investing activities from continuing operations -742 -379 Net cash flow from investing activities from discontinued operations [21] 35 -7 Net cash flow from investing activities -707 -387 Dividends paid -512 -529 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds – -67 Issuance and repayment of perpetual hybrid bonds 495 -1,100 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [12] -982 -116 Repayments of lease liabilities [19] -141 -149 Other -5 – Net cash flow from financing activities from continuing operations -1,145 -1,962 Net cash flow from financing activities from discontinued operations – – Net cash flow from financing activities -1,145 -1,962 Total net cash flow from continuing operations 118 -242 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations 37 2 Changes in cash and cash equivalents 154 -240 Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 612 852 Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 767 612 Bank overdrafts – 5 Cash classified as held for sale -1 -24 Cash and cash equivalents [14] 766 594 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 103 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements General notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [1] General information Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the company) was incorporated in Changes in accounting policies and disclosures 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. KPN is registered at KPN applies new standards and amendments issued by the the Chamber of Commerce (file no. 02045200). The address of International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), when KPN’s registered office is Wilhelminakade 123, 3072 AP, effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has not Rotterdam. KPN’s shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. early adopted any standards. Only changes with a significant impact are discussed. KPN is a leading telecommunications and IT provider in the Netherlands, offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and As of 1 January 2019, only the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases mobile broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is had a significant impact. market leader in the Netherlands in infrastructure and network related IT solutions to business customers. KPN also provides KPN has concluded that IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax wholesale network services to third parties. Treatments’ did not affect KPN’s tax position. The Financial Statements were authorized for issue by both the IFRS 16 Supervisory Board and the Board of Management on 21 This standard introduces on balance sheet accounting for February 2020 and are subject to adoption by the Annual almost all leases. For lessees, the distinction between financial General Meeting of Shareholders on 15 April 2020. leases (‘on balance’) and operating leases (‘off balance’) is removed. For lessors, the accounting requirements remain [2] Summary of significant accounting policies substantially unchanged and the two types of leases remain in place. IFRS 16 had a significant impact on KPN as a lessee. Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN have been KPN has adopted the standard using the full retrospective prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting approach and restated the 2018 financial information for Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS) and with comparison purposes in these 2019 Consolidated Financial the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, Statements. A cumulative transitional adjustment was recorded under the historical cost convention, except for certain equity on 1 January 2018, the date of initial application of IFRS 16. investments accounted for using the equity method, and certain equity investments and derivative financial instruments Application of practical expedients measured at fair value, and on a going concern basis. As of the transition date, KPN applies IFRS 16 only to leases which were previously identified as leases under IAS 17 and Comparative financial information for 2018 has been restated to IFRIC 4 in accordance with the practical expedient allowed reflect the implementation of IFRS 16 and other adjustments. under IFRS 16. All amounts are presented in millions unless stated otherwise. KPN does not apply the practical expedients for low value leases Certain figures may not tally exactly due to rounding. (leases of an underlying asset with a value of less than EUR In addition, certain percentages may have been calculated using 5,000) and short-term leases (leases with a total expected term rounded figures. of less than 12 months) except for short-term rental vehicles. Regarding vehicle leases, KPN applies the practical expedient Summary of significant accounting policies not to separate non-lease components from lease components. The general accounting policies as applied are described below. Therefore, the full monthly lease fees are reflected in KPN’s Significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to the Statement of Financial Position. For all types of leased assets, Consolidated Financial Statements. electricity and fuel related expenses remain part of operating expenses. 104 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices IFRS 16 impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 2018 € million Note Published IFRS 16 Other adjustments 2018 Restated Total revenue and other income 5,639 – – 5,639 Cost of goods & services [d] 1,302 – 30 1,332 Personnel expenses [a] 1,141 -38 – 1,103 Information technology/Technical infrastructure [d] 442 – -30 412 Other operation expenses [a] 569 -130 – 439 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [c] 1,397 136 – 1,533 o/w Depreciation right-of-use assets [a] – 146 – 146 Total operating expenses 4,850 -31 – 4,819 Operating profit 789 31 – 820 Finance income and expenses [c] -267 -29 – -296 o/w Interest lease liabilities [a] – -33 – -33 Share of the profit of associates -9 – – -9 Profit/Loss (-) before income tax from continuing operations [b] 513 2 – 515 Income taxes [d] -233 -3 12 -224 Profit/Loss (-) for the period from continuing operations 280 -1 12 292 Profit/Loss (-) for the period from discontinued operations -10 – – -10 Profit/Loss (-) for the period 271 -1 12 282 The impact of the IFRS 16 adjustments on the Consolidated occurred in the finance expenses. As KPN applies IFRS 16 Statement of Profit or Loss mainly consists of: using the full retrospective approach, the carrying values for these contracts have been restated accordingly. [a] Lease expenses (fixed fees only) previously reported under operating expenses have been replaced by depreciation of [d] The other adjustments on the Consolidated Statement of the right-of-use assets and interest expense on the lease Profit or Loss relate to a reclassification of expenses from IT/ liabilities. Variable lease fees and lease related expenses TI to cost of goods & services (EUR 30m) and an adjustment remain part of operating expenses. The operating expenses to KPN’s tax expenses following an amendment to IAS 12 removed from personnel expenses mainly relate to vehicles. (EUR 12m additional tax benefit). The 2018 tax expenses The amounts removed from other operating expenses relate were restated to record the income tax consequences of to the underlying assets of the networks (mobile and fixed) (hybrid) dividends in line with the past transactions or and real estate (shops and office buildings). events that generated distributable profits. [b] The sum of the depreciation expenses of the right-of-use The restatements did not change reported earnings per share. assets and the interest expenses on the lease liabilities does not equal the operating expenses removed as the interest expenses on the lease liabilities do not follow a linear pattern. [c] T he total impact on depreciation expenses does not equal the amount recognized as depreciation of the right-of-use assets due to the removal of depreciation expenses previously recognized for financial leases. A similar effect KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 105 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 16 impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Note 31 December 2018 IFRS 16 31 December 2018 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 1 January 2018 € million Published Restated Published Restated Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment [b] 5,641 -46 5,595 5,811 -56 5,755 o/w Financial lease assets (IAS 17) [b] 46 -46 – 56 -56 – Right-of-use assets (IFRS 16) [a] – 878 878 – 971 971 Deferred income tax assets [e] 702 18 720 907 20 927 Current assets Trade and other receivables [d] 802 -22 780 735 -19 717 Total assets 12,177 828 13,005 13,776 916 14,692 Total equity [e] 1,945 -68 1,878 3,482 -67 3,415 Non-current liabilities Borrowings [b] 6,986 -47 6,939 7,579 -56 7,523 o/w Financial lease liabilities (IAS 17) [b] 47 -47 – 56 -56 Lease liabilities (IFRS 16) [a] – 827 827 – 930 930 Provisions [c] 119 -9 110 103 -10 93 Other payables [d] 17 -12 5 22 -13 9 Current liabilities Trade and other payables [d] 1,361 -4 1,357 1,517 – 1,517 Borrowings [b] 589 -9 580 18 -10 8 o/w Financial lease liabilities (IAS 17) [b] 9 -9 – 10 -10 – Lease liabilities (IFRS 16) [a] – 149 149 – 142 142 Total equity and liabilities 12,177 828 13,005 13,776 916 14,692 Only affected accounts are presented and discussed. The impact of the IFRS 16 adjustments on the Statement of Financial Position mainly consists of: [a] Recognition of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, [d] Reversal of deferred lease incentives, as under IFRS 16 these split into a non-current and a current portion. are deducted from the carrying value of the right-of-use assets or integrated in the measurement of the lease [b] Reversal of the (IAS 17-based) carrying values of KPN’s liabilities, depending on the nature of the incentive. financial lease assets and financial lease liabilities as these contracts have been recalculated under application of IFRS [e] The net impact on equity of the items described above is 16 and absorbed in the total carrying values of the right-ofpartly offset by a deferred tax asset. use assets and lease liabilities. [c] The (restructuring) provision related to the onerous building leases is replaced by an impairment of the right-of-use asset for the related lease contracts. 106 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices IFRS 16 impact on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 2018 IFRS 16 2018 € million Published Adjustment Restated Net cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations 1,959 140 2,099 Net cash flow from financing activities from continuing operations -1,822 -140 -1,962 The impact of the IFRS 16 adjustments on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is limited to a reclassification only. The cash flow related to the repayments of the lease liabilities is transferred from the cash flow from operating activities to the cash flow used in financing activities. The interest paid on the lease liabilities remained part of cash flow from operating activities. The total net cash flow for 2018 is not affected. Composition of KPN’s lease portfolio Summary of new (IFRS 16) accounting principles KPN’s lease portfolio mainly consists of mobile network Below a summary of KPN’s main accounting principles related to elements (site rentals, mobile towers), fixed network IFRS 16. components (data centers, technical buildings), real estate (shops, office buildings) and vehicles. Lease liabilities At the commencement date of a lease (i.e. the date on which the The table below shows the difference between KPN’s total lease underlying asset of the lease is available for use by KPN), KPN commitments reported under IAS 17 compared to the carrying recognizes a lease liability measured at the present value of value of the lease liabilities under IFRS 16: future lease payments to be made over the term of the lease. € million 31 December 2018 1 January 2018 These future lease payments include fixed fees (including Lease commitments reported in-substance fixed payments) taking into account any lease under IAS 17 incentives (such as rent-free periods or fee discounts), variable Operating leases (off balance sheet 714 775 lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts obligations) expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. KPN does Financial lease liabilities 56 66 not have purchase options to be taken into account. Penalties for early termination of a lease are not included when KPN is Total IAS 17 lease commitments 770 841 reasonably certain that the related early termination will not Total IFRS 16 lease liabilities 976 1,072 take place. All contracts of KPN that contain variable lease payments depend on a consumer price index or a rate. However, should The previously reported off balance sheet obligations were other types of fees occur, these variable fees will be accounted determined based on the nominal contract values of KPN’s for in the operating expenses. operating leases, not taking into account any renewal options unless they have been exercised. IFRS 16 requires the lease After the commencement date, the lease liabilities increase due liabilities to be recognized at discounted value and, among other to the accrual of interest and decrease due to the payments of factors, requires that the likelihood of early terminations or use the fees due. The lease liabilities are remeasured when a change of renewal options is taken into account. The total lease occurs in the fees due, the lease term deemed reasonably certain liabilities recognized under IFRS 16 exceeds the total lease and/or changes to the scope of a lease. Upon remeasurement of commitments reported under IAS 17 due to a mix of renewal the lease liability of a contract, the applied discount rate options deemed reasonably certain, early termination options (incremental borrowing rate) is revised unless the remeasurement which are reasonably certain not to be exercised and fixed relates to a fee change following a change in consumer price indexation taken into account under IFRS 16. index or rate. The ‘on balance’ recognition of KPN’s lease liabilities did not The total lease liability recognized is split into a non-current and have an impact on KPN’s financing arrangements as these do a current portion. The current lease liabilities reflect only the not contain any financial covenants. part of the payments due within one year related to the repayment of the total lease liabilities. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 107 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Lease term Standards issued but not yet effective KPN determined the lease term as the non-cancellable term of a contract together with any periods covered by an option to Interest rate benchmark reforms extend the lease if it is reasonable certain to be exercised, or any The IASB has issued amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7, periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if it is effective 1 January 2020, that provide temporary reliefs which reasonably certain not to be exercised. enable hedge accounting to continue during the period of uncertainty before replacement of an existing interest rate Most of KPN’s lease contracts have extension options with a benchmark with an alternative nearly risk-free interest rate (an wide range of renewal terms. RFR). KPN applies judgement when assessing if the use of an option is reasonably certain. Factors included are KPN’s asset and KPN will implement the amendment as required as of 1 January network strategy, technological development and other 2020 and expects no impact on its hedge relationships. circumstances that may impose an economic incentive affecting the expected use of an underlying asset. Definition of material The amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8, effective 1 January 2020, For vehicles, renewal options are not included in the initial aim to align the definition of ‘material’ across the standards and assessment of the lease term as KPN’s policy prescribes the to clarify certain aspects of the definition. The new definition return of vehicles to the lessor at the end of the lease term. states that ’information is material if omitting, misstating or After the commencement of a lease, KPN reassesses the lease obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial that is within KPN’s control and effects KPN’s ability to exercise statements make on the basis of those financial statements, or not to exercise the option to renew or to terminate a lease. which provide financial information about a specific reporting entity’. Incremental borrowing rate The amendments explain that information is obscured if it is As the implicit discount rates of KPN’s leases were not readily communicated in a way that would have a similar effect as available, with the exception for vehicles, KPN applies the omitting or misstating the information. The amendments incremental borrowing rate applicable at commencement date replaced the threshold ‘could influence’ with ‘could reasonably of a lease to determine the discounted value of the lease be expected to influence’. As a result, the materiality assessment liabilities. Upon modification of a lease, the remeasurement of will need to take into account only reasonably expected the lease liability is performed using the applicable discount rate influence on economic decisions of primary users of the financial at the date of the remeasurement. KPN’s incremental borrowing statements. rates are mainly determined using a risk-free rate combined with a spread reflecting KPN’s credit risk. The applicable rate per The amendments must be applied prospectively. contract is primarily dependent on the total expected term of a lease at its commencement date (new leases), or the total KPN does not expect that the updated definition of material will expected remaining lease term in case of a remeasurement of have a significant impact on KPN’s Financial Statements. a lease. Basis of consolidation Right-of-use assets KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial The right-of-use assets are recognized at commencement date results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the of a lease as counterpart to the lease liabilities. The right-of-use results from associates. assets are measured at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses and adjusted for any remeasurement in the Subsidiaries are all entities directly or indirectly controlled by corresponding lease liabilities. The cost of the right-of-use KPN. Control is defined as the power over an entity, i.e. the assets includes the initially recognized amount of the ability to govern the financial and operating policies, resulting in corresponding lease liabilities, initial direct costs incurred in obtaining the gains or losses from the entity’s activities. obtaining the lease (if any) and lease payments made at or Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which before commencement of the lease. Lease incentives received control is obtained by KPN and are deconsolidated from the are deducted from the carrying value of the right-of-use assets. date on which KPN’s control ceases. All intercompany The right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis transactions, balances and unrealized results on transactions over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the underlying with subsidiaries are eliminated. asset and the lease term. Right-of-use assets are subject to impairment. 108 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change Significant accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions of control that do not result in loss of control are accounted for made by management as equity transactions. Gains or losses on disposals to nonThese are evaluated continuously and are based on historic controlling interests are also recorded in equity. experience and other factors, including expectations of future events thought to be reasonable under the circumstances. Foreign currency translation Actual results may deviate from the estimates applied. Estimates The Financial Statements are presented in euro (EUR), which is are revised when material changes to the underlying KPN’s presentation currency as well as functional currency. assumption occur. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into euro using the exchange rates applicable at transaction date. At reporting The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions deemed date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: currencies are translated to euro using the rates at reporting date. Exchange rate differences are recognized in profit or loss Determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry Note 8 and 20 except when these differences are related to qualifying cash forward and provisions for tax contingencies flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges in which case the exchange rate differences are recorded in OCI. Determination of value in use of cash-generating units for Note 11 goodwill impairment testing Exchange rate differences on non-monetary assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss from that asset Assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial Note 12.4 market risks or liability. Exchange rate differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, of borrowings and other The ‘more likely than not’ assessment required to Note 18 and 22 currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments determine whether or not to recognize a provision for idle are recognized in OCI. cables, which are part of a public electronic communications network Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of The assumptions used to determine the fair value less Note 15 a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign costs of disposal of assets and liabilities held for sale, entity and translated at the closing rate at the reporting date. including discontinued operations Subsidiaries The assessment of the lease terms deemed reasonably Note 19 certain of KPN’s lease contracts and the incremental For consolidation purposes, the results and financial position of borrowing rate used to measure the lease liabilities. subsidiaries are translated to EUR at closing rate of the date of the financial position (assets and liabilities) or at the average Assessment whether revenue for variable consideration is Note 4 and 20 exchange rates applicable for the specific reporting period probable or highly probable, This concerns revenue related to disputes and revenue related to VAT regarding unused (income and expenses). All resulting exchange differences are multipurpose bundles recognized in OCI. Statement of Cash Flows In preparing the Financial Statements, KPN has applied the The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect concept of materiality to the presentation and level of method. Cash flows denominated in currencies other than EUR disclosures. Only essential and mandatory information is are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows relating to disclosed which is relevant to a reader’s understanding of these interest and taxes on profits and tax deductions relating to Financial Statements. interest on perpetual hybrid bonds are included in the cash flow from operating activities. The consideration paid in cash for acquired subsidiaries is included in the cash flow from investing activities net of cash acquired. Cash flows resulting from the disposal of subsidiaries are disclosed separately, net of cash sold. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 109 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [3] Segment reporting Other Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with Other comprises KPN Holding, Corporate Center and the internal reporting to KPN’s CEO, who is the Chief Operating eliminations. Decision-Maker according to IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. Segment performance Comparative financial information for 2018 has been restated to As part of the simplification process, KPN has limited the reflect the implementation of IFRS 16 and several relatively small intercompany charges to charges that are considered relevant changes to the organizational structure of KPN Group. KPN no for tax purposes. longer reports on the subtotal ‘The Netherlands’. The former segment ‘Other activities’ and ‘Other The Netherlands’ are now As of 2019, KPN introduced EBITDA after lease (EBITDA AL) as combined in ‘Other’. a new alternative performance measure following the implementation of IFRS 16. See Appendix 1 for further details. As the sale of iBasis has been completed, this segment is no longer included in KPN’s segment information. The EBITDA AL of Consumer, Business and Wholesale represents the contribution margin of these segments and the Almost all of KPN’s operating activities are in the Netherlands. EBITDA AL of NOI consists mostly of operating expenses. Due to the fact that KPN neither allocates interest expenses to Operational Segments segments nor accounts for taxes in the segments, the disclosure KPN’s operational segments comprise of Consumer, Business, is limited to operating profit for the year. Wholesale and Network, Operations & IT (NOI). For general information on these segments, read more in chapters Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible ‘Shareholder value’ and ‘Flexible, simple and converged products assets (Capex) are centrally managed and reported to KPN’s and services’. Chief Operating Decision-Maker on KPN Group level, not on a segment level. For an explanation of incidental transactions included in Revenues, Other income and EBITDA AL, see Appendix 1. 110 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Segmentation 2019 € million Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other3 Total KPN Group Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 2,907 2,021 565 3 3 5,499 Other income – 30 171 2 – 202 Inter-division revenues 9 16 82 1 -109 – Total [4] 2,916 2,067 818 6 -105 5,702 Operating expenses -1,069 -1,135 -141 -652 -127 -3,124 EBITDA2 1,847 932 677 -646 -233 2,578 DA&I -208 -81 -14 -1,179 -55 -1,537 Operating profit 1,639 851 663 -1,825 -287 1,041 EBITDA2 1,847 932 677 -646 -233 2,578 DA&I right-of-use assets [19] -10 -6 -4 -65 -53 -138 Interest lease liabilities [19] -3 – -3 -16 -6 -28 EBITDA after lease 1,835 926 670 -728 -292 2,412 Total assets 4,531 2,906 811 8,993 -4,938 12,304 Total liabilities 4,592 2,865 811 9,007 -7,479 9,796 Segmentation 2018 (Restated) € million Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other3 Total KPN Group Statement of Profit or Loss External revenues1 2,975 2,116 517 7 18 5,633 Other income – – – 6 – 6 Inter-division revenues 10 21 107 1 -139 – Total [4] 2,986 2,137 623 14 -121 5,639 Operating expenses -1,118 -1,143 -154 -729 -142 -3,286 EBITDA2 1,868 994 469 -714 -263 2,353 DA&I -221 -85 -26 -1,135 -65 -1,533 Operating profit 1,647 908 443 -1,850 -328 820 EBITDA2 1,868 994 469 -714 -263 2,353 DA&I right-of-use assets [19] -11 -6 -9 -63 -57 -146 Interest lease liabilities [19] -3 – -4 -19 -6 -33 EBITDA after lease 1,853 987 455 -796 -327 2,173 Total assets 4,545 2,646 1,040 9,520 -4,746 13,005 Total liabilities 4,607 2,585 1,037 9,191 -6,292 11,127 1 External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services 2 Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments 3 Including eliminations KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 111 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Revenue for streaming services, which are contracted and [4] Revenues and Other income billed to customers separately, are recognized on a net basis as KPN acts as an agent. [4.1] Revenues • One-off connection fees are not separate performance obligations as they are considered to be necessary to get € million 2019 2018 access to the network. The fees charged to the customer are Service revenues 5,110 5,186 recognized as a contract liability and bundled with the performance obligation for network access. Non-service revenues 378 429 Revenues from contracts with Postpaid mobile contracts via KPN shops and website: 5,488 5,615 • The sale of the handset is a separate performance obligation customers and is recognized as revenue at a point in time (upon delivery Rental and other revenues 11 18 of the handset equipment). The amount of revenue allocated Total 5,499 5,633 to the handset less the amount charged to the customer upfront is recognized as a contract asset if the payment to be received for the handset is conditional on the delivery of telco Service revenues are all revenues recognized over time and services and as a financial receivable if the payment to be includes fees for usage of KPN’s network and facilities, for received is unconditional. example monthly subscription fees and revenues from customer • As of 1 May 2017, KPN is legally required to treat a handset specific IT solutions. combined with a postpaid subscription as a consumer loan Non-service revenues are revenues recognized at a point in time under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het and includes for example sale of handsets, peripheral equipment financieel toezicht) if the consumer customer repays the as well as software licenses sold without ongoing support. handset in monthly instalments and the credit amount is above EUR 250. The outstanding handset credit is considered The application of KPN’s accounting policies on revenue a contract asset because the payment is conditional on the recognition, including relevant judgements, and information delivery of telco services. As of 1 January 2018, the contract about KPN’s performance obligations is summarized below: with consumer customers for the instalment payments of the handset has changed in both direct and indirect channels and Contracts for fixed-voice/internet/television: is no longer conditional on the delivery of the telco services. • Installation services offered to consumer customers are Therefore, a financial receivable is recognized for the generally considered a separate performance obligation, as instalments to be received (see Note 13). Taking into account the customer can choose to make use of an engineer or to the low interest rates and contract duration, these receivables self-install. Installation services treated as a separate do not include a significant financing component. performance obligation include installation of customer • Network access is considered a separate performance premises equipment (CPE), for example set-top boxes, setting obligation. Revenue is recognized over time during the up in-home wifi and installation of customers’ own devices. subscription period. Revenue from installation services is allocated to the installation service at the start of the contract, and recognized Postpaid mobile contracts via third parties: as revenue at a point in time (at completion of the installation). • The handsets sold and delivered by third parties, related to The difference between the amount of revenue recognized KPN subscription contracts, are not performance obligations and the amount charged to the customer is recognized as a for KPN. Handset-related dealer fees result in an unbilled contract asset. The CPE itself is considered part of KPN’s receivable on the Statement of Financial Position, which is network. These hardware elements are capitalized as part of decreased when handset instalments are billed to the property, plant and equipment as KPN retains ownership and end-customer. control over the economic benefits, and are therefore not • Transaction related dealer fees paid to acquire or retain considered a separate performance obligation. subscribers are capitalized as contract costs and expensed on • Network access is considered a separate performance a straight-line basis over the contract term of the underlying obligation. Revenue is recognized over time during the customer contract. subscription period. In general content, for example TV content is considered part of the network access performance obligation, and revenue is recognized on a gross basis. 112 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Workspace and related services: Revenues, disaggregated information1: • Transition projects for corporate customers are considered 2018 € million 2019 (Restated) separate performance obligations, as the customer can benefit from the project deliverables on its own. Revenue is Unbundled fixed lines service revenues 269 294 recognized over time (percentage of completion during the Bundled fixed lines service revenues 1,605 1,569 project phase). Transition projects sometimes include the Other (mainly peripheral equipment) 42 51 delivery of peripheral equipment and software licenses. These Consumer Residential Communication Services 1,916 1,914 are not considered to be separate performance obligations if KPN performs the installation and/or must provide ongoing Mobile service revenues 779 833 support as part of the transition project. If not part of a transition project, revenue for peripheral equipment is Other (mainly handsets) 221 238 recognized as revenue at a point in time (upon delivery of the Consumer Mobile Communication Services 999 1,071 equipment), whereas revenue for licenses is recognized over Total Consumer revenues 2,916 2,986 time (on a monthly basis). • Exploitation services are considered a separate performance Mobile service revenues 457 502 obligation. Revenue is recognized over time during the Internet of Things 53 46 contract period. Broadband & network services 370 382 Wholesale services: Fixed-voice 276 342 • The Wholesale segment bills customers at (regulated) tariffs Other (mainly handsets, peripheral equipment and 112 112 that may be disputed by other operators and regulators. A software licenses) contract liability is recognized in case the invoiced revenue is Business Communication Services 1,268 1,385 not considered highly probable. IT services2 268 271 • Exploitation services are considered a separate performance Professional services & consultancy3 487 470 obligation and revenue is recognized over time. Other 14 12 • One-off connection fees are not separate performance obligations. Other Business revenues 770 753 Total Business revenues 2,038 2,137 In 2018 and 2019, the time value of money was not significant and therefore not recorded. Mobile service revenues 139 124 Fixed lines revenues 509 499 Generally, the payment term is two weeks in the consumer Total Wholesale revenues 648 623 market and 30 days in the business market. Other (including eliminations) -103 -114 KPN applies the practical expedients provided in IFRS 15 under Total 5,499 5,633 which disclosure of amounts of consideration allocated to the remaining performance obligations (unsatisfied or partially 1 Including inter-division revenues. satisfied) do not need to be disclosed. This applies to contracts 2 Including security, cloud and workspace service except for large corporate with an original expected duration of less than one year or when customers. KPN bills a fixed amount for network services provided. KPN 3 Including workspace and related services for large corporate customers. recognizes revenue from network services in the amount to which KPN has a right to invoice the customer and this amount [4.2] Other income corresponds directly with the value of KPN’s performance completed to date. Other income in 2019 includes the gains on the sale of KPN’s The remaining performance obligations expected to be subsidiaries NLDC B.V. (EUR 171m), Argeweb B.V. (EUR 4m) and recognized in future periods relating to the transition & KPN’s International Network Services (EUR 25m), as well as the transformation projects for workspace services with business book gain on the sale of various other fixed assets. See Note 21 customers were nil as at 31 December 2019 (EUR 5m as at 31 for further information on the sale of subsidiaries. December 2018). Other income in 2018 related to the sale of a technical building and various other fixed assets. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 113 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Accounting policy: Revenues The core principle is that revenue is recognized to depict the KPN recognizes contract liabilities in the Statement of transfer of promised goods or services to the customer in an Financial Position for considerations received in respect of amount that reflects the consideration to which KPN expects unsatisfied performance obligations. Contract liabilities are to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. recognized as revenue when KPN performs under the contract. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the economic At the start of a contract with a customer, in case services or benefits associated with a transaction will flow to KPN and the goods are delivered by sub-contractors, KPN determines amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured reliably. whether its performance obligation is to provide the specified goods or services itself (acting as a principal) or to KPN follows the five-step process of IFRS 15 to recognize arrange for another party to provide those goods or services revenue. After a contract with a customer has been entered (acting as an agent) based on the agreed terms and into, the separate performance obligations are identified conditions with the customer and the sub-contractor, as well which are the distinct goods and services promised to the as the nature of the goods and services promised to the customer (the customer can benefit from the good or service customer. either on its own, or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer, and the transfer of goods Accounting policy: Costs to obtain and/or fulfill or services to the customer are separately identifiable from a contract other promises in the contract). The next steps are the determination of the transaction price and the allocation to The incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a the performance obligations. Allocation of the transaction customer are recognized as an asset if KPN expects to price to performance obligations is based on standalone recover those costs. Costs to obtain a contract that would selling prices which are based on our price lists and therefore have been incurred regardless of whether the contract was readily available. The final step is to recognize revenue when obtained are recognized as an expense when incurred, a performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is recognized unless those costs are explicitly chargeable to the customer either at a point in time or over time. In general, telco and IT regardless of whether the contract is obtained or not. services are delivered over time, whereas handsets and Costs to fulfill a contract are recognized as an asset if: peripheral and network equipment, in case they are treated • The costs relate directly to a contract; and as separate performance obligations, are delivered at a point • The costs generate or enhance resources that will be used in time. in satisfying performance obligations in the future; and • The costs are expected to be recovered. Revenue for variable considerations, including revenue under dispute, is recognized only when it is highly probable Capitalized contract costs are amortized on a linear basis which, in some cases, requires significant judgement. over the period in which KPN transfers the related goods or services to the customer. KPN applies the practical expedient An adjustment for the time value of money is made to a to immediately expense contract costs when the asset that transaction price for the effects of financing, if time between would have resulted from capitalizing such costs would have recognition of revenue and cash receipt is expected to been amortized within one year or less. exceed 12 months and if it provides the customer with a significant benefit. Assets recognized for costs to obtain a contract and costs to fulfill a contract are subject to impairment testing. If KPN transfers goods or services to a customer before the customer pays consideration or before payment is due, a Accounting policy: Other income contract asset is recognized in case the earned consideration is conditional. A financial receivable is recognized if KPN’s Other income includes gains on the sale of property, plant right to an amount of consideration is unconditional (only and equipment as well as other gains not related to KPN’s the passage of time is required before payment of the operating activities. consideration is due). 114 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [5] Personnel expenses Share plans KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and share-based awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members of the Board of € million 2019 2018 (Restated) Management and senior management. The conditionally Salaries and wages 822 848 granted awards will vest after three years if the employee is still Retirement benefits 87 91 employed by KPN. Vesting is based on individual vesting of 25% Social security contributions 111 113 relative total shareholder return (TSR) versus peer group, 25% Additional labor capacity 99 130 free cash flow, 25% earnings per share, 12.5% on sustainability/ environmental targets and 12.5% on stakeholder/customer Own work capitalized -119 -114 targets. Vesting of non-financial targets is subject to achieving a Other 29 36 cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years Total personnel expenses 1,027 1,103 (i.e. a qualifier for vesting). The peer group and the vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-term incentives’ in the ‘Remuneration Report’. Employee redundancy costs are not included in personnel expenses but in other operating expenses. See Note 18 for As of 2019, the targets for the LTI plan are set as follows: 70% information on employee redundancy costs. financial targets, of which 45% on cumulative free cash flow over the plan period and 25% on relative TSR measured against the Number of own personnel (FTE) 31 December 31 December STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications index and 30% per segment 2019 2018 non-financial targets, determined at the start of a new plan by Consumer 2,699 3,054 the Supervisory Board from the following categories: (i) Business 4,033 4,487 Sustainability; (ii) Reputation; (iii) Social; (iv) Key business Wholesale 194 249 projects; and (v) Market share. Network Operations & IT 3,322 3,534 The main features of the awards granted to KPN management iBasis – 238 are summarized below. Other 1,001 1,108 Total FTE 11,248 12,669 > Of which discontinued operations – 238 Board of Holding period after Management Senior management Maximum term Settlement type1 Vesting period vesting of/until 2015 X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – X (CCO) 4 years Equity² 4 years – 2016 X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2017 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2018 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X (CEO)³ 4 years Equity² 4 years _ X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2019 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 3 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 1 The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan. Wage tax in the Netherlands is generally around 50% of the total vested amount. 2 Including deferred dividend. 3 In May 2018, KPN’s former Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ibarra was granted shares that would vest in April 2022 if he would still employed by KPN. For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 115 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements The total compensation expense associated with the share plans was EUR 4m in 2019 (2018: EUR 4m). The related liability (for cash-settled shares) on 31 December 2019 was EUR 4m (31 December 2018: EUR 4m). This liability is included under Other payables. For the 2016 Share Plan and share-based awards, the service conditions were met in the year 2019. The intrinsic value at vesting was EUR 3m (2018: EUR 13m). The following table presents the number of shares and share-based awards in thousands under the share plans. Total Granted/ Total Granted/ Total -of which: 31 Dec additional Exercised/ 31 Dec additional Exercised/ 31 Dec Non2017 vesting1,2 Vested Forfeited 20183 vesting2 Vested Forfeited4 20193 vested 2015 Share-based awards Sr. man. 2,073 1,510 -3,583 – – – – – – – 2015 Shares BoM 943 876 -1,819 – – – – – – – 2015 Shares CCO 53 – -53 – – – – – – – 2016 Share-based awards Sr. man. 2,359 – – -151 2,208 – -938 -1,270 – – 2016 Shares BoM 900 – – -132 768 – -327 -442 – – 2017 Share-based awards Sr. man. 1,165 143 – -167 1,141 – – -80 1,061 1,061 2017 Shares BoM/Sr. man. 2,306 195 – -531 1,970 – – -98 1,872 1,872 2018 Share-based awards Sr. man. – 1,384 – -52 1,332 51 – -174 1,209 1,209 2018 Shares CEO – 80 – – 80 – – -80 – – 2018 Shares BoM/Sr. man. – 3,109 – -124 2,985 – – -800 2,184 2,184 2019 Share-based awards Sr. man. – – – – – 2,059 – – 2,059 2,059 2019 Shares BoM/Sr. man. – – – – – 1,614 – -438 1,176 1,176 1 On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. 2 At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model. In April 2019, the fair value was EUR 2.64 (2018 grant: EUR 1.95) for the 2018 share-based award (cash-settled) and EUR 2.89 (2018 grant: EUR 2.19) for the 2018 equity-settled share grant for the Board of Management (excluding deferred dividend). Final TSR measurement for the 2016 share grant was conducted in February 2019 which resulted in 42.50% vesting in April 2019. 3 The fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured on 31 December 2019 using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at 31 December 2019). The fair value on 31 December 2019 was EUR 1.22 (2018: EUR 1.74) for the 2017 share-based award, EUR 2.12 (2018: EUR 2.38) for the 2018 share-based award and EUR 2.62 for the 2019 share-based award. 4 At the end of 2019, KPN held the 6th position with respect to the 2017 share grant and at the end of 2018, KPN held the 8th position with respect to the 2016 share grant. This position and the outcomes of the other targets will lead to a 63.78% vesting in April 2020 of the 2017 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 2017 share grant was conducted in February 2020. The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: € million 2019 LTI 2018 CEO 2018 LTI Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years -0.2% -0.0% -0.0% Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award) 4.5% 4.1% 4.1% Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years’ historical daily data) used for TSR 20.4% N/a 23.8% Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 2.88 EUR 2.42 EUR 2.47 116 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The following paragraphs detail the actual remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Remuneration Report for the executive pay policy. Details of actual remuneration The remuneration of the Board of Management, representing the costs incurred by the company measured under IFRS principles, is as follows: LTI2 Pension costs3 & Severance STI1 Share awards social security Total Name current member Year Salary (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) J.F.E. Farwerck 2019 687,500 – 497,250 602,478 162,290 1,949,518 2018 625,000 – 392,687 503,383 146,946 1,668,016 J.C. de Jager 2019 675,000 675,000 421,200 563,054 133,948 2,468,202 2018 667,569 – 381,562 537,855 130,608 1,717,594 J. Van Overbeke4 2019 54,167 – 33,800 23,088 9,663 120,718 M. Snoep4 2019 54,167 – 33,800 12,787 8,994 109,748 B. Fouladi4 2019 54,167 – 33,800 16,112 9,350 113,429 H. Garssen4 2019 41,667 – 26,000 5,115 6,999 79,781 Total current members 2019 1,566,668 675,000 1,045,850 1,222,634 331,244 4,841,396 2018 1,292,569 – 774,249 1,041,238 277,554 3,385,610 LTI2 Pension costs3 Severance STI1 Share awards & social security Total Name former member Year Salary (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) M. Ibarra1 (since 18 April 2019 701,244 – – -328,275 137,032 510,001 2018, up to and including September 2019) 2018 657,092 – 703,647 328,275 129,108 1,818,122 E. Blok (up to and including 2019 – – – – – – April 2018) 2018 283,333 850,000 315,577 374,031 86,819 1,909,760 F.H.M. van der Post 2019 – – – – – – (up to and including September 2018) 2018 525,000 1,050,000 459,816 788,378 130,261 2,953,455 Total former members 2019 701,244 – – -328,275 137,032 510,001 2018 1,465,425 1,900,000 1,479,040 1,490,684 346,188 6,681,337 1 A  ctual STI relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. Please see the ‘Short-term incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2018. For transition activities and professional services prior to becoming CEO in 2018, Mr. Ibarra received monthly advisory fees totaling EUR 195,000 in cash which are not included in the table. 2 The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares in 2019 and 2018 based on their fair values at grant date. The fair value of the share-based award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. Please see the ‘Long-term incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report for a further explanation. The EUR 200,000 in cash subject to a 3-year retention period and EUR 200,000 in shares subject to a 4-year retention period for Mr. Ibarra are included in the amounts over the retention period. 3 The pension costs include the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage, administration as well as the gross allowances. The fixed gross allowance (for the base pay part above EUR 105,075) in 2019 was, EUR 92,553 for Mr. Farwerck (2018: EUR 82,980), EUR 79,777 for Mr. De Jager (2018: EUR 80,131), EUR 4,972 for Mr. Van Overbeke, EUR 4,972 for Ms. Snoep, EUR 4,972 for Mr. Fouladi and EUR 3,597 for Ms. Garssen. For the former members the fixed gross allowance in 2019 was EUR 86,927 for Mr. Ibarra (2018: EUR 82,005, EUR 0 for Mr. Blok (2018: EUR 49,595) and EUR 0 for Mr. Van der Post (2018: EUR 81,542). 4 Remuneration since 1 December 2019. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 117 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements See the Remuneration Report for the number of shares under Accounting policy: Share-based compensation the share plans per individual board member. For equity-settled plans, the fair value of shares granted to See page 78 for stock ownership of members of the Board of employees is measured at grant date. For cash-settled plans, Management and Supervisory Board. the fair value of the liability for the awards granted is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. The costs of share-based compensation plans are determined based on the fair value of the shares and the Supervisory Board number of shares expected to vest. On each balance date, KPN determines whether it is necessary to revise the Please see the Remuneration Report for the actual fee received by each member of the Supervisory Board. The total fee for 2019 expectation of the number of shares that will vest. The fair is EUR 643,000 (restated 2018: EUR 646,125). value is recognized as personnel expense in profit or loss over the vesting period of the shares against an increase in equity in the case of equity-settled share-based compensation plans and against the recognition of a liability in the case of cash-settled share-based compensation plans. [6] Other operating expenses Accounting policy: Operating expenses Other operating expenses comprise, among others, a net Operating expenses are divided into direct cost (cost of addition to the restructuring provision, see Note 18. goods and services) and indirect cost (IT/TI, personnel expenses and other operating expenses). Auditor’s fees The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN and Cost of goods and services are costs incurred in the context its consolidated group entities by Ernst & Young Accountants of a sales transaction and include subscriber acquisition and LLP, as well as by other Dutch and foreignbased EY individual retention costs and traffic expenses. These costs are partnerships and legal entities, including their tax services and expensed as incurred, except handset fees paid to dealers advisory groups: and transaction related dealer commissions that are € million 2019 2018 capitalized and amortized over the contract term . The cost Financial statements audit fees 3.6 4.1 of a handset is expensed when the handset is sold (as Other assurance fees 1.0 0.5 incurred), both as individual sale or as component of a transaction in combination with a subscription. Total audit fees 4.6 4.6 Tax fees 0.2 0.2 Information technology (IT) expenses relate to KPN’s IT Total 4.8 4.8 environment and include licenses and maintenance expenses for software and/or IT hardware when not directly The total fees of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP charged to related to a sales transaction. Technical Infrastructure (TI) KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to expenses are expenses related to KPN’s fixed and mobile EUR 4.6m in 2019 (2018: EUR 4.6m). The financial statements networks. audit fees include the fees for professional services rendered for the audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and the annual Personnel expenses are all expenses related to KPN’s statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that are workforce, both related to own employees and external normally provided by the auditor in connection with the audits. personnel. The other assurance fees include the fees incurred for Other operating expenses include expenses related to assurance and related services that are reasonably related to marketing and communication, billing and collection, the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s financial housing and facilities. statements, such as revenue and IT-related assurance services and regulatory-related assurance services. 118 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [7] Financial income and expenses 2018 € million Notes 2019 (Restated) Finance income 24 55 Interest on borrowings -268 -306 Interest on lease liabilities [19] -28 -33 Interest on other provisions -6 -5 Other interest expenses -5 -4 Finance costs -307 -348 Amortizable part of hedge reserve [12.1] -17 -15 Amortization discontinued fair value hedges [15] 38 38 Derivative financial instruments not qualified [12] -29 -31 for hedge accounting Exchange rate differences 1 3 Bond tender premiums and hedge unwinds [12.2] -95 – Other 13 2 Other financial results -90 -3 Total -372 -296 Finance income included a dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 24m (2018: EUR 54m). Finance costs decreased by EUR 41m, which was mainly related to regular bond redemptions during the year. Interest on borrowings included a non-cash amount of EUR 9m (2018: EUR 8m) relating to debt issuance and similar costs, which are amortized over the remaining life of the respective bonds using the effective interest rate method. Other financial results increased by EUR 87m (higher net cost), mainly due to the bond tender that KPN completed on 15 November 2019, repurchasing 40.5% of its outstanding 8.375% USD 1.0bn senior bonds due October 2030. The tender and unwind of associated hedges resulted in a net charge of EUR 95m. This was partially offset by the ineffectiveness of continued hedge relationships (EUR 9m gain). KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 119 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [8] Taxation See Note 21 for the impact of the acquisitions, which are separately liable for income taxes, and disposals of subsidiaries The Netherlands and business units. The tax book loss, which is recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus in 2014, was used to offset KPN’s taxable income in the Income tax expense Netherlands in 2014 up to and including 2019, and will be used € million 2019 2018 to offset most of KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the coming years. Dividends received and/or capital gains realized Current tax -8 -10 (proceeds above tax book value), on KPN’s shareholding in Deferred taxes -41 -214 TEFD were subject to Dutch corporate income tax, but could be Income tax (charge)/benefit from -49 -224 offset against aforementioned tax book loss (note: dividends continuing operations qualifying as specific capital repayments are tax exempt). The summary of the remaining tax book loss is provided below. In The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax of 25% (2018: 2019, KPN sold it’s shareholding in TEFD. 25%) to the effective tax rate (ETR) of 7.3% (2018: 42.7%) is explained in the table below. The book tax expenses decreased KPN has an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with with EUR 175m from EUR 224m in 2018 to EUR 49m in 2019. respect to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax Changes in Dutch tax rates resulted in a benefit of EUR 48m in regime. This is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax law 2019 (2018: loss of EUR 110m) on the valuation of our net whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an deferred tax assets, while the tax exemption of the result on effective rate of 7.0% (2018: 7.0%). The application of the disposal of subsidiaries and business units resulted in a tax innovation box resulted in a benefit of EUR 16m over 2019 benefit of EUR 50m (2018: nil). (2018: EUR 10m). KPN concluded that IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, does not affect the reported tax positions. 2019 2018 € million ETR € million ETR Profit before income tax from continuing operations excluding 669 524 associates and joint ventures Taxes at Dutch statutory tax rates -167 25.0% -131 25.0% Dutch tax rate adjustment 48 -7.1% -110 20.9% Not taxable income, non deductible expenses and liquidation losses 50 -7.5% – 0.0% Innovation tax facilities current year 16 -2.5% 10 -2.0% Deferred tax related to current year 8 -1.3% -1 0.2% Other -4 0.6% 7 -1.4% Income tax benefit/(charge) from continuing operations -49 7.3% -224 42.7% Net DTA of the Dutch fiscal unity with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus € million Net DTA Realized Unrealized Offset by DTL Net Loss Balance at 31 December 2017 (Restated) 770 330 501 -61 3,080 Movement 2018 -237 -196 -90 49 -574 Balance at 31 December 2018 (Restated) 533 134 411 -12 2,506 Movement 2019 55 19 24 12 132 Balance at 31 December 2019 588 153 435 – 2,638 120 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Deferred tax positions Deferred tax assets Tax loss & Unrealized other carry liquidation Bonds & Restriction on Fiscal Right-of-use Offset € million forwards1 losses2 hedges3 depreciation4 goodwill5 assets9 Other by DTL Total6,7 Balance at 31 December 2017 401 501 163 141 38 268 76 -660 927 (Restated) Income statement benefit/ -20 – -15 -11 57 -24 -2 220 205 (charge) Transfer to current tax -169 – – – -4 – 16 – -156 Tax charged to OCI – – -1 – – – – – -1 Tax rate changes8 -16 -90 -26 -25 -17 -50 -15 – -240 Other (exchange, reclassification, change in -1 – – – – – -1 – -3 consolidation) Transfer to held for sale -13 – – – – – – – -13 Balance at 31 December 2018 183 411 120 104 75 194 74 -440 720 (Restated) Income statement benefit/ -10 – -17 -15 -75 4 1 -13 -124 (charge) Transfer to current tax 21 – – – 7 – – – 28 Tax charged to OCI –3 – -33 – – – – – -37 Tax rate changes8 5 24 16 16 15 9 -1 – 85 Other (exchange, reclassification, change in – – – – – -4 2 – -3 consolidation) Transfer to held for sale – – – – -5 -2 – – -8 Balance at 31 December 2019 195 435 85 105 16 201 76 -452 662 1 Net offsettable losses expected to be recovered within the expiration limits of applicable tax law. KPN has a history of recent profits. The tax losses mainly relate to the sale of E-Plus. 2 Unrealized losses expected to be realized upon liquidation of the former E-Plus entities. Consequently, expiration limits are not yet applicable. 3 Amounts relate to capitalized costs for tax purposes, derivative positions adjusted for tax purposes and unrealized FX results included in the hedge reserve. 4 Amounts relate to assets depreciated in 5 years for tax purposes and less than 5 years for book purposes. 5 Amounts relate to goodwill depreciated for tax purposes (originated from internal transfers). 6 Of which EUR 140m to be recovered within 12 months (2018: EUR 93m). 7 Recoverability depending on future taxable results. Based on current projections, KPN expects to fully utilize its realized and unrealized losses well within the expiration limits of applicable tax law. 8 Representing the impact of the Dutch corporate tax rate change of which a net benefit of EUR 12m has been added to OCI in 2019 (2018: net loss of EUR 22m). 9 For leases, KPN separately recognizes both deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, based on the underlying temporary difference. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 121 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred tax positions Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences Software DTL Accelerated Goodwill Lease Offset against € million development1 recapture2 depreciation3 depreciation4 PPA5 assets7 Other tax assets Total Balance at 31 December 2017 149 61 22 70 71 243 44 -660 1 (Restated) Income statement (benefit)/ -12 -7 -19 19 -8 -23 -9 220 161 charge Transfer to current tax – – – -4 – – -2 – -6 Tax charged to equity – – – – – – -5 – -5 Tax charged to OCI – -40 – – – – – – -39 Tax rate changes6 -27 -3 –1 -17 -11 -46 -5 – -108 Other (exchange, reclassification, – – – – -1 – – – -1 change in consolidation) Balance at 31 December 2018 110 12 3 68 50 174 22 -440 – (Restated) Income statement (benefit)/ 2 – -2 16 -8 2 -8 -13 -12 charge Tax charged to equity – – – – – – – – – Tax charged to OCI – -14 – – – – – – -14 Tax rate changes6 14 3 1 3 4 8 -3 – 29 Other (exchange, reclassification, – – – -1 -1 1 – – -1 change in consolidation) Transfer to held for sale – – – – – -2 – – -2 Balance at 31 December 2019 126 – 1 86 45 183 11 -452 – 1 Amounts relate to a capitalized software costs which is taken as an expense for tax books. 2 Amounts relate to the unrealized capital gains on the stake in Telefónica Deutschland which are considered taxable in the Netherlands (recapture rule). 3 Amounts relate to a temporary tax allowance (2009-2011 and part of 2013) to accelerate depreciation on investments for tax purposes. 4 Amounts relate to acquired goodwill depreciated for tax purposes (not for book purposes). 5 See Note 21 for the impact of the acquisitions. 6 Representing the impact of the Dutch corporate tax rate change of which net EUR 12m has been charged to OCI in 2019. (2018: net charge to OCI of EUR 22m). 7 For leases, KPN separately recognizes both deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, based on the underlying temporary difference. Tax loss carry forward 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized € million carry forward tax asset deferred tax asset carry forward tax asset deferred tax asset Koninklijke KPN – 823 195 195 782 180 180 corporate tax1 Other 65 14 – 73 16 3 Total KPN Group 888 209 195 855 196 183 1 The offset of realized losses with future profits is limited to 9 years for losses incurred in years ending 2019 and is limited to 6 years for losses incurred in 2020 and onwards. 122 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized Tax loss Maximum deferred Recognized € million carry forward tax asset deferred tax asset carry forward tax asset deferred tax asset 2019 – – – 1 – – 2020 – – – 1 – – 2021 – – – 5 1 1 2022 46 11 11 17 3 3 2023 635 153 153 755 174 174 2024 1 – – – – – Later 199 43 31 75 16 4 Unlimited 7 2 – 1 – – Total KPN Group 888 209 195 855 196 183 Accounting policy: Taxation subsidiaries and associates and are recorded only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will Current income tax reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be The current income tax charge is calculated in accordance available against which the temporary differences can be with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into utilized. account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses. The current income tax expense reflects the amount for the DTLs are recognized for all taxable temporary differences current reporting period that KPN expects to recover from or except when they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill pay to the tax authorities. Current income tax related to items or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business recognized directly in equity/OCI is recorded in equity/ OCI combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither and not in profit or loss , with an exception for (hybrid) the profit or loss reported in the Statement of Profit or Loss financial instruments classified as equity. KPN’s management nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no DTLs are recorded for periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns taxable temporary differences associated with investments in regarding situations in which applicable tax regulations are subsidiaries and associates when the timing of the reversal of subject to interpretation and establishes provisions when the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable deemed appropriate. that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax positions are stated at Deferred income taxes nominal value and are measured at the corporate income tax Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary rates KPN expects to be applicable in the year when the asset differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and is realized or liability is settled based on enacted or their carrying values. DTAs are recognized for deductible substantially enacted tax laws. temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses. DTAs are recognized only to the DTAs and DTLs are netted if there is a legally enforceable extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities available against which the temporary differences can be and the DTAs/DTLs relate to income taxes levied by the same utilized. Both the recognized and unrecognized DTAs are taxation authority on the same taxable entity or if, in the case reassessed on each reporting date based on available of different taxable entities, there is an intention either to projections. If future taxable profits are insufficiently available, settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to derecognition may become inevitable unless certain realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in exceptions can be applied. DTAs are recorded for deductible each future period in which significant amounts of deferred temporary differences associated with investments in tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 123 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [9] Earnings per share The following table shows the income and share data used in the calculations of the basic and diluted EPS. 2018 € million 2019 (Restated) Profit for the year from continuing 614 292 operations Profit for the year from discontinued 12 -10 operations Profit for the year 626 282 Profit attributable to non-controlling – – interests Deduction for perpetual capital securities -1 -58 Adjusted profit (loss) attributable to 624 224 ordinary shareholders of the company Weighted average number of 4,195,770,386 4,194,973,500 subscribed ordinary shares Dilution effects: options and non-vested 5,554,828 6,385,261 shares Weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares including 4,201,325,214 4,201,358,761 dilution effects Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the company for the year 2018 € 2019 (Restated) Basic (continuing operations) 0.15 0.06 Diluted (continuing operations) 0.15 0.06 Basic (discontinued operations) 0.00 0.00 Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.00 0.00 Basic 0.15 0.06 (total, including discontinued operations) Diluted 0.15 0.06 (total, including discontinued operations) Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. Coupons and carrying amount adjustments on the perpetual capital securities were deducted from the profit attributable to equity holders, since the perpetual hybrid bonds represented equity but did not constitute profit attributable to ordinary holders. The total basic earnings per share include EUR 0.01 (2018: EUR 0.05) tax expenses. 124 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [10] Property, plant and equipment Plant and Other tangible Assets under € million Land and buildings equipment non-current assets construction Total Balance at 1 January 2018 466 5,042 35 268 5,811 Transition impact IFRS 16 -56 – – – -56 Balance at 1 January 2018 (Restated) 410 5,042 35 268 5,755 Investments 36 781 19 -17 820 Depreciation -53 -880 -16 – -949 Impairments and retirements -1 -3 – -6 -11 Transfer to assets held for sale – -19 – – -19 Other – – -1 1 – Closing net book value 391 4,921 37 246 5,595 Cost 1,572 9,361 101 246 11,280 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,181 -4,440 -65 – -5,685 Balance at 31 December 2018 (Restated) 391 4,921 37 246 5,595 Investments 39 852 20 -29 883 Changes in consolidation [21] -29 -23 -2 – -54 Depreciation -49 -909 -15 – -973 Impairments and retirements – -2 – -15 -17 Other -1 -1 – – -1 Closing net book value 351 4,839 40 203 5,432 Cost 1,454 9,392 96 203 11,145 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,103 -4,553 -56 – -5,713 Balance at 31 December 2019 351 4,839 40 203 5,432 Accounting policy: PPE is not depreciated. PPE are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book PPE are valued at cost less depreciation and impairment. The value of the assets concerned may not be recoverable. An cost include direct costs (materials, direct labor and work impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the contracted out) and directly attributable overhead costs. assets’ book value exceeds its recoverable amount. Asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the cost of tangible fixed assets and expensed as either depreciation over the assets’ estimated useful life or as impairment charges. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount is PPE are depreciated using the straight-line method, based on defined as the higher of an assets’ fair value less costs of estimated useful life, taking into account residual value. Land disposal and its value in use. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 125 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Estimated useful lives of the principal PPE categories The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at PPE category Depreciation period least annually and adjusted if appropriate. The 2019-2021 Land No depreciation strategy includes, amongst others, accelerating the roll-out of Buildings 14-33 years fiber affecting the depreciation period of all new investments Network equipment 3-7 years in copper infrastructure. As of 1 January 2019, depreciations of Fiber network infrastructure 30 years these investments were capped at 10 years. Copper network infrastructure 5-10 years Interest is capitalized as an increase in PPE if the construction Vehicles 10 years of assets takes a substantial period of time and the amount is Office equipment 4-10 years material. [11] Intangible assets Statement of changes in intangible assets with finite lives and goodwill Software Software Customer Acquired from Internally Software In € million Goodwill relationships third parties generated development Licenses Other Total Balance at 1 January 2018 1,530 279 165 322 53 976 17 3,341 Investments 11 – 73 179 37 – – 300 Change in consolidation -41 5 1 – – – -6 -41 Amortization – -30 -105 -194 – -85 -6 -420 Impairments – – -4 -3 – – – -8 Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences and other 11 -18 – – – – 3 -4 Closing net book value 1,510 236 130 304 89 890 9 3,169 Cost 2,167 369 347 644 89 1,385 53 5,055 Accumulated amortization/impairments -657 -132 -217 -340 – -495 -44 -1,885 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,510 236 130 304 89 890 9 3,169 Investments – – 72 240 -57 – – 255 Changes in consolidation [21] -15 -4 -1 – – – – -20 Amortization – -30 -85 -201 – -85 -5 -405 Impairments – – – -1 -3 – – -4 Closing net book value 1,495 202 117 341 30 805 4 2,995 Cost 2,152 362 261 715 30 1,385 18 4,922 Accumulated amortization/impairments -657 -159 -144 -374 – -580 -13 -1,927 Balance at 31 December 2019 1,495 202 117 341 30 805 4 2,995 Goodwill per CGU 31 December 31 December € million 2019 2018 Consumer 770 770 Business¹ 689 701 Wholesale² 36 40 Total 1,495 1,510 1 The change in goodwill Business relates to the sale of KPN International (EUR -5m), the sale of Argeweb (EUR -2m) and the held for sale classification of KPN Consulting (EUR -5m). 2 The change in goodwill Wholesale relates to the sale of NLDC. 126 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Goodwill impairment tests Key assumptions in goodwill impairment tests The annual impairment tests as at 31 December 2019 did not EBITDA Capex Discount Terminal indicate that the book value of KPN’s goodwill is not recoverable. CGU margin¹ intensity rate sales growth² KPN’s market capitalization on 31 December 2019 was higher Consumer 2019 51% – 53% 25% – 26% 6% – 7% -0.5% than the book value of its equity. A test has been performed of the recoverable amount of the book value of each cashConsumer 2018 47% – 53% 22% – 23% 8% – 9% 1% generating unit (CGU), based on their value-in-use, which was determined by using the discounted cash flow method. Key Business 2019 29% – 33% 14% – 16% 6% – 7% -0.5% assumptions used in the cash flow projections are estimated Business 2018 24% – 35% 13% – 15% 8% – 9% 1% EBITDA, Capex, change in working capital and pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The cash flow projections are Wholesale 2019 65% – 68% 29% – 32% 6% – 7% -0.5% management’s best estimate based on the updated strategic Wholesale 2018 45% – 55% 25% – 28% 8% – 9% 1% plan and extrapolation to terminal values and includes estimated cash out for the upcoming 5G auctions. The WACC is calculated using a Capital Asset Pricing Model. The WACC used 1 The EBITDA margins for 2018 in the table have not been restated for the impact of IFRS 16 (see page 104) and include operating lease expenses which for 2019 reflects the impact of the lease liabilities recognized in are not included in EBITDA 2019. This increased the EBITDA margin between accordance with IFRS 16, which reduced the WACC with 2% and 6% approximately 0.2%. The terminal growth rate for the period 2 Estimates after 10 years. after 10 years is updated consistently in line with the changes in Sensitivity analysis shows that the headroom of the CGUs is the post-tax WACC. In 2019, the post-tax WACC decreased by more than sufficient. For example, a 40% lower estimated approximately 1.5% leading to a terminal growth rate of -0.5% in operating free cash flow would still not result in a goodwill 2019, compared to 1.0% in 2018. For all three CGUs, the annual impairment. Therefore, no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for impairment tests in 2019 and 2018 resulted in significant positive these CGUs. headroom as at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. Accounting policy: Goodwill and intangibles with finite lives The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value Internally developed and acquired software, not being an of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business integral part of PPE, is capitalized on the basis of the costs combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on acquisitions incurred, which include direct costs and directly attributable of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on overhead costs incurred. acquisition of associates is included in investments in associates. Other intangible assets such as customer relationships and trade names acquired in business combinations are capitalized Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment at their fair values at acquisition date and are amortized using testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of the straight-line method over the economic useful life. CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever business combination. Goodwill is carried at cost less events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book accumulated impairment losses and tested for impairment value of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss annually or whenever there is an indication that goodwill may is recognized for the amount by which the book value of the be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount is licenses exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments are lower than the book value. The recoverable amount is defined reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer as the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the exists. value in use of the CGUs concerned. Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested annually Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in the event for impairment or whenever KPN has an indication that the that circumstances that triggered the impairment have intangible fixed assets may be impaired. For example, licenses changed. are tested as part of a CGU as licenses do not generate independent cash flows. Licenses and software are valued at cost less amortization and impairment. Amortization is calculated using the straightline The amortization periods of the intangible assets with finite method over the economic useful life and commences at the lives are 5-20 years for licenses, 3-5 years for software and date that services can be offered (available for use). 4-20 years for other intangible assets. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 127 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [12] Financial assets and financial liabilities Summary of the financial assets and liabilities at carrying amount and fair value, classified per category. 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) Carrying Carrying € million amount Fair value amount Fair value Financial assets at FVPL Other current financial assets [12.1] 275 275 50 50 Derivatives [12.3] 258 258 185 185 Cash and cash equivalents, including classified as held for sale [14] 767 767 618 618 Financial assets at amortised cost Trade and other receivables, contract assets and prepayments [13] 750 750 951 951 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity investments [12.1] 32 32 475 475 Total financial assets 2,082 2,082 2,279 2,279 Financial liabilities FVPL Derivatives [12.3] 140 140 318 318 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Borrowings [12.2] 6,659 7,261 7,519 8,015 Lease liabilities [19] 930 930 976 976 Trade and other payables [20] 1,074 1,074 1,176 1,176 Total financial liabilities 8,803 9,405 9,989 10,485 Fair value measurement hierarchy at 31 December 2019 (€ million) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 70 − 70 Derivatives (interest rate swap) and other − 188 − 188 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity investments: Unlisted securities − − 32 32 Total assets − 258 32 290 Financial liabilities at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 98 − 98 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 42 − 42 Total liabilities − 140 − 140 128 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Fair value measurement hierarchy at 31 December 2018 (€ million) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 23 − 23 Derivatives (interest rate swap) and other − 162 − 162 Financial assets at FVOCI Equity investments: Listed securities 449 − − 449 Unlisted securities − − 26 26 Total assets 449 185 26 660 Financial liabilities at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 280 − 280 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 38 − 38 Total liabilities − 318 − 318 Fair value estimation [12.1] Financial assets Level 1: Fair value of instruments traded in active markets and based on quoted market prices. Equity investments measured at fair value through OCI Level 2: Instrument is not traded in an active market and fair During the period, KPN disposed of its remaining stake in value is determined by using valuation techniques based on Telefónica Deutschland (TEFD). KPN sold 131.2m TEFD shares maximum use of observable market data for all significant (4.4%) at an average price of EUR 2.65 per share through various inputs. transactions during 2019, including a final sale on 13 June 2019. Level 3: One or more of the significant inputs is not based on Cumulative losses on the sold shares in 2019 was EUR 197m. observable market data, the fair value is estimated using models The fair value of KPN’s stake in TEFD on 31 December 2018 and other valuation methods. The valuation of available-for-sale (4.4%) was EUR 449m. During 2019, a net loss of EUR 101m on unlisted securities is based on a discounted cash flow model. the fair value of the stake in TEFD was recorded through OCI. In 2019, KPN received a dividend from TEFD of EUR 24m (2018: Accounting policy: Financial assets EUR 54m) which has been recorded as finance income. Financial assets are classified at initial recognition. This also includes several minority stakes of which the largest is The classification of financial assets at initial recognition Actility SA, a provider of network solutions and managed depends on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow information systems for the Internet of Things market with a characteristics and KPN’s business model for managing them. carrying value of EUR 7m (2018: EUR 7m). No dividends were received from these investments in 2019 or 2018. KPN initially measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, These investments were irrevocably designated at fair value in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through profit through OCI because KPN believes that the fluctuations in the or loss, transaction costs. fair value of these investments do not give a fair view of KPN’s performance. For the purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories: Other current financial assets • Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments). Other current financial assets include investments in short-term • Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive money market funds for EUR 275m (2018: EUR 50m), which are income (OCI) with recycling of cumulative gains and losses held at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). These funds (debt instruments). have low volatility, with an investment objective of preservation • Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with of principal. no recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition (equity instruments). • Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 129 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [12.2] Financial liabilities The carrying amounts and fair value of borrowings is as follows: 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 € million Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Eurobonds EUR 3,480 3,610 3,913 4,040 Eurobonds GBP 1,457 1,766 1,493 1,774 Global bonds USD 647 735 1,089 1,131 Hybrid bonds (GBP and USD) 1,002 1,063 967 1,007 Other borrowings 74 88 57 63 Total borrowings 6,659 7,261 7,519 8,015 > of which: current 937 951 580 583 > of which: non-current 5,722 6,310 6,939 7,432 The fair value for eurobonds, global bonds and hybrid bonds resulted in one-off charges of EUR 95m included in Other is based on the listed price of the bonds. Other borrowings financial results (see Note 7). include cash collateral received on derivatives, bank overdraft and other loans. Hybrid bonds On 30 October 2019, KPN issued a EUR 500m hybrid bond with KPN’s weighted average interest rate on total outstanding a 2.00% coupon and a perpetual maturity. The hybrid bond can, borrowings on 31 December 2019 was 3.6% after swaps (2018: 4.2%). at KPN’s discretion, be redeemed at any time between 8 November KPN’s weighted average interest rate on the senior bond 2024 and 8 February 2025, and annually on 8 February portfolio on 31 December 2019 was 3.2% after swaps (2018: 3.8%). thereafter at par. The ratings for the hybrid bond are BB+ by S&P, Ba2 by Moody’s and BB+ by Fitch Ratings. The rating agencies Senior bonds recognize 50% of the hybrid bond as equity in line with the On 4 February 2019, KPN redeemed the 7.50% coupon eurobond existing hybrid bonds. The new hybrid bond is classified as equity 2009-2019 with a remaining outstanding principal amount of in the Statement of Financial Position (‘Perpetual hybrid bonds’). EUR 465m, in line with its scheduled maturity. The hybrid bond has been listed on Euronext Dublin GEM. On 29 May 2019, KPN redeemed the 6.00% coupon (4.58% after As at 31 December 2019, three hybrid bonds are outstanding. swaps) eurobond 2007-2019 with a remaining outstanding Two bonds (EUR and USD) are treated for 50% as equity and principal amount of GBP 96m (EUR 123m after swaps), in line 50% as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. with its scheduled maturity. Due to the new tendered bond, KPN has decided that the GBP hybrid bond would be repaid. As a result, the bond was classified On 15 November 2019, KPN tendered the 8.375% coupon (8.517% as a short-term liability as at 31 December 2019. In January 2020, after swaps) USD global bond 2000-2030, resulting in a KPN announced it would redeem the GBP hybrid bond on its repurchase of USD 405m (40.5% take-up rate). The tender first call date of 14 March 2020. million Nominal Nominal € Coupon Classification Redemption First call date Swapped Credit rating GBP hybrid bond 400 460 6.875% Liability 14 Mar 2073 14 Mar 2020 Fixed 6.78% BB/Ba2 USD hybrid bond 600 465 7.000% Liability 28 Mar 2073 28 Mar 2023 Fixed 6.34% BB/Ba2 EUR perpetual hybrid bond 500 500 2.000% Equity Perpetual 8 Feb 2025 N/a BB+/Ba2 130 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect Accounting policy: Borrowings to defer payments of interest on the hybrid bonds. Arrears of interest must be paid if dividends are paid on ordinary After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are shares, if payments are made on other hybrid bonds, in the subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference event of early redemption, and for the GBP/USD hybrid bonds at between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the final maturity. KPN does not recognize accruals for coupon redemption value is recognized in the P&L over the period of payments on the EUR perpetual hybrid bond of EUR 10m per the borrowings using the effective interest method. The annum. If an accrual had been recognized, the amount would amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any have been EUR 2m on 31 December 2019. discounts or premiums on acquisition or issuance and transaction costs. The effective interest rate amortization is recognized in the P&L as finance costs. Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Derivative Net liability financial including lease € million Borrowings instruments Net liability Lease liabilities liabilities Balance at 1 January 2018 (Restated) 7,530 160 7,690 1,072 8,762 Exchange differences 47 -47 – – – Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities: Repayments of borrowings and settlement of -49 – -49 -149 -198 derivatives¹ and repayments of lease liabilities² Fair value adjustments -13 18 5 – 5 Other movements3 4 2 6 53 59 Balance at 31 December 2018 (Restated) 7,519 133 7,652 976 8,628 Exchange differences 128 -126 2 – 2 Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities: Repayments of borrowings and settlement of -922 – -922 -141 -1,063 derivatives¹ and repayments of lease liabilities² Fair value adjustments -60 -149 -209 – -209 Other movements3 -6 24 18 95 113 Balance at 31 December 2019 6,659 -118 6,541 930 7,472 1 In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows this line item includes a payment of EUR 83m in 2019 and EUR 65m in 2018 regarding cash collateral on derivatives (presented as non-current other receivables) and in 2019 a premium of EUR 136m relating to the bond tender. 2 Interest component of the lease payments are presented within cash flow from operating activities. 3 Other movements of the derivative financial instruments are predominantly movements in the interest part of cash flow hedges, other movements of the lease liabilities include interest, additions of new contracts, remeasurements and modifications (see Note 19). [12.3] Hedging activities and derivatives During 2019, a total gain of EUR 9m due to hedge KPN uses derivatives solely for the purpose of hedging underlying ineffectiveness was recognized in the P&L. This is mainly exposures. The primary risks managed using derivative caused by small differences in the valuation of hedging instruments are foreign currency risk and interest rate risk. instruments and hedged items due to credit risk and valuation curves in combination with the cumulative change of the fair € million 31 December2019 31 December 2018 value of the hedging instrument becoming greater than the Assets (current and non-current) 258 185 change in the fair value of the hedged item. Note that all hedges Liabilities (current and non-current) -140 -318 continue to be highly effective prospectively. Total derivatives 118 -133 of which: designated in a hedge Derivatives positions are reported on a gross basis and include a relationship 48 -233 credit value adjustment attributable to derivative counterparty of which: other derivatives not default risk of EUR nil as at 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 1m designated in a hedge relationship 70 100 liability). Part of the derivatives portfolio is subject to master KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 131 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements netting agreements that allow netting under certain circumstances. cross-currency swaps. The hedges are until maturity of the If netting had been applied, the total derivatives asset position underlying senior bonds, or until the first call date in the case of would be EUR 123m and the total derivatives liability position the hybrid bonds. For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, would be EUR 5m at 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 26m and and also applies, cash flow hedge accounting. The effectiveness EUR 159m respectively). of the hedges is determined at inception and on a quarterly Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or basis. To test the hedge effectiveness, KPN uses the collateral postings at pre-agreed dates (see Note 12.4 ‘Liquidity hypothetical derivative method and compares the changes in risk’). the fair value of the hedging instruments against the changes in the fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged Derivatives designated in a hedge relationship risks. If the cumulative change in fair value of the hedging instrument and hedged item are not equal in absolute terms, the Cash flow hedges difference will be reported in the P&L to the extent that, in Bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with absolute terms, the fair value change of the hedging instrument cross-currency swaps. The currency exposure is hedged by is greater than the fair value change of the hedged item. Hedge effectively fixing the countervalue in foreign currency to EUR ineffectiveness can arise from: and by hedging the interest rate exposure by swapping the • Different curves linked to hedged items and hedging fixed interest rates in foreign currency to fixed interest rates in instruments; EUR. There is an economic relationship between the hedged • The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value items and hedging instruments as the terms of the crossmovement of the hedging instruments and hedged items; currency swaps match the terms of the bonds. KPN has • Changes in the terms of the hedge item or hedge instrument. established a hedge ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the quantity of hedged items equals the notional amount of the An overview of the cross-currency swaps at 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is presented below: Nominal Coupon Nominal Coupon Maturity date Fair value Fair value (receive) (receive) (pay) (pay) 2019 (EUR m) 2018 (EUR m) GBP –¹ 6.000%, annual EUR 123 4.580%, annual 29 May 19 – -16 GBP 400 6.875%, annual EUR 460 6.777%, annual 14 Mar 20 9 -22 USD 600 7.000%, semi-annual EUR 465 6.344%, semi-annual 28 Mar 23 55 23 GBP 400 5.000%, annual EUR 474 4.424%, annual 18 Nov 26 -30 -60 GBP 850 5.750%, annual EUR 971 5.432%, annual 17 Sept 29 -59 -118 USD 595² 8.375%, semi-annual EUR 450 8.517%, semi-annual 01 Oct 30 -3 -64 Total -28 -257 1 On 31 December 2018, the GBP cross currency swaps with maturity date 29 May 2019 had a nominal outstanding value of GBP 96m. 2 On 31 December 2018, the USD cross currency swaps with maturity date 01 October 2030 had a nominal outstanding value of USD 1,000m and a weighted average coupon payment of 8.557%. The impact of the cash flow hedges on the Statement of Financial Position is as follows: Notional Line item in Statement of Change in fair value used for measuring € million amount Carrying amount Financial Position ineffectiveness for the period As at 31 December 2019 Derivative financial Cross currency swaps GBP 1,905 -80 137 instruments Derivative financial Cross currency swaps USD 915 52 92 instruments Total 2,820 -28 229 As at 31 December 2018 Derivative financial Cross currency swaps GBP 2,029 -217 -55 instruments Derivative financial Cross currency swaps USD 1,221 -40 88 instruments Total 3,250 -257 33 132 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The change in fair value of the associated hedged items attributable to the hedged risks resulted in ineffectiveness gains in 2019 of EUR 7m (2018: EUR nil). The effect of the cash flow hedge in the P&L and OCI is as follows: Amount Total hedging Ineffectiveness reclassified from gain/(loss) recognized as a OCI as a gain/ € million recognized in OCI gain/(loss) in P&L Line item in P&L (loss) in P&L Line item in P&L Year ended 31 December 2019 Cross currency swaps GBP 137 5 Other financial results 96 Other financial results Cross currency swaps USD 92 2 Other financial results 35 Other financial results Total 229 7 131 Year ended 31 December 2018 Cross currency swaps GBP -55 – Other financial results -16 Other financial results Cross currency swaps USD 88 – Other financial results 63 Other financial results Total 33 – 47 Fair value hedges maturity and payment dates). KPN has established a hedge In 2017, the 1.125% fixed rate eurobond maturing on 11 September ratio of 1:1 for the hedging relationships as the quantity of 2028 was swapped to a floating rate using fixed-to-floating hedged item equals the notional amount of the hedging interest rate swaps, whereby KPN receives a fixed rate of 0.907% instrument. For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, and and pays interest at a variable rate equal to six-month Euribor. also applies, hedge accounting. If the cumulative change in the In 2018, the 0.625% fixed rate Eurobond maturing on 9 April fair value of the hedging instrument and hedged item are not 2025 was also swapped to a floating rate using fixed-to-floating equal in absolute terms, the difference will be recorded in the interest rate swaps, whereby KPN receives a fixed rate of 0.920% P&L. The hedge ineffectiveness can arise from: and pays interest at a variable rate equal to six-month Euribor • Different curves linked to the hedged items and hedging (in arrears). The swaps are used to hedge the exposure to instruments. changes in the fair value of these fixed rate eurobonds against • The counterparties’ credit risk differently impacting the fair value changes in the EUR interest curve. movement of the hedging instruments and hedged items. There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and • Changes in the terms of the hedge item or hedge instrument. the hedging instrument as the terms of the interest rate swaps The impact of the fair value hedges on the Statement of match the terms of the fixed rated bonds (i.e. notional amount, Financial Position is as follows: Change in fair value Notional Line item in Statement of used for measuring € million amount Carrying amount Financial Position ineffectiveness for the period As at 31 December 2019 Interest rate swaps 1,250 75 Derivative financial instruments 51 As at 31 December 2018 Interest rate swaps 1,250 24 Derivative financial instruments 26 The impact of the hedged items on the Statement of Financial Position is as follows: Line item in Change in fair value Accumulated fair value Statement of Financial used for measuring € million Carrying amount adjustments Position ineffectiveness for the period As at 31 December 2019 Fixed rate Eurobonds 2025 & 2028 -1,314 -51 Borrowings -49 As at 31 December 2018 Fixed rate Eurobonds 2025 & 2028 -1,263 -25 Borrowings -26 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 133 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements The ineffectiveness recognized in the P&L for the year ended 31 December 2019 was a gain of EUR 2m (2018: EUR 1m loss). Derivatives not designated in a hedge relationship In 2011, fixed rate eurobonds with maturities on 21 September 2020, 4 October 2021 and 30 September 2024 were swapped to a floating interest rate based on three-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. Subsequently in May 2015, KPN swapped the floating rate exposure on these bonds to a fixed rate for the remaining maturity of these bonds and discontinued fair value hedge accounting for the fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. The cumulative gain of EUR 224m will be amortized to earnings until maturity of the bonds. The gain realized in the P&L in 2019 was EUR 20m (2018: EUR 20m). The balance of the unamortized gain was EUR 48m at 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 68m). Since May 2015, KPN holds the interest rate swaps on these bonds at FVPL for an amount of EUR 70m as at 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 100m) and recorded a loss of EUR 30m in 2019 (2018: EUR 31m loss). Accounting policy: Derivatives and hedging activities • The effect of credit risk does not ‘dominate the value changes’ that result from that economic relationship; Derivatives are recognized at fair value. Gains and losses • The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as arising from changes in fair value are recognized as finance that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that KPN cost/income during the period in which they arise to the actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument extent that the derivatives have no hedging designation or that KPN actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged they are ineffective. item. KPN applies IFRS 9 hedge accounting. Derivatives related to Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is loans are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges. designated as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or loss on Offsetting effects are recognized in the P&L. the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in the P&L as finance cost/ income. Changes in the fair The hedge documentation includes identification of the value of an effective derivative, which is designated as a cash hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk flow hedge, are recorded in OCI for the effective part, until the being hedged and how KPN will assess whether the hedging P&L is affected by the variability in cash flows of the relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements designated hedged item. The ineffective part of the cash flow (including the analysis of sources of hedge ineffectiveness and hedge is recognized as finance cost/income. If an underlying how the hedge ratio is determined). transaction has ceased to be an effective hedge or in case of A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting if it early redemption of the hedged item, hedge accounting is meets all of the following effectiveness requirements: discontinued prospectively which means that subsequent • There is ‘an economic relationship’ between the hedged item changes in fair value are recognized in the P&L as finance and the hedging instrument; cost/income and the cumulative amount recorded in OCI is released in the P&L. 134 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [12.4] Financial risk management and policies KPN’s key financial risks are: • Credit and counterparty risk Financing policy • Liquidity risk KPN strives for the right balance between investments in the • Market risk business, shareholder remuneration and a prudent financing policy. It is KPN policy to utilize excess cash for operational and Credit and counterparty risk financial flexibility and/or shareholder remuneration. Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their The net debt/EBITDA AL ratio is one of the drivers for KPN’s obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. KPN’s credit rating and is based on the nominal value of borrowings. counterparty policy sets limits for the maximum exposure per KPN remains committed to an investment grade credit profile counterparty, which are primarily based on credit ratings, and aims for a net debt/EBITDA AL ratio of below 2.5x in the investment periods and collateral. The minimum counterparty medium term. credit rating (Moody’s equivalent) is A3 for cash balances and for entering into new derivative transactions. Cash balances The difference between the carrying value and nominal value of used for working capital purposes can also reside at banks with borrowings includes: (1) carrying value adjustments resulting lower credit ratings. Capital preservation is KPN’s main priority from fair value hedges; (2) in case of foreign currency bonds, when investing excess cash. the difference between the nominal amount at the prevailing spot rate and the swapped nominal amount in EUR; and (3) As at 31 December 2019, KPN’s cash balances and short-term amortized debt issuance costs. investments were held in bank accounts, bank deposits and money market funds with maturities up to three months. The € million 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) majority of cash balances were invested with counterparties Borrowings 6,659 7,519 with a credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s or higher and the counterparties of outstanding derivatives have a credit Equity hybrid 500 – rating equivalent to Baa1 or higher with Moody’s. Bank overdraft – -5 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -483 -463 Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive Cash collateral paid on derivatives -97 -180 policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is focused Difference between carrying value on mobile services. Before accepting certain new customers in -392 -374 and nominal value this segment, the creditworthiness of prospective clients is Adjusted gross debt 6,188 6,497 checked. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment Net cash and cash equivalents 766 613 performance of customers. If customers fail to meet set criteria, payment issues must be resolved before a new transaction will Short-term investments 275 50 be entered into. Net debt¹ 5,148 5,834 Normalized EBITDA AL 2,317 2,314 KPN’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to whollyNet Debt/EBITDA AL 2.2x 2.5x owned subsidiaries. As at 31 December 2019, KPN had parent guarantees and bank guarantees outstanding to third 1 Excluding lease liabilities parties for various Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. The carrying amount of financial assets including cash represents the maximum credit exposure, which amounts to EUR 2,082m at Financial risk management 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 2,279m). On 31 December 2019, KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk the total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 7m management program focuses on the unpredictability of (2018: EUR 7m), which were issued in the ordinary course of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse business. effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. Derivatives are used to hedge certain risk exposures (see Note See schedule of the allowances for expected losses in Note 13 12.3). for information about credit losses on trade and other The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department receivables. There were no other credit losses. under policies approved by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. These policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor adherence to those limits. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 135 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities on 31 December 2019: Borrowings Derivatives Derivatives Derivatives Trade and other Interest on Other debt inflow outflow payables and Bonds and bonds and Lease and cash (including (including accrued € million loans¹ loans² liabilities collateral interest) interest) expenses Total 2020 931 262 164 16 -803 727 953 2,250 2021 613 212 136 – -288 237 – 910 2022 616 189 121 – -276 235 – 885 2023 534 162 110 9 -795 688 – 708 2024 431 162 101 – -239 205 – 660 2025 and further 3,299 648 393 – -4,382 4,185 – 4,143 Contractual cash flows 6,425 1,635 1,026 25 -6,783 6,276 953 9,557 1 Includes the USD hybrid bonds with final maturities in 2073 (redemption value of EUR 465m) and GBP hybrid bonds with maturities in 2020 (redemption value of EUR 460m). 2 Interest payments on the USD hybrid bonds (EUR 37m per year until the first call date in 2023) are not included. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. Liquidity risk Capital resources covenants Liquidity risk is the risk that KPN will not be able to meet its KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following covenants financial obligations associated with financial instruments as as at 31 December 2019, which could trigger additional financial they become due. KPN’s approach to managing liquidity is to obligations or early redemption of the outstanding ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under indebtedness. All senior bonds issued after 1 January 2006 both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring (EUR 4.8bn outstanding at 31 December 2019) contain a change unacceptable losses or risking damage. Part of the derivatives of control clause. KPN may be required to early redeem, in case contain reset clauses or collateral postings at pre-agreed dates, certain changes of control occur and within this change of in order to mitigate counterparty exposure during the life of the control period (maximum of 90 days) a rating downgrade to swap. These reset clauses will result in early euro settlement sub-investment grade occurs. The hybrid bonds also contain a obligations in cash with the swap counterparty, which could change of control clause by means of which KPN has the lead to additional cash inflows or outflows before maturity. possibility to repurchase the hybrid bonds at par. A 5% interest During 2019, KPN received net collateral of EUR 107m (2018: step-up applies if a rating downgrade occurs during the change paid EUR 113m), according to pre-agreed settlement schedules. of control period in respect of that change of control. In addition, In order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral many of KPN’s capital resources contain a covenant prohibiting postings are spread over different points in time. KPN from entering into any amalgamation, demerger, merger, corporate restructuring or reorganization, unless prior written Available financing sources consent has been given by a majority of the lenders or In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and bondholders or the resulting company assumes all of the rights short-term investments and cash flows from operations, KPN and obligations with respect to the loans or bonds. has the following committed financing resources available: Market risk Revolving credit facility KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary The EUR 1.25bn revolving credit facility has a final maturity of course of business. These risks include foreign currency exchange 1 July 2023. The facility is used for general corporate purposes rate risk and interest rate risk. and does not contain any financial covenants. The facility was undrawn as of 31 December 2019. Foreign currency exchange rate risk Foreign currency risks mainly result from settlement of EIB facility international telecommunications traffic and purchase of assets On 1 April 2019, KPN signed a EUR 300m committed standby and primarily consists of GBP and USD exposure. Foreign credit facility with the European Investment Bank (EIB), which currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that are not remained undrawn during 2019. The facility has an availability denominated in EUR are hedged into EUR in line with KPN’s period until 30 September 2020 and drawdowns will have a hedging policies. maximum maturity of 7 years and 4 months from drawdown. 136 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Group companies and business operations are obliged to hedge With a view to the existing and forecasted debt structure, their firm commitments and highly predictable anticipated KPN could enter into additional future derivatives to further transactions in non-functional currencies by forward contracts. adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. Accordingly, KPN’s Treasury department matches and manages the intercompany and external exposures using forward A sensitivity analysis as at 31 December 2019 with regard to exchange contracts. No hedge accounting is applied for these interest rate risk on interest-bearing liabilities (excl. cash flow hedge instruments. hedges) showed that, ceteris paribus, each adverse change of 100 bps in six-month Euribor would hypothetically result in As at 31 December 2019, more than 98% (2018: 97%) of cash and EUR 13m higher interest costs per annum (2018: EUR 10m). cash equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of the related entities. More than 99% of the net amount of trade Cash flow hedges receivables and more than 96% of the amount of trade payables KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis as at 31 December 2019 was outstanding in the functional currency of the related entities with regard to interest rate and currency risk on the cash flow at 31 December 2019 and 2018. hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedge accounting on all bonds not denominated in EUR. With all other variables held constant, Interest rate risk and interest rate profile KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of result in a higher or lower value of the hedge reserve, which is changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, cash included in equity attributable to equity holders. In a similar way, and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. With KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in the EUR/ regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically evaluates USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate, holding all other variables the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities, constant. The results of the analysis are shown in the table balancing the benefit of lower interest costs vs. the variability of below, indicating the hypothetical impact on the fair value of the cash flows. Any interest exposure longer than one year is crosscurrency swaps (excluding the partially offsetting impact considered to be fixed. KPN may use derivative financial on the hedged items). instruments to adjust the desired interest rate exposure. As at 31 December 2019, 81% of KPN’s interest-bearing gross debt (after swaps, excluding bank overdrafts) was at fixed interest rates (2018: 83%). GBP USD Total € million (before tax) Change 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Change in interest rate +1%-point -3 -10 3 -4 – -14 -1%-point 3 11 -4 3 -1 14 Change in FX rate +10%-point 30 38 36 47 66 85 -10%-point -38 -46 -45 -57 -84 -103 Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective. Consequently, the expected impact on the P&L is immaterial. Derivatives held at fair value KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis on 31 December 2019 with regard to the fair value of interest rate swaps (excluding the partially offsetting impact on the hedged items): € million Change 2019 2018 Changes in EUR interest rates +1%-point -88 -96 -1%-point 94 102 For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk regarding pensions, see Note 17. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 137 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements (continuing operations only): € million Financial liabilities Net amount in Not offset: Financial 31 December 2019 Gross amount set off balance sheet instruments/Cash collateral Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 766 – 766 – 766 Derivatives 258 – 258 -24 234 Trade and other receivables – – – – – Total 1,024 – 1,024 -24 999 31 December 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 594 – 594 -5 589 Derivatives 185 – 185 185 Trade and other receivables – – – – – Total 779 – 779 -5 774 Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements: € million Financial liabilities Net amount in Not offset: Financial 31 December 2019 Gross amount set off balance sheet instruments/Cash collateral Net amount Derivatives 140 – 140 -97 44 Trade and other payables – – – – – Total 140 – 140 -97 44 31 December 2018 Derivatives 318 – 318 -180 138 Trade and other payables – – – – – Total 318 – 318 –180 138 For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each Accounting policy: agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net Offsetting financial assets and liabilities settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both parties elect to settle on a net basis. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a net basis on the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 138 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [13] Trade and other receivables, contract assets and contract costs 13.1 Trade and other receivables 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) € million Current Non-current Current Non-current Trade receivables 264 – 343 – Financial receivables handsets 240 – 187 – Sales to be invoiced 110 – 128 – Interest to be received 24 – 23 – Prepayments, accruals and other receivables 118 111 100 197 Total 756 111 780 197 The decrease in 2019 of trade receivables of EUR 79m mainly Trade receivables are generally on payment terms of 14 to relates to received payments of business customers. 30 days. As of 1 January 2018, KPN’s general terms and conditions of the The aging of the gross trade receivables is as follows: contract with customers in the Consumer segment for a handset 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 with postpaid subscription have changed. The instalment € million (Restated) payments on the handset loan, as issued by KPN Finance B.V., Trade receivables gross have become unconditional on the delivery of the telco service, resulting in higher financial receivables. Amounts undue 169 234 64 77 The non-current other receivables relate for EUR 97m to cash Past due 0–90 days collateral received on derivatives (2018: EUR 180m). 19 34 Past due 91–360 days The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables 33 27 More than one year approximate their fair value. Trade and other receivables are Total trade receivables gross 284 373 non-interest bearing. Provision for credit risk exposure 20 30 Sales to be invoiced include accrued income related to usage of Total trade receivables net 264 343 KPN’s network which is invoiced monthly in arrears. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 139 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements 13.2 Contract assets and contract costs • Transition projects for business customers when the revenue 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 recognized is higher than the amounts invoiced for the (Restated) transition phase. € million Current Non-current Current Non-current Upon invoicing, the amounts recognized as contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables. Contract assets 32 1 103 1 Costs to obtain a contract – 31 – 32 The decrease in the contract assets is mainly related to the Costs to fulfill a instalment payments of handsets accounted for as financial 5 – 3 – contract receivable instead of as a contract asset as of 1 January 2018 Total 37 32 106 33 (see Note 13.1). Contract assets Contract costs A contract asset is recognized in case the earned consideration Contract costs include: is conditional. This includes: • Transaction-related dealer fees paid to acquire or retain • Handsets delivered at the start of postpaid mobile contracts mobile subscribers. entered into before 2018. • Costs incurred during the transition phase of projects for • Handset-related dealer fees (amounts paid to dealers for the business customers to be able to deliver exploitation services delivery of handsets to the end-customer/postpaid mobile which are not treated as a separate performance obligation. contracts via third parties). The costs are capitalized as costs to fulfil a contract and • Installation services at the start of the contract if the amount expensed in principle on a straight-line basis over the of revenue recognized is higher than the amounts charged remaining contract term in which the exploitation services are upfront. delivered. 13.3 Allowances for expected credit losses The movement schedule of the allowances for expected credit losses is as follows: Allowance for expected credit losses € million Trade receivables Financial receivables handsets Contract assets Total Balance at 1 January 2018 30 – 8 38 Additions/releases P&L 14 5 -7 12 Usage -10 – – -10 Other movements -4 – – -4 Balance at 31 December 2018 30 5 1 36 Additions/releases P&L 16 -2 – 14 Usage -25 – – -25 Balance at 31 December 2019 20 4 – 24 Accounting policy: Trade and other receivables, Financial assets at amortized cost are subsequently measured contract assets and contract costs using the effective interest method less provisions for impairment. An allowance for expected credit losses is Trade and other receivables and contract assets classify as recorded for all financial assets and contract assets at initial financial assets and are measured at amortized cost if both of recognition. This allowance is regularly updated. the following conditions are met: • The financial asset is held within a business model with the The amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any objective to hold financial assets in order to collect discounts or premiums on acquisition and transactions costs. contractual cash flows. The effective interest rate amortization is recognized under • The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on finance income or finance costs. specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. See Note 4 for the accounting policy regarding contract costs. 140 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [14] Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments with initial maturities of three months or less, including balances on bank accounts, bank deposits and money market funds. 31 December 31 December € million 2019 2018 Cash 292 318 Short-term bank deposits, repurchase 475 300 agreements and money market funds Classified as held for sale -1 -24 Total cash and cash equivalents 766 594 The increase in cash and cash equivalents was mainly caused by EUR 750m free cash flow generated during the year, EUR 605m disposal proceeds (incl. sale of Telefónica Deutschland shares), partly offset by EUR 512m dividend payments and EUR 587m of net debt redemptions (including the bond tender). Accounting policy: Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, AAA-rated prime money market funds and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in current liabilities. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 141 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Discontinued Operations [15] Non-current assets, liabilities and disposal iBasis Inc. has been classified as disposal group held for sale groups held for sale since 7 March 2019. The sale has been completed on 8 February 2019. iBasis has been eliminated from the segment disclosures € million 31 December 31 December but the profit/loss (-) for the period from discontinued 2019 2018 operations in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Intangible assets 15 49 cash flows from discontinued operations include results related to iBasis until 8 February 2019. Property, plant and equipment – 27 Other non-current assets 16 7 The following table presents the assets and liabilities of iBasis at divestment date: Current assets 13 90 9 February € million Fair value adjustment of disposal group – -25 2019 Intangible assets 47 Total assets of disposal groups held for sale 44 148 Non-current liabilities -7 -2 Property, plant and equipment 19 Current liabilities -22 -95 Other non-current assets 9 Total liabilities directly associated with the Current assets 86 non-current assets and disposal groups -30 -98 classified as held for sale Non-current liabilities -2 Current liabilities -90 As at 31 December 2019, KPN Consulting B.V. and an equity investment accounted for using the equity method were Fair value adjustment -25 classified as held for sale. As at 31 December 2018, only iBasis (discontinued operation) was classified as held for sale. Net assets and liabilities 44 On 12 December 2019, KPN announced the sale of KPN The following table summarizes the results of iBasis included in Consulting B.V. to Cegeka N.V., a European ICT-services provider. the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as ‘profit/loss for The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of the period from discontinued operations’: 2020. KPN Consulting B.V. has been classified as held for sale since 31 December 2019. KPN Consulting B.V. is part of KPN’s € million 2019 2018 Business segment and does not qualify as a discontinued Revenues and other income 36 469 operation, therefore the financial results of KPN Consulting remain included in KPN consolidation until completion of the Operating expenses -35 -447 sale. KPN will receive a cash consideration and expects to Finance income and expenses – 2 recognize a modest book gain upon completion of the transaction. Share of the loss of associated and joint – – ventures During 2019, KPN announced and completed the sale of NLDC Income taxes – -7 B.V., Argeweb B.V. and its international network. See Note 21 for Result for the period from discontinued information on these transactions. operations before impairment and tax 1 17 effects resulting from the transaction Impairment disposal group – -25 Realized cumulative currency translation 12 – adjustment Profit/Loss (-) for the period from 13 -7 discontinued operations related to iBasis Some results (and cash flows) from discontinued operations may continue to arise following the unwinding of remaining positions of iBasis (sold in 2019), BASE Company (sold in 2016) and E-Plus (sold in 2014). The positive result from discontinued 142 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices operations of EUR 12m (2018: EUR -10m) includes, besides the Upon completion of the sale of iBasis, KPN received a net cash EUR 13m result from iBasis (2018: EUR -7m), EUR -1m related to consideration of EUR 36m, included in the cash flow from BASE Company (2018: EUR -9m). The 2018 result included a investing activities from discontinued operations. Transaction positive result of EUR 6m related to E-Plus. The negative result costs amount to EUR 5m and are included in the cash flow from related to BASE Company in 2018 arose from a balance sheet operating activities from discontinued operations. guarantee. The positive result related to E-Plus in 2018 related to settlement of several German tax positions. Accounting policy: Non-current assets and The cash flow from discontinued operations is as follows: disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for € million 2019 2018 sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith are Cash flow from operating activities 1 9 stated at the lower of carrying amount (book value) and fair value less costs of disposal if their carrying amount is Cash flow from investing activities 35 -7 recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred to held Cash flow from financing activities – – for sale, depreciation and amortization ceases. A disposal Total net cash (outflow)/inflow from 37 2 group classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ based on its discontinued operations significance to the KPN Group. [16] Equity Limitations in distribution shareholders’ equity preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. At 31 December 2019, a Total distributable reserves at 31 December 2019 amounted to total of 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding and EUR 2,173m which includes the perpetual capital securities fully paid-in. Dutch law prohibits KPN from casting a vote on (2018: EUR 1,541m). For further details on non-distributable shares KPN holds (treasury shares). The ordinary shares and reserves, see Note C to the Corporate Financial Statements. preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to the bearer. Share capital Shareholders may request the company to convert their Authorized capital stock totals EUR 720m divided into nine registered shares to bearer shares, but not vice versa. billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine billion Number of Treasury Currency Total treasury shares Hedge translation Other € million, unless indicated otherwise shares reserve reserve reserve reserves Balance at 1 January 2018 9,172,848 -103 -335 36 -402 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – -20 4 -16 Sold treasury shares -1,872,394 20 – – 20 Balance at 31 December 2018 7,300,454 -83 -355 40 -398 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – 115 -21 94 Sold treasury shares -370,531 4 – – 4 Balance at 31 December 2019 6,929,923 -79 -240 19 -300 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 143 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements The additional paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to an amount of EUR 9,282m at 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 9,282m). Hedge reserve 31 December 31 December € million 2019 2018 Effective portion cash flow hedges¹ -170 -269 Amortizable part² -137 -178 Hedge reserve -307 -447 Tax effect 67 92 Hedge reserve, net of tax -240 -355 1 The effective portion of cash flow hedges will be recognized in the P&L in line with the maturities of the related derivatives (see Note 12.3). 2 The amortizable part of the hedge reserve is amortized over the remaining life of the related bonds (between 2016 and 2030). The impact on the P&L will be EUR 15m in 2020. Treasury shares reserve Foundation Preference Shares B KPN KPN purchased shares in its own capital for delivery upon KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to the exercise of share options by management and personnel under Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation) to the share option and performance share plans (Note 5). Votes acquire preference shares B. For further information about the on purchased shares may not be cast and do not count Foundation, see the section ‘Corporate governance’. determining the number of votes required at a General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2019 and 2018, no shares were purchased for KPN is of the opinion that the call option does not represent a the share option and performance share plans. In 2019 and 2018, significant fair value due to the fact that the preference shares B, shares were sold in connection with vesting grants of the KPN issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to Restricted Share Plan (see Note 5). Euribor. Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the Dividend per share market price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery of At the AGM of Shareholders, to be held on 15 April 2020, a final the treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves. dividend of EUR 8.3ct per share will be proposed in respect of 2019. In August 2019, KPN paid an interim dividend in respect of Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 2019 of EUR 4.2ct per share, in total EUR 176m, bringing the total On 8 November 2019, KPN issued a EUR 500m hybrid bond regular dividend in respect of 2019 to EUR 12.5ct per share. with a 2.00% coupon and a perpetual maturity. This bond is These financial statements do not reflect the proposal for the classified as equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial remaining dividend payable. Position and valued at net proceeds (see Note 12.2). On 14 September 2018, KPN exercised its first call option and In April 2019, KPN paid a final dividend of EUR 8.0ct per share in redeemed the EUR 6.125% perpetual hybrid securities with a respect of 2018, in total EUR 336m. The total dividend in respect remaining outstanding principal amount of EUR 1,100m. The of 2018 was EUR 13.3ct per ordinary share including the special hybrid bond was classified as equity (perpetual capital interim cash dividend of EUR 1.3ct per share in relation to the securities) for an amount of EUR 1,089m. The difference of EUR dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD. 11m has been deducted from retained earnings together with the last interest payment of EUR 62m. The related tax gain of EUR 12m on the interest payment has been recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, in accordance with IAS 12. For interest payments and credit ratings, see Note 12.2. 144 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [17] Retirement benefits In the UK, Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) is a portion of pension that was accrued by individuals who were contracted Retirement benefits are provided through a number of defined out of the State Second Pension prior to 6 April 1997. At present contribution plans and funded and unfunded defined benefit there is an inequality of benefits between male and female plans. The most significant plans are described below. members who have GMP. The High Court in the UK ruled in 2018 that equalization will be required for affected defined KPN main pension plan benefit pension schemes. A number of options can be used to KPN’s main pension plan covers employees in the Netherlands equalize. The estimated cost of equalization at 31 December who are subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement and 2019 and 2018 for the UK plan is EUR 6m, which has been employees with an individual labor agreement, and is externally recognized as a past service cost in 2018. However, the cost to funded through Stichting Pensioenfonds KPN. This plan is a the UK plan for equalizing heavily depends on a complex collective defined contribution pension plan and is accounted interaction between the benefit design and membership profile for as a defined contribution plan because KPN has no other as well as the method used to equalize which must be obligation than to pay the annual contribution which is a fixed determined by the trustees. percentage of the pensionable base for a period of five years. After this five-year period, the annual contribution will be Other reassessed based on a fixed and agreed method in which no KPN has a number of other funded (insured) plans in the reflection to past service or the funded status of the fund is Netherlands and an unfunded transitional early retirement plan included. (provision of EUR 24m as at 31 December 2019, last payment expected in 2021), which are all closed to new entrants. Getronics UK and US The Getronics US and UK operations were divested in 2008 and Furthermore, with regard to the insured plans, based on Dutch 2012 respectively. The closed and frozen pension plans of the law, KPN could be required to make contributions if participants former US and UK operations remained with KPN and are of these plans require a value transfer to another pension fund accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plans or insurer. However, the risk related to these value transfers is are held separately from KPN in independently administered limited and therefore no provision has been recognized for funds except for two supplemental executive retirement plans in these plans. the US. The UK plan operates under the regulations of the UK Pensions Regulator and the main US plan under the provisions Provisions for retirement benefit obligations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of the deficit in the plans’ funding must be recovered by the net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and early investment returns in the plans’ assets and contributions by retirement plans which are accounted for as defined benefit KPN. The pension plans in the UK and US expose KPN to a plans as described above. See the table on the next page for a number of risks which can have an impact on the future specification of the balance sheet position. contributions by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance sheet. The most significant risks are summarized below: • Asset volatility risk: the pension plans’ assets are predominantly invested in equity securities and other return seeking assets and therefore the plans’ funding levels are exposed to equity market risks. • Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the plans’ liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. • Inflation risk: in the UK the indexation of the accrued benefits is unconditional and is based on a combination of consumer and retail price indices and therefore the UK plan is exposed to inflation risk. • Life expectancy risk: the plans provide benefits for the life of the members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 145 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Net defined benefit liability Defined benefit obligation² Fair value of assets (asset) € million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Balance at 1 January 636 718 -430 -500 206 218 Included in profit or loss Operating expense¹ -5 -25 9 33 4 8 Interest expense (income) 19 19 -13 -13 6 6 Included in OCI Remeasurements loss (gain): Actuarial loss (gain)³ 40 -35 – – 40 -35 Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – -48 36 -48 36 Effect of movements in exchange rates 21 7 -14 30 7 1 Total 61 -28 -62 66 -1 2 Other Employer’s contribution⁴ – – -28 -28 -28 -28 Benefits paid -42 -48 42 48 – – Balance at 31 December 670 636 482 -430 188 206 1 Operating expenses in 2018 includes a past service cost of EUR 6m regarding the UK plan (see explanation on page 145) and a settlement gain of EUR 2m regarding a supplemental executive retirement plan in the US. Also included in 2018 is a settlement loss of EUR 1m due to due to lump-sum payments to certain participants of the UK and US plans (EUR 29m defined benefit obligations minus EUR 30m plan assets). Service costs were EUR 1m and administrative costs EUR 3m in both 2019 and 2018. 2 The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is 31 December. 3 The actuarial loss (gain) in 2019 and 2018 consists of demographic assumptions (EUR -14m and EUR -10m), financial assumptions (EUR +59m and EUR -27m) and experience adjustments (EUR -5m and EUR +2m). 4 In 2017 and in 2018, EUR 3m lump-sum payments were made for (unfunded) supplemental executive retirement plans in the US. KPN considers these plans terminated although certain former participants are questioning whether the assumptions for the calculation of the lump-sums are in line with the plans’ terms. Defined benefit obligations Actuarial assumptions The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Getronics UK Getronics US Other Getronics UK Getronics US Other Discount rate (%) 2.0 3.1 1.1 2.8 4.3 1.8 Expected salary increases (%) N/a N/a 2.0 N/a N/a 2.0 Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) 2.1-2.7 N/a 0.3 2.2-3.2 N/a 0.5 Life expectancy for pensioners at retirement age: Male 24.2 20.6 21.8 22.7 20.7 21.7 Female 26.2 22.6 23.7 25.0 22.7 23.9 The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate for fund specific circumstances. The mortality table used in the bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit UK is the 92% of SAPS S2PXA tables CMI 2018 projection with a obligations and in the applicable currency. As at 31 December 1.25% long-term improvement, and in the US the Pri-2012 Total 2019, the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit Dataset with Scale MP-2019. The life expectancy at the age of 65 obligation was 14 years. is expected to increase in the next 20 years by approximately Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on published two years in the UK and the US. statistics and mortality tables that include allowances for future improvement in mortality. The mortality table used in the Sensitivity analysis Netherlands is the projected table AG 2018 which includes The following table shows the approximate impact on the projected improvement rates varying by year of birth, corrected defined benefit obligation of a change in the key actuarial 146 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment change of one year. funds, a minor part of these investments could be related to KPN equities. The pension funds do not have direct investments 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 in KPN equities. € million Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Discount rate -43 47 -40 45 Expected contributions and benefits Expected salary increases – – – – In 2019, the total employer’s contributions and benefit payments Expected benefit increases 23 -21 20 -18 for all defined benefit and defined contribution plans amounted to EUR 113m (excluding discontinued operations), consisting of Life expectancy 29 -29 26 -26 EUR 85m employer’s premiums for defined contribution plans, EUR 16m contributions for funded defined benefit plans and Plan assets EUR 12m payments for unfunded plans. The assets of all defined benefit pension plans as at 31 December The amount of employer’s contributions in 2020 for the 2019 and 2018 comprise of: remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be € million 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 EUR 31m for both funded and unfunded plans. The total amount Quoted in active markets: of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2020 for the defined Equity securities 22% 25% contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 82m. Fixed income securities¹ 35% 26% Real estate² 0% 0% Accounting policy: Provisions for retirement Commodities³ 1% 1% benefit obligations (pension obligations) Other 3% 5% Other: The liability recognized in respect of all pension and early retirement plans that qualify as defined benefit obligation is Equity securities 6% 6% the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the Fixed income securities¹ 11% 14% fair value of plan assets. KPN uses actuarial calculations Real estate² 3% 2% (projected unit credit method) to measure the obligations Other4 19% 21% and the costs. For the calculation, actuarial assumptions are made about demographic variables (such as employee 1 Including inflation-linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating). turnover and mortality) and financial variables (such as 2 As at 31 December 2019, none of the investments in real estate were located in Europe. future indexation and the discount rate). The discount rate is 3 Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to determined by reference to market rates. These are interest commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated 4 Mainly insurance contracts. in the currency in which the benefit will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the Strategic investment policies related liability. A net defined benefit asset may arise where a The strategic investment portfolios of the defined benefit plans defined benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a (before hedging) at year-end 2019 were as follows: net defined benefit asset in such a case only when future € million Getronics Getronics Other economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of a UK US plans reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Actuarial Equity securities 35% 45% – gains and losses are recognized immediately in OCI. Fixed income securities (including 35% 25% – inflation-linked bonds) Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are Other 30% 30% 100% recognized immediately in the P&L. Total 100% 100% 100% The amount of pension costs included in operating expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consists of service cost, In both the UK and the US, a roadmap is in place to move to past service costs, curtailments and settlements and more fixed income exposure as the funded status improves. The administration costs. Net interest on the net defined benefit Getronics UK pension fund does not hedge interest rate risks, liability is presented as part of finance costs. currency risks and equity risks. The Getronics US pension fund For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution plan, KPN does not hedge currency and equity risks, but partially hedges recognizes contributions as an expense when an employee interest rate risk. has rendered service in exchange for those contributions. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 147 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [18] Provisions for other liabilities and charges 31 December 31 December € million 2019 2018 Restructuring provision 42 61 Asset retirement obligations 44 51 Other provisions 82 77 Total provisions for other liabilities and 168 188 charges of which: non-current 105 110 of which: current 63 78 Statement of changes in provisions Total Asset retirement Other Total € million Personnel Contractual restructuring obligation provisions1 provisions Balance at 1 January 2018 48 12 60 41 68 169 of which: current portion 46 2 48 1 17 66 Transition impact IFRS 16 – –10 -10 – – -10 Balance at 1 January 2018 restated 48 2 50 41 68 160 of which: current portion restated 46 2 48 1 17 66 Additions 100 2 102 10 12 123 Releases – – – – –1 –1 Usage -90 -2 -92 – -9 -101 Other movements incl. discontinued operations – – – – 7 7 Balance at 31 December 2018 restated 58 2 61 51 77 188 of which: current portion restated 58 2 60 4 13 78 Additions 111 4 115 – 13 128 Releases – – – -1 -3 -4 Usage -129 -4 -133 -4 -5 -142 Other movements incl. change in consolidation – – – -2 – -2 Balance at 31 December 2019 40 2 42 44 82 168 < 1 year 40 1 40 3 20 63 1 5 years – 1 1 16 10 27 > 5 years – 1 1 25 52 78 1 Includes provisions for claims and litigations, onerous contracts, warranties and employee benefits. 148 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Restructuring provisions Accounting policy: Provisions for other liabilities Termination benefits are payable when employment is and charges terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts redundancy in exchange for these benefits. Provisions for asset retirement obligations, restructuring Termination benefits are recognized when KPN is demonstrably costs and legal claims are recognized when KPN has a committed either to terminating the employment according to a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or to events, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of providing termination benefits as a result of an, individual and resources will be required to settle the obligation and the accepted offer made to encourage redundancy. Benefits falling amount can be reliably estimated. due more than 12 months after 31 December are discounted to present value. Provisions are measured at the present value of Other long-term employee obligations include jubilee or other management’s best estimate of the expenditure required to long-service employee benefits, long-term disability benefits settle the present obligation at balance sheet date. The and, if they are not fully payable within 12 months after the discount rate used to determine the present value reflects end of the period, bonuses and deferred compensation. The current market assessments of the time value of money and expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period the risks specific to the liability. of employment using an accounting method similar to that for defined benefit pension plans, except that actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs are recognized immediately in the P&L. Asset retirement obligations The provision for asset retirement obligations is based on assumptions of the estimated costs of removal, discount rate and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for landlords to tolerate cables terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. Because the date when the cables will become idle is uncertain and KPN is not able to predict whether and when a landlord will place a request for removal, KPN is not able to make a reliable estimate of the impact and therefore no provision was recognized at 31 December 2019 nor at 31 December 2018. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 149 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [19] Leasing Right-of-use assets Mobile Fixed network € million network & data centers Real estate Vehicles Other Total Accumulated cost 740 302 547 161 4 1,754 Accumulated depreciation & impairment -308 -164 -234 -74 -3 -783 Balance as at 1 January 2018 433 138 313 86 2 971 Additions 14 1 7 32 – 54 Remeasurement & lease modifications 6 1 -4 -1 – 2 Depreciation -51 -21 -37 -38 -1 -148 Impairments – – -1 – – -1 Closing net book value 402 119 278 79 1 878 Accumulated cost 757 304 544 156 4 1,766 Accumulated depreciation & impairment -355 -186 -267 -77 -3 -888 Balance as at 31 December 2018 402 119 278 79 1 878 Additions 36 – 2 34 – 73 Remeasurement & lease modifications 121 4 -1 -3 – 121 Depreciation -53 -15 -36 -37 -1 -142 Impairments – – 2 – – 2 Change in consolidation¹ – -77 – -8 – -85 Closing net book value 506 30 245 64 1 847 Accumulated cost 906 138 510 137 4 1,695 Accumulated depreciation & impairment -400 -108 -265 -72 -3 -848 Balance as at 31 December 2019 506 30 245 64 1 847 Total estimated lease term at commencement of a lease 5-15 5-20 5-20 5-7 <5 (in years) 1 The change in consolidation in 2019 relates to the sale of NLDC B.V. (data centers) and the classification as held for sale of KPN Consulting B.V. (vehicles). 150 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Lease liabilities Mobile Fixed network € million network & data centers Real estate Vehicles Other Total Non-current lease liability 412 143 322 53 1 930 Current lease liability 58 20 33 31 1 142 Balance as at 1 January 2018 470 163 354 84 1 1,072 Additions 14 1 7 32 – 54 Remeasurement & lease modifications 6 1 -7 -2 – – Interest 16 6 10 1 – 33 Redemptions -63 -30 -49 -40 -1 -183 Closing net book value 443 143 315 75 1 976 Non-current lease liability 377 121 282 47 – 827 Current lease liability 66 21 33 28 – 149 Balance as at 31 December 2018 443 143 315 75 1 976 Additions 36 – 2 34 – 73 Remeasurement & lease modifications 120 4 -3 -3 – 119 Interest 15 5 8 1 – 28 Redemptions -60 -24 -46 -37 -1 -168 Change in consolidation¹ – -89 – -8 – -97 Closing net book value 554 38 276 61 1 930 Non-current lease liability 477 26 244 37 – 785 Current lease liability 77 12 32 24 – 145 Balance as at 31 December 2019 554 38 276 61 1 930 1 The change in consolidation in 2019 relates to the sale of NLDC B.V. (data centers) and the classification as held for sale of KPN Consulting B.V. (vehicles). The redemptions reflect the total payments made during the year for the lease fees included in the lease liability. The redemption consists of the repayments of the lease liabilities which are presented in the cash flow from financing activities (2019: EUR 141m, 2018: EUR 149m) and the interest paid during the year (2019: EUR 28m, 2018: EUR 33m) which is part of the cash flow from operating activities. The maturity analysis of the lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 12.4. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 151 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements KPN’s lease portfolio consists of mobile network (mostly site Accounting policy: Leases rentals and mobile towers), fixed network & data centers (technical buildings), real estate (offices and shops), vehicles KPN’s main accounting policies on leases where KPN acts as and some other leased assets. a lessee are disclosed in Note 2. The following amounts are recognized in the profit or loss: Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion of € million 2019 2018 the risk and rewards of ownership of the lease asset are Depreciation right-of-use assets -142 -148 classified as operating leases. The assets remain on the Impairment (-) or impairment reversal balance sheet and are depreciated over the assets’ useful life. 2 -1 right-of-use assets Lease payments received from lessees are recognized as Gain or loss (-) on early terminations 3 3 revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease period. Total depreciation & impairments presented -138 -146 in the P&L If KPN acts as a lessor in a finance lease, the transaction is Interest on lease liabilities -28 -33 accounted for as a normal sale and the present value of the Total amount recognized in profit or loss -165 -179 lease payments is recognized as a receivable. The difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the The expenses related to short-term vehicle leases (included in receivable is deferred and recognized as interest over the employee expenses) are not material. KPN does not apply the lease term. low-value exemption and does not have contracts with variable lease payments other than variable lease payments dependent on an index or a rate. Most of KPN’s lease contracts include extension (renewal) or termination options. KPN exercises significant judgement in determining whether these options are reasonably certain to be exercised (refer to Note 2). The assessments are updated annually or when a significant change in the economic circumstances occurs. Periods covered by renewal options deemed reasonably certain or early termination options which are reasonably certain not to be exercised are included in the total lease liability. A significant number of KPN’s contracts have an unlimited number of extension options. Only those deemed reasonably certain are included in the lease term and therefore the lease liability. A reliable estimate of the potential future lease payments related to periods beyond the lease terms reflected on the balance sheet cannot be provided. This affects mostly the mobile and fixed network as well as real estate. Vehicles are generally returned by the end of their term. KPN as a lessor KPN acts as a lessor in a limited number of real estate and mobile site contracts, all classified as operating leases. These lessor contracts are not material to KPN Group, individually nor in aggregate. The terms are between one and ten years. All leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the lease fees (annual indexation). Rental income recognized in 2019 amounted to EUR 3m (2018: EUR 3m). The future minimum lease receivable under the non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December 2019 is EUR 5m (31 December 2018: EUR 5m). 152 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [20] Contract liabilities, trade and other payables Trade and other payables Contract liabilities 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (Restated) € million Current Non-current Current Non-current € million Current Non-current Current Non-current Trade payables 550 – 573 – Contract liabilities 228 184 253 206 Accrued interest 121 – 162 – Of which variable – 147 – 162 considerations Accrued expenses 380 – 420 – Social security and other taxes payable 192 – 186 – The contract liabilities primarily relate to the consideration Other payables 13 12 15 5 received from customers before satisfying performance obligations, such as advances for subscriptions and airtime. KPN Total 1,256 12 1,357 5 recognizes a contract liability for postpaid and prepaid bundled minutes based on the actual usage of these bundles per proposition. Part of KPN’s suppliers participate in KPN’s Supplier Finance The utilization percentage, which is the number of credits used Program, which gives these suppliers the opportunity to receive as a percentage of total credits granted for that period, is earlier payment (from a financial institution) without modifying monitored periodically and based on the historical data. KPN’s payment terms. Because these payment terms do not deviate from the terms agreed with suppliers who are not For the transition phase of projects for business customers participating in this program, the relating liabilities are similarly which are treated as a separate performance obligation a classified as trade and other payables, and payments are contract liability is recognized if the amount invoiced is higher classified as operating cash flow. The Supplier Finance Program than the amount of revenue allocated to these projects. For the does not impact covenants or KPN’s access to (future) mobile connection fees charged to the customer a contract borrowings from financial institutions. liability is recognized if the connection is not treated as a As at 31 December 2019, the amount of payables for which early separate performance obligation. payment from third parties was opted for under the Supplier Finance Program amounted to EUR 126m (31 December 2018: Contract liabilities are also recognized for variable considerations EUR 106m). which are not deemed highly probable. This applies to the billed roaming and MTA tariffs which are regulated and imposed retrospectively and to VAT related to certain mobile consumer propositions. The introduction of new mobile consumer propositions in August 2016 caused a change in the VAT calculation methodology which resulted in a lower remittance of VAT from August 2016 until December 2018. The view of KPN is not shared by the Dutch tax authorities. KPN concluded, based on the applicable regulations, that a positive outcome of this dispute is not highly probable and therefore recorded a contract liability for the VAT amount. A potential negative outcome of a Accounting policy: Contract liabilities, trade and forthcoming court procedure will lead to a negative cash flow in other payables future years. Trade and other payables classify as ‘borrowings’ within In 2019 EUR 20m revenue was recognized from variable KPN’s financial liabilities. For the accounting policy, see considerations related to performance obligations satisfied (or Note 12. partially satisfied) in previous years (in 2018: nil). For the accounting policy regarding contract liabilities, The revenues of the year include the current portion of the see Note 4. contract liability balance at the beginning of the year. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 153 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements [21] Business combinations and disposals Changes in consolidation in 2019 Changes in consolidation in 2018 On 8 February 2019, KPN completed the sale of iBasis Inc.. KPN On 9 February 2018, KPN obtained control over StartReady classified iBasis as a disposal group held for sale as of 7 March B.V. by exercising the call option to acquire the remaining 85% of 2018. Given its significance to KPN Group, iBasis qualified as a the shares of StartReady B.V. The shares were delivered on 26 discontinued operation. See Note 15 for further information on March 2018. KPN already has had a 15% interest in the company this transaction. since 2014. StartReady is specialized in the delivery of Skype for Business services. On 30 September 2019, KPN completed the sale of its subsidiary NLDC B.V. to DWS. NLDC was part of KPN’s Wholesale segment The acquisition contributed EUR 1.1m to revenue, EUR 2.1m to and was classified as held for sale as of 8 May 2019. EBITDA and EUR 0.4m to net profit of KPN in 2018. If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, impact On 29 November 2019, KPN announced and completed the sale on revenues, EBITDA and net profit of KPN Group in 2018 would of web-hosting subsidiary Argeweb B.V. to TWS Holding B.V.. be negligible. On 2 December 2019, KPN completed the sale of its Subsequent adjustments purchase price allocation International Network Services to GTT Communications, Inc., a global cloud networking provider to multinational clients and In 2019, the purchase price allocation of StartReady was made operator of a Tier 1 IP network. KPN’s international network has final without subsequent adjustments. been classified as held for sale as of 25 June 2019. In 2018, the valuation of the customer bases in the provisional The aggregated book gain of the three transactions amounts to purchase price allocation of Qsight IT/InSpark was adjusted EUR 200m and is included in Other income (see Note 4.2). The downwards by EUR 14m and the related DTL by EUR 3.5m. As a gain is income tax exempt (see Note 8). result, the goodwill was adjusted by EUR 11m. € million Total Purchase price allocation of the acquisitions: Amount of assets and liabilities in the subsidiaries or businesses over which control is lost: € million 2018 Property, plant and equipment 54 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Intangible assets 15 lntangible assets¹ 6 Right-of-use assets 78 Trade and other receivables 1 Other non-current assets 6 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 Trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income 14 Deferred income tax liabilities -1 Net cash and cash equivalents 3 Trade and other payables and deferred income -1 Non-current liabilities -89 Total identifiable net assets 6 Trade and other payables and accrued expenses -31 Cash consideration 14 Total net assets 49 Fair value of the already held minority stake 2 Transaction and migration costs 10 Total consideration 16 Cash consideration 260 Goodwill 11 Total consideration 260 Book gain 200 1 Including customer bases, valued at EUR 5m. Cash received from disposal of subsidiaries (net of cash) amounts to EUR 258m, is classified as cash flow from investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 154 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Accounting policy: Business combinations KPN uses the acquisition method to account for business classified as equity are not remeasured and subsequent combinations. The consideration paid is measured at the fair settlement is counted for within equity. value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize any Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or liabilities assumed are measured at their fair values at the at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net assets. acquisition date. When a business combination is achieved in Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. stages, any previously held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling recognized in the P&L. interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value at value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded acquisition date and subsequent changes to the fair value as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs (bargain purchase), are recognized in the P&L. Contingent considerations the difference is recognized directly in the P&L. [22] Commitments, contingencies and legal proceedings Commitments Total Less than More than Total 31 December 2018 € million, due by period 1 year 1–5 years 5 years 31 December 2019 (Restated) Capital and purchase commitments 829 160 41 1,029 1,027 Guarantees and other – 10 130 140 139 Total commitments 829 170 171 1,170 1,166 The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to Idle cables minimum contractual obligations with regard to network See Note 18 for a contingent liability related to idle cables and operations, mobile handsets and telco services, and lease the accounting policy of provisions. contracts that have not yet commenced. Indemnification Guarantees consist of financial obligations of group companies In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by the under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A total amount of Board of Management, which was approved by the Supervisory EUR 140m relates to parent guarantees (2018: EUR 139m). Board, KPN has indemnified the members and former members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board, as well Contingent liabilities as a number of KPN’s officers and directors and former officers and directors, against liabilities, claims, judgments, fines and Legal and tax proceedings penalties incurred by such officer or director as a result of any KPN is involved in a number of legal and tax proceedings that threatened, pending or completed action, investigation or have arisen in the ordinary course of its business, including proceeding (whether civil, criminal or administrative) brought by commercial, regulatory or other proceedings. KPN periodically a third party in relation to acts or omissions in or related to their carefully assesses the likelihood that legal and tax proceedings capacity as officer or director. may lead to a cash outflow, and recognizes provisions in such cases/matters if and when required. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses However, the outcome of legal proceedings can be difficult to predict reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director adjudged with certainty and KPN can offer no assurances in this regard. to be liable for willful misconduct (‘opzet’) or intentional In some cases, the impact of a legal proceeding may be more recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). strategic than financial and such impact cannot properly be quantified. Below is a description of legal proceedings or contingent liabilities that could have a material impact for KPN. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 155 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Consolidated Financial Statements [23] Related-party transactions authority and responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the activities of an entity, either directly or indirectly. KPN considers none of the related-party transactions to be At KPN, key management consists of the members of the Board material on an individual basis. Transactions between group of Management and Supervisory Board. companies are not included in the description as these are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The company was not a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in which members of the Supervisory Transactions with shareholders Board or Board of Management or close members of their On 11 February 2020, América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (AMX) families had a direct or indirect material interest. published in its fourth quarter 2019 report that it owned 16.1% of KPN’s ordinary share capital at 31 December 2019. The total The total value of sales transactions by KPN’s continuing value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN operations in 2019 with parties in which members of the in 2019 with AMX, its subsidiaries and associated companies Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members of amounted to less than EUR 1m (2018: EUR 3m) and the total value their families had a direct or indirect material interest amounted of purchase transactions amounted to EUR 1m (2018: EUR 1m). to EUR 7m (2018: EUR 9m) and the total value of purchase The total trade receivables and payables at 31 December 2019 transactions amounted to EUR 3m (2018: EUR 14m), all in the and 2018 amounted to less than EUR 1m. ordinary course of business. The total trade receivables and payables as at 31 December 2019 amounted to EUR 1m and EUR Other shareholding equaling or exceeding 3% of the issued 2m respectively (31 December 2018: EUR 1m and EUR 2m capital: respectively). • On 31 December 2019, Norges Bank notified the AFM that it held 3.17% of the shares and voting rights related to KPN’s [24] Legal structure ordinary share capital. • On 27 November 2019, BlackRock, Inc. notified the AFM that it Name of significant subsidiaries and other principal interests: held 4.13% of the shares and 4.90% of the voting rights related KPN B.V. to KPN’s ordinary share capital. • ApplicationNet B.V. • On 13 August 2019, Capital Research and Management • CAM IT Solutions B.V. Company notified the AFM that it held 5.01% of the voting • DearBytes B.V. rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. • GroupIT B.V. • On 5 August 2019, Amundi Asset Management notified the • InSpark Holding B.V. AFM that it held 3.12% of the shares and voting rights related • KPN Consulting B.V. to KPN’s ordinary share capital. • KPN Finance B.V. • KPN Internedservices B.V. To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more of • KPN Security B.V. KPN’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2019. KPN did not • Reggefiber Group B.V. enter into agreements with AMX or other shareholders which • Solcon Internetdiensten B.V. could have a material impact on KPN’s Financial Statements. • Telfort Zakelijk B.V. • XS4ALL Internet B.V. Transactions with associated companies • Yes Telecom Netherlands B.V. The total value of sales transactions and purchase transactions KPN Mobile N.V. by the continuing operations of consolidated KPN companies • KPN Mobile International B.V. with associated companies and other non-consolidated KPN Ventures B.V. companies in 2019 amounted to approximately EUR 31m and Getronics B.V. EUR 1m respectively (2018: EUR 24m and EUR 1m respectively). • Getronics Finance Holdings B.V. The total trade receivables and payables as of 31 December Getronics Pensions UK Ltd. 2019 amounted EUR 10m and less than EUR 1m respectively Getronics US Operations Inc. (31 December 2018: EUR 4m and less than EUR 1m respectively). The country of incorporation of all entities is the Netherlands, Transactions with directors and related parties except Getronics Pensions UK Ltd. which is incorporated in the For details of the relationship between directors and the United Kingdom and Getronics US Operations Inc. which is company, see the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 94 of incorporated in the United States of America. this Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this respect are The percentage ownership/voting interest of all entities is 100%. defined as key management and relate to those having 156 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [25] Proposed appropriation of result On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid out equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased by 1%. If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield on state loans. Subsequently, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine what proportion of net income remaining after payment of the dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated to the reserves. The part of the profit remaining after the appropriation to the reserves shall be at the disposal of the AGM. No Class B preferred shares were outstanding on 31 December 2019. In August 2019, a regular interim dividend of EUR 4.2ct per ordinary share was paid (total amount of EUR 176m). The Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, will propose to the AGM to pay a final regular dividend of EUR 8.3ct per ordinary share in respect of 2019 (total amount of EUR 348m). The part of the profit remaining after distribution of the proposed final dividend is EUR 102m and will be appropriated to the reserves, which will be proposed to the AGM. [26] Subsequent event Copper phase out in fiber areas On 21 February 2020, KPN announced to phase out its copper network for existing addresses where fiber service delivery is currently available, and for the addresses in every already announced fiber roll-out project under construction, as per begin 2023. The financial impact for future periods relates to higher costs for depreciation, which are estimated as limited. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 157 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss For the year ended 31 December 2018 € million Notes 2019 (Restated) Total revenues and other income Other operating expenses -16 -11 Total operating expenses -16 -11 Operating profit -16 -11 Finance income 24 54 Finance costs -273 -309 Other financial results -99 -5 Intercompany interest (net) -583 -805 Financial income and expenses [A] -930 -1,065 Income from subsidiaries 1,308 1,183 Profit before income tax 361 107 Income taxes [B] 265 174 Profit for the year 626 281 158 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Corporate Statement of Financial Position Assets 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 € million Notes (Restated) Non-current assets Financial fixed assets Investments in subsidiaries 15,571 14,279 Loan to subsidiary 80 80 Derivatives 236 185 Deferred taxes 698 671 Other fixed financial assets 97 181 Total non-current assets [B] 16,682 15,396 Current assets Accounts receivable from subsidiaries [F] 1,406 634 Other receivables and accrued income 26 30 Equity investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income1 − 449 Derivatives 22 − Other current financial assets 276 50 Cash and cash equivalents 637 463 Total current assets 2,366 1,627 Total assets 19,048 17,023 1 Consisted of KPN’s stake in TEFD which was disposed of in 2019. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 159 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Financial Position Equity and liabilities 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 € million Notes (Restated) Equity Subscribed capital stock 168 168 Additional paid-in capital 8,445 8,445 Treasury shares reserve -79 -83 Hedge reserve -240 -355 Legal reserves [C] 166 168 Retained earnings [C] -7,076 -6,747 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 496 − Profit (loss) current year 626 281 Total equity attributable to equity holders 2,507 1,877 Provisions Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 24 33 Other provisions 24 22 Total provisions [D] 48 55 Non-current liabilities Loans [E] 13,148 13,738 Derivative financial instruments 136 302 Other long-term liabilities 76 50 Total non-current liabilities 13,359 14,091 Current liabilities Accounts payable to subsidiaries [F] 1,962 147 Loans [E] 937 572 Derivative financial instruments 4 16 Other current liabilities [G] 108 99 Accruals and deferred income 124 165 Total current liabilities 3,135 1,000 Total equity and liabilities 19,048 17,023 160 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements The principles for the recognition and measurement of assets Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net and liabilities and determination of the result (hereafter referred asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities and the Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those determination of profit based on the principles applied in the applied to the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS Consolidated Financial Statements. (applying the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book 2 Expected credit losses, if any, with respect to loans granted to of the Dutch Civil Code). The Consolidated Financial Statements and receivables from consolidated subsidiaries are not have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS (see Notes to recognized in these Corporate Financial Statements, which is in the Consolidated Financial Statements). line with RJ 100.107a. As of 1 January 2019, KPN implemented IFRS 16 Leases. This [A] Financial income and expenses standard introduces on balance sheet accounting for almost all € million 2019 2018 leases. For lessees, the distinction between financial leases (‘on balance’) and operating leases (‘off balance’) is removed. For Finance income 24 54 lessors, the accounting requirements remain substantially Interest on borrowings -269 -306 unchanged and the two types of leases remain in place. IFRS 16 Other -4 -3 had a significant impact on KPN as a lessee. KPN has adopted Finance costs -273 -309 the standard using the full retrospective approach and restated the 2018 financial information for comparison purposes in these Amortizable part of hedge reserve -17 -15 2019 Corporate Financial Statements. A cumulative transitional Amortization discontinued fair value hedges 38 39 adjustment was recorded on 1 January 2018, the date of initial Derivative financial instruments not qualified application, resulting in a decrease in equity of EUR 68m. The for hedge accounting -29 -31 impact of new IFRS standards is described in Note 2 to the Bond tender premiums and hedge unwinds -95 − Consolidated Financial Statements and has a corresponding Other 4 2 effect on the Corporate Financial Statements. Other financial results -99 -5 As of 1 January 2019, IAS 12 Income Taxes has been amended Intercompany interest (net) -583 -805 which clarifies that an entity must recognize all income tax Total -930 -1,065 consequences of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive income or equity, depending on where the entity recognized the originating transaction or event that generated the distributable Finance income included a dividend received from Telefónica profits giving rise to the dividend. Therefore, the income tax gain Deutschland of EUR 24m (2018: EUR 54m). on the EUR hybrid bond dividends has been recognized in the In 2019, Interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 37m, which Statement of Profit or Loss. The 2018 tax expense has been was mainly related to regular bond redemptions during the year. restated (EUR 12m additional tax benefit). Other financial results increased by EUR 94m (higher net cost), mainly due to the bond tender that KPN completed on 15 November 2019, repurchasing 40.5% of its outstanding 8.375% USD 1bn senior bonds due in October 2030. The tender and unwind of associated hedges, resulted in a net charge of EUR 95m. This was partially offset by the ineffectiveness of continued hedge relationships (EUR 9m gain). Intercompany interest (net) mainly includes interest of 8.5% on an intercompany loan provided by KPN Mobile N.V., part of loans payable to subsidiaries (Note F). KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 161 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Corporate Financial Statements [B] Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries Loan to Other financial € million companies subsidiary1 Derivatives Deferred taxes fixed assets Total Balance at 1 January 2018 restated 18,363 − 168 949 119 19,599 Exchange rate differences 7 − – – – 7 Income from group companies after taxes 1,183 − – – – 1,183 Increase due to new loans – 80 – – – 80 Decrease due to settlement -5,284 − – – – -5,284 Capital contributions 4 − – – – 4 Fair value adjustments – − 17 – – 17 Other 6 − – -278 62 -210 Total changes -4,084 80 17 -278 62 -4,203 Balance at 31 December 2018 restated 14,279 80 185 671 181 15,396 Exchange rate differences -20 − – – – -20 Income from group companies after taxes 1,308 − – – – 1,308 Capital contributions 1 − – – – 1 Received dividend -2 − – – – -2 Fair value adjustments – − 51 – – 51 Other 5 − – 27 -84 -52 Total changes 1,292 − 51 27 -84 1,286 Balance at 31 December 2019 15,571 80 236 698 97 16,682 1 Loan to KPN Finance B.V., which is repayable latest on 28 September 2023 and is subordinated to all other loans, obligations and creditors. Annual interest is 4.6%. Taxation The Corporate Financial Statements on behalf of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are prepared as if the company is independently subject to corporate income tax. Thus, excluding the offset of profits within the tax group of which the entity is the parent. As a result, the company reports a tax benefit for the tax deductible interest and no tax on the result of consolidated entities as the tax of these entities is booked at the level of the entity itself. The company’s deferred tax asset represents the future tax relief on taxable profits (within the tax group) due to available losses and is higher than reported on consolidated level, since the asset can be offset against deferred tax liabilities reported in other entities that are part of the same tax group. 162 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices [C] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Notes thereto. On 8 November 2019, KPN issued a EUR 500m hybrid bond with a 2.00% coupon and a perpetual maturity. This bond is classified as equity and valued at net proceeds (see Note 12.2). Legal reserves Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Revaluation reserve property, Cumulative translation Capitalized software Fair value reserve € million plant and equipment adjustments development costs equity investments Other Total Balance at 1 January 2018 20 36 82 13 18 169 Addition/release (-) retained -2 – – -3 – -5 earnings Exchange rate differences – 4 – – – 4 Balance at 31 December 2018 18 40 82 10 18 168 Addition/release (-) retained -2 – 25 -1 -3 19 earnings Exchange rate differences – -21 – – – -21 Balance at 31 December 2019 16 19 107 9 15 166 Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the distribution of equity attributable to equity holders. Such limitations relate to the subscribed capital stock as well as to legal reserves required by Dutch law as presented above. Dutch law also requires that in determining the amount for distribution, the company’s ability to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account. The total distributable reserves, which include the perpetual capital securities, amounted to EUR 2,173m at 31 December 2019 (2018: EUR 1,541m). Retained earnings Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated Movements in retained earnings were as follows: Statement of Financial Position as follows: € million 2019 2018 € million 2019 2018 Balance at 1 January -6,747 -6,341 Retained earnings as per Consolidated Statement of Financial Position -6,302 -6,338 Transition impact IFRS 16 – -68 Revaluation reserve -16 -18 Balance at 1 January restated -6,747 -6,409 Capitalized software development costs -107 -82 Profit of previous year 281 390 Fair value reserve equity investments -9 -10 Coupon perpetual hybrid bond – -62 Other non-distributable reserves -15 -18 Redemption of hybrid bond – -11 Profit for the year -626 -281 Dividend ordinary shares -512 -529 Retained earnings as per Corporate Statement Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other of Financial Position -7,076 -6,747 post-employment plans (net of tax) 8 -1 Fair value adjustment equity investments -84 -116 Release/addition legal reserves (except cumulative translation adjustments) -19 5 Share-based compensation -2 -15 Balance at 31 December -7,076 -6,747 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 163 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Corporate Financial Statements [D] Provisions 31 December 2019 consists of interest to be paid to KPN Mobile N.V. (EUR 158m) and is offset by an intercompany current Movements in provisions were as follows: income tax position of EUR 300m. Retirement benefit Other Most of these current accounts have indefinite duration. The € million obligations provisions Total interest is determined annually and based on the 12-month Balance at 1 January 2018 46 23 69 Euribor increased by 0.15% and a risk premium attached by the market to the specific KPN credit risk. Additions/releases to income 2 2 4 Additions/releases in OCI 2 – 2 [G] Other current liabilities Usage -17 -3 -20 Balance at 31 December 2018 33 22 55 31 December 31 December Additions/releases to income 1 5 6 € million 2019 2018 Additions/releases in OCI 2 – 2 Social security and other taxes payable 108 95 Usage -12 -3 -15 Bank overdrafts – 4 Balance at 31 December 2019 24 24 48 Total 108 99 The provisions for retirement benefit obligations relate to early [H] Commitments and contingencies retirement plans (see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Commitments by virtue of guarantees amounted to EUR 140m (2018: EUR 139m). [E] Loans KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several Non-current loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 5,117m liabilities for various group companies in compliance with (2018: EUR 5,922m) and hybrid bonds outstanding for Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations EUR 532m (2018: EUR 967m) see also Note 12 to the of joint and several liabilities for group companies are included Consolidated Financial Statements. Current loans include bonds in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests, outstanding for EUR 937m. which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Non-current loans also include loans from subsidiaries for EUR 7,499m (2018: EUR 6,849m). This mainly relates to a loan Directors’ remuneration payable to KPN Mobile N.V., which bears interest of 8.5% and See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on must be repaid in full, including accrued interest, in 2034. The employee benefits. loan is subordinated to the unsecured and unsubordinated creditors of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), but ranks ahead of the hybrid capital securities issued by KPN as long as by their terms these hybrid capital securities are expressed to rank pari passu Rotterdam, 21 February 2020 with the preference share of KPN and the preference shares issued by KPN (if any). There are no loans from subsidiaries with Board of Management Supervisory Board maturity dates in 2020. Joost Farwerck Duco W. Sickinghe Jan Kees de Jager Peter A.M. van Bommel [F] Accounts receivable from and accounts payable to subsidiaries Chris Figee Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo Jean-Pascal Van Overbeke Derk J. Haank Koninklijke KPN N.V. operates a cash pool for the KPN group Marieke Snoep Peter F. Hartman which leads to accounts receivables from and accounts payable Babak Fouladi Edzard J.C. Overbeek to subsidiaries. In 2019, accounts receivable from subsidiaries increased significantly, mainly due to Capex and other Hilde Garssen Jolande C.M. Sap investments made by subsidiaries. Accounts payable to Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk subsidiaries also increased significantly, mainly due to cash flows from operating activities generated by subsidiaries. At 31 December 2018, intercompany receivables and payables were low due to a settlement. Accounts payable to subsidiaries at 164 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Dear Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s report, which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please see the next pages. Summary Conclusions Object of audit or review Outcome of our work performed Level of assurance Financial statements 2019 Unqualified conclusion Reasonable (audit) (consolidated and corporate) Sustainability information 2019: Unqualified conclusion Reasonable (audit) CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data Sustainability information 2019 in selected chapters and appendices Unqualified conclusion Limited (review) Other information, including the Reports by the Board of Management and No material misstatements to report the Supervisory Board Main features of our audit & review What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit & assurance matters Audit of financial statements 2019 Significant segments in the EUR 45 million, which represents 2.0% • Valuation (in)tangible assets, Netherlands, including ‘Consumer’, of EBITDA AL incl. goodwill ‘Business’, ‘Wholesale’ and ‘Network, • Valuation deferred tax assets Operations and IT’ • IFRS16 • Reliability of IT systems, including security and cybercrime Audit of CO₂e emission data 2019 Netherlands 5% deviation per item • No areas of specific focus (Scope 1 and 2) own NL operations and the underlying energy data Review of sustainability information Selected chapters and appendices Specific materiality levels for each • CO₂e Scope 3 estimates, energy for 2019 element of the sustainability savings by customers information in scope • RepTrak pulse score, Net Promoter Score Procedures for Other information, Full reports Similar materiality as our audit or review • No areas of specific focus including Reports by the Board scopes. of Management and Supervisory Board KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 165 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Other Information Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2019 Basis for our conclusions financial statements and sustainability information We performed our assurance engagements in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Our conclusions Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance engagements relating to We have audited the financial statements 2019 of KPN based in sustainability reports”, which is a specified Dutch Standard that Rotterdam. The financial statements include the Consolidated is based on the International Standard on Assurance Financial Statements and the Corporate Financial Statements. Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ”Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our In our opinion: responsibilities under those standards are further described in • the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give the section Our responsibilities in this report. a true and fair view of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2019 and of its result and its cash flows for 2019 We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is in accordance with International Financial Reporting sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; Our independence • the accompanying corporate financial statements give We are independent of KPN in accordance with the EU a true and fair view of the financial position of KPN as at Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of 31 December 2019 and of its result for 2019 in accordance public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the Verordening inzake de We have reviewed the sustainability information for the year onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten 2019 of KPN. A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation assurance. Furthermore, we have audited the CO₂e emission with respect to independence) and other relevant independence data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not and the underlying energy data. The scope of our engagements perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest is described in the section Our Scope. with our independent assurance engagements. Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels Based on our review procedures performed, nothing has come accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in scope does not present, in all material respects, Reporting criteria a reliable and adequate view of KPN’s policy and business operations with regard to sustainability and the thereto related The information in the scope of our engagements needs to be events and achievements for 2019, in accordance with the GRI read and understood together with the reporting criteria. KPN is Standards (comprehensive option) and the supplemental KPN solely responsible for selecting and applying these reporting reporting criteria as disclosed in Appendix 3: Transparency, criteria, taking into account applicable law and regulations materiality and stakeholder engagement (hereinafter: related to reporting. The reporting criteria used for the Transparency) of the Integrated Annual Report. preparation of the Integrated Annual Report are described below. In our opinion, the CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of The absence of an established practice on which to draw, to own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy evaluate and measure sustainability information allows for data as presented on page 50 of the Integrated Annual Report different, but acceptable, measurement techniques and can are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the affect comparability between entities and over time. Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards) (comprehensive option) and the Consolidated Financial Statements: International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European applied supplemental KPN reporting criteria as disclosed in Union (EU-IFRS) and Part 9 of Book 2 Appendix 3: Transparency, of the Integrated Annual Report. of the Dutch Civil Code. Based on the procedures performed required by Part 9 of Book Corporate Financial Statements, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720, we Report by the Board of Management Code. conclude that the other information included in the Integrated and the Supervisory Board: Annual Report, including the Reports by the Board of Sustainability information including GRI Standards (comprehensive option) Management and Supervisory Board: the CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope and the applied supplemental • Is consistent with the financial statements and does not 1 and 2) and the underlying energy reporting criteria as disclosed in contain material misstatements; data: Appendix 3: Transparency of the Integrated Annual Report. These • Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 and criteria include the Greenhouse Gas section 2:135b of the Dutch Civil Code. Protocol (WRI/WBCSD). 166 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Our scope The references to external sources or websites in the Our engagements scope sustainability information are not part of the sustainability The Integrated Annual Report 2019 (hereafter: the Report) of information as reviewed by us, except for Appendix 6: Social KPN consists of the financial statements and other information, figures, Appendix 7: Environmental figures and Appendix 9: GRI including Reports by the Board of Management and Supervisory index, which are available on the website of KPN. We therefore Board, that provides altogether an overview of the policy, do not provide assurance on this information. activities, events and performances related to both the financial position and the sustainable development of KPN during Our scope for the group audit of the financial statements reporting year 2019. The following information in the Report has KPN is head of a group of entities, both in the Netherlands and been in scope for our assurance engagements: abroad. The Dutch entities and segments thereby form the majority of the business. The financial information of all these • The Consolidated Financial Statements, comprising: entities has been included in the Consolidated Financial – The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 Statements. December 2019; – The Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss, Other Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are Comprehensive Income, Changes in Group Equity and Cash also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the Flows for 2019; group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and – The Notes comprising a summary of the significant extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group accounting policies and other explanatory information. entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or operations. On this basis, we selected group • The corporate financial statements, comprising: entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the – The Corporate Statement of Financial Position as at complete set of financial information or specific items. 31 December 2019; – The Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss for 2019; Our group audit mainly focused on the more significant – The Notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies segments in the Netherlands, including ‘Consumer’, ‘Business’, and other explanatory information. ‘Wholesale’ and ‘Network, Operations and IT’. We performed full scope audit procedures on the financial information of these • The sustainability information in scope comprising: segments. – Reasonable assurance – The CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and At other group entities we performed review procedures or the underlying energy data as presented on page 50 of the specific audit procedures. The group consolidation, financial Report; disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the – Limited assurance The sustainability information in the group engagement team at the company’s head office. These following chapters and appendices: included revenue assurance, purchase price allocation, taxation, – Chapters: ‘KPN at a glance’, ‘The value we create’ and ‘Tax fixed assets and goodwill impairment, pensions, derivative and regulation’; financial instruments, hedge accounting and share-based – Appendices: Appendix 2, 3, 6, 7 and 9. This includes payments. We involved several EY specialists to assist the audit Appendix 6: Social figures, Appendix 7: Environmental team, including specialists from our tax, valuations, actuarial and figures and Appendix 9: GRI Index, which are available on treasury departments. the website of KPN. By performing audit procedures at segment and at corporate • The other information, including the Reports by the Board of level as mentioned above, we have been able to obtain sufficient Management and Supervisory Board and the Remuneration and appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial Report required by Part 9 of Book 2 and section 2:135b of the information to provide an opinion about the Consolidated Dutch Civil Code. Financial Statements. Limitations to the scope of our assurance engagements The sustainability information contains prospective information, such as ambitions, strategy, plans, targets, expectations and estimates. Inherent to prospective information, the actual future results are uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the sustainability information. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 167 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Other Information Our focus on fraud and non-compliance with laws and Our audit response related to risks of non-compliance with regulations laws and regulations We assessed factors related to the risks of non-compliance with Our responsibility laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have Although we are not responsible for preventing fraud or a material effect on the financial statements from our general non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect nonindustry experience, through discussions with the management compliance with all laws and regulations, it is our responsibility board, reading minutes, inspection of internal audit and to obtain reasonable assurance that the financial statements, compliance reports, and performing substantive tests of details taken as a whole, are free from material misstatement, whether of classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures. caused by fraud or error. Non-compliance with laws and regulations may result in fines, We also inspected lawyers’ letters and correspondence with litigation or other consequences for the company that may have regulatory authorities and remained alert to any indication of a material effect on the financial statements. (suspected) non-compliance throughout the audit. Finally, we obtained written representations that all known instances of Our audit response related to fraud risks non-compliance with laws and regulations have been disclosed In order to identify and assess the risks of material to us. misstatements of the financial statements due to fraud, we obtained an understanding of KPN and its environment, Our focus on going concern including KPN’s internal control relevant to the audit and in In order to identify and assess the risks of going concern and to order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the circumstances. As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of going concern basis of accounting, we consider based on the management override of internal control. We do not audit audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists internal control per se for the purpose of expressing an opinion related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to We considered available information and made enquiries of draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures relevant executives, directors (including internal audit, legal, in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, compliance, human resources and segment directors) and the to modify our opinion. supervisory board. As part of our process of identifying fraud risks, we evaluated fraud risk factors with respect to financial Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up reporting fraud, misappropriation of assets and bribery and to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or corruption in close co-operation with our forensic specialists. conditions may cause a company to cease to continue as a going concern. We evaluated the design and the implementation and, where considered appropriate, tested the operating effectiveness, of internal controls that mitigate fraud risks. In addition, we performed procedures to evaluate key accounting estimates for management bias in particular relating to important judgment areas and significant accounting estimates as disclosed in Note 2 to the financial statements. We have also used data analysis to identify and address high-risk journal entries. We incorporated elements of unpredictability in our audit. We considered the outcome of our other audit procedures and evaluated whether any findings were indicative of fraud or non-compliance. If so, we reevaluate our assessment of fraud risk and its resulting impact on our audit procedures. 168 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Materiality Sustainability information Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality General levels for each part of the sustainability information and for the The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the sustainability information as a whole. When evaluating our application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to materiality levels, we have taken into account quantitative and provide assurance about whether the financial statements and qualitative considerations as well as the relevance of information the sustainability information in scope are free from material for both stakeholders and the organization. misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the which are identified during our assurance engagement and (economic) decisions of users taken on the basis of the Report. which in our view must be reported on quantitative or The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our qualitative grounds, would be reported to them. assurance procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions. Key audit & assurance matters Financial statements Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in our For the audit of the financial statements our considerations professional judgment, were of most significance in our regarding the materiality are as follows. assurance procedures for the financial statements and the Materiality EUR 45,000,000 sustainability information in scope. We have communicated the key audit and assurance matters to the Supervisory Board. The Benchmark used 2.0% of adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization after lease (EBITDA key audit and assurance matters are not a comprehensive AL). reflection of all matters discussed. Additional explanation The users of the financial statements of a for-profit These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance entity typically focus on operating performance, particularly profit before tax. Over the past years procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability KPN’s profit before tax heavily fluctuated, resulting information in scope as a whole and to conclude thereon, and from the impact of the discontinuance of operations we do not provide a separate conclusion on these matters. and other non-recurring transactions. Furthermore, we note that in KPN’s external communications, earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and In previous year ‘IFRS 15’ has been identified as key audit matter. amortization after lease (EBITDA AL) is commonly Since KPN incorporated IFRS 15 in their internal processes and used to report on financial performance. Considering recording, this is no longer a key audit matter. these aspects, we have concluded that EBITDA AL is the most appropriate and stable benchmark for KPN to base our materiality upon. The materiality is General observation thereby set at EUR 45,000,000, using a percentage of For the audit of the financial statements, we rely on KPN’s 2.0%, which is at the lower end of a generally accepted range. Last year we used the same internal control framework and its governance. The framework is percentage and amount. maintained by the business and continuously tested by KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. The Management Board and Audit Committee are being informed of the outcome of the tests We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible performed on a quarterly basis. For purposes of our audit, we misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of assess the adequacy of the framework and we test the work of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. We believe that KPN’s internal control framework meets the required criteria and it We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in allows us to perform a system-based audit in an effective the financial statements in excess of EUR 2.25 million, would be manner. reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. The key audit matters addressed below are all covered by KPN’s internal control framework and have been audited by us with satisfactory results. For the interest of the reader, we highlight the most important elements we focused on in 2019. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 169 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Other Information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Valuation of (in)tangible assets, including goodwill Under IFRS, it is required to annually test the amount We compared forecasted revenue and profit margins We concur with management that there is no need for of goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life for all cash generating units with the approved KPN impairments of goodwill and intangible assets with for impairment. KPN’s disclosures about goodwill and strategic plans. We also verified the assumptions to indefinite life and agree with the disclosures in Note 11. intangible assets are included in Note 11. which the outcome of the impairment test is most sensitive and reviewed the company’s statement that We concur with management on the impairments No impairments of goodwill and intangible assets with the headroom of the CGU’s is more than sufficient and recorded. indefinite life were recorded during 2019. therefore no sensitivity analysis needs to be disclosed in Note 11. On assets with finite lives an impairment test has to be performed if indications of impairment exist. Our audit procedures included, among others, using EY valuation specialists to assist us in verifying the Some triggering events were identified, for example in assumptions and methodologies used by KPN and the area of hardware and software that required evaluating the historical accuracy of management’s impairment testing and for which minor impairments estimates that drive the assessment, such as strategic were recorded, as included in Note 10 and 11. plans and expected growth rates. The impairment tests were important for our audit as the related asset amounts are significant and the assessment process itself is complex and requires judgment. The impairment test includes assumptions about future market or economic conditions. Taxes Deferred tax At 31 December 2019 the deferred tax assets are Our audit procedures related to the deferred tax We concur with the deferred tax assets recorded. valued at EUR 662 million and related disclosures are assets included, amongst others, using EY tax included in the Notes to the consolidated statement of specialists to assist us in verifying and interpreting the profit or loss in Note 8. agreements (‘vaststellingsovereenkomsten’) and other agreements reached with the Dutch Tax Authorities as The enacted Dutch tax law reduces the corporate well as evaluating the assumptions, such as expected income tax (CIT) in steps to 21.7% in 2021. IFRS future taxable income and methodologies used by the requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be company. measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the asset is realized or the This entailed reviewing the company’s latest approved liability is settled, the development of the Dutch CIT strategic plan. We discussed this plan with rate impacts the measurement of in particular the management and determined the reasonableness of carry forward, including deferred taxes on the balance the assumptions used regarding the recoverability of sheet as per year-end year-end 2019. the deferred tax assets and assessed the plan’s assumptions and sensitivities and evaluating the This item was significant to our audit because the historical accuracy of management’s estimates that assessment process is complex and judgmental and is drive the assessment. based on assumptions about expected future market or economic conditions. In auditing the tax positions we have taken into consideration the enacted Dutch tax law with respect to income tax rate. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations IFRS 16 IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ has become effective as of 2019 and Our audit procedures included, among others, to We concur with the adjustments and the disclosures has a significant impact on the financial statements as assess whether the implementation of the new made in the Report in Note 2 and 19. disclosed in Note 2, in which the 2018 financial standard was in accordance with IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. information has been restated. We concur with the recording of leases based on IFRS Our audit procedures included the IFRS 16 16 including the Notes 2 and 19 in the Report, the lease adjustments of the balances as of 1 January 2018, 31 terms and the incremental borrowing rate on which Most of KPN’s lease contracts include extension December 2018 and the results for year 2018. the calculations of the right-of-use-assets and the (renewal) or termination options. KPN exercises lease liabilities are based. significant judgment in determining whether these We have verified the assumptions on which KPN has options are reasonably certain to be exercised. based the lease terms (Note 2 and 19) and the incremental borrowing rates used by KPN. We also performed procedures in respect of the completeness of additions and changes to the leases population and the calculations made in the lease-tool used by KPN. Furthermore we have also verified whether the relevant disclosures in Note 2 and 19 are adequate. 170 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Reliability of IT systems, including security, cybercrime and data privacy At KPN, processes are highly automated and KPN As part of our audit, we have reviewed the quality of In a few instances, we identified situations where continuously invests in simplification and KPN’s IT systems and the controls embedded therein controls needed improvement. KPN has set-up improvement of IT systems, which has led to several with a purpose to express an opinion on the financial remediation procedures that we have also reviewed changes in 2019 that have been discussed on page 12. statements. For this purpose, we performed our own and tested with satisfactory results. procedures and reviewed and tested the work done by Reliability and security of IT systems are thereby high KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. Since this is on the agenda of KPN and for that purpose KPN’s highly specialized work, our audit team includes IT internal control framework includes several controls to specialists. ensure, inter alia, proper identity, access and change management of its IT systems. KPN also has a security team in place focusing on policies, security management and a team of ethical hackers. This team tests the security of KPN’s IT environment and imitates behavior of hackers to stay continuously up to date with the latest developments and helps KPN in managing their own security risks, including cybercrime and data privacy as disclosed on page 43 of the Integrated Annual Report. For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability information in scope, we identified the following key assurance matters: Key assurance matter How our review addressed the matter Key observations Estimations and assumptions in Scope 3 (CO₂e emissions) and energy savings by customers Inherent to the nature of information on Scope 3 Our review procedures focused on evaluating the We assessed the reporting criteria as suitable and (CO₂e emissions and energy savings by customers), is suitability and consistent application of the reporting consistently applied and the assumptions made as that they are to a large extent based on the use of criteria and assessing the reasonableness of the reasonable. We agreed that the methodologies used estimates and underlying assumptions as disclosed on assumptions made. We have also reviewed whether are sufficiently disclosed in Appendix 3. pages 186 and 187 of the Integrated Annual Report. the disclosures in the Report are adequate. Key assurance matter How our review addressed the matter Key observations Disclosure of methodology for RepTrak pulse score (reputation) and Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands (customer satisfaction) The indicators RepTrak and NPS are identified by Our review procedures focused on evaluating whether We assessed the reporting criteria as suitable and KPN as part of their representation of key the methodologies are suitable and assessing whether consistently applied. We agreed that the achievements. The indicators are for a substantial part the transparency on the methodologies and its methodologies used are sufficiently disclosed in measured by third parties. The outcomes are changes in the NPS methodology, as disclosed in Appendix 3. influenced by the methodologies used by the third Appendix 3 in KPN’s Report, are sufficient for a proper parties. understanding by the reader. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Engagement We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of Koninklijke KPN N.V. on 9 April 2014, as of the audit for the year 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since that date. No prohibited non-audit services We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 171 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Other Information Responsibilities Our responsibilities Responsibilities of Board of Management and the Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance Supervisory Board engagements in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and The Board of Management (hereafter: management) is appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusions. responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute, other information, including the Report by the Board of level of assurance, which means we may not detect all material Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch errors and fraud during our audit. The assurance procedures Civil Code and the other information required by Part 9 of Book performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed on 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the remuneration report in the plausibility of information and vary in nature and timing accordance with section 2:135b of the Dutch Civil Code. from, and are less in extent, than for obtaining reasonable assurance. The level of assurance obtained in a review is Management is also responsible for the preparation of reliable therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in an and adequate sustainability information in accordance with the audit. GRI Standards (comprehensive option) and the applied supplemental KPN reporting criteria, including the identification We apply the “Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen” of stakeholders and the determination of material topics. The (NVKS, Regulations for Quality management systems) and choices made by management in respect of the scope of the accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control Report and the reporting criteria are set out in the section including documented policies and procedures regarding entitled Appendix 3: Transparency, in the Integrated Annual compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards Report. and other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Management is also responsible for such internal control as A further description of our responsibilities is included in the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report. of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Amsterdam, 21 February 2020 As part of the preparation of the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting Ernst & Young Accountants LLP frameworks mentioned, management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and signed by F.J. Blenderman circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s reporting process. 172 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report Work performed We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements performed by a multi-disciplinary team, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial Our review to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability information in scope included amongst statements (consolidated and corporate) included the others: following: •P  erforming an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant • Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement social themes and issues and the characteristics of the company. of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or errors, •E  valuating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their consistent application and related designing and performing audit procedures responsive to disclosures in the sustainability information. This includes the evaluation of the results of the those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates by management. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not •O  btaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability information, including detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is obtaining a general understanding of internal control relevant to our review. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve •R  econciling the relevant financial information with the financial statements. collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, •O  btaining an understanding of the procedures performed by the internal audit department of KPN. or the override of internal control. • Identifying areas of the sustainability information with a higher risk of misleading or unbalanced • Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the information or material misstatements, whether due to fraud or errors. Designing and performing audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate further procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the sustainability information responsive in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an to this risk analysis. These further review procedures consisted amongst others of: opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible for the sustainability • Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used strategy, policies and results. and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal disclosures made by management. control procedures on, and consolidating the data in the sustainability information. • Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of -O  btaining assurance information that the sustainability information reconciles with underlying the financial statements, including the disclosures. records of the company. • Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the -R  eviewing, on a limited test basis, relevant internal and external documentation. underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves -P  erforming an analytical review of the data and trends in the information submitted for fair presentation. consolidation at corporate level. •E  valuating the consistency of the sustainability information in scope with the information in the Report which is not included in the scope of our assurance engagement •E  valuating the overall presentation, structure and content of the sustainability information. •C  onsidering whether the sustainability information as a whole, including the disclosures, reflects the purpose of the reporting criteria used. In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for the CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data we designed and performed further audit procedures responsive to the risks identified, and obtained audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk that the CO₂e emission data 2019 is misleading or unbalanced, or the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from errors. Fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. These further audit procedures included the following procedures: • Obtaining a more detailed understanding of systems and reporting processes, including obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to our assurance engagement, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. •E  valuating the design, implementation and operating of the relevant internal controls during the reporting year. • Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and substantive testing procedures on the relevant data. •E  valuating relevant internal and external documentation, on a test basis, to determine the reliability of the CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 and Section 2:135b sub-Section 7 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed on the other information is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements or in our review of the sustainability information. Communication We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance engagements. In this respect we also submit an additional report to the Audit Committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements, the review of the sustainability information in scope and the audit of the CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data of the current period and are therefore the key audit and assurance matters. We describe these matters in our combined independent auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 173 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Appendix 1: Alternative Performance Measures In the discussion of KPN’s financial results, a number of Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA after leases alternative performance measures (non-GAAP figures) are used (Adjusted EBITDA AL) to provide readers with additional financial information, that is Adjusted revenues are derived from revenues (including other regularly reviewed by management. These non-GAAP figures income), adjusted for the impact of incidentals. Incidentals are should not be viewed as a substitute for KPN’s financial results non-recurring transactions which are not directly related to as determined in accordance with IFRS, which are presented in day-to-day operational activities at or over EUR 5m, unless KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, the additional significant for the specific reportable segment. information presented is not uniformly defined by all companies, including KPN’s peers. Therefore, the non-GAAP figures Following the introduction of IFRS 16 and the significant impact presented may not be comparable with similarly named of this new standard on KPN’s financial results and internal numbers and disclosures by other companies. In addition, spend control, KPN introduced ‘adjusted EBITDA after leases’ readers should be aware that certain information presented is (or ‘adjusted EBITDA AL’) as an alternative performance derived from amounts determined under IFRS, but is not in itself measure. KPN’s peers introduced a similar alternative for an expressly defined GAAP measure. Such non-GAAP measures EBITDA. should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to an equivalent GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA AL is derived from EBITDA and is adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals (‘adjusted’) and KPN’s management considers these non-GAAP figures, for lease-related expenses (‘after leases’ or ‘AL’). Lease-related combined with GAAP performance measures and in conjunction expenses in this definition are the depreciation and impairment with each other, the most appropriate to measure the expenses of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities, performance of the group and its segments. The non-GAAP as well as the gains or losses arising upon remeasurement or figures are used by management for planning, reporting (early) termination of a lease. (internal and external) and incentive purposes. All non-GAAP figures are based on continuing operations unless stated otherwise. KPN’s main non-GAAP figures are explained below. EBITDA KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation (including impairments) of PPE and amortization (including impairments) of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the results as reported under IFRS as adopted by the European Union. 2018 € million 2019 (Restated) Total revenues and other income 5,702 5,639 Cost of goods & services 1,301 1,332 Personnel expenses 1,027 1,103 Information technology/Technical infrastructure 353 412 Other operating expenses 443 439 Total operating expenses (excl. D&A) 3,124 3,286 EBITDA 2,578 2,353 174 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues for the full year: FY 2018 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2019 reported adjusted y-on-y y-on-y € million reported Incidentals adjusted restated Incidentals restated reported adjusted Consumer 2,916 – 2,916 2,986 – 2,986 -2.3% -2.3% Business 2,067 25 2,042 2,137 – 2,137 -3.3% -4.4% Wholesale 818 190 628 623 – 623 31% 0.7% Network, Operations & IT 6 – 6 14 – 14 -60% -60% Other (incl. eliminations) -105 – -105 -121 – -121 -13% -13% KPN Group 5,702 215 5,486 5,639 – 5,639 1.1% -2.7% The following table specifies the revenue incidentals: restructuring costs and incidentals. Through its nature, the program will also mean a reduction in FTEs. The baseline for € million Segment FY 2019 FY 2018 measurement is the operating expense level at the end of 2018. Book gain on sale of NLDC Wholesale 171 – The baseline is adjusted for major changes in the composition of Book gain on sale of International the group in the years 2019-2021 (acquisitions and disposals). Network Services Business 25 – The program has generated net indirect opex savings of EUR Change in revenue related provisions Wholesale 20 – 141m by the end of 2019. Total revenue incidentals 215 – Free cash flow (FCF) FCF is defined as cash flow from continuing operating activities The following table shows the key items between reported and plus proceeds from disposals of PPE minus Capex (investments in adjusted EBITDA AL for the full year: PPE and software) and adjusted for repayments of lease liabilities. FY 2018 € million FY 2019 (Restated) y-on-y 2018 EBITDA 2,578 2,353 9.6% € million 2019 (restated) Net cash flow provided by operating Incidentals -210 16 n.m. activities from continuing operations 2,005 2,099 Restructuring 115 101 13% Capex -1,115 -1,106 Lease-related expenses Proceeds from real estate 1 5 Depreciation right-of-use assets -138 -146 -6.0% Repayments of lease liabilities -141 -149 Interest lease liabilities -28 -33 -16% Free cash flow from continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA after leases 2,317 2,290 1.2% (incl. TEFD dividend) 750 849 Free cash flow from continuing operations (excl. TEFD dividend) 726 795 The following table specifies the EBITDA AL incidentals: € million Segment FY 2019 FY 2018 Leverage ratio Book gain on sale of NLDC Revenue 171 – KPN defines its leverage ratio as net debt (excl. lease liabilities) Book gain on the sale of International divided by the 12-month rolling adjusted EBITDA AL. The ratio Revenue 25 – is adjusted for major changes in the composition of the KPN Network Services Change in revenue related provisions Revenue 20 – Group (acquisitions and disposals) when applicable. Addition to asset retirement Other operating Net debt is defined as gross debt less net cash and short-term – -11 investments. Gross debt is defined as the nominal value of obligation expenses Other operating interest-bearing financial liabilities representing the net Change of provisions -6 -5 expenses repayment obligations in euro, excluding derivatives, related KPN Group 210 -16 collateral and leases, and taking into account 50% of the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments. Net opex reduction Program For the calculation of KPN’s leverage ratio, see Note 12.4 to the KPN’s net opex reduction program is directed at reducing KPN’s Financial Statements. net indirect operating expenses after leases. The program is directed at the operating expense categories personnel, IT/TI, other operating expenses and lease-related expenses, excluding KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 175 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Appendix 2: Connectivity of non-financial information Reference Strategic Pillar Material topic Critical Performance Indicator Target 2019 Result 2019 Customer Focusing on profitable Customer interaction NPS CM Mobile 17 20 Value growth segments Fair marketing and communication NPS CM Fixed 17 18 NPS CM N/a 19 NPS BM 2 -4 Impact on Focusing on profitable Customer interaction % chronically ill children provided with 100% 100% society growth segments a KPN Klasgenoot (1,046) Converged Building the best Network quality, FttH households compared N/a +~120k smart converged smart reliability and to end 2018 infrastructure infrastructure availability Responsible operations 5G ready N/a ~640 sites Weighted downtime -25% -36% (compared to last year YTD) % of households with possibility of 75-80% 75% access to at least 100Mbps connection # of customers connected in rural areas N/a 54,734 with 4G or combined 4G/DSL solutions Average 4G Download speed per 60Mbps 68Mbps year-end Focused Focusing on profitable Data and information # of people with secure digital access to 35,000 43,432 innovation and growth segments protection healthcare information digitalization Innovation in products and services # of professionals with secure digital N/a N/a access to healthcare information # of elderly facilitated to live 12,500 12,015 independently # consumers and patients using N/a N/a healthcare facilities to live with more autonomy 1 KPI discontinued due to focus on NPS CM total 2 The reported figure for 2017 has not been restated according to the calculation method used in 2019 3 In 2020, KPN reconsiders this KPI in order to define a KPI that represents the impact of downtime on customers 4 KPI discontinued due to focus on strategic goals 2019-2021 5 KPI discontinued and replaced by target to # of professionals 6 KPI discontinued and replaced by target # of KPN vitaal/zorgvrij customers 176 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Result 2018 Result 2017 Target 2020 Target 2021 or beyond GRI reference Impact/SDG 16 14 Discontinued¹ – Customer interaction: 9. Industry, Infrastructure and Own indicator Innovation 13 11 Discontinued¹ – 14 13 21 – -1 -1² 2 – 100% 100% 100% 100% in 2021 and 2022 Economic performance 4. Q uality Education (1,041) (1,109) Customer interaction: Own indicator N/a N/a – +1 million Network quality, reliability & 9. Industry, Infrastructure and availability: Innovation Own indicator 11. Sustainable Cities and N/a N/a – 100% 5G ready Communities -25% -38% N/a³ – N/a 76% Discontinued⁴ – 27,492 N/a Discontinued⁴ – 53Mbps 58Mbps 75Mbps – 31,990 N/a Discontinued⁵ – Customer privacy 3. Good Health and Well-being Data and information protection: 9. Industry, Infrastructure and Own indicator Innovation N/a N/a 55,000 – 12,283 11,446 Discontinued⁶ – N/a N/a 14,000 – KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 177 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Reference Strategic Pillar Material topic Critical Performance Indicator Target 2019 Result 2019 Safeguarded Building the best Data and information % customers helped who were infected 98.5% ~100% privacy and converged smart protection by malware (within 8 hours) security infrastructure Percentage of Dutch people that believe 70% 68% their data is safe with KPN Monitoring of all Dutch municipalities N/a N/a for cybersecurity attacks so that the appropriate mitigation can take place Sustainable Focusing on profitable KPN's corporate Overall percentage of women at KPN in 23% 21% employability growth segments governance and human the Netherlands Building the best converged rights compliance smart infrastructure % of KPN employees in the NL who feel 90% N/a² Accelerating simplification they can work in line with HNLW and digitalization Sustainable employability: % of 80% 85% employees with a new job < 1 year after leaving KPN Employee survey score for engagement 78% 77% Environmental Building the best converged Energy usage Energy savings by customers as % of 89%³ 93% performance smart infrastructure Sustainable ICT KPN Group solutions CO₂e reduction in the chain (scope3) 17% 16% compared to 2014 % reduction of energy consumption of 28%³ 30% KPN Group compared with 2010 Energy efficiency improvement data 13% N/a5 centers compared to 2010 Absolute car-fuel savings compared to 49%³ 49% 2010 % collected customer premises 70% 78% equipment Climate-neutral own operations 100% 100% % Reuse and recycling 77%³ 76% % CO₂e neutral cars added to company 20% 33% fleet in reporting year (lease pool + engineers) Responsible Building the best converged S upplier selection and % realized improvements on corrective 70% 88% supply chain smart infrastructure good governance action plans -K PN's corporate governance and human % high-risk Tier I, Tier II and Tier III 40% 41% rights compliance suppliers audited 1 KPI discontinued since automation of activities results in nearly 100% performance 2 KPI discontinued due to regular way of working and no longer a goal in itself 3 2019 targets and 2018 results are restated due to the sale of NL|DC 4 Due to refining our methodology, we restated our scope 3 figures for previous years 5 KPI discontinued due to the sale of NL|DC 178 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Result 2018 Result 2017 Target 2020 Target 2021 or beyond GRI reference Impact/SDG ~99% ~99% Discontinued¹ – Customer privacy 9. Industry, Infrastructure and Data and information protection: Innovation Own indicator 11. Sustainable Cities and 69% 70% 70% Improve % annually to remain Communities undisputed market leader N/a N/a 40% 70% 22% 23% 24% – Supplier selection and good 4. Quality Education governance: 5. Gender Equality Own indicator 8. Decent Work and Economic 86% 77% Discontinued² – Growth 85% 83% >80% – 77% 80% 80% – 88%³ 77% 94% 95% in 2021 Materials 12.Responsible Consumption Effluents and waste and Production 16%4 11%4 17% 20% reduction in 2025 30% reduction in 2030 50% reduction in 2040 27%³ 24% 29% 34% in 2022 44% in 2030 12% 15% Discontinued5 – 45%³ 43% 50% 100% inflow of CO₂e neutral cars as from 2025 67% 69% 80% 84% 100% 100% 100% 100% 75%³ 65% 79% 82% 19% 7% 35% 38%, given availability of cars, fiscal climate, mobility measures 77% 82% 75% 75% Supplier selection and good 12. Responsible Consumption governance: and Production Own indicator 17. Partnership for the Goals 42% 42% 40% 40% KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 179 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement About this report Scope sustainability information Option Comprehensive and self-developed reporting criteria as The purpose of the information in this report is to inform our disclosed in this Appendix. We comply with the EU Directive stakeholders about our role in the society, in connection with Non-Financial Reporting, and integrated all elements in our our main strategic objectives and targets. We define our Integrated Annual Report. stakeholders as all people and organizations affected by our operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, such as The Option Comprehensive of the GRI Standards means that employees, governments and regulators, the investor KPN reports on all general standard disclosures and all specific community, suppliers, customers, and the society. For more standard disclosures related to identified material topics. The information on our stakeholder approach for specific process for defining the material topics and report content, as stakeholder groups, see Stakeholder dialogue in this Appendix. well as the list of material topics, is described in the materiality The scope of the information in this report covers the KPN determination. The results of this assessment (list of material Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority topics for KPN, including their reporting priority) determine shareholding. which GRI indicators are set out in the Integrated Report and which indicators are featured only on our website or in our GRI The scope has not changed compared with last year’s report. index. The overview can be found in the GRI index in Appendix Unless stated otherwise, references to KPN should be read as 9: GRI Index. In addition to these GRI Standards, KPN included referring to the KPN Group. For our non-financial information, the pilot version of the Telecommunications Sector Supplement, we include new acquisitions in our report as of the first full year as published by GRI in 2003, in determining material disclosures, of ownership. Non-financial information for divestments that resulting in five additional topics and indicators in the GRI index. occurred during the reporting year is excluded for the full year. For one high material topic, customer loyalty, KPN uses and The data in this report refers to KPN’s performance and not to reports bespoke performance indicators, as outlined in the GRI that of our subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. The full Index in Appendix 9 . scope of the financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 98 to 164). This report The GRI index specifies the aspect boundaries and omitted specifically reviews developments and performance in 2019 and indicators where relevant (including clarifications). This is based on topics identified as high material for KPN. The Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with described scope applies to all material topics. Aspects of a more the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. Where available and static nature (such as our management approaches to our CSR relevant, the report includes data for previous years. themes and our stakeholders) or with less reporting priority Quantitative data concerning the workforce and financial results (such as the list of external memberships) are included in the set out in this report has been collected using our financial data GRI Index (www.kpn.com/annualreport) or reported on management system. The remaining data, set out in this report, corporate.kpn.com/dutchsociety.htm. has been collected using a standardized questionnaire that was completed with data from information management systems by Reporting criteria non-financial information the responsible KPN business units. The Internal Audit and The Integrated Annual Report is published on 24 February 2020. Corporate Control departments used consistency and We prepared this report in line with the International Integrated availability of supporting evidence as the basis for their Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated Reporting (IR) framework. assessment of the data reported at group level. Validation For the sustainability information included in this report we criteria set out in advance were also used to assess the data. followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 180 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices EU Directive: Disclosure of non-financial information and diversity information Requirements EU Directive Subtopic Chapter / Page reference A brief description of the business model The business environment Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8-11 Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12-15 Our valuable assets, p. 56-57 Organization and structure Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12-15 Our valuable assets, p. 56-57 Markets where the undertaking operates Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8-11 Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12-15 Our valuable assets, p. 56-57 Objectives and strategies Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12-15 Our valuable assets, p. 56-57 Main trends and factors that may affect the undertaking’s Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8-11 future development Relevant social and personnel matters A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 (e.g. HR, safety etc.) The outcome of those policies Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Appendix 4: Top risks, p. 196-202 How risks are managed Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 Appendix 4: Top risks, p. 196-202 Non-financial key performance indicators Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 Relevant environmental matters A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, (e.g. climate-related impacts) p 48-53 The outcome of those policies Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 How risks are managed Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 Non-financial key performance indicators Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 Relevant matters with respect for human A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence Procurement and suppliers, p. 52-53 rights (e.g. labor protection) The outcome of those policies Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Procurement and suppliers, p. 52-53 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Procurement and suppliers, p. 52-53 How risks are managed Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 Sustainable employability p. 45-47 Procurement and suppliers, p. 52-53 Non-financial key performance indicators Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Procurement and suppliers, p. 52-53 Relevant matters with respect to A description of the policies pursued, including due diligence Implement a strong risk culture, p. 66-67 anti-corruption and bribery Insider transactions, p. 78 Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 181 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Requirements EU Directive Subtopic Chapter / Page reference The outcome of those policies Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 Principle risks in own operations and within value chain Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 Relevant matters with respect to How risks are managed Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 anti-corruption and bribery Compliance & risk, p. 66-72 Non-financial key performance indicators Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Insight into the diversity (Board of A description of the policies pursued Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Management and Supervisory board) Supervisory Board Report, p. 80-85 Diversity targets Sustainable employability, p. 45-47 Supervisory Board Report, p. 80-85 Description of how the policy is implemented Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Supervisory Board report, p. 95-100 Results of the diversity policy Sustainable employability, p. 64-66 Supervisory Board report, p. 95-100 Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures KPN recognizes the recommendations of the Taskforce on as included in the chapter Environmental performance and Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) as an important responsible supply chain and related appendices. Our risk step in providing transparency on climate strategy. We have framework is described in the Chapter Compliance & Risk and mapped the elements of this framework to our current reporting Appendix 4 contains the list of top risks. TCFD Element TCFD Recommendation KPN Reporting on TCFD guidelines Governance Describe the governance of Board of Management related to Corporate governance, p. 58-61 climate-related risks and opportunities Describe the role of management on the judgement and Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 governance of climate-related risks and opportunities. Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 Strategy Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities as SWOT analysis, p. 11 described on short, midterm and long-term timeframe. Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 on business activity, strategy and financial planning of the Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 organization. Describe the agility of the strategy, taking climate-related Environmental performance and sustainable supply chain, p. 48 scenarios into account, amongst others a scenario to stay Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 within the 2-degrees Celsius limit for global warming. Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 We performed scenario analysis on long-term energy pricing taking the impact of CO2e-price regulation into account. Risk Management Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities as Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 described on short, midterm and long term timeframe. Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 Describe the processes the organization uses to manage Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 climate-related risks and opportunities. Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 Describe how processes for the identification, assessment and Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 management of climate-related risks are integrated into the Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 risk approach of the organization. Indicators and objectives Describe the organizational processes for identification and Compliance and risk, p. 66-72 assessment of climate-related risks. Appendix 4: List of top risks, p. 194-200 Report on scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 Report on performance to climate-related objectives Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48-53 182 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices External assurance Scoping and calculation methodologies To give our stakeholders confidence in our reporting, we environmental figures engaged EY as an independent assurance provider to perform an assurance engagement with the aim of obtaining reasonable assurance on CO₂e emission data 2019 (Scope 1 and 2) of own Scoping and calculation of reported emissions operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data In the Integrated Annual Report, KPN reports the CO₂e as presented on page 50 of the Integrated Annual Report, and emissions in the chapter Environmental performance and limited assurance on other sustainability information as responsible supply chain and in Appendix 7. Reporting is done in disclosed in the following chapters and appendices: accordance with the guidance and standards of the Greenhouse • Chapters: KPN at a glance and The value we create; Gas Protocol and the ISO 14064-1 standard. KPN uses the • Appendices: Appendix 1-7: This includes Appendix 6: Social operational control approach when reporting CO₂ emissions. figure’, Appendix 7: Environmental figures (including Scope 3 Carbon dioxide (CO₂) is the most relevant greenhouse gas to CO₂e emissions) and Appendix 9: GRI Index, which are KPN. Where available, we have taken CH₄ and N₂O into available on the website of KPN. consideration in our greenhouse gas emissions information. We use the term ‘CO₂e-emissions’ to refer to the greenhouse The key social and environmental figures, which are available in gas emissions reported on. These are stated in CO₂ equivalents. the Appendices 6 and 7 on www.kpn.com/annualreport, are also The KPN emissions report is subdivided in scope 1-3 as set out part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed numbers below. on key figures that reflect on high material topics within the report (such as CO₂e emissions and electricity consumption). Scope 1 – Direct emissions: The report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, • Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ strategy, targets and expectations. Inherent to this information passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) is that actual future results may be different from the • Heating of buildings (gas) prospective information and therefore it may be uncertain. • Consumption of coolants for air conditioning and/or cooling Therefore, the assumptions and feasibility of this prospective • Fuel consumption of emergency power generators information is not covered by the external assurance. Scope 2 – Indirect emissions: The Audit Committee approved every engagement of the • Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks, data external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal auditor, in centers, offices and shops order to avoid potential breaches of the external auditor’s • District heating independence. For EY’s assurance report see p. 165 173. • District cooling Reporting ambitions The accuracy of the electricity consumption data is a key factor KPN adheres to several reporting benchmarks, like the Dow in the reliability of the CO₂e-emissions calculations. In the Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency data-collection process, a number of factors affect the accuracy Benchmark. By doing this, we keep improving our performance of the collected data. In general, data originating from direct and our way of reporting by comparing it with that of our peers measurements and recordings or invoices, including and expectations from the industry and other stakeholders. Our measurements from third parties, are the most accurate. reporting ambitions for the coming years are to: keep reporting in line with the IIRC framework and in accordance with GRI The net Scope 2 emissions are market-based and calculated standards; keep reporting on high material topics; report more based on the tank-to-wheel (TTW) CO₂e emissions factors for on qualitative and quantitative value creation for society; and renewable electricity. For renewables (wind, biomass, solar), the maintain a leading position in several benchmarks like the TTW values are all zero. The CO₂eemissions of the well-to-tank Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency (WTT) phase are accounted for in our Scope 3 emissions Benchmark. (category 3 – fuel and energy-related activities). On page 50 both the location based and the market based scope 2 emissions are published. As our electricity providers estimate the consumption for part of our network operations as monthly meter reading are not always conducted some uncertainty exists about the accuracy and completeness of our energy consumption. To improve accuracy and transparency, we are migrating to remote readable meters, reviewing admin processes and updating profiles with KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 183 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices our electricity providers to improve the reliability of our energy The spend-based method, which takes procurement data and data. We report our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions and energy calculates the emissions within an environmentally extended consumption excluding NL|DC. NL|DC is reported separately economic input-output (EEIO) model to assess the emissions. until 1 October 2019 due the sale of NL|DC. Previous years for We used actual data covering January to November and NL|DC are based on full year basis. extrapolated to full year. The process-based method, which uses quantity-based data to Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions: evaluate the emissions associated with specific activities, e.g. Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the production kWh of energy usage or quantity of materials purchased to phase of our products, services and equipment at our suppliers). manufacture goods. Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use phase, We used actual data covering January to November and including recycling and disposal of the products, services and extrapolated to full year. All parameters used in the scope 3 equipment). The results are presented on page 50 and in Table 7 calculation are checked annually whether new values are of Appendix 7: Environmental figures. We have used two main available or not. We assess suppliers with zero net emissions methodologies to calculate our Scope 3 emissions: and adjust accordingly. Calculation of emission methods, coverage and assurance is described in the table below. Location/ Emission factor / Scope CO₂e Standard Scope Coverage Approach Market-based Assurance Green energy Scope 1 GHG Protocol KPN Group 98% of all KPN Operational Market based NL: Reasonable co2emissiefactoren.nl Scope 1 business units control approach version 4-1-2020 Gold Guidance and subsidiaries standard & REDD+ (opex/FTE) forest compensation projects Scope 2 GHG Protocol KPN Group 98% of all KPN Operational Market based NL: Reasonable co2emissiefactoren.nl Scope 2 business units control approach version 4-1-2020 Guidance and subsidiaries 100% green electricity (opex/FTE) Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Spend based Location based Limited UK DEFRA 2014 Cat: Scope 3 Guidance business units (Environmentally (Indirect emissions 1, 2, 5, 9 and subsidiaries Extended Input from the supply chain) (opex/FTE) Output data and CBS Statline The (EEIO) approach) EEIO-factors are corrected for inflation. Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Process and Location based Limited co2emissiefactoren.nl Cat: Scope 3 Guidance business units activity based version 4-1-2020 3, 6, 7, 11, 13 and subsidiaries (opex/FTE) Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Not applicable Not applicable Limited Not applicable Cat: 4, 8, 10, 12, Scope 3 Guidance business units for KPN 14, 15 and subsidiaries (opex/FTE) Energy consumption and carbon emission avoided through customers using our IT solutions The calculation of the avoided energy consumption, CO₂e emission and the cost reduction for our customers is based on models per service. The results are presented on page 52 and in Table 9 of Appendix 7: Environmental Figures. 184 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Kind of avoidance Avoided energy consumption (most impact) KPN measurement Source external information Teleworking Avoided travel Market-share broadband subscribers Publicly available statistics and reports from CBS, (enabled by KPN connectivity) based on Telecompaper Research Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid, ECN, Netbeheer Nederland, Milieu Centraal, Telecompaper and other sources KPN Audioconferencing Avoided travel Number of audio-conferencing; Publicly available statistics and reports from CBS, average number participants Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid, British Telecom and per meeting CarbonTrust KPN Hosting Electricity savings Volume-hosting services CBS Dematerialization Energy and raw materials CD and DVD papers avoided NVPI, Sociaal en Cultureel Planbureau, SVDJ, RVO, CE Delft, savings by e.g. Spotify, Netflix WWF and, CarbonTrust iTV Cloud solution Energy and raw materials Number of customers, Screenforce savings energy consumption KPN Cloud for iTV KPN Video Conferencing Avoided travel Number of video conferences; CBS Onderzoek Verplaatsingen in Nederland average travel savings per meeting In the calculation we used actual data covering January to The outflow of materials and waste is reported in Appendix 7, November and extrapolated to full year. All parameters are table 10 in accordance with GRI-306-2. The following disposal checked annually for updates by KPN and Navigant and all methods are reported with reference to GRI-306-2: Reuse (i), updates and changes in calculation and reference values are Recycling (ii, iii), Incineration (iv, v) and Landfill (vii). checked and reviewed by Navigant. For the parameters saved The other disposal methods Deep well injection (vi), On-site on office space and the extra electricity and gas consumption at storage (viii) and other (ix) do not apply. The waste disposal home when working at home (rebound effect), the values used method is mostly determined by selected service partners and in the Teleworking savings calculation are based on averages. their waste-disposal contractor, where we challenge them on The average between the lowest and highest reported value in methods and performance. As part of our circular ambition, we reports and research is used. Cost savings are based on the promote reuse over recycling, and then incineration with energy average fuel, electricity and gas prices published by CBS and recovery over landfill to minimize ecological impacts. Our service Milieu Centraal. In previous years the table included the partners report the waste volumes (tons) on a quarterly basis. category “KPN housing (colocation)”. Because of the divestment These volumes are allocated to the four types of disposal of NL|DC this category was removed for all reporting years. This method based on processing rates (%) from direct information allows for better comparison. or public information. The KPI % reuse and recycling is then calculated by dividing the tons reuse and recycling by the total Scope and calculations KPI % Reuse and recycling volume. The KPI % Reuse & recycling considers the outflow of KPN Other calculation methodologies materials and waste destined to be reused, recycled, incinerated or landfilled. This means the scope includes, but is not limited to: RepTrak Regular waste streams from KPN offices and operations; RepTrak is developed by the Reputation Institute and is used as Obsolete (end-of-use) equipment and inventory coming from a method to calculate the reputation score of companies KPN operations, offices and shops; worldwide. The RepTrak methodology also measures the drivers Obsolete (end-of-use) customer-premises equipment and of reputation and the consequences for supportive behavior. mobile phones that are collected via KPN return programs and The Reputation Institute’s policy is to adjust all RepTrak scores which are processed by KPN or on KPN’s behalf. by standardizing them against the aggregate distribution of all The scope therefore does not include obsolete (end-of-use) scores obtained from the Reputation Institutes’s Annual Global customer-premises equipment, mobile phones and related RepTrak Pulse. Standardization has the effect of lowering scores packaging that are not collected via KPN return programs. In in countries that tend to over-rate companies, and has the effect this case the customer takes responsibility to dispose of this in of raising scores for companies in countries that tend to rate accordance with law and regulations and local waste-collection companies more negatively. procedures. Because of the divestment of NL|DC, their waste All RepTrak scores are culturally standardized. This means that figures were removed for all reporting years as they are all RepTrak results are comparable across countries, industries non-material. and over time. Every month, the progress on the key attributes KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 185 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices that stimulate reputation and supportive behavior is measured. This year we conducted a review process based on last years’ The results are based on a minimum of 300 respondents per results. The process consisted of four steps. The main change company each quarter. The data collection method is an online compared to last year is the exclusion of the topic ‘Economic interview of 20 minutes. The qualified respondents have to be value’. This is mainly due to a review in abstraction level, which familiar or very familiar with the company. Per 1 January 2011, will be discussed further in step 2. In the following paragraphs Reputation Institute started using an updated cultural bias the process steps will be elaborated on. adjustment procedure, whereby the cultural adjustment analysis was rebased based on the latest reputation scores. Because Step 1: Review relevance topics for 2019 KPN was already in the midst of the process of setting KPIs, KPN Compared to last year we broadened the definition of requested the Reputation Institute to report KPN’s reputation materiality. As a result, we ensured alignment with the GRI scores using the ‘old’ cultural bias adjustment analysis. Hence, minimum requirements, while incorporating insights from other this report shows ‘unrebased’ reputation scores for KPN. KPN reporting initiatives. The definition applied for a material topic reports the fourth quarterly average in the Integrated Report for this report is any topic that significantly influences the organization or on which the organization has a significant Net Promoter Score (NPS) impact with its activities. This includes positive and negative and We use NPS as the leading indicator to measure customer direct and indirect influences (risk/opportunity) and impact. loyalty. The NPS results included in this report are calculated Through a standards, peers, trend and a media analysis, we and provided by a leading market-research company in the concluded that the 2018 list of topics provided a complete basis Netherlands. for the 2019 report. A few overlaps between topics were NPS is based on direct customer input, with the key question identified, while other topics were too broad defined. Therefore being whether a customer would recommend KPN to someone a calibration took place leading to an initial list of 13 topics. else. Depending on the score they give, the customer is classified as a ‘promoter’ or a ‘critic’. The NPS is calculated by Step 2: Review abstraction levels subtracting the percentage of ‘critics’ from the percentage of A lesson learnt in 2018 related to the abstraction level of the ‘promoters’. The result is displayed as an absolute number topics. Some focused on input related to resources needed for instead of a percentage, within a range of -100 to +100. our core business. Others were output being the direct result our activities. Finally, some were topics that impact directly or In this report, all NPS results refer to Q4 of the respective year, indirectly. To establish a more stable basis, the levels were based on a three-month rolling average (December 19 is based aligned and definitions were aligned, with specific attention on on October 19, November 19 and December 19). The NPS the topic of economic value. It was decided not to include the Consumer (Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile) and topic in the list of topics as it is seen as the performance result NPS Business reflect a weighted average based on 2017 on all other topics and therefore not essential to approach revenues. NPS Business combines this with EBIDTA margins for separately. The topic is still included in the GRI index. segments. Step 3: Scoring and validation Materiality and stakeholder engagement In 2018, an extensive external stakeholder consultation took determination place through an online survey. We also used the scores from this survey for 2019, aligned them with review steps. As some Materiality topics have been calibrated, scores have been averaged to The annual materiality assessment makes sure we are aware of ensure completeness and balance. what happens in our surroundings, where we have impact and During an internal validation session, the process and topics how we can add focus to our efforts. It is performed to make were validated by senior representatives from various sure we report on all relevant topics in this Integrated Report. departments. Two topics were added, resulting in below list. The assessment is approved by the Board of Management. In 2018, we conducted an extensive assessment, consisting of both an internal consultation held with employees representing all sections of KPN as well as an online survey sent to over 2500 external stakeholders, representing various stakeholder groups. The outcomes resulted in a list of material topics, which we aligned with the guidelines and standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 186 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Topic 2018 Topic 2019 Definition Environmental performance Energy usage The impact KPN's energy use for own operations (technologies, networks) has on the environment, biodiversity and climate change. Impact of products and services Sustainable ICT solutions 'The impact KPN has with its future-proof technologies (infrastructure and networks) on the reduction of GHG emissions (reduction of energy consumption, avoidance of traffic, optimizing logistic processes). Environmental performance Circular operations The impact KPN has with its circular approach (sourcing of virgin materials, extended product use, high-end second life of product and materials) on circular economy/ biodiversity and ecosystem protection. Sustainable suppliers Supplier selection and good governance The impact that KPN’s selection of suppliers has on Dutch society and the impact of good governance among KPN’s suppliers, and respected human rights have on local communities. Digital transformation Innovation in products and services The impact KPN has with its digital innovation of products and services on the acceleration of digitalization. Innovation and investments Quality and reliability of network Network quality, reliability & availability The impact the quality and reliability of KPN's networks have on the accessibility of high-speed internet and therewith the availability of critical communications (short-term) and the contribution to growing economic and social activity (long-term). Security Customer loyalty Customer interaction The impact honest, complete and transparent marketing and communication (e.g. on brand strategy) has on customer value. Fair marketing and communication Digital inclusion Community investment and sponsoring The impact KPN’s community investments on digital access (information and communication technologies) and sponsoring have on digital and social inclusion of everyone and anywhere. Community investment Privacy and identity Data & information protection The impact KPN's data protection has on safeguarding the privacy & identity of customers & employees. Diversity and equal opportunity Employee diversity and equal opportunity The impact that providing fair working conditions (e.g. related to diversity, equal opportunities, non-discrimination) has on KPN’s workforce well-being and welfare. Internal human rights adherence Sustainable employment Professional development opportunities The impact KPN's professional development opportunities and stimulation have on the employability of its employees (inside or outside KPN) and therewith on the Telecommunication sector development and economic growth. Internal human rights adherence KPN's corporate governance and human The impact KPN has with sharing its knowledge on digital technologies, on rights compliance preparing and influencing people, society and government for a digital future. Digital knowledge and education Shared digital knowledge The impact KPN has with sharing his knowledge on digital technologies, on preparing and influencing people and society (government) for a digital future. Participation public policy development Electro-magnetic fields Responsible operations The impact on health and safety of people in the surrounding communities of KPN’s network infrastructure Taxes Tax strategy The impact of a tax strategy that is compliant with all relevant laws, regulations and international standards – one that is efficient and responsible and in the interest of all KPN’s stakeholders. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 187 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Furthermore the representatives provided input on the internal scoring, resulting in below matrix. The combination of the horizontal axis and the vertical axis determines the degree of impact that KPN has with the topic on society. KPN divides the results into three categories: • High material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on these topics. By developing policies, setting targets and defining KPIs to monitor and report on our impact. • Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social responsibility regarding these topics. • Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not necessarily report on. In order to see where the aspect can be found and which GRI topics are translated into KPN topics, please see the cross reference in the connectivity matrix. 1 2 5 Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 3 1. Network quality, reliability & availability 2. Data & information protection 3. Customer interaction 4. Supplier selection & good governance 5. Innovation in products and services 15 6. Tax strategy 11 10 7 7. KPN’s corporate governance & human rights 12 6 compliance 13 8 8. Energy usage 4 9. Responsible operations 14 10 Sustainable ICT solutions 11. Professional development opportunities 12. Employee diversity & equal opportunity 13. Circular operations 14. Shared digital knowledge 15. Community investment & sponsoring 9 Significance of KPN's economic, environmental and social impacts 188 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Step 4: Approval and integration in the report Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality analysis, approved by the Board of Management, we determined the topics to be addressed in the report, including the scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Stakeholder dialogue KPN is in continuous dialogue with a diverse set of stakeholders, with equally diverse interests and motivations. These dialogues take place on different levels within our organization and are often a part of our daily business. Members of the Board of Management attend the most important stakeholder dialogues, in which a variety of stakeholders is present. In the table below, we provide insight into all the interactions we have had with different stakeholders. Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2019 Our response group (incl. frequency) Employees Employees expect us to To some the changing • Leadership based on our leadership • Continuous investment and provide opportunities to strive conditions in the world and profile – giving purpose, engaging development of our employees. in the dynamic workplace. For the labor market may feel like people, delivering performance. • Several successful initiatives to support them, this translates into an a threat. That is a natural • Strategic Workforce Management that continuous personal development. attractive, effective and reaction and we see it as our focuses on future skills and capabilities, • Future-proof individuals and inspiring work environment responsibility as an employer rationalization and standardization, organization as main theme in preparing (physical, technology, learning to both create awareness of contract independent sourcing and for the CLA negotiations. and development); simplicity the consequences of the capacity planning. in data, organization, fast-changing environment • A future-proof organizational design technology and processes; and encourage and enable with room for authenticity, diversity and transparency in the people to seize the inclusiveness. organization and from possibilities it offers. In the • Integral management of our HR chains leadership, a recognizable long run, KPN’s HR function in which daily activities and change are culture and values and will more and more be using balanced. excellent development data & digital and robotization • Performance management with room opportunities. & AI to create an employee for new ways of working that leads to experience in response to empowered employees. New generations expect increasing consumerism that • Right sizing of our collective labor generational awareness, will take shape in alternative conditions to support this. dynamic career perspectives, employment relations. • Development of our engineers and retail continuous feedback, sales people. mentoring and coaching, • Various initiatives to support continuous empowermen, purpose and personal development and mobility. agility. • Future-proof individuals and organization as main theme in preparing for the CLA negotiations. Government Government and regulators We proactively engage with • Avoiding non-compliance • We continued our compliance and expect us to comply with the government and regulators. • Integrity and transparency efforts through programs such as regulators rules and regulations and As the incumbent in the • For the next three years, ACM wants optimizing our business control system, meet the requirements for Netherlands, there are special KPN to continue to grant its competitors external reviews, benchmarking, licensing. Furthermore, they obligations imposed on us, in access to its copper and fiber-optic enhanced compliance training and top expect us to be climate particular to enable network. management meetings. responsible and transparent in competition via regulated • Concerns have been intensifying • We work continuously to meet our communication, Their goal access to our fixed network. concerning national cybersecurity compliance requirements through clear is, amongst others, to create a We engage in a continuous throughout 2019. and practical legal advice, clear level playing field and protect dialogue to explain our efforts operational procedures, related control the interests of end-users. and results. mechanisms, and clear and safe ways to They expect us to run Furthermore, we work report potential misconduct. infrastructure and services together with (local) • We interact closely with ACM in relation considered as very important governments on innovation to compliance, incidents and potentially to the Dutch economy and (e.g. IoT) projects which result different views on the interpretation of Dutch society at large and to in energy and cost savings. the law. create coverage of high speed networks, wireless and wireline. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 189 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2019 Our response group (incl. frequency) Investor The investor community – We organize key corporate • Management changes and potential • New CEO and CFO appointed. The BoM community financial markets in general, events such as the Annual changes in strategic direction. is extended to six people to ensure our shareholders, debt General Meeting of • Competitive environment following focus on effective implementation and investors and research Shareholders, Capital Markets merger between T-Mobile and Tele2 execution of KPN’s 2019-2021 strategy. analysts – expects us to be Days, and we meet with and weaker operational KPIs. We highlighted that our strategic extensive and transparent. We investors, analysts and • Declining revenues, with slightly priorities will remain unchanged should be clear and consistent credit-rating agencies during growing adjusted EBITDA after leases. • KPN’s brand strategy and the launch of in communicating our roadshows and conferences. • free cash flow performance impacted by KPN Hussel are aimed at driving value strategy, objectives and We also provide relevant restructuring and negative change in per household by focusing on the KPN outlook, and transparent company information through working capital. brand and fixed-mobile convergence. about corporate governance, timely press releases and • Leverage profile, including bond • Revenue trend is partially self-inflicted, including executive regular publications such as redemptions, bond tender offer and new for example due to customer migrations remuneration. Their main our quarterly results and hybrid bond issuance. and value-over-volume focus in interest is our commitment to Integrated Annual Report. • Asset disposals, including sale of stake Business. Strong cost management led creating value. They want in Telefónica Deutschland. to substantial indirect opex savings in timely and accurate updates • Regulatory uncertainty from fixed 2019, supporting slightly growing and ample opportunity to seek access regulation. adjusted EBITDA after leases. clarification and ask questions. • Negative change in working capital is partly driven by installments paid to fiber contractors, by lower opex due to continuous cost savings, and by higher Capex in Q4 2018. We realized free cash flow (excl. TEFD dividend) of €726m and growth of regular dividend per share in 2019. • We fully redeemed two senior bonds (€ 465m and £ 96m), tendered $ 405m of the $ 1.0bn senior bond and issued a new € 500m perpetual hybrid bond in 2019. • We sold NLDC, International Network Services and Argeweb and announced the agreement to sell KPN Consulting. In addition, we sold the remaining stake in Telefónica Deutschland. • The number of Wholesale lines increased in 2019, driven by growth in VULA and Wholesale Broadband Access (WBA) services. Suppliers Our suppliers expect to KPN has a central Corporate • In 2019 we started integrating the • Together with our suppliers we maintain a long-term Procurement Organization EcoVadis Scorecard. This is an implemented sustainable solutions commitment and cooperation (CPO) that is responsible for evaluation of how well a company has which resulted in cost reduction, with us. Furthermore, they contracting deals with integrated the principles of CSR into reduction in energy and material use. expect simple contracts, fair suppliers. We make sure the their business and management system. • We aim for all suppliers we do business prices, acceptable payment principles of our suppliers’ The assessment is part of our tender with to comply with the KPN Supplier terms and compliance with CSR policies are in line with process. The scope criteria are across Code of Conduct or have their own the core principles of data our own. four themes: environment, labor & equivalent code. Our Code of Conduct protection. We are constantly in touch human rights (Employee Health & helps to ensure that all of our suppliers Together we should look for with our suppliers and invite Safety, Working Cond., Soc. Dialogue, are committed to conducting its opportunities regarding them to our annual Supplier Child Labor, Forced Labor & Human business in an ethical, legal sustainable cost reduction. Day. We increasingly partner Trafficking, Diversity, Discrimination and environmentally, respecting human with them on sustainable External Stakeholder Human Rights, rights and socially responsible manner solutions. We are also a ethics & sustainable procurement. If the as well as JAC standards. member of the Joint Audit outcome of the assessment is <35 Cooperation (JAC), an points, the supplier must draw up an association of 17 telecom improvement plan in order to mitigate operators aiming to verify, identified risks for the purpose of assess and develop the CSR achieving a score of the least 35 points implementation across the in a later assessment. manufacturing centers of important multinational suppliers. 190 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2019 Our response group (incl. frequency) Business Customers expect KPN to help Every day we talk with our •  Digital Dutch Experience. • We continue to inspire our customers customers them with the digital business customers via our • Improve Customer Experience & Loyalty with our online Digital Dutch platform. transformation within their Business Partners, measured by NPS. We cocreate content to inspire others companies. They want sincere account managers, in our XL •M  igrations of customers to our with our customers in the podcast Digital and proactive advice that stores and our contact integrated KPN ÉÉN platform. Heroes and proactively engage with our meet their specific needs centers. We engage • S implicity in Products & Services. customers in other NL forums and our through our Customer own Customer Advisory Board. Business customers also Experience Lab in which we • Roll out high-speed internet business expect effortless IT solutions test the needs and experience parks. and there is a growing of the customers daily. • Continued successful bundling of customer demand for We also engage customer services in SME. continuous accessibility, and panels, quarterly market • Growth in Professional Services fast and reliable fixed and research, round-table supported by integrated solutions at mobile connections. When discussions, workshops KPN’s larger customers. problems do occur, they connecting customers’ expect KPN to solve them strategies with KPN’s and adequately and show social media through our B2B customer-centric behavior. platform, The Digital Dutch. We closely monitor our business customers’ satisfaction and loyalty through NPS. Retail Our retail customers expect We communicate 24/7 with •B  eing always connected • We started a large-scale roll-out of fiber customers high-quality products and our customers on our front •A  seamless and easy digital experience broadband, for both existing, new and service for the right price. This ends (Customer Service, • S ustainability future customers. includes failure-free networks, Engineers, Stores, Social). We •B  est proposition for households • We launched our new KPN Hussel clear propositions and collect and monitor both proposition, where our customers have processes, a quick and proper requested and unrequested full control of the features and products response to questions and customer feedback on a daily that most suit their needs. complaints and good basis and share these • We further improved our digital communication. They want customer voices throughout experience. sincere and proactive advice the company. We also use about the best possible external panels for our Brand subscriptions that meet their NPS and RepTrak to needs. Besides that, they want objectively monitor our their loyalty to be reputation. acknowledged and appreciated. Society Society expects us to make a We are active in working Topics discussed with our societal We kept investing in KPN Health, we positive mark on Dutch groups initiated by NGOs and partners were: organized a big internal event on privacy society. They expect us to be participate in or liaise with • KPN can go beyond the role of and we organized the second Kid Cyber socially and environmentally organizations such as the technology provider, promote inclusion Day. responsible and to be a good European and reduce social isolation and • We put Living Wage on the agenda of corporate citizen. Telecommunications Network loneliness This is particularly important JAC and made it a topic for They want products and Operators’ Association to counteract growing social investigation. services that help to solve (ETNO), International segregation – and the risks of increased • We joined MVO NL’s ‘Groene Netten’ in social and environmental Telecom Union (ITU), the nationalism and populism – in the order to contribute to a branch-wide issues. Furthermore, they United Nations Global Netherlands. impact study. expect us to be a frontrunner Compact Foundation, the • KPN’s preparedness to adjust their • We have taken the recommendations of in sustainability and other Dutch Association of Investors Supplier Code of Conduct and ask of the Task Force on Climate-related societal issues by creating for Sustainable Development suppliers to determine wages based on Financial Disclosures (TCFD) into sustainable partnerships. KPN (VBDO), the ICT Coalition and the livingwage standard, given that ILO account in our Integrated Report and has the potential to lead Circle Economy. Furthermore, standards do not always guarantee our disclosure to CDP. debates e.g. on privacy and we organize an annual living wages for the workers of KPN’ the use of data. dialogue with stakeholders to suppliers. discuss our contribution to • Taking a next step on development of society and the desired next impact measurement and reporting. steps KPN is reporting on climate, consistent with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive and the recommendations of the TCFD KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 191 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices How we engage with policymakers Finally, KPN contributes to ITU, which is a standardization body KPN actively engages with policymakers in politics and and a United Nations Agency, but which is not a trade government, and sponsors activities which helps to generate organization and therefore is not included in the sums public debate around the consequences of digitalization, as well presented. as develop actions to address them. For KPN, as a predominantly Dutch operation, policy is primarily shaped in KPN does not financially, or in any other way, support political Brussels and in The Hague. The focus of our engagement is parties, candidates or candidates for political positions. KPN therefore aimed at these policy makers. To increase relevance does engage with national and regional authorities through with policymakers, the aim is to cooperate as much as possible knowledge-sharing to facilitate informed regulatory policy with other likeminded companies, KPN therefore participates in measures. KPN also contributes to sector organizations trade organizations active in the Netherlands as well as at the representing the interests of KPN in specific fields. Management European level, and contributes to these organizations. upholds strict standards on ethical and transparent behavior. These contributions account for the majority of the disclosed Employees who are politically active have to ask for permission amounts. The sums apportioned to Brussels are part of the if they have paid political functions, e.g. as member of municipal sums disclosed in the Transparency Register to which KPN has or regional councils. In the past, KPN’s policy has always been to subscribed from the start. The Transparency Register also approach policymakers directly. KPN does not make use of encompasses an estimation of cost of staff. KPN also external public affairs’ agencies to speak on its behalf. participates in global organzations like GSMA, which aims to develop the mobile industry worldwide, and which also engages KPN presents the amount of money spent on public affairs in with policymakers in Europe and elsewhere. three categories. KPN does not disaggregate these figures further as KPN is not at liberty to divulge the contributions to individual organizations. 192 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Table trade organizations to follow Spend in 2019 Type of trade Organization Geographic scope in EUR Focus of membership (non-exhaustive) Trade bodies representing interests Global 30,000 Develop the mobile industry worldwide with focus on level playing field of mobile operators worldwide and predictability of the law. Create common standards and encourage sustainable innovation. Trade body representing Europe’s European Union 65,795 Create a level playing field within the EU based on an unambiguous and telecommunications network operators predictable legal situation. Focus on the European Electronic Communications Code, the General Data Protection Regulation, ePrivacy, and the Privacy Shield. Trade body representing Netherlands the Netherlands and 2,513 Monitor and influence nationwide issues that are of importance across Industry and Employers the European Union sectors. Examples include creating a prosperous investment climate, fiscal climate, social agenda and a digital agenda. Trade association for IT, telecom, the Netherlands 38,115 Monitor, influence and increase awareness of (issues in) the digital internet and companies economy, e.g. on continuity and security and privacy. Trade association in the technology the Netherlands 90,750 Monitor and influence national policies in particular for the manufacturing industry industries, such as health care, metallurgy, microconductor industry, and the digital industry. Trade association for the positioning of the Netherlands 70,238 Monitor and influence national policies specifically in the field of national the Netherlands defenseand security. safety-related industry Trade body and knowledge centre the Netherlands and 26,636 Representing the interests of small, medium and larger organizations that representing commercial users of the European Union use water and electricity on a professional basis. electricity and waterin the Netherlands Trade body representing the interests the Netherlands and 15,000 This organization aims to increase the digital resilience of the Netherlands of the cybersecurity sector the European Union and to increase the quality and transparency within the growing cybersecurity sector. Platform for businesses in the Benelux Benelux and 6,250 Platform for businesses in the Benelux, identifying areas where, from a region the European Union business perspective, closer collaboration and integration is required. Platform for information society the Netherlands 20,000 Neutral platform where government, knowledge institutions, business, and civil society organizations collaborate on public-private partnerships and exchange knowledge about the responsible design of our digitizing society. Association for data-driven marketing the Netherlands 10,255 Association advocating responsible data-driven marketing, unlocking the potential withing the regulatory framework. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 193 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Appendix 4: List of top risks Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Fast-changing KPN could face increased competition on • Offer converged services (triple-play, quad-play) and competitive Likelihood High market conditions: services and network access from current price/portfolio combinations, such as KPN Hussel for Consumer Impact High intensified competitors as well as new market entrants Market and KPN EEN MKB, Smart integrations and Smart Trend competition and OTT players, or from market consolidation. combinations for Business Market Competition in retail and wholesale markets • Implement the best converged smart infrastructure in the Monitoring KPI: can occur based on price, content, increase of Netherlands by: • Market shares, investment in customer acquisition or Accelerating fiber roll-out for Consumer and Business Market, Net adds retention costs, subscription options, coverage increasing availability of high-access speeds and improving • Service revenues and service quality. For wholesale, competition in-home wifi coverage could increase due to the recent regulation of Full modernization of mobile network cable networks. These factors could lead to by enabling the latest innovative technologies lower profitability as well as lower market shares. Moving to All-IP infrastructure • Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and digitalization program. This will lead to improved time-to-market, better quality of service and a simplified and agile organization. Additionally, it will lead to a structural lower level of operational costs and swift response to new market developments • Improve NPS and offer high quality of service to customers • Maintain focus on high-value customers in both Consumer and Business Market • Introduce new innovative products and services to meet changing customer needs • Launch targeted household approach and household-centric propositions • Strengthen distribution power with business partners, online channels and shops • Rationalize our brand portfolio: focusing on the strong KPN-brand by expanding KPN’s service with the best elements of the individual brands to offer customers in all segments better user experience • Improve customer loyalty by optimizing customer journey and implementing advanced data-analytics programs • Strategic partnerships and cooperation with OTT players • KPN Ventures to form partnerships with innovative companies, and apply their innovations in our products and services. Fast-changing KPN’s business model and financial performance • Develop new services, business models and pricing models Likelihood Medium-High market conditions: could be affected by disruptive technologies, • Develop strategic partnerships with OTT players and network Impact High disruptive changing customer behavior and new players. suppliers Trend technologies or KPN’s response to new technologies (such as • Implement an agile organization, technology (such as applying business models E-SIM, blockchain, artificial intelligence, open innovation models and standardized technology) and Monitoring KPI: and failure to fintech), changing customer behavior and processes to enable swift response to new market developments. • Revenues new business introduce new market developments and its ability to • Introduction of ‘Field labs’, Operator of the Future project • Revenues existing products and successfully introduce new competitive (‘Horizon Three’), Open innovation hub and ‘Proof of Concept’ to business (mobile, fixed, services products or services, are essential to KPN’s test new technologies with customers TV etc) performance and profitability in the long run. • KPN Ventures: scout, invest in, and create cooperations with innovative technology companies to enhance innovation in key The introduction of new products and services areas such as internet of things, smart home, cybersecurity, cloud such as new propositions may not be computing, data services, digital healthcare, mobile/video (OTT) successful and/or timely. This could lead to services and networking technology lower profitability as well as lower market • Perform scenario analysis to timeously identify and act on shares. disruptive technologies and changing customer preferences • Continue the exploration of how KPN can adequately respond to changes in the telecommunications market and value chain by implementing new business initiatives, in line with KPN’s new strategy. 194 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Operational and KPN’s services and technical infrastructure and • Implement a high-quality smart infrastructure including a Likelihood Low-Medium quality-related IT may be vulnerable to damage, service resilient design of our networks in the Netherlands by: Impact High incidents interruptions, operational issues and loss/theft Accelerating fiber roll-out for Consumer and Business Market, Trend or manipulation of customer data. These increasing availability of high-access speeds and improving incidents could be caused by failures in the in-home wifi coverage Monitoring KPI: network systems, power supplies, failures in Full modernization of mobile network by enabling the latest • NPS NL supporting computer systems, disasters (fire, innovative technologies • Weighted downtime flooding or other disasters caused by a.o. – Moving to All-IP infrastructure reduction climate changes) or by reduction of legacy • Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification, automation • # Major incidents systems. These incidents could have a and digitalization program for improved quality of service. • Damage per incident negative impact on society, KPN’s reputation • In order to increase our operational performance as a company per service and profitability and customer satisfaction. KPN has established the “Network Stability Program”. This – KPN wide – program is focused on increasing the availability of our critical services to our customers. It consists of several streams, not only addressing Business Continuity Management, Architecture and recovery times, but also cultural and behavioral aspects. This program is driven by TDO Leadership and one of our strategic programs for 2020. • Monitor performance of technical infrastructure (e.g. traffic growth and utilization rate) and IT (predictive analysis of required maintenance) • Continuous improvement of operational processes and systems • Business Continuity Management and back-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies including adequate external communication (e.g. “be alert” procedure, corporate crisis management teams and public affairs) • Follow up recommendations for improved resilience of networks (a.o. the critical network disruption of June 2019) • Regional roaming in which a part of mobile voice traffic can be transferred to other operators in the event of calamities • Insurance agreements to cover liability claims of customers or third parties in case of service interruptions. Strategic transformation: KPN may not make • Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and Likelihood Medium sufficient progress in realizing the necessary digitalization program. This will lead to improved time-to-market, Impact Medium simplification and transformation actions, for better quality of service and a simplified and agile organization. Trend example by phasing out legacy networks and Additionally, it will lead to a structural lower level of operational systems, by simplifying our processes and costs. Monitoring KPI: services, by digitalizing our business, by • Rationalization of networks: shutting down legacy networks, • Opex reduction organizational transformation (more lean and moving to a single core network and virtualization • Progress on Strategic flat), by postmerger integration of our • Rationalization of products and services, IT, datacenters and Transformation projects acquisitions or by strengthening our technical infrastructure capabilities and culture. These actions must • Increased use of standard (cloud) building blocks in networks lead to necessary cost reductions, increased • Focused innovation and govern innovations and simplification at agility (e.g. improved time-to-market of new executive level; strong planning of new innovation and innovative services) and higher quality of simplification projects services (e.g. higher NPS and First Time Right). If KPN cannot realize simplification and transformation in time, we are not able to adequately respond to actions of our competitors and, consequently, could lead to lower revenues and profitability in future. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 195 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Operational and KPN may fail to meet stakeholder expectations • Embed sustainability in our corporate strategy, ambitions and Likelihood Low quality-related relating to energy, emissions and sustainability. targets Impact Low incidents This could lead to loss of customers, loss of • Maintain KPN’s climate-neutral performance (green energy) Trend profitability in the future and reputational • Continued efforts on reducing energy usage and emissions for damage. our own operations and in the supply chain Monitoring KPI: • Implement circular operations and services to reduce our • Energy consumption footprint, e.g. by collecting customer equipment for reuse and • Carbon emissions recycling, increasing the longevity of our products and where • Circularity possible switch to less virgin materials (long-term goal: close to • Continue KPN’s CO₂e-reduction objectives as approved by the 100% as of 2025) Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI), which means they are in • Percentage of waste line with the climate goals of the Paris Agreement • Ranking in Dow Jones • Measure energy savings by ICT solutions for our customers Sustainability Index • External communication program about KPN’s activities on and CDP or similar corporate social responsibility, sustainability, energy upcoming ratings management, and the benefits for KPN customers and Dutch society. Information Threats to the confidentiality, integrity or • Continued implementation of the regularly updated Likelihood High security threats availability of KPN’s networks, systems, or data KPN Security Policy Impact High (including customer data) caused by • Continued and reinforced strategic security programs such as Trend cyberattacks or terrorism. Permanent Vulnerability Management, Safemail, Endpoint Protection, and DNS & Network Security Monitoring KPI: • Continue and strengthen Security Operations Center to improve • PHOSI (Potential Harm security visibility and risk intelligence Of Security Incident) • Consolidate and maintain quality asset registration and • Average days to close configuration management database which enables rapid incidents and response to attacks vulnerabilities • Continue HR strategy focused on attracting and retaining • # data leakages leading security experts • Educate and increase awareness of personnel for security and privacy • In case of emergencies or large incidents, adequate external communication (e.g. “security be alerts”, corporate crisis management teams). Risks relating to New regulatory decisions in the EU and the • Proactive stakeholder and reputation management including Likelihood Medium regulatory and Netherlands could affect KPN’s future dialogue with regulators, national security agencies and decision Impact Medium legislative matters operations and profitability, such as decisions makers Trend regarding continuity, end-user protection, level • Quarterly report to Board of Management on status of new laws playing field in access regulation and between and regulations Monitoring KPI: telco and internet players, (national) security • Strengthening the effectiveness of the regulatory and privacy • Fines and spectrum auctions. compliance organization: • # compliance incidents Centralized organization for compliance and risk management reported to regulator KPN may face issues in relation to Compliance training sessions for staff and management, for non-compliance with regulation, including – example e-learnings about the company codes for all staff but not limited to– telecommunications and members of KPN in the Netherlands privacy regulations. These incidents can lead Proactive internal compliance investigations to fines or have a negative impact on KPN’s Surveys and culture-improvement programs reputation and relationship with regulators Improving and maintaining a robust internal control framework and/or supervisors. dedicated to complying with specific regulations Ringfencing wholesale within operations. Although there is no evidence that • Regarding electromagnetic fields: electromagnetic fields of (mobile) equipment Monitor national and international scientific research on the or base stations pose any health risks, effects of electromagnetic fields on health a change in this view could expose us to Strict adherence to all national and international standards for significant claims and litigations, a severe electromagnetic fields. drop in our mobile business or high compliance costs of new laws and regulations (e.g. major changes in our mobile networks). 196 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Tax risks: Likelihood Medium-High • Adverse decisions or interpretations of tax • Act in line with our company-wide tax strategy and tax policy Impact High authorities on pending disputes or changes • Continuous monitoring of internal control framework for key tax Trend in tax treaties, tax laws, OECD guidelines, EU risk areas Directives and other rules could have a • Maintain good working relationships with tax authorities Monitoring KPI: material adverse effect on KPN’s net result • Tax planning, while remaining compliant with all relevant laws, • Effectiveness of tax and cash flow. regulations and international standards. control framework • Notwithstanding the fact that KPN is committed to be fully compliant with the relevant laws and regulations and adheres to its tax strategy and policy (see ir.kpn.com), some of KPN’s tax positions could be perceived negatively by the political environment and society, which could lead to reputational damage. • With regard to WBSO and Innovation Box benefits: KPN has a declining number of eligible hours for WBSO, due to divestments, stricter interpretation of legislation, lower qualifying Capex budgets for innovation and our new ‘agile’ way of working. • If business results stay behind expectations, • If (taxable) profits do not develop according to plan, timely KPN’s net DTA may have to be impaired, action/tax planning is needed to avoid impairment (loss) of DTA. partly or in full. • The introduction of new mobile consumer • Defending KPN’s position through court procedure. propositions in August 2016 caused a change in the VAT calculation methodology which resulted in a lower remittance of VAT from August 2016 until December 2018. The view of KPN is not shared by the Dutch tax authorities. KPN concluded, based on the applicable regulations, that a positive outcome of this dispute is not highly probable and therefore recorded a contract liability for the VAT amount. A potential negative outcome of a forthcoming court procedure will lead to a negative cash flow in future years. Uncertainty about The telecom and ICT market is characterized • Crossand upselling of new services such as IoT, cloud, security Likelihood Medium KPN’s future by increasing competition, accelerating and content to add value to our connectivity and access portfolio Impact Medium-High business model to changes in customer behavior, accelerating • Customer Lifecycle Value (CLV) steering by monitoring Trend recover high technological developments, increasing data end-to-end profitability of services and business lines investments usage, increasing price pressure and shrinking • Strong Capex planning, supported by data-driven decision Monitoring KPI: markets. Due to these developments, high making process and based on RoCE and NPV analyses • RoCE investments in our assets such as technical • Long-term vision on our networks, to optimize and align future • Capex as % of revenues infrastructure (access and core networks), IT investments (both timing, size and technology) with our • Utilization of networks infrastructure, licenses and goodwill may not commercial portfolio, market developments and financial be recovered as KPN’s business models to performance generate revenue and cash flow streams could • Continuous monitoring of realization of strategic business plans change in future. Also, changes in assumptions and performance, e.g. utilization and return on investments such as profitability, network penetration, • Develop strategic partnerships and investigate options for long-term growth and discount rate could network sharing negatively affect the value of cash generating • Implement a solid investment policy units. These factors could lead to impairments • Monitor profitability of the cash-generating units and network of assets, licenses and goodwill. penetration. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 197 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Pressure on cash The telecommunications industry is • Continuous monitoring of realization strategic business plans Likelihood Medium flows for future characterized by rapid technological changes and performance, e.g. organic growth of EBITDA and FCF, Impact High Capex and innovations. To meet future customer utilization and return on investments Trend investments needs and to stay ahead of our competitors, • Strong Capex planning, supported by data-driven decisionKPN must continuously invest in its making process and based on NPV analyses Monitoring KPI: infrastructure to upgrade, modernize and • Perform Return on Capital Employed (RoCE) analyses on current • Net cash flow from simplify our networks and supporting systems. and future investments operating activities If KPN cannot generate sufficient cash flows in • Develop strategic partnerships and investigate options for future, we are not able to realize and finance network sharing the required investments. This could subsequently lead to higher churn of customers, declining market shares and to lower revenues and profitability in future. Spectrum Participation in spectrum auction in the • Thorough preparation by experienced KPN team and external Likelihood Medium auctions Netherlands in 2020 (700, 1400 and 2100 experts; extensive simulation of auctions Impact High MHz) and 2021/2022 (3500 MHz): KPN has to • Investigate alternative combinations of spectrum and advanced Trend acquire or to renew the required frequency techniques to meet customer demands blocks and may have to pay a high price for the • Prudent financial policies to secure adequate funding Monitoring KPI: required spectrum. • Proactive stakeholder management and dialogue with regulators and other governmental bodies. New business KPN may not be able to sufficiently grow and • Focused innovation initiatives, new business as well as strategic Likelihood Medium-High initiatives to monetize new business initiatives and partnerships and cooperation with OTT players (open innovation Impact High compensate opportunities in the near future to compensate model) to ensure KPN meets the changing customer needs and Trend declining existing declining existing business, which may jeopardize adapts to a dynamic market business KPN’s profitability. • Introduction of ‘Field labs’, Operator of the Future project Monitoring KPI: (‘Horizon Three’) and ‘Proof of Concept’ to test new technologies • Revenues new business with customers • Market sizes (IoT, etc) • Open innovation hub to incorporate innovation themes in KPN’s • OIT IT and Telco strategy • Incubator budget • KPN startup community to cooperate with startups and scout new innovative technologies • KPN Ventures to form partnerships with innovative companies • Allocate Capex budgets for innovative new business • Well-guided migration of customers from legacy to new innovative portfolio Financing KPN KPN requires solid access to debt capital KPN ensures solid access to debt capital markets by: Likelihood Low-Medium and volatile markets to finance its operations and refinance • Commitment to an investment-grade credit profile Impact High financial markets its outstanding debt. The pressure on KPN’s • Maintaining a strong liquidity position and prefunding debt Trend financial framework may increase in the event redemptions of higher net debt levels and/or lower • Monitoring and forecasting of metrics used by rating agencies Monitoring KPI: profitability. In that case, KPN might not be • Maintaining discipline in allocating capital to investment • Credit rating able to maintain its current credit ratings, opportunities and shareholder remuneration • Net debt/EBITDA ratio which could negatively affect pricing and • Liquidity forecast availability of financing resources. • Rating metrics (used in credit rating) • Dividend pay out ratio Uncertainty or changes in financial markets • Cash-flow forecasting to ensure sufficient liquidity headroom in Likelihood Medium could negatively affect pricing and availability both normal and stressed market circumstances Impact Medium of KPN’s funding sources. • Maintaining a varied maturity profile, limiting the amount of debt Trend maturing in any one calendar year • Financing upcoming debt maturities well ahead of their maturity Monitoring KPI: • Maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves in the form of cash and / • Liquidity forecast or committed credit facilities • Redemption profile • Managing the mix of floating and fixed interest rates • Fixed/floating interest • Diversification in funding sources rate mix 198 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Equity erosion Group equity position may be negatively • Improve profitability of KPN Group Likelihood Medium impacted by impairments of goodwill or other • Monitoring future development of equity position and solvency Impact Medium financial assets, lower profits or future dividend ratio Trend payments. If our equity position is too low, it • Balanced shareholder remuneration in relation to profit and could potentially limit our dividend payments cash-flow development Monitoring KPI to shareholders. • Group equity position • Free distributable reserves Dependence on KPN strongly depends on products and • Establishing a strong and centralized demand and contract Likelihood Medium suppliers and services of external suppliers. This management organization that defines, enforces and monitors Impact Medium outsourcing / dependency relates to adequate compliance of suppliers with terms of contracts and preparation Trend offshoring telecommunications equipment, software and of re-transition plans as fall-back scenario partners IT services, and contractors’ ability to build and • Simplification of the supplier landscape in line with KPN’s Monitoring KPI: roll out telecommunications networks, as well strategy and cost focus • Spend development: as suppliers’ ability to deliver technical support. • Evaluation of outsourced activities on effectiveness and % spend at top This dependency could potentially lead to efficiency and, where applicable, preparation of a re-transition 20 suppliers unbalanced supply-demand relationships and plan for insourcing • JAC audit results could lead to an inability to obtain the products • Include the possibility to terminate contracts based on and services at a competitive price and quality. non-performance and in that case migration of the activities to other suppliers Furthermore, we identify the risk of an • Include a right to audit clause in supplier contracts and the inappropriate level of back-to-back contracting possibility to conduct regular audits with regards to customer requirements on e.g. • Monitor compliance of suppliers with the KPN Security Policy price and services in supplier agreements. • Align customer contract requirements with supplier contract requirements (this alignment is part of the governance rules for Suppliers of KPN could breach relevant outsourcing) legislation such as data protection, security, • Sharing of KPN’s supplier code of conduct with all suppliers and privacy, IPR, human rights and/or request all medium and high-risk suppliers to confirm environmental laws, which could negatively compliance with this code impact KPN’s reputation. • For high-risk suppliers, performance of audit procedures to evaluate suppliers’ compliance with international standards for human rights and environmental laws. Monitoring of timely follow-up on main audit findings • Promote transparent pricing and way of doing business. Geopolitical Geopolitical volatility, driven by rising • Closely monitor latest global and political developments in Likelihood High developments for international tensions, protectionism and general and specifically US and EU actions Impact High suppliers, which security concerns, may impact our ability to do • Implement fall-back scenarios and policies if KPN can no longer Trend could trigger business, including sourcing, in any part of the acquire or use hardware and software from specific suppliers security, business world. These concerns could lead to bans and and avoid dependence on single vendors or countries Monitoring KPI: continuity and other sanctions on suppliers of hardware and • Implement new governmental regulations, by defining KPN’s N/a reputational risks software. Such sanctions could significantly critical assets and implementing technical and process security impact business continuity of those suppliers measures, in order to sustain trusted service delivery with and consequently could also harm KPN’s specific suppliers (task force Vendor Security Assurance) availability and use of network equipment. • Ensure good relations and exchange with relevant national Dutch government or other regulating bodies security agencies and political decision-makers could impose additional requirements to • Maintain strong PR and communication with customers and mitigate or prevent possible security issues other stakeholders regarding the use of equipment from specific that some vendors (or the originating suppliers and KPN’s high security standards. countries) could bring for Dutch society. If we can no longer use equipment of those vendors in our networks, or parts of our network, it could lead to higher investment costs in future. Additionally, use and public opinion of these vendors could lead to reputational damage for KPN. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 199 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Category Risk Countermeasures Evaluation Employment and KPN may not be able to attract and retain • Improve skilled and talented workforce by: Likelihood Medium diversity qualified and diverse staff members, as the war Innovative and inspiring talent-management programs to Impact Medium for talent increases rapidly. This could lead to attract and maintain qualified staff (both from the Netherlands Trend insufficient competency in KPN’s workforce. and abroad) Also, employees or new candidates may have Discover new talent and make KPN more attractive for talented Monitoring KPI: negative perceptions or uncertainties about employees across the organization • Employee engagement KPN’s future. Launch of a new labor-market strategy to attract external staff • % women in senior with new capabilities, e.g. via the new ‘www.fieldlab.nl’ website management If KPN does not meet the diversity goals and Promote technical education initiatives at high schools and • Ranking KPN in ‘social return’ requirements, this could impact universities to attract new and diverse workforce ‘attractive employer’ KPN’s future profitability (e.g. lower margins in • Clear communication to (key) staff about KPN’s strategy and benchmarks business market for public sector), customer reasons for restructuring and value their opinions satisfaction and reputation. • Application of HR ideation campaigns to improve company-wide restructuring execution Restructurings could lead to less motivated • Sustainable employability and mobility: support employees in personnel and/or key personnel leaving the acquiring different skills, enabling them to find a new role inside company and thus loss of knowledge and or outside KPN continuity. • Maintain or improve employee engagement and attractiveness as employer • Continued implementation of KPN’s policy to improve diversity in KPN’s workforce • Implementation of a strategic plan on inclusion and social return Adverse macro Although the current macroeconomic • Close monitoring of and swift response to new market Likelihood Low economic perspectives are still positive for the coming developments and trends, for example by drafting contingency Impact Low-Medium conditions years, the economic climate could deteriorate plans such as plans for cost-cutting initiatives and restructurings Trend in the longer term, for example due to • Lean operating model: acceleration of simplification and continued political uncertainties in Europe and digitalization program. This will lead to improved time-to-market, Monitoring KPI the United States and increasing protectionism better quality of service and a simplified and agile organization. • Organic revenue growth in global trade. If the macroeconomic Additionally, this will also lead to a structurally lower level of conditions worsen, this could lead to declining operational costs spending of customers in both the Consumer • Seizing new opportunities by innovation and introduction of new and Business market and higher bad debt, and services, to compensate for (accelerating) declining telecom and will consequently lead to lower future revenue IT businesses. growth, profitability and cashflows. risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (not as bad) 200 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendices Appendix 5: Glossary This glossary lists the key terms and concepts included in the ARPU (average revenue per user) Integrated Annual Report. ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly fixed subscription revenues, traffic revenues and gross service-provider revenues 3G less related discounts during a one-month period, divided by Third-generation mobile system, which is based on the UMTS the average number of customers during that month. Gross universal standard. service-provider revenues represent revenues generated by third-party providers. KPN accounts for the net part as gross 4G service-provider revenues. Fourth-generation mobile system, a standard for wireless communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones Average 4G download speed and data terminals. The average download speed is based on the results of a speedtest that customers initiate on 4G with their smartphone. 5G Robot measurements and customers using networks other than Fifth-generation mobile system, a standard for wireless KPN’s are excluded from the results. communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones and data terminals, exceeding 4G speeds. 5G targets high data Average maximum download speed broadband fixed rates, reduced latency, energy saving, higher system capacity The average maximum download speed that we report is the and massive device connectivity. predicted technical speed, based on the best available technologies, per address. Figures are based on year-end data. A B ACM (Authority for Consumers and Markets) The ACM acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and is BCF (business control framework) responsible for monitoring compliance with antitrust rules. The BCF contains all corporate policies and guidelines that are mandatory for KPN segments and entities. It forms the cornerstone ADR of the governance of the KPN Group. American depository receipt. B2B Adjusted revenues Business-to-business, commercial transactions between Adjusted revenues are derived from revenues (including other businesses. income) and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions of EUR Broadband 5m or over unless significant for the specific reportable segment, Broadband refers to telecommunication that provides multiple which are not directly related to day-to-day operational activities. channels of data over a single communications medium, typically using some form of frequency or wave division Adjusted EBITDA AL multiplexing. Adjusted EBITDA AL (adjusted EBITDA after leases) are derived from EBITDA and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring C costs and incidentals and for lease costs, including depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities. Incidentals Capex (capital expenditure) are non-recurring transactions of EUR 5m or more unless Investments in property, plants, equipment and software. significant for the specific reportable segment, which are not directly related to day-to-day operational activities. CDP The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a joint AI (artificial intelligence) initiative of investors worldwide that questions and benchmarks AI is the intelligence demonstrated by machines. listed companies on their approach to climate change. API (application programming interface) Churn (calculated on an annual basis) A digital socket that can provide developers with controlled The number of customers no longer connected to an operator’s access to internal services. network divided by the operator’s customer base. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 201 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Circular economy D The circular economy is a generic term for an industrial economy that is producing no waste and pollution and in which DEFRA material flows are of two types: biological nutrients, designed to UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs. DEFRA re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, which are has published conversion factors to calculate greenhouse gas designed to circulate at high quality in the production system emissions. without entering the biosphere. DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) Circular Manifesto The DJSI series is a collection of indices that track the Document signed by KPN and supplier to support KPN’s circular performance of companies that are frontrunners in terms of goal of close to 100% circular products. By signing, KPN and CSR. The DJSI is based on an analysis of corporate economic, supplier agree to collaborate in contributing to a more circular environmental and social performance. There are several economy. sub-indices based on geographical parameters. Climate-neutral DSL (digital subscriber line) For KPN, climate-neutral means operating with zero net CO₂e DSL is a technology for bringing high bandwidth information to emissions. homes and small businesses over copper PSTN lines. The widely used term xDSL refers to different variations of DSL, such as Cloud services ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. Cloud services are standardized IT capability (services, software or infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies in a DVB-T2 (Digital Video Broadcasting Second Generation pay-per-use, self-service way. Terrestrial) The extension of the television standard DVB-T, devised for the C2B broadcast transmission of digital terrestrial television. Consumer-to-business, a business model in which consumers create value and businesses consume that value. E CO₂e EBITDA Carbon dioxide equivalent, is a standard unit for measuring Operating result before depreciation and impairments of carbon footprints. The idea is to express the impact of each property, plant and equipment and amortization and different greenhouse gas in terms of the amount of CO₂ that impairments of intangible assets. would create the same amount of warming. That way, a carbon footprint consisting of different greenhouse gases can be EBITDA AL expressed as a single number. EBITDA AL (EBITDA after leases) are derived from EBITDA and adjusted for lease costs, including depreciation of right-of-use Conflict minerals assets and interest on lease liabilities. Conflict minerals are minerals mined under conditions of armed conflicts and human rights issues. These minerals are used in a EcoVadis variety of products, including consumer electronic devices such EcoVadis is an international platform that assesses the material as mobile phones. CSR impacts of companies. Purchasing organizations can integrate EcoVadis Scorecards into their day-to-day business Critical supplier practices driving their organization to make more sustainable See high risk supplier. procurement decisions, while positively incentivizing trading partners that align with their sustainability practices. CSR (corporate social responsibility) CSR, to KPN, is the integrated vision of entrepreneurship, in EEIO (environmentally extended input output data) which the company takes responsibility and creates value in EEIO models estimate energy use and/or GHG emissions economic (profit), ecological (planet) and social (people) terms. resulting from the production and upstream supply chain We incorporate CSR into our business and by doing so, take our activities of different sectors and products. The resulting EEIO social responsibility and contribute to societal challenges. emissions factors can be used to estimate cradle-to-gate GHG emissions for a given industry or product category. EEIO models Customer base are derived by allocating national GHG emissions to groups of Customer base is the total number of subscribers. finished products based on economic flows between industry sectors. 202 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Externally GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) An externality is an economic term referring to a cost or benefit The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that publishes incurred or received by a third party. However, the third party international standards for CSR reporting. has no control over the creation of that cost or benefit. H F High-risk supplier FTE (full-time equivalent) Our procurement process includes an assessment of all new The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time contracted suppliers, classifying them based on the potential contract. social and environmental risk their operations, products and services represent. We assess this risk based on three FttC (Fiber to the Curb) parameters: geographical areas, spend and potential FttC is defined as an access network architecture in which the environmental impact of a supplier’s operations, products or final part of the connection occurs in the district distributor box services. High-risk suppliers are audited by independent in the street. external auditors once every two to four years. FttH (Fiber to the Home) I FttH is defined as an access network architecture in which the final part of the connection to the home also consists of optical IT fiber. IT refers to information technology. FttH households IoT (Internet of Things) FttH households are defined as premises to which an operator The Internet of Things connects objects such as garbage bins or can connect in a service area. Fiber is available, at least, at the cars via a chip with the internet. This offers many opportunities, premises property boundary. such as Smart City solutions. FttS (Fiber to the Sites) IPTV FttS is defined as an access network architecture in which the IPTV is a system through which television services are delivered final part of the connection to the mobile sites also consists of using the internet protocol suite over a packet-switched network optical fiber. such as the internet. iTV is KPN’s IPTV offering in the Netherlands. FCF (Free cash flow) FCF is defined as cash flow from continuing operating activities ISDN (Integrated services digital network) plus proceeds from real estate, minus capital expenditures A form of digital telephony. It is an alternative to the analogue (Capex), being expenditure on PP&E and software and adjusted POTS. With ISDN, more data can be transported over a copper for repayments of lease liabilities. two-wire connection at the district level than is usually possible with POTS. G ISO (International Organization for Standardization) Gbps (Gigabit) This organization is responsible for international management A gigabit is a unit denoting the speed of data transfer. It is the standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and speed in billions of bits per second. ISO 22301 (mentioned in this report). GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol iTV The GHG Protocol is a multi-stakeholder partnership of iTV stands for interactive TV. With iTV, the customer can easily business, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), choose when, where and which programs to watch. governments and others that develop internationally accepted GHG accounting and reporting standards for organizations. J Green electricity JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) Green electricity is electricity from renewable sources. KPN only The JAC is a cooperation of 13 European telecommunication uses wind energy and electricity from biomass that does not operators (including KPN) focusing on the social, ethical, and compete with food production. environmental conditions across their supply chains. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 203 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices N K NPS (Net Promoter Score) KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds NPS is a tool for measuring customer loyalty, based on whether This KPN foundation supports societal initiatives aimed at customers would recommend KPN to someone else. stimulating social contact, by combining people and technological resources to best advantage. Normalized EBITDA Normalized EBITDA is defined as a 12-month rolling total EBITDA excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and L major changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). LGBTQI+ Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenders, queers, intersexuals and Normalized ETR people with other sexual and/or gender identity. KPN Pride is an Normalized ETR is defined as the total ETR excluding inclusive community for LGBTQI+, and all colleagues (including incidentals (such as return to provisions), major changes in the heterosexuals) who are interested in LGBTQI+ subjects related composition of the group, changes in (de-)recognition of to the KPN workfloor. deferred taxes and changes in tax law. LoRa (Long Range) Notice and Take Down code Network architecture to connect millions of low-energy and A code that specifies how organizations have to deal with low-data devices to the internet in a cost-effective way. This reports of unlawful content on the internet. Content is removed opens up countless application possibilities for KPN’s Internet of by the host following notice. Notice and take down is widely Things (IoT). operated in relation to copyright infringement, as well as for libel and other illegal content We are committed to removing content LTE (Long-Term Evolution) related to Child Sexual Abuse Material within 24 hours after LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a standard for wireless notification by our national hotline, Expertisebureau Online communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data Kindermisbruik (Expertise Center for Online Child Abuse). terminals. O M OTT (over-the-top) M2M (machine-to-machine) In broadcasting, over-the-top content (OTT) refers to the Direct communication between devices using any delivery of audio, video, and other media over the internet for communications channel, including wired and wireless. which no subscription to a traditional cable or satellite operator is required. A famous example is WhatsApp, which is replacing Market share text messaging. Market share is the percentage or proportion of the total available market that is being serviced by KPN. These figures P are based on externally available market data, which may not be completely accurate, and may partially be based on estimates. PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network) Globally used telephone network Mbps (Megabits per second) A megabit is a unit denoting the speed of data transfer. It is the R speed in millions of bits per second. The bandwidths of broadband networks are often indicated in Mbps. RepTrak RepTrak, developed by the Reputation Institute, is a method to MHz (Megahertz) calculate a reputation score of companies. KPN’s reputation is MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency). based on three out of twelve RepTrak attributes that are kept confidential and are stable over the years. MTA MTA refers to mobile terminating access. Return on capital employed Return on capital employed is calculated by the net operating profit less adjustments for taxes divided by capital employed. Net operating profit is the adjusted EBITA (excluding incidentals 204 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices and amortization of other Intangibles, and including Subscriber restructuring costs). KPN defines capital employed as the A subscriber is defined as an end-user with a connection to the carrying amount of operating assets and liabilities, which mobile or fixed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. excludes goodwill and the other intangibles. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Roaming On 25 September 2015, countries within the United Nations Transfer of mobile traffic from one network to another, referring adopted 17 goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure to the exchange of international mobile traffic. prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development agenda. Each goal has specific targets to be achieved in 2030. S Also known as Global Goals. Scope 1 T Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring from sources that are owned or controlled by an organization. Tier standards (I to IV) Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard for data centers. Scope 2 Tier levels describe the availability of data at a location. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation The higher the tier, the greater the availability. Tier IV is the of purchased electricity, heating or cooling consumed by highest level and entails independent dual-powered cooling and an organization. expected data availability of 99.995% or higher. Scope 3 Transparency Benchmark Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence of the The Transparency Benchmark is a yearly benchmark that activities of the company, but occurring from sources not owned investigates the content and quality of the sustainability reports or controlled by an organization. of Dutch companies. Service revenues Triple-play Service revenues are defined as the aggregate of connection Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and fees, monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term service television services to a household by a single provider. revenues refers to wireless service revenues. TSR (total shareholder return) #SMARTer2030 A measure of the performance of different companies’ stocks GeSI’s SMARTer2030 report demonstrates how ICT initiatives and shares over time. TSR is calculated from the growth in can improve the quality of human life globally by 2030. In 2015, capital from purchasing a share in the company, assuming that the #SMARTer2030 report was launched with the aim to extend the dividends are reinvested each time they are paid. This our horizon to 2030 and to look at ICT-enabled sustainability growth is expressed as a percentage as the compound annual from a holistic point of view. The translation of the growth rate. #SMARTer2030 research into opportunities for KPN and the Netherlands followed in 2016. V SME Value over volume SME refers to small and medium enterprises. Term used to describe the strategy to have more focus on value instead of numbers and sales. SOC (Security Operations Center) The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of KPN in order to act VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame quickly in case of security risks or incidents. Ontwikkeling) The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable SoHo Development (VBDO) works to create a sustainable capital SoHo refers to Small Office/Home Office companies. market, a market that considers not only financial criteria but also non-financial, social and environmental criteria. VBDO’s Stakeholder vision is to increase sustainability awareness among companies Stakeholders are the people or organizations with an interest in and investors. the company, such as customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, governments and media. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 205 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Virgin materials Materials sourced directly from nature in their raw form, such as wood or metal ores. Manufacturing products using virgin materials uses much more energy and depletes more natural resources, as opposed to producing goods using recycled materials. Virtualization The separation of the physical hardware and the functions to run the network in software. VoLTE (Voice over LTE) VoLTE allows the voice service to be delivered as data flows within the LTE data bearer. W Weighted downtime reduction The weighted downtime concerns the average monthly time period in which a combination of KPN platforms and systems is inaccessible to clients due to major incidents, weighted by the impact of this downtime. WBSO (Wet bevordering speuren ontwikkelingswerk) The WBSO is a subsidy that is intended for every entrepreneur in the Netherlands who conducts research into technological innovations. 206 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendices Appendix 6: Social figures Table 1: Total number of employees (in FTEs and number) 2019 2018 2017 FTE number FTE number FTE number KPN The Netherlands 11.248 11.913 12,412 13,157 13,021 13,838 Table 2: Employee contract type (in % of total number of employees) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands Permanent 94.4 93.6 94.7 Temporary 5.6 6.4 5.3 Table 3: Employee employment type (in % of total numbers of employees) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands Part-time 26.6 26.9 26.7 Full-time 73.4 73.1 73.3 Table 4: Composition of employees per age category (in % of total numbers of employees) 2019 2018 20171 KPN The Netherlands <30 years 10.0 10.6 1.5 30 50 years 52.9 53.6 76.1 > 50 years 37.1 35.8 22.4 1 The 2017 numbers are based on age groups 16-24, 25 to 54 and 55 and older. Table 5: Spread of KPN employees by region (in FTE and numbers, both as % of total) 2019 2018 2017 the Netherlands FTE 99.9 99.8 98.1 number 99.9 99.8 98.2 Other FTE 0.1 0.2 1.9 number 0.1 0.2 1.8 Table 6: Gender proportion among employees (in FTE and numbers, both as % of total) 2019 2018 2017 FTE number FTE number FTE number KPN The Netherlands male 80.7 78.9 80.2 78.2 79.3 77.3 female 19.3 21.1 19.8 21.8 20.6 22.7 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 207 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Table 7: Gender proportions at management level (as a % of total top and middle management) 2019 2018 2017 Top Middle Top Middle Top Middle KPN The Netherlands male 77.4 83.8 78.2 83.8 79.7 83.9 female 22.6 16.2 21.8 16.2 20.3 16.1 Table 8: Employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement (in numbers and % of total number of employees) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands number 10,091 11,117 11,808 % 84.8 84.5 85.3 Table 9: Employee training: average number of hours and costs (in hours and euros per FTE) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands hours/FTE 87.2 77.1 66.4 euro/FTE 2,047 1,895 1,517 Table 10: Employee turnover (as a % of total employee numbers) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands intake 2.8 4.2 3.3 exit 19.8 14.4 10.3 Table 11: Accident rate (in accidents per 100 FTEs) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands 0.43 0.20 0.08 Table 12: Absentee rate (as a % of total employee numbers) 2019 2018 2017 KPN The Netherlands 4.40 4.25 4.09 208 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Appendices Appendix 7: Environmental figures 1 As outlined in the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report (see page 165-173 of our Integrated Annual Report 2019), this Appendix is part of the assurance scope of EY’s assurance procedures over KPN’s 2019 sustainability information. 2 Scoping and calculation methodology of the reported items is specified In Appendix 3 (page 180-193 of our Annual Report 2019) 3 Coverage of all figures according to materiality assessment (98% of operational costs) 4 NL|DC was sold in 2019. Where material, environmental figures have been corrected unless stated otherwise. Table 1: Energy consumption (in PJ) Target 2030 target 2022 compared to compared 2010 base year to base year 2019 2018 2017 2016 (base year) The Netherlands – 2.728 2.841 2.820 2.955 3.662 KPN non–NL entities – – – 0.012 0.019 0.217 KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) -44% –34% 2.728 2.841 2.832 2.974 3.879 Energy directly consumed – 0.386 0.445 0.483 0.489 – Energy indirectly consumed – 2.342 2.396 2.349 2.485 – KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) -44% –34% 2.728 2.841 2.832 2.974 3.879 NL|DC (sold in 2019) – 0.299 0.393 0.400 0.408 0.365 Total – 3.027 3.234 3.232 3.382 4.244 1 KPN Group energy consumed (excluding NL|DC) decreased by 30% compared to base year. Table 2: Electricity consumption (in GWh) Target 2030 Target 2022 compared compared 2010 to base year to base year 20191 2018 2017 2016 (base year) KPN KPN KPN KPN KPN KPN KPN NL Group NL Group NL Group NL Group NL Group NL Group NL Group Network 580 580 595 595 581 583 606 608 694 697 Offices and shops 37 37 36 36 33 34 39 42 70 72 KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) -33% -27% 617 617 631 631 614 617 645 650 764 769 NL|DC (sold in 2019) 83 83 107 107 109 109 111 111 99 99 Total 700 700 738 738 723 726 756 761 863 868 1 KPN Group electricity consumption decreased by 20% versus base year Table 3: Fuel consumption, lease vehicle fleet (petrol, diesel and LPG) target target target 2010 Unit as from 2025 2020 20191 2019 2018 2017 2016 (baseyear) KPN The Netherlands 100% inflow of (excluding NL|DC) 1,000 liter CO2e neutral cars –50% -49% 8,457 9,347 9,429 10,126 16,597 NL|DC (sold in 2019) 1,000 liter 66 65 63 65 119 Total 1,000 liter 8,523 9,412 9,492 10,191 16,716 1 KPN The Netherlands fuel consumption decreased by 49% versus base year KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 209 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Table 4: Other Energy consumption KPN Group Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 Natural gas KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) 1,000 m3 2,580 3,424 4,390 3,774 NL|DC (sold in 2019) 1,000 m3 49 74 79 82 Total natural gas 2,629 3,498 4,469 3,856 Heating purchased GJ 27,618 29,653 32,279 39,594 Cooling purchased GJ 92,891 94,571 95,139 102,980 Diesel for emergency power generators KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) 1,000 liter 116 103 129 119 NL|DC (sold in 2019) 1,000 liter 56 81 63 122 Total diesel for emergency power generators 172 184 192 241 Table 5: CO2e emissions own operations Scope 1 and 2 (in kTon)1 2010 target 2050 2019 2018 2017 2016 base year Scope 1 NL 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 58.8 Scope 2 NL 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 35.9 KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 94.7 KPN non–NL entities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 25.0 NL|DC (sold in 2019) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 44.0 Total 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 163.7 1 The reported emissions in the table are net scope 1 and scope 2 market based. In the table on page 50 both net and gross scope 1 emissions are reported as well as the location and market based scope 2 emissions. Table 6: Energy efficiency and Carbon intensity indicators target 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2010 Ton CO2e per Gb/s KPN Netherlands (2010=100) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 GWh per Gb/s Network Netherlands (2010 =100) 5.2 5.4 5.6 7.8 11.2 100.0 210 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Table 7: CO₂e emissions Scope 3 (in kTon) KPN The Netherlands target 2040 target 2025 Target 2020 compared to compared to compared to 2014 base year base year base year 20191 2018 2017 2016 base year CAT1 Purchased goods and services 498.7 518.6 544.3 526.0 535.1 CAT2 Capital goods 198.5 174.9 162.8 200.0 237.5 CAT3 Fuel and energy related activities 5.1 9.7 26.9 40.7 93.0 CAT4 Upstream transportation and distribution CAT5 Waste generated in operations 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.3 CAT6 Business travel 3.2 3.1 3.5 3.3 3.2 CAT7 Employee commuting 16.5 15.9 15.5 16.6 17.7 CAT8 Leased assets – – – – – CAT9 Downstream transportation and distribution 17.6 18.3 19.6 14.9 23.0 CAT10 Processing of sold products – – – – – CAT11 Use of sold products 2.1 2.3 2.8 3.1 3.7 CAT12 End–of–life – – – – – CAT13 Downstream leased assets 135.1 135.0 146.8 147.1 128.0 CAT14 Franchises – – – – – CAT15 Investments – – – – – Total CO2e emissions –50% –20% –17% 876.9 878.3 922.3 951.7 1,041.4 Total upstream CO2e emissions 722.1 722.7 753.0 786.6 886.7 Total downstream CO2e emissions 154.9 155.6 169.3 165.1 154.7 1 Due to refining our methodology, we restated our scope 3 figures for previous years. Our emissions in the value chain decreased by 16% compared to base year. Table 8: Other environmental impacts KPN Group Unit target 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Materials usage Cable length 1,2 1,000 km 373 367 364 359 Paper consumption Tons 268 459 505 1,042 % FSC or PEFC % 100% 100% 100% 100% Coolants (e.g. R407C and R417A) KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) kg 657 825 838 766 NL|DC (sold in 2019) kg 0 157 51 263 Total kg 657 982 889 1,029 Water Consumption offices and shops (excluding NL|DC) 1,000 m3 52.4 66.5 76.0 89.1 Consumption operations (excluding NL|DC) 1,000 m3 31.7 51.7 91.7 80.0 Total KPN Group (excluding NL|DC) 1,000 m3 80 84.1 118.2 167.7 169.1 NL|DC (sold in 2019) 1,000 m3 92.3 130.0 123.3 125.8 Total 1,000 m3 176.4 248.2 291.0 294.9 1 Including tubes used for cables 2 Excluding Reggefiber KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 211 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Table 9: Estimated avoided energy consumption and CO₂e emissions by usage of KPN products and services Estimated avoided energy consumption (in PJ)1 target 2020 target 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 Teleworking (enabled by KPN connectivity)2 2.154 2.144 1.434 1.428 Dematerialisation 0.169 0.131 0.130 0.076 KPN Audioconferencing 0.109 0.135 0.130 0.140 KPN Video Conferencing 0.050 0.053 0.056 0.004 KPN Hosting services 0.032 0.030 0.035 0.041 KPN iTV Cloud solution 0.012 0.018 0.018 0.017 Total estimated avoided energy consumption (excluding NL|DC) 2.527 2.511 1.804 1.706 Total energy consumption KPN (excluding NL|DC) 2.728 2.841 2.832 2.974 % Avoided energy consumption compared to energy consumption KPN 94% 89% 93% 88% 64% 57% Estimated avoided energy consumption NL|DC services (NL|DC sold in 2019) N/a 0.120 0.123 0.111 Total energy consumption KPN (including NL|DC) N/a 3.234 3.232 3.382 % Avoided energy consumption compared to energy consumption KPN (including NL|DC) N/a 81% 60% 54% Estimated avoided CO₂e –emissions (in kTon)1 2019 2018 2017 2016 Teleworking (enabled by KPN connectivity) 2 173.0 172.3 114.5 114.7 Dematerialization 12.4 10.4 10.3 7.4 KPN Audioconferencing 8.3 10.2 10.0 10.7 KPN Video Conferencing 3.7 3.8 4.2 0.3 KPN Hosting services 3.7 3.5 4.0 4.7 KPN iTV Cloud solution 1.8 2.5 2.5 2.3 Total estimated avoided carbon emissions 203.0 202.7 145.4 140.1 Estimated avoided emissions NL|DC services N/a 13.8 14.1 12.7 Total estimated avoided carbon emissions (including NL|DC) N/a 216.4 159.5 152.8 Avoided Particulate matter emissions (PM10) in tons3 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total avoided PM10 emissions 410 not calc. not calc. not calc. 1 NL|DC is sold in 2019. NL|DC services (KPN Colocation services) are therefore excluded. 2 In 2018 we updated our Teleworking calculation methodology using more accurate data from CBS on the number of Teleworkers in the Netherlands. The figure was higher than the number we used in previous years. 3 PM10 is particulate matter 10 micrometers or less in diameter. 212 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Table 10: Circular information on reuse, recycling and disposal Target Target Result Result Result Result Total outflow1 2020 2019 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total volume non– hazardous materials & waste ton 6,538 6,494 5,344 6,417 Reuse ton 480 497 347 332 Recycling ton 4,486 4,416 3,135 3,684 Incineration (net)2 ton 1,543 1,547 1,833 2,160 Landfill ton 29 34 29 241 Total volume hazardous materials & waste ton 148 105 56 275 Reuse ton – – – – Recycling ton 114 75 53 171 Incineration (net) ton 31 20 3 101 Landfill ton 3 10 – 3 Total volume ton 6,686 6,599 5,400 6,692 % Reuse % 7% 7% 6% 12% % Recycling % 69% 68% 59% 34% % Reuse and Recycling3 % 79% 77% 76% 75% 65% 46% % Incineration (net) % 24% 24% 34% 51% % Landfill % 0% 1% 1% 3% Collected equipment Modems and TV settop boxes % 80% 70% 78% 67% 69% 74% Mobile phones4 % 5% 6% 6% 9% 1­ Figures are excluding NL|DC (sold in 2019). 2 Residual waste is incinerated which leaves a residue. After incineration, part of this residue is recycled (e.g. in construction applications). To determine net–incineration as reported, we deduct the volume of residue after incineration which is recycled and the volume which is landfilled. 3 In 2016 we calculated the reuse and recycling rate based on a partial scope (i.c. 42% of total volume) 4 Percentages 2017 and 2018 have been restated due to expansion of scope. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 213 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Appendix 8: Supply chain Risk level decision maker Yearly contractual spend? >€100k <€100k Production in? No risk area Risk area No risk area Risk area (definition based on EcoVadis (West Europe, North America, (East Europe, Asia, country risk mapping) Japan, Australasia) Latin America) Tangible / Product Intangible / Service (products such as hardware, handsets, (software products / licenses, consulting) CPE, connection equipment) Buying by EU reseller or distributor? yes no Medium risk No risk High risk Signed supplier Signed supplier Signed SCOC and Code of Conduct Code of Conduct onsite audit (SCOC) 214 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices Assessing our suppliers KPN works together with suppliers in order to purchase their products and services. We critically review these suppliers in terms of their environmental impact and the working conditions of their staff. Our sourcing process (new, extension or renewal of products or services) therefore includes a qualification process. This entails classifying the supplier based on the potential social and environmental risks that its operations, products and services represent. We assess these risks based on three parameters (see decision tree on the previous page): • Geographical areas • Spend • Potential environmental impact of a supplier’s operations, products or services For the definition of the risk of countries of production we use the EcoVadis country risk mapping. In 2019, we identified 39 critical suppliers based on the definition above. Total number of suppliers 2108 High risk suppliers 39 Medium and low risk suppliers 2069 Critical Tier I, Tier II, Tier III and Tier IV suppliers to KPN are audited by the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) association. In cooperation with other JAC members, audits were carried out in production plants (Tier I, II, III and IV) located in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe in the following countries: • Brazil • China • India • Malaysia • Taiwan • Thailand • Turkey • Vietnam KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 215 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices Appendix 9: GRI Index GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission General Disclosures Organization 102-1 Name of the organization Koninklijke KPN N.V. Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 and services Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 Flexible, simple and converged products and services p. 35 KPN does not sell products that are banned in certain markets. However, some aspects of our products are subject to stakeholder questions and public debate. This primarily concerns EMF (electromagnetic fields), see https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/our-network/health and conflict minerals. Through our membership of EICC and GeSI, we support initiatives to prevent human rights violations and the financing of armed conflicts by mineral extraction. KPN will make use of a mineral mapping program which is in development in cooperation with social organizations, thereby responding to the call made by MakeITfair, an organization which is campaigning for the ICT sector to be more transparent about the origin of minerals. See: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/sustainabillity/suppliers 102-3 Location of headquarters Rotterdam, the Netherlands 102-4 Location of operations KPN operates in the Netherlands and the Americas 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate governance, p. 58 102-6 Markets served Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 Converged smart infrastructure, p. 32 Flexible, simple and converged products and services, p. 35 Focused innovation and digitalization, p. 39 102-7 Scale of the organization Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 Shareholder value, p. 21 Sustainable employability, p. 45 Consolidated Financial Statements, p. 98 102-8 Information on employees Sustainable employability, p. 45 Reporting on employees of and other workers Appendix 6: Social figures, p. 207 contractors is considered not applicable to KPN. Our In 2019, about 97% of the KPN workforce is represented in a formal joint stakeholders do not request us to management-worker health and safety committee, which supports and report on such information. advises on occupational health and safety programs. All employees (on the payroll as regular staff) are eligible for regular performance and career development reviews. 65.4% of all employees had at least one performance and career development review in 2019. 39.7% of all employees had reviews on a more regular basis. 34.6% did not have any review in 2019. (This is excluding other participations). The percentage difference between the average salary of men and women in the collective labor agreement (CLA) scales decreased from 2.25% in 2018 to 1.98% in 2019 102-9 Supply chain Sustainable employability, p. 45 Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 Long-term and short-term impact on society, p. 26 216 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-10 Significant changes to the Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 organization and its supply Shareholder value, p. 21 chain Consolidated Financial Statements p. 98 Flexible, simple and converged products and services, p. 35 Converged smart infrastructure, p. 32 Sustainable employability, p. 45 Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 Corporate governance, p. 58 Supply chain management In 2019, JAC raised 93 environmental issues at suppliers following on-site audits. 126 environmental issues were resolved during 2019 (these also include issues raised in previous years). 69 of 93 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. KPN has about 39 high risk suppliers. In 2019, no supplier relations were terminated. In 2019, JAC raised 330 CSR issues at suppliers following on-site audit relating to working hours and health & safety at suppliers. 395 issues in these two categories were resolved during 2019 (these included issues from previous years). 235 of 330 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. In 2019, JAC has raised 419 issues relating to human rights (these include the following auditing categories: health & safety, working hours, child labor & juvenile workers, wages & compensation, forced labor & prison labor, discrimination, disciplinary practice and freedom of association). 605 were resolved during 2019 (including issues raised in previous years). 295 out of 419 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. In 2019, JAC raised 12 CSR issues at suppliers following on-site audits relating to child labor & juvenile workers. 9 issues were resolved during 2019 (including issues raised in previous years). 6 of 12 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. In 2019, JAC has raised 55 issues relating to business ethics (including corruption). 94 issues were resolved during 2019 (including issues raised in previous years). 38 of 55 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. In 2019, JAC raised 14 CSR issues at suppliers following on-site audits relating to forced labor & prison labor. 11 of these issues were resolved during 2019 (including issues raised in previous years). 10 of 14 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. In 2019, JAC has raised 567 CSR issues overall, of which 55 relating to business ethics (including corruption). 94 issues related to business ethics were resolved during 2019 (including issues raised in previous years). 402 out of 567 issues raised in 2019 are still pending. 102-11 Precautionary principle or Compliance and risk, p. 66 approach For our approach to EMF, see: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-thenetherlands/sustainabillity/working-together 102-12 External initiatives The most important charters, principles, or other initiatives to which KPN subscribes or which KPN endorses are: UN Global Compact UN Declaration of Human Rights International Labor Organization (ILO) OECD Principles of the World Economic Forum RE100 For more information and context, see: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-thenetherlands/sustainabillity/working-together KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 217 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-13 Membership of associations Our most important memberships are: GeSI ETNO Green GrId Teleworking Forum Mobility Management Task Force UN Global Compact ITU Nederland ICT ECP For more information and the most recent overview of memberships, see: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/sustainabillity/workingtogether For information on lobbying activities, see: Appendix 3: Transparency, p. 180 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior CEO letter to the stakeholders, p. 4 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and In the sections 'Our purpose and the world around us' and 'Strategy, key opportunities performance and value creation model' we describe the challenges KPN faces, including the way KPN responds and regards them as challenging opportunities. Our key impacts are displayed in the value creation model and explained in ‘Long-term and short-term impact on society’. Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 Long-term and short-term impact on society, p. 26 In the section ‘Environmental performance and responsible supply chain’ we describe the key impacts of climate change to our business, and the way we turned them into business opportunities. These business opportunities are translated into KPIs and include targets, results, goals and evaluation processes. The Board of Management has final responsibility. Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 Our CSR governance is described in our ‘Corporate governance’ chapter, p. 58 In our ‘Compliance and risk’ section, we describe the main risks KPN faces. The environmental, privacy and security risks are integrated in our risk systems and part of the top risks of KPN. Compliance and risk, p. 66 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Remuneration Report, p. 86 integrity and norms of behavior Safeguarded privacy and security p. 42 Sustainable employability p. 45 Compliance and risk, p. 66 Environmental performance and responsible supply chain p. 48 For more information, see our Code of Conduct and the KPN SpeakUp Line: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7050/code-of-conduct.html For more information on our management approach on privacy and security, see Security link at: https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/security 218 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Employees can seek advice and report violations on ethical and lawful concerns about ethics behavior by contacting the KPN Helpdesk Security, Compliance and Integrity. All reports made to this helpdesk are registered. In 2019, 4,065 reports have been made to the helpdesk. However, KPN only registers reports on violations of the Code of Conduct and the subcodes (which include all company policy on ethical and lawful behavior) including the results of formal investigation and follow-up in terms of corrective measures. The system is not yet designed to be able to register requests for advice separately. Reports on possible violations of the KPN Code of Conduct or subcodes (which include all company policy on ethical and lawful behavior) are registered by the KPN Helpdesk Security, Compliance and Integrity. In 2019, 0 reports of possible violations of the Code of Conduct and 1,209 reports on possible violations of the subcodes have been registered. In 112 occasions, these were followed by corrective measures. KPN does not register the number of complaints about breaches of the company Code or other ethical issues at the helpdesks, social media and mvo@kpn.com. For the Code and more information on anonymous reporting, see: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7050/code-of-conduct.html Compliance and risk, p. 66 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance, p. 58 Compliance and risk, p. 66 Composition of the boards, p. 73 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate governance, p. 58 Compliance and risk, p. 66 Composition of the boards, p. 73 Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 102-20 Executive-level Corporate governance, p. 58 responsibility for economic, Composition of the boards, p. 73 environmental, Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on Corporate governance, p. 58 economic, environmental, Composition of the boards, p. 73 and social topics Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 102-22 Composition of the highest Composition of the boards, p. 73 governance body and its Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 committees KPN’s Supervisory Board members represent amongst others our shareholders and society. Their competences are broad, and cover a range from expert financial knowledge towards green energy solutions and societal development. For more information on the background of our Supervisory Board members, please see: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7030/supervisory-board.html 102-23 Chair of the highest Composition of the boards, p. 73 governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 the highest governance Corporate governance, p. 58 body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Remuneration Report, p. 86 Corporate governance, p. 58 Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 102-26 Role of highest governance Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 body in setting purpose, Composition of the boards, p. 73 values, and strategy Corporate governance, p. 58 Compliance and risk, p. 66 102-27 Collective knowledge of Composition of the boards, p. 73 highest governance body Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 Corporate governance, p. 58 Compliance and risk, p. 66 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 219 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-28 Evaluating the highest Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing Compliance and risk, p. 66 economic, environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk Compliance and risk, p. 66 management processes Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 102-31 Review of economic, Compliance and risk, p. 66 environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s Steering Committee Integrated Reporting. The Board of Management has role in sustainability final responsibility for the Integrated Annual Report. reporting Corporate governance, p. 58 Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 102-33 Communicating critical Critical concerns are communicated on a quarterly basis to both the Board concerns of Management and the Supervisory Board. This communication consists of a GRIP report, an external audit report and an internal audit report. The GRIP report is most comprehensive and includes all risks for KPN communicated by risk managers. The external audit report comprises mostly financial risks for KPN whereas the internal audit report reports financial and IT security risks. The Board of Management closely monitors all risks and defines procedures and working methods for critical risks. All risks are reviewed by the Audit Committee. 102-34 Nature and total number of Reference omitted The nature and number critical concerns of critical concerns raised during 2019 cannot be communicated, as this concerns sensitive information. 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration Report, p. 86 Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 102-36 Process for determining Supervisory Board Report, 80, remuneration Remuneration Report, p. 86 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Supervisory Board Report, p. 80 remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation We monitor the ratio in annual total compensation for our employees in the ratio main country of operation: the Netherlands. The basis for determining the ratio is the pension base salary, which includes all fixed components of the salary of our employees. For the calculation, we use the annualized salary as paid on 31 December of the reporting year. This is not by definition a full time salary, part time salaries are also included. All bonuses paid during 2019 are included in the calculation, just as the value of vested shares or phantom shares received by employees in the reporting year. For the reporting year 2019, the ratio of annual total compensation of the highest-paid individual to the median annual total compensation is 24.9/1. Due to changes in management, the ratio between the highest paid individual and median salary is lower than 2018. The total annual compensation of the highest paid individual is predominately defined by incentives. Consequently this results in highly fluctuating total annual compensation year-on-year even though base payments remains unchanged. 220 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-39 Percentage increase in We monitor the ratio in annual total compensation for our employees in the annual total compensation main country of operation, the Netherlands. The basis for determining the ratio ratio is the pension base salary, which includes all fixed components of the salary of our employees. For the calculation, we use the annualized salary as paid on 31 December of the reporting year. This is not by definition a full time salary, part time salaries are also included. All bonuses paid during 2019 are included in the calculation, just as the value of vested shares or phantom shares received by employees in the reporting year. For the reporting year 2019, the annual total compensation of the highest paid individual decreased with 0.1% in 2019 (compared with 2018) and the annual total compensation of the median increased with 5.3% in 2019 (compared with 2018). The ratio of the percentage increase of the highest paid individual to the increase of the median annual total compensation of 2019 is +0.02/1. Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 engagement Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 102-41 Collective bargaining Appendix 6: Social figures, p. 207 agreements This indicator supports Principles 1 and 3 of the UN Global Compact. 102-42 Identifying and selecting Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 stakeholders Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 KPN selects stakeholders based on their relevance to the IT industry and to KPN’s CSR themes. They are also organizations or persons (or their representatives) with whom we have a formalized contractual or business relationship, such as customers, investors, employees and suppliers. A major additional criterion is whether they had previously indicated their desire to be involved in KPN’s CSR policy. The other category of stakeholders concerns social organizations with which we do not have a business relationship, but whose views we value because KPN’s operations impact on the interests they represent. We very much wish to engage in dialogue with authoritative, influential organizations, such as the ETNO, MVO Nederland, Circle Economy or the Nationaal Ouderenfonds, an organization representing senior citizens in the Netherlands. It exceeds our capacity to open up the dialogue to every social organization that works on a particular subject. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Customer value, p. 18 engagement Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 KPN does not engage with stakeholders exclusively as part of the report preparations process, although all stakeholders input is considered to be of potential value to the report. KPN wants to know what topics stakeholders deem important and actively respond to their rising demands. One way to interact with its stakeholders is through sponsoring. In 2019 KPN spent EUR 8,525,817 and 6,659 hours on donations, sponsoring and community projects. This amount also includes a calculation of the time spent by our staff on volunteer work. The above amount is composed as follows: Cash contributions (+/-83% of total expenditure) Time (+/-3% of total expenditure) In-kind giving (+/-3% of total expenditure) Management overhead (+/-11% of total expenditure) 102-44 Key topics and concerns Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 raised Customer value, p. 18 Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the The basis for the entities covered in the Consolidated Financial Statements practice Consolidated Financial is KPN’s legal structure. All entities covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements Statements are also included in Corporate governance, p. 58 Consolidated Financial Statements, p. 98 102-46 Defining report content and Contents, p. 3 topic Boundaries Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 221 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 102-47 List of material topics Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Appendix 2: Connectivity of non-financial information, p. 176 102-48 Restatements of information Shareholder value p. 21 Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Footnotes included in tables. 102-49 Changes in reporting Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Footnotes included in tables. 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2019 31 December 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 24 February 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions Colophon regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: accordance with the GRI Comprehensive option. Standards 102-55 GRI Index The GRI Index can be found in the downloadmanager on www.kpn.com/annualreport 102-56 External assurance Independent assurance report, p. 165 Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Material Topics Economic performance Linked with other material topic: Economic value GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (including KPN the Netherlands and all subsidiaries). Outside: providers of capital, governments and communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references in 103-2 103-2 The management approach CEO letter to the stakeholders, p. 4 and its components Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 Shareholder value, p. 21 Corporate governance, p. 58 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value Our purpose and the world around us, p. 8 Economic generated and distributed Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 performance Shareholder value, p. 21 2018 201-2 Financial implications and Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 other risks and opportunities Compliance and risk, p. 66 due to climate change Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 209 KPN discloses all material carbon emissions, climate governance and management approach, including the financial implications of risks regarding climate change and the costs of mitigating actions for the CDP (formerly, the Carbon Disclosure Project). Find our 2019 disclosure at https://cdp.net/en. 201-3 Defined benefit plan Consolidated Financial Statements; [17] Retirement benefts, p. 145 obligations and other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received KPN does not receive significant financial assistance from the government. from government 222 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission Tax Linked with medium material topic: Tax strategy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: customers, suppliers, governments, local authorities, communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management approach Corporate governance, p. 58 and its components Tax and regulation, p. 63 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach Tax and regulation, p. 63 GRI 207: Tax 207-1 Approach to tax Corporate governance, p. 58 2019 Tax and regulation, p. 63 For our Tax strategy & Policy, see: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/ English/7070/tax-strategy-_-policy.html 207-2 Tax governance, control, and Corporate governance, p. 58 risk management Compliance and risk, p. 66 Tax and regulation, p. 63 Tax strategy & Policy: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7070/ tax-strategy-_-policy.html References 102-17 and 102-56 207-3 Stakeholder engagement Corporate governance, p. 58 and management of Tax and regulation, p. 63 concerns related to tax Appendix 3: Transparency; Stakeholder engagement and materiality, p. 180 Tax strategy & Policy: https://ir.kpn.com/websites/kpn/English/7070/ tax-strategy-_-policy.html 207-4 Country-by-country Tax and regulation, p. 63 reporting Consolidated Financial Statements, p. 98 Materials Linked with other material topic: Materials GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the relevant Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: suppliers and customers in countries of operation For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management approach Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 and its components Corporate governance, p. 58 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach Long-term and short-term impact on society, p. 26 GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or KPN is a service provider and not a production company. The materials Materials 2018 volume consumed are therefore limited. 301-2 Recycled input materials See circularity of inflow in: Environmental performance and responsible used supply chain, p. 49 301-3 Reclaimed products and See return rates in chapter: Environmental performance and responsible Reporting on reclaimed packaging their packaging materials supply chain, p. 49 material is considered not Appendix 2: Connectivity of non-financial information, p. 176 applicable to KPN. Our Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 stakeholders do not request us to This indicator supports Principles 8 and 9 of the UN Global Compact. report on such information. Appendix 7: Environmental Figures, p. 209 Water and effluents Linked with other material topic: Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the relevant Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: governments, local authorities, communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 223 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 103-2 The management approach Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 and its components Corporate governance, p. 58 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 209 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58. management approach GRI 303: Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a Not material and effluents shared resource 2018 303-2 Management of water Not applicable discharge-related impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal Only applies to third party freshwater. See Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 209 303-4 Water discharge Only applies to third party water released to municipal water treatment facilities (same volume assumed as reported under 303-3). 303-5 Water consumption Not applicable Effluents and waste Linked with other material topic: Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the relevant Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: governments, local authorities, communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management approach Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 and its components Corporate governance, p. 58 Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 209 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality Not applicable Effluents and and destination waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Calculation methodology is explained in Appendix 3: Transparency, method materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Waste figures are included in Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 209 306-3 Significant spills Not applicable 306-4 Transport of hazardous Only transport of hazardous waste within the Netherlands applies and can waste be found in the waste figures in Appendix 7: Environmental figures, p. 209 306-5 Water bodies affected by Not applicable water discharges and/or runoff Customer privacy Linked with high material topic: Data & information protection GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: all customers. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management approach Safeguarded privacy and security p. 42 and its components For more information on our management approach on privacy and security, see https://overons.kpn/en/kpn-in-the-netherlands/security For our Privacy Statement, see http://www.kpn.com/algemeen/missie-enprivacystatement.htm Corporate governance, p. 58 This management approach supports Principle 8 of the UN Global Compact. 224 Safeguarding long-term value Financial Statements Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints Safeguarded privacy & security, p. 42 Customer concerning breaches of A selection is made of all incidents at 'treatment end date' that have been privacy 2018 customer privacy and losses closed in 2019 and have been reported to the Dutch Data Protection of customer data Authority. In 2019, KPN the Netherlands received 210 complaints about privacy. KPN’s integrity experts review incident reports prompted by grievances, with the legal and regulatory framework being the first check made. The next step checks for violations of the KPN Company Code and of the relevant supporting codes. Own % of Dutch people that Safeguarded privacy and security, p. 42 indicator believe their data is safe with KPN High material topics with own indicators Customer interaction GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: all customers. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2. 103-2 The management approach Customer value, p. 18 and its components Corporate governance, p. 58 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach Own Net Promoter Score (NPS) Customer value, p. 18 indicator Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Own RepTrak Customer value, p. 18 indicator Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Innovation in products and services GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: customers, suppliers, governments, local authorities, communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management approach Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 and its components Corporate governance, p. 58 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach Long-term and short-term impact on society, p. 26 Own See indicators for: The world is becoming increasingly interconnected. Three major indicator Customer interaction; developments have fundamentally changed our industry in the past Network quality, reliability & decades: the introduction of mobile phones, the internet and digitalization. availability; Data & These major changes require a high level of systematic, future-oriented and information protection; innovative thinking. Technology is an essential part of who we are and what Economic value we do. Everything we want to achieve for our customers and society initially has an effect on our own business operations. As digital transformation is highly integrated with our daily business operations all our indicators contribute to our digital transformation. More information on our newest digital developments can be found under 'Focused innovation and digitalization' p. 39 KPN Integrated Annual Report 2019 225 Contents KPN at a glance The value we create Appendices GRI Standard # GRI Disclosure Page number(s), URL(s) and/or information Omission Network quality, reliability & availability GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: all customers. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management approach Strategy, key performance and value creation model, p. 12 and its components Converged smart infrastructure, p. 32 Corporate governance, p. 58 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach Long-term and short-term impact on society, p. 26 Own Average 4G download speed Converged smart infrastructure, p. 32 indicator Own Weighted downtime Converged smart infrastructure, p. 32 indicator reduction Supplier selection and good governance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material Appendix 3: Transparency, materiality and stakeholder engagement, p. 180 Management topic and its Boundaries Where impacts occur: approach 2018 Inside: KPN Group (exceptions and/or limitations are indicated in footnotes to the tables or text). Outside: customers, suppliers, governments, local authorities, communities in countries of operation. For KPN’s involvement, see references 103-2 103-2 The management approach Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 and its components Corporate governance, p. 58 103-3 Evaluation of the Corporate governance, p. 58 management approach Own Return rate for customer Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 indicator equipment Own % weight of equipment and Environmental performance and responsible supply chain, p. 48 indicator materials reused or recycled 226 Colophon For additional information Forward-looking statements and management estimates KPN Investor Relations Certain of the statements we have made in this Integrated ir.kpn.com Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These ir@kpn.com statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to us. They include information Published by concerning our possible or assumed future results of Royal KPN N.V. operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive P.O. Box 25110 position, potential growth opportunities, potential operating 3001 HC, Rotterdam performance or expense improvements and the effects of future The Netherlands legislation or regulation. Chamber of Commerce registration number 02045200 Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forwardContent and organization looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, Royal KPN N.V. ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative of these terms RRED Communications or similar expressions. www.rred.nl Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and Stampa Communications assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those www.stampacommunications.com expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements. Sustainalize Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the www.sustainalize.com stock exchange on which our securities are listed, we have neither the intention nor an obligation to update forwardConcept and design looking statements after distribution of this Integrated Annual Born05 Report. All market share information in this financial report is www.born05.com based on management estimates based on externally available information, unless indicated otherwise. De Designpolitie www.designpolitie.nl The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the company. Online We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and Please visit our Integrated Annual Report website: reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback, www.kpn.com/annualreport questions and comments on our Integrated Annual Report and CSR activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com. The inside pages of this PAPER & BOARD publication have been printed on MADE OF AGRI-WASTE PaperWise, a new generation of WWW.PAPERWISE.EU paper and board with a very low environmental impact. The cover has been printed on wood-free white offset paper (FSC). Royal KPN N.V. Wilhelminakade 123 3072 AP Rotterdam The Netherlands P.O. Box 25110 3001 HC Rotterdam The Netherlands www.kpn.com www.kpn.com
