Kozloduy NPP clean energy COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: 01 January 2019 To: 31 December 2019 CONTENTS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT................................. 2 ABOUT KOZLODUY NPP ....................................................................... 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ......................................................... 5 LABOUR STANDARDS ............................................................................. 6 ENVIRONMENT .......................................................................................... 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION ................................................................................ 13 JOINT INITIATIVES WITH THE UNGC NETWORK BULGARIA ...........................................................................................................14 STATEMENT of continued support July, 2020 I am pleased to re-aﬃrm the continued support of Kozloduy NPP EAD for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With our latest Communication on Progress, we express our intent to continue implementing those principles, making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the UN Global Compact COP policy and via the primary channels of communication. Уours sincerely, Nasko Mihov Chief Executive Oﬃcer 2 ABOUT KOZLODUY NPP Kozloduy NPP EAD is the only nuclear power The operation of nuclear facilities is subject plant in Bulgaria and the main electricity to regulatory control on behalf of the generating plant providing more than one Bulgarian Nuclear Regulatory Agency (NRA) third of the total annual electricity output of at the Council of Ministers of the Republic of the country. This determines the signiﬁcant Bulgaria. Specialised oversight is exercised position the company holds being a factor by the Ministry of Environment and Water, of economic sustainability, both nationally Ministry of Health, Ministry of Regional and regionally. Kozloduy NPP generates the Development and Public Works, State cheapest electricity in the country, thus Agency for Metrology and Technical ensuring and maintaining aﬀordable price Surveillance, and other government bodies. of electricity for Bulgarian end-consumers. Environmental protection is a fundamental Kozloduy NPP EAD is a single-owner issue in the company's policy. The plant is shareholding company, with the Bulgarian monitoring the radiation gamma Energy Holding EAD as the sole owner of background in the 3 km site surrounding capital. Since 18 September 2008, Kozloduy area through an automated information NPP EAD has been a subsidiary company of system. Due to the high safety standards, the the Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD. gamma background within the plant area has not exceeded the levels measured prior Kozloduy NPP EAD operates two nuclear to plant commissioning. power units – Units 5 and 6, with WWER1000 reactors, and two storage facilities for Kozloduy NPP is one of the major employers spent nuclear fuel – a spent fuel storage in Bulgaria providing a high standard of facility with underwater storage technology, living for the personnel employed at the and a dry spent fuel storage facility. company. 37,5% 16 555 288 MWh 363 068 453 MWh Share of national electricity Record of electricity generated Total electricity generated generation for 2019 in 2019 for the entire operational by both units from 1987 life of Units 5 and 6 to the end of 2019 3 The principles of the UN Sustainable Development Goals are an important part of Kozloduy NPP performance and resonate through our MOTTO, MISSION, GOAL and CORE VALUES. OUR MOTTO CLEAN OUR MISSION ENERGY is to securely supply power to the country and the region through safe, eﬃcient and environmentally friendly and reasonably priced generation. OUR GOAL is the long-term operation of the nuclear power units while ensuring safe and steady operation in conformity with the licences issued by the regulatory bodies. OUR CORE VALUES SAFETY FIRST SAFETY FIRST COMMITMENT, MUTUAL RESPECT AND RECOGNITION PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY AND INTEGRITY AT WORK STRIVING FOR EXCELLENCE CONTINUOUS LEARNING 4 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Kozloduy NPP EAD supports and respects practices and excellent ﬁnancial results. As internationally recognised human rights an industry leader, we obey the law, we which are formulated in the key human embrace the spirit of integrity, and we rights treaties. Our goal is to operate in uphold ethical business conduct wherever accordance with the UN Guiding Principles we operate. on Business and Human Rights and we The Kozloduy NPP Code of Conduct and declare it in the Management Policy of Code of Ethics deﬁne how we treat others, Kozloduy NPP EAD. engage in business, manage our corporate We believe there is a clear connection assets, and how we expect our suppliers and between high standards of ethical business business partners to operate. Activities and results Everyone in the Company is entitled to freely express their opinion on any issue and is treated with respect, courtesy, and fairness. According to the current internal rules, each employee receives a one-time ﬁnancial support for a new born baby. These same rules provide for ﬁnancial help to employees with reproductive problems. Opinions section Knowledge and understanding of the Company's This week’s section overall aims and values Safe, positive and excellent working environment General meeting of employee representatives Appropriate remuneration as per job position, and beneﬁts Meetings with plant management Career development opportunities Boxes collecting opinions, complaints Skills development training CEO reception days Regular assessments and self-assessments to improve performance Atmosphere of humanity, kindness, and mutual respect Two-way communication with the management 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. The eﬀective abolition of child labour. Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We promote equal treatment and Any form of breach of the rules is strictly opportunities in the recruiting, development forbidden and addressed immediately. and career advancement, training and As early as 2011, the Management of the motivation of staﬀ while strictly adhering to Company committed itself to the the labour legislation regardless of the involvement of women in the Company employee's ethnic origin, religion, political management process by signing a views, pregnancy or maternity, sex, age, dedicated statement at the European nationality, language, sexual orientation, Commission initiative. In addition, Kozloduy marital status or ability to perform. This NPP implements all legal forms of care and approach to fairness and equality also support of women in order to assist them in applies to employees who are members or performing their maternal duties while not non-members of a trade union, part-time depriving them of their professional workers and those on a ﬁxed-term contract. development opportunities. Activities and results: 3722 Total number of 45,5 years average age 16 years 9 months average work employees at year-end 2019 experience at Kozloduy NPP over 200 newcomer specialists 58% employees holding a 29% employees holding a higher education degree secondary vocational education degree 31% female employees 25% women in senior management role 6 RECRUITMENT PROCESS FOR WORKERS AND EMPLOYEES OF KOZLODUY NPP Compliance with the Law on Protection against Discrimination, the Law on Protection of Personal Data ; Application of the national and international requirements in the professional recruitment process in nuclear facilities, Labour Code as well as relevant internal documents; Transparent recruitment process and opportunities for online access to information online; Explicit prohibition on hiring of individuals under the age of 18; Reduced working hours and beneﬁt of additional paid annual leave for individuals working under speciﬁc working conditions; A collective bargaining agreement is signed between the Kozloduy NPP trade union organisations and the plant management, (eﬀective over a 2-year period 2019/2020), which guarantees protection of the personnel rights in respect of occupational and social security issues, and provision of an additional social beneﬁts package; Equal rights for career development and growth. PERSONNEL TRAINING AND QUALIFICATION SYSTEM Compliant with the relevant national requirements, international standards and recognised best practices; Training Centre licensed by the Bulgarian Nuclear Regulatory Agency for conducting specialised training of staﬀ to perform activities in nuclear facilities, and work with ionising radiation sources; Classroom, hands-on and simulator training, on-the-job training and ESTRA-based online training used by plant and subcontractors' personnel. 2879 1523 41 training sessions training sessions of individual licences issued of own staﬀ in 2019 external organisations staﬀ for work at nuclear facilities Kozloduy NPP strives to apply the lifelong learning principle in order to achieve smart and sustainable growth through: Training and qualiﬁcation enhancement of the employees; Additional paid study leave; Supplying tools and materials for the practical skills classes at school; Cooperation agreements signed with higher education institutions; Awarding scholarships to students taking a degree per BA or MA programmes that are of priority interest to the plant, such as Thermal and Nuclear Energy, or Nuclear Power Engineering; 7 Paid or unpaid students' internships; A dual training procedure has been launched in the subjects of Nuclear Energy and Thermal Engineering, at the Igor Kurchatov Secondary Vocational School, in Kozloduy; Participation in the “Manager for a Day” initiative; Participation in career guidance forums and professional bazaars in secondary schools and universities, focused on assisting young people in career orientation; Visits paid to the nuclear power plant, in 2019, by 752 pupils and 267 university students with the aim of their getting ﬁrst-hand knowledge, and encouraging young, intelligent people in their future professional choices; Joining the WANO Moscow Centre initiative to attract young people to take part in WANO activities; Participation in a number of national and international conferences, workshops, technical meetings, missions, forums, professional practices and other activities organised by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO), FORATOM, the Bulgarian Atomic Forum (BULATOM), the Bulgarian Nuclear Association, and other globally recognised nuclear organisations. HEALTH AND SAFETY Kozloduy NPP strictly adheres to all the requirements of the eﬀective regulations on occupational health and safety in the Republic of Bulgaria, and the best international practices in this sphere: Protection and prevention of occupational hazards arising from work processes, work equipment and the working environment in all aspects of the nuclear power plant activities, such as operation, maintenance, repairs, etc; -Prevention and promoting of safety improvements at work: periodic training on safety at work, as well as delivering the necessary brieﬁngs pre-job, at the workplace, periodic, daily and extraordinary ones; Regular laboratory measurements of working environment parameters; On-site Occupational Health Service with its medical emergency team providing round-the-clock medical care; Industrial injury factor 0.19 (average value for the industry – 1.11/ average value for the country – 0.65); Recreation at the plant's R&R holiday facilities located both in the mountains and at the seaside; Opportunities to attend various cultural life events at the House of Culture, or practise diﬀerent sports at the Sports and Recreation Centre organised in 32 sports sections. 8 Safety is a top priority and a dominant corporate value in Kozloduy NPP: Units 5 and 6 are operated according to the provisions of the operating licences issued by the NRA; NRA renewed the licence for operation of Unit 6 with validity from September 2019 until 03 October, 2029; All the scheduled investment activities were completed as needed for ongoing maintenance of the units, the major and auxiliary facilities and infrastructure, as well as the measures to uphold and strengthen the plant security and physical protection; Speciﬁc indicators evaluating the safe and reliable operation of the nuclear power units have been adopted and widely used by the World Association of Nuclear Operators and the International Atomic Energy Agency. They permit monitoring the nuclear energy trends, and serve to draw a comprehensive evaluation of the achieved reliability and safety levels. Values of speciﬁc performance indicators of Kozloduy NPP in 2019 Indicator Unit 5 Unit 6 NPP LF (Load Factor), % 91,45 92,01 91,73 UCF (Unit Capability Factor), % 88,74 90,59 89,68 UCLF (Unit Capability Loss Factor), % 0,25 0,35 0,30 Th e e x ce l l e n t v a l u e s o f Ko z l o d u y N P P performance indicators form a steady trend of high reliability and safety, with which the plant retains its position among the well-performing nuclear power plants in the world. Throughout the year, no unplanned actuation of the reactor protection systems occurred, while the unplanned events registered entailed a minimum duration and underproduction. 9 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9. Encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies Kozloduy NPP regards protection of the environment with responsibility and applies the relevant national and international standards. There is a periodic review of the nonThe Company has been issued all the radiation aspects of the environment n e ce s s a r y p e r m i t s a s r e q u i r e d i n t h e associated with the activity of the nuclear Environmental Preservation Act, the Act on power plant, and measures are Waters, and the Waste Management Act. The implemented towards their management. implementation of permits' provisions is The programme for the period 2019-2021 monitored systematically. The results has its main objectives focused on obtained are subject to analysis, while the preserving the purity of atmospheric air, information collected is communicated to the sensible and responsible use of water, safe competent authorities. management of waste, safe use of chemical substances, improving of energy eﬃciency, etc. Activities and results: More than 600 samples of surface, underground and waste waters were collected and analysed in 2188 tests according to the “Programme for in-plant monitoring of waters during the operation of Kozloduy NPP” and the “Programme for monitoring of the landﬁll for non-radioactive household and industrial waste”. All the analyses have been performed by accredited laboratories. The data resulting from the mandatory plant own radioecological monitoring conﬁrmed the trend to full compliance with the speciﬁed individual emission limits. Waste subject to recycling in the amount of 1500 tons was transferred for further utilisation. Six inspections were performed by environmental regional inspectorates and directorates. 10 Kozloduy NPP was declared one of the greenest companies in Bulgaria for 2019 and got the third prize in the Green Initiative category of a competition organised by b2b Media . The Electrical Vehicles Industrial Cluster awarded the “Kubrat Sword” to Kozloduy NPP for its contribution to the development of e-mobility in Bulgaria, within the Business Achievements category. Participation of plant employees in a number of environmental initiatives, along with the increasing use of bicycles, separate waste collection and striving to reduce the personal carbon footprint. In 2019, more than 4,000 analyses of over 2,400 samples from diﬀerent environmental areas, and more than 1,200 gamma background measurements were performed at the on-site monitoring points, and the measurement points within the 100-km zone. The results throughout the year did not deviate from the natural gamma background levels speciﬁc for the region. 11 INFORMATION TO THE PUBLIC LIVING IN MUNICIPALITIES WITHIN THE 30-KM ZONE SURROUNDING THE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT Automated information system for radiological monitoring with a total of 14 local measuring stations installed in diﬀerent populated areas; Data visualisation on information boards put up in public places, and data transmittal via wireless on-line connection to the central station at Kozloduy NPP, and thenceforth to the Executive Environment Agency; Background gamma radiation levels typical for the natural background of the region; Values of the atmospheric air human-induced activity – close to the background ones The radiation status of water from natural water bodies, and of drinking water meets the health sanitary norms; The radioactivity of the staple foods produced in the region (milk, agricultural crops, ﬁsh, etc.) is within normal background radiation levels; The results are consistent with the data from the time period preceding the plant ﬁrst start-up, which conﬁrms the absence of any adverse impact from Kozloduy NPP on the staple foods and ichthyofauna in the region. The environmental radiation parameters remain stable, within normal limits, unaﬀected by the nuclear power plant operation. The environmental radiological monitoring carried out by Kozloduy NPP fully complies with the national and European normative requirements in this ﬁeld, the requirements of Article 35 in the Euratom Treaty, and Recommendation 2000/473/Euratom. 12 ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Kozloduy NPP EAD opposes all forms of gifts, fair and equal treatment of suppliers company or public corruption or corrupt and compliance with the UN Global practices, or other illegal activities in Compact principles. conformity with the UN Anti-corruption Investigations, law cases, resolutions or Convention to which the Republic of other events connected with corruption and Bulgaria has been a party since 2006. bribery are conducted according to the The Code of Ethics of Kozloduy NPP EAD requirements of relevant legislation and covers speciﬁc information regarding company documents. conﬂict of interest, personal beneﬁts and Activities and results: Some of the countermeasures taken by the Company against corruption practices are as follows: Regulated internal procedure for receiving and providing of donations; Strict accountancy, subject to internal and external auditing; Restricted cash payment and payments only by bank transfers; Reinforced awareness of anti-corruption issues with the Company employees, and ensuring possibilities to send signals on the hot phone line: +359 973 76262; boxes for collecting signals in writing, located at diﬀerent places across the plant site; providing a dedicated e-mail address: signal@npp.bg. 13 JOINT INITIATIVES WITH THE UNGC NETWORK BULGARIA Member of UN GCNB since 2012 Member of the Monitoring Board since 2019 Kozloduy NPP took part in a series of programmes and projects of the UNGC Network Bulgaria for accomplishing the global sustainable development goals and implementing the 2015+ Strategic Plan of the Network: Kozloduy NPP took part in the „GamesForGood 2019“ project within the UN Global Compact Network Bulgaria collective programme „Healthy at Work“ focused on the active way of life of the employees in two plans: social and related to their engagement in sports. The Table Tennis section at Kozloduy NPP participated in the charity cause competition in favour of organising the „Be Literate“ spelling marathon in the town of Kozloduy. The athletes from the Tennis section at Kozloduy NPP played in the tournament supporting the charity cause „The Northwest Event“ – an initiative aimed at helping pupils from the region become more responsible to their social role. Kozloduy NPP celebrated the World Environmental Day: „We Cannot Stop Breathing But We Can Do Something About the Quality of the Air We Breed“. The NPP employees were called upon using bikes, buses, cars on LPG, biodiesel and e-cars, ridesharing and walking on foot. Power workers passing through the plant gates received from Kozloduy school children leaﬂets with this message and brochures with important information about the harmful consequences from air pollution. The tradition of planting a tree in the Alley of Ecology running between the House of the Power Worker and the Sports and Recreational Complex was kept going. Kozloduy NPP took part in a regional forum under the heading “Business as a Force for Good” at Solvey Sodi, Devnya, in June. The forum made public the good practices of corporate social responsibility of the local companies, showing that these partnerships create shared value to the business and society. Excellent examples were demonstrated of successful joint projects in the sphere of culture, education and social activities involving companies from the region and nonproﬁt and public organisations. Kozloduy hosted the regional forum under the heading “Business as a Force for Good” in October. Kozloduy NPP hosted the Forum organised by UN Global Compact Network Bulgaria. The meeting brought together socially responsible companies from the region and representatives of the local authorities in Vratsa and Kozloduy. The main objective was to share corporate social responsibility good practices for ﬁnding the winning formula for positive changes in society. The Forum highlighted the challenges that business faces nowadays – educational deﬁcits in the country, outﬂow of human potential and hardships in retaining the young. The participants were introduced to the collective activities and the eﬀectiveness of particular projects: the Youth Pact, the “Responsible Choice” and “Proud of My Parents' Work” programmes, the Career Fair and celebrating the World Environmental Day. Further information about the activity of Kozloduy NPP can be obtained from the plant 14 Annual Report for 2019. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Kozloduy NPP EAD Kozloduy 3321 Tel.: +359 973 7 21 00 Fax: +359 973 7 60 19
