SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT About us ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SOUTH32 IS A GLOBAL MINING AND METALS COMPANY We produce bauxite, alumina, aluminium, energy and metallurgical coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc at our operations in Australia, Southern Africa and South America. With a focus on growing our base metals exposure, we also have two development options in North America and several partnerships with junior explorers around the world. Making a Optimise, Care, Trust, Togetherness difference Unlock, Identify and Excellence Our purpose is to make a difference Our purpose is underpinned by a While our strategy outlines what we do to by developing natural resources, simple strategy which is focused on achieve our purpose, our values of care, improving people’s lives now and optimising the performance of our trust, togetherness and excellence guide for generations to come. We are operations, unlocking their potential how we do it. Every day, our values shape trusted by our owners and partners and identifying new opportunities to the way we behave and the standards we to realise the potential of their create value for all our stakeholders. set for ourselves and others. resources. Find out how we make a difference on page 20 Discover more about Our strategy on page 10 Discover more about Our people on page 27 of our Annual Report of our Annual Report See the documents that make up Important notices and disclaimer the rest of our reporting suite at This document has been prepared by South32 Limited (ABN 84 093 732 597) (South32) for inclusion on South32’s website and is for informational purposes only. South32 has prepared this document based on information available to it at the time of preparation. The https://www.south32.net/ information contained in this document is general in nature, and does not purport to be complete. The document does not contain an investors-media/investor-centre/ offer, solicitation, invitation to apply, recommendation or advice to buy, sell or hold any securities of South32. This document should be read in conjunction with South32’s other periodic and continuous disclosure announcements lodged with the ASX, which are available annual-reporting-suite, including: at www.south32.net. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core Annual Report option), the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Mining Principles. Metrics describing health, safety, environment, people and community related performance in this document apply to 'operated Corporate Governance Statement assets' that have been wholly owned and operated by South32, or that have been operated by South32 in a joint venture operation, from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 (FY20). Our corporate governance We engaged an independent external assurance organisation, KPMG, to provide the directors of South32 Limited with assurance on practices and a description of our select sustainability information, as explained in the independent assurance report on page 90. approach to responsible and This document may contain forward-looking statements, including statements about plans, strategies and objectives of management; ethical behaviour. and anticipated productive lives of projects, mines and facilities; and climate change, other environmental and energy transition scenarios (which are potential scenarios and not forecasts). These forward-looking statements are not guarantees or predictions of future performance. Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements or guidance, particularly in light of the current economic climate and the significant volatility, uncertainty and disruption arising in connection with COVID-19. They involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond South32’s control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements contained in this document. There are also limitations with respect to scenario analysis, and it is difficult to predict which, if any, of the scenarios might eventuate. Scenario analysis relies on assumptions that may or may not be, or prove to be, correct and may or may not eventuate, and scenarios may be impacted by additional factors to the assumptions disclosed. Except as required by applicable laws or regulations, the South32 Group does not undertake to publicly update or review any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. The photos used throughout our reporting Certain information contained in this document is based on information prepared by third parties (for example the Intergovernmental may have been taken before the social Panel on Climate Change). South32 has not prepared and is not responsible for this third party material and accordingly South32 does distancing requirements in response to not make any representation or warranty that this third party material is accurate, complete or up to date. South32 accepts no COVID-19. obligation to correct or update this third party material and all persons relying on this information do so at their own risk. I. Overview II III IV V VI VII VIII IX We acknowledge the Indigenous Contents Peoples and local communities OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL of the lands on which South32 STEWARDSHIP Acknowledgement 1 is located and where we conduct From the CSO 2 Environmental stewardship 47 our business around the world. South32 at a glance 4 Land and biodiversity 48 Our business model 6 Water 50 We respect and acknowledge Other environmental the unique cultural and spiritual stewardship responsibilities 54 OUR SUSTAINABILITY relationships that Indigenous Peoples APPROACH and local communities have to the WORKING WITH Our approach 8 COMMUNITIES land, waters and seas, and their rich Governance and integrity 10 contribution to society. Risk management 12 Working with communities 56 Working with Indigenous Sustainability framework 13 In the spirit of respect and Peoples 60 Stakeholders and collaboration 14 reconciliation, we will continue Materiality 15 to support initiatives that strengthen RESPONSIBLE Performance 16 OPERATIONS culture and ways of life to ensure Reporting 18 Tailings 64 their legacy continues and extends Closure 68 to future generations. WORKING WITH INTEGRITY APPENDICES Economic contribution 20 Responsible value chain 21 Our stakeholders 69 Respecting human rights 22 Sustainability performance data 71 Reporting framework indices 77 GRI content index 78 OUR PEOPLE Glossary 88 Our people 27 Independent Assurance Report 90 Staying safe and well 31 CLIMATE CHANGE Our approach 35 Governance 36 Resilience and risk assessment 37 Metrics and targets: our performance 41 Collaboration, partnerships and industry associations 44 www.south32.net 1 Sustainable Development Report 2020 From the CSO DELIVERING ON OUR PURPOSE I am pleased to present our Sustainable Development Report for FY20. At South32, sustainable development is at the heart of our purpose and forms an integral part of our strategy. We are committed to continually improving our sustainability performance and minimising the impact of our operations. This year, we have consolidated information It is devastating that this year one of our The COVID-19 pandemic has had a about our sustainability approach and colleagues went to work and did not return profound impact around the globe and on performance into one Sustainable home to their family. Tragically, Duncan our business. In response, we have focused Development Report, published alongside Mankhedi Ngoato was fatally injured on keeping our people safe and well, our Annual Report. Consolidated while working at the Ifalethu colliery in maintaining safe and reliable operations reporting aligns the management of South Africa Energy Coal. Our response and supporting our communities, all of our environmental and social risks and included providing support to Mr Ngoato’s which are critical to protecting the future of opportunities with South32’s System of family, conducting a full investigation in our business. Risk Management and enables us to report conjunction with his employer Modi Mining As we focused on responding to the unique on our sustainability performance as and sharing the learnings across our challenges of COVID-19 in the locations an integral part of progress against business and with his employer to prevent where we have a footprint, it proved more our strategy. a similar tragedy occurring again. We challenging to progress some of our remain committed to everyone going home Throughout this report, we have further improvement activities during the second safe and well at the end of every shift for aligned our approach with the International half of FY20. However, we are pleased to us, nothing is more important. Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) have achieved our goals for many of our Mining Principles and demonstrated Historically we have reported fatalities that sustainability targets and made progress how it is informed by the United Nations occur where South32 has control of the on several initiatives. Sustainable Development Goals and activities or location. This year, we have Notably, our injury rates continued to the United Nations Global Compact Ten also disclosed fatalities for contractor reduce year-on-year and the integration Principles. We became a signatory to the activities associated with our operations, of significant hazard reporting in our United Nations Global Compact in FY20, but that take place in locations where we performance metrics led to an increase in and we are pleased to include in this report do not have control. Very sadly, two people reported hazards. This reporting enables our first Communication on Progress. from our contracting companies lost their us to eliminate hazards that have the lives in separate offsite incidents during potential for significant injury or fatality transport of our product to their shipping before an event can occur. ports. These incidents were associated with our Cerro Matoso and South Africa Manganese operations. We offered our support to the contractor companies and their employees and participated in the investigations for both events. “ Regardless of the headwinds caused by COVID-19, sustainability is integral to our strategy keeping people safe and well, maintaining safe and reliable operations, and supporting our communities has been critical during this time.” 2 South32 I. Overview II III IV V VI VII VIII IX We made progress on our diversity Our water stewardship plans were this work together with our peers through commitments, with year-on-year increases improved this year by re-focusing our water the ICMM. The Standard represents a in both the representation of women targets and management on the direct significant step forward for the mining and across our business and the representation needs of their catchments, particularly for metals industry in safely managing tailings of Black People in our South African Hillside Aluminium and Mozal Aluminium storage facilities. We will progressively operations. However, we have more where there are droughts in the region. integrate the new requirements into our to do and will keep working to achieve standards and practices. Implementation of community investment continuous improvement against our plans for each operation continues, and Looking ahead to FY21 we anticipate objectives. in FY20 we developed a framework that COVID-19 will continue to challenge us. FY20 was the fourth year of working will enhance how we measure our impact However, we will continuously improve towards our short-term target of keeping and consistently improve our approach. how we protect our people, maintain FY21 Scope 1 emissions below our FY15 We also matured our human rights due safe and reliable operations and support baseline, and we remain on track to meet diligence activities in our supply chain by our communities throughout the health that target. At the same time, we have improving the breadth and depth of our and economic impact of the pandemic. progressed decarbonisation studies risk assessments. Regardless of the headwinds caused which are key to helping us achieve our by COVID-19, sustainability is integral to Our commitment to the safe management goal of net-zero emissions by 2050. To our strategy and we will progress these of our tailings storage facilities saw ensure our work with industry associations critical activities to deliver strong health assessments being completed for the is consistent with our climate change and safety, environment and social majority of our facilities against the objectives, we reviewed the positions of performance for our business and our Australian National Committee on Large some associations in comparison to our stakeholders for years to come. Dams guidelines. We also supported the own and will continue to engage in FY21. Global Tailings Review which resulted in the launch of the Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management in August 2020. South32 is proud to have contributed to Rowena Smith Chief Sustainability Officer 3 Sustainable Development Report 2020 South32 at a glance DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO WITH A BIAS TO BASE METALS AMBLER METALS Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver & Zinc FREEGOLD VENTURES Copper & Gold VANCOUVER EMX ROYALTY CORP Copper & Gold SILVER BULL RESOURCES Zinc, Silver, Lead & Copper HERMOSA CERRO MATOSO Zinc, Lead & Silver Nickel MINERAÇÃO RIO DO NORTE (MRN) Bauxite BRAZIL ALUMINA Alumina AUSQUEST Copper & Gold Office Upstream operations MINSUD RESOURCES Downstream processing facilities Copper, Gold & Molybdenum Divestment or placed on care and maintenance Development option Exploration partnership/project South32 investment 4 South32 I. Overview II III IV V VI VII VIII IX OUR COMMODITIES We mine metallurgical coal and manganese ore which are used to PORTFOLIO OUTLOOK produce steel and we produce alumina, We are actively reshaping and improving aluminium, ferronickel, silver, lead and our portfolio by embedding growth zinc, which have applications in industry, options with a bias to base metals, where transport and consumer goods. We have we expect to see growth as the world operations in Australia, Southern Africa transitions to a lower carbon economy. and South America and a geographically We are on a pathway to exit our lower diverse customer base. returning businesses, including energy coal and manganese alloys, which is Discover more about Our business model on page 6 expected to improve margins and lift return on invested capital. Discover more about Our strategy on page 10 of our Annual Report ADVENTUS MINING CORPORATION Zinc, Lead & Silver EAGLE DOWNS Metallurgical coal LONDON NORTH QUEENSLAND RESOURCES Copper, Zinc, Lead, Silver & Gold CANNINGTON Silver, Lead & Zinc SINGAPORE AUSQUEST Copper & Gold SOUTH AFRICA ENERGY COAL GEMCO Energy coal Manganese ore JOHANNESBURG AUSQUEST Copper & Gold MOZAL HOTAZEL ALUMINIUM AUSQUEST MANGANESE MINES Aluminium Zinc Manganese ore PERTH HEAD OFFICE WORSLEY ALUMINA METALLOYS HILLSIDE ALUMINIUM Alumina TEMCO Manganese alloy Aluminium Manganese alloy AUSQUEST Copper, Lead, Silver & Zinc ILLAWARRA METALLURGICAL COAL Metallurgical coal 5 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our business model CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE As a global mining and metals company, we create value by producing commodities that are used in all aspects of modern life. Our operations and development options are diversified by commodity and geography. We work to minimise the impact of our operations and aim to create enduring social, environmental and economic value. Our pipeline of development options and early stage exploration partnerships is central to our strategy to further reshape and improve our portfolio and create long-term value. Our operations focus on safe and reliable production, minimising their impact and continually improving their competitiveness to maximise return on investment. Bauxite(1) Alumina Aluminium MINE REFINE SMELT Energy coal(2) Ferronickel Lead Manganese alloy(2) Manganese ore Metallurgical coal Nickel ore(1) Silver Zinc Our marketing team generates revenue from the sale of our commodities and purchases raw materials. They also build a view of commodities and their markets that informs our strategy, business planning and investment decisions. Construction Transport Energy Consumer goods Our strategy guides how we optimise our business, unlock its full value and identify ways to create value for all stakeholders. For more information on Progress against our strategy in FY20, see page 12 of our Annual Report (1) We mine and refine bauxite to produce alumina; we mine nickel ore to produce ferronickel. (2) A binding conditional agreement was signed in FY20 for the sale of South Africa Energy Coal and, subject to a number of material conditions being satisfied, is on-track for completion in H1 FY21. The Metalloys manganese alloy smelter was placed on care and maintenance in July 2020 and a binding conditional agreement was signed for the sale of the Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd manganese alloys smelter in August 2020. 6 South32 I. Overview II III IV V VI VII VIII IX MINE REFINE SMELT Manganese ore and metallurgical coal Alumina is used to produce aluminium. Aluminium has a range of applications are essential materials to produce Worsley Alumina and Brazil Alumina including in the automotive sector where steel for construction of buildings and refine bauxite which is used to produce it can reduce the carbon footprint of a infrastructure. We are the world’s largest alumina. Approximately 50 per cent of vehicle. Aluminium is infinitely recyclable producer of manganese ore from our the production from Worsley Alumina is and also used in construction and operations in Australia and South Africa. shipped to our aluminium smelters in South consumer goods like electronics and Africa and Mozambique and we sell 50 per household items. Hillside Aluminium Lead, silver and zinc from our Cannington cent plus our share of production from in South Africa is the largest aluminium mine have a range of applications, Brazil Alumina on the seaborne market. smelter in the southern hemisphere. including batteries, renewable energy Worsley Alumina is one of the world’s generation, construction and consumer Ferronickel is used to make stainless steel largest and lowest cost alumina producers. electronics. which is used to produce household items, surgical instruments and vehicle parts. Energy coal is used for power generation. Cerro Matoso mines nickel ore which is We primarily supply coal to domestic power smelted in electric arc furnaces to produce stations that are close to our mines ferronickel. in South Africa. We sell some energy coal on the seaborne market(2). Manganese alloy is used in the production of steel(2). 770 kilograms of metallurgical Approximately coal is used to make 1 tonne of steel 20% of the manganese ore seaborne 7% of global lead production market is supplied by our joint venture comes from Cannington Approximately 60% 65% of global lead production is of all zinc consumed goes used in automotive batteries towards protecting steel More than from corrosion 66% of nickel production is used Our strengths, capabilities and to produce stainless steel key differentiators We have a strong focus on safety, – This combination means we are well We aim to be trusted by our operational performance, capital positioned to identify and pursue future stakeholders because we deliver discipline and developing future growth options for our business with a on our commitments. opportunities for our business. bias towards the base metals that will – We aim to create value through our remain essential to people’s daily lives – We focus on safety; stable and social and environmental performance for years to come. predictable performance; and cost and build relationships based on trust competitiveness. We have robust We build an inclusive workplace and transparency; and systems and an integrated approach to which enables continuous – Our approach is to engage all risk management across the business; improvement. stakeholders who have an interest – We are structured for agile decision– We have a shared purpose and work with in our business to understand their making and have an entrepreneurial integrity and in line with our values; and perspectives and identify ways we can mindset that allows us to respond work together and create long-term – We trust in our teams and there is value. quickly to changes in the market; and a strong dialogue with leadership, empowering decision-making at a local level. 7 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our approach DEVELOPING NATURAL RESOURCES TO CHANGE LIVES FOR THE BETTER 8 South32 I II. Our sustainability approach III IV V VI VII VIII IX At South32 we believe that, when done sustainably, the development of natural resources can change people’s lives for the better. This is integral to our purpose to make a difference by developing natural resources, improving people’s lives now and for generations to come. We are trusted by our owners and partners to realise the potential of their resources. Our purpose is underpinned by a simple, also considers our interactions with our yet powerful strategy which is focused people, the environment, communities on optimising the performance of our and society. Our Sustainability Policy operations, unlocking their potential and affirms our commitment to sustainable identifying new opportunities. While our development and outlines our commitment strategy outlines what we do to achieve to governance and transparency on our purpose; our values of care, trust, sustainability matters. togetherness and excellence guide how we We build on these foundations by applying do it. Every day, our values shape the way responsible business practices in our we behave and the standards we set for operations and throughout our value ourselves and others. chain, to not only minimise and manage We produce commodities that are used in impacts on people and the environment, all aspects of modern life. Our minerals and but also to maximise opportunities for our metals are relied upon for infrastructure communities and other stakeholders. development, energy generation, The expectations of our stakeholders are consumables and vehicles. We create continually evolving. Global shifts that local jobs, empower and invest in local impact current and future generations – communities, contribute to economies such as the COVID-19 pandemic, climate by paying taxes and royalties, and source change, inequality and water scarcity – goods and services through our global require and motivate us to respond in a supply chain. way that delivers social, environmental and Sustainability is a fundamental element economic value. of delivering on our strategy and we This report provides an overview of how expect our joint venture partners, our business-wide processes support our suppliers and contractors to support this. sustainability objectives, how we manage Our approach to sustainability is based our most important sustainability issues on the International Council on Mining and the progress we made during the 2020 and Metals (ICMM) Mining Principles, financial year. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and our legal requirements. It 9 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Governance and integrity We set high standards of corporate Our Sustainability Committee’s The Risk and Audit Committee’s governance and integrity which are responsibilities include: responsibilities include: aligned with our purpose, values and – Reviewing and monitoring the – Overseeing corporate reporting with ICMM Mining Principle 1 – appropriateness of the sustainability processes designed to safeguard the Ethical Business. management systems and frameworks; integrity of reporting and facilitate – Reporting to the Risk and Audit independent verification; Corporate governance At South32, good governance is Committee on identified material – Reviewing and monitoring related party essential to the way we work – not just sustainability risks; transactions; in what we do, but in how we act, how – Reviewing and monitoring systems – Monitoring and reviewing the we communicate and how we evaluate for compliance with applicable independence and performance of the our behaviour. For more details see our sustainability related legal and external auditor; Corporate Governance Statement at regulatory compliance and associated – Overseeing the effectiveness, www.south32.net. performance of the Group; independence and objectivity of the Our Board continues to acknowledge – Reviewing and endorsing to the Risk internal audit function including the the unique relationship connecting and Audit Committee the health, safety, implications of internal audit findings; resource companies, the communities in environment and community (HSEC) – Overseeing management’s which they operate, and the standards section of the annual internal audit plan; implementation of the risk management and expectations of our company to act – Recommending to the Remuneration framework in light of the risk appetite lawfully, ethically and responsibly. Committee key performance indicators set by the Board; for the sustainability component of – Recommending to the Remuneration Our Board is assisted by the Sustainability the annual incentive plan for the Chief Committee and the Risk and Audit Committee key performance indicators Executive Officer and Lead Team and for the risk management component Committee to manage the sustainability determining the outcome for referral to aspects of their responsibilities, which of the annual incentive plan for the the Remuneration Committee; Chief Executive Officer and the Lead include health, safety, human rights, environmental and social performance. – Reviewing and endorsing the Group’s Team and determining the outcome public sustainability targets; and for referral to the Remuneration – Reviewing and approving sustainability Committee; reporting and other significant positions – Recommending to the Remuneration and public statements. Committee its assessment of any risk issues that may warrant adjustments to At the end of FY20, the Sustainability variable remuneration outcomes; and Committee members were: – Assisting the Board in considering, – Mr Keith Rumble (Chair); approving and overseeing matters – Mr Guy Lansdown; pertaining to capital structure and allocation, tax, resource and reserve and – Dr Xiaoling Liu; other significant matters as delegated – Mr Wayne Osborn; and to the Committee from time to time. – Ms Karen Wood. At the end of FY20, the Risk and Audit Committee members were: – Mr Frank Cooper AO (Chair); – Mr Guy Lansdown; – Dr Xiaoling Liu; and – Dr Ntombifuthi (Futhi) Mtoba. The Sustainability Committee and Risk and Audit Committee’s Terms of Reference can be found at www.south32.net. Our Chief Executive Officer is accountable for the sustainability performance of our business. Working under the supervision of our Chief Executive Officer, our Leadership Team deliver on our strategy in line with our values, our Code of Business Conduct, the risk appetite set by the Board and our Sustainability Policy. 10 South32 I II. Our sustainability approach III IV V VI VII VIII IX Integrity Anti-bribery and corruption Transparency Our Code of Business Conduct Our Code of Business Conduct prohibits We are committed to open and transparent Our Code of Business Conduct (Code) fraud, bribery and corruption in any form, dealings with all our stakeholders. We sets the standards for our people to and requires compliance with applicable publish information on our operational, act ethically, responsibly and lawfully. It anti-bribery and corruption laws wherever financial and sustainability performance applies to our people (Directors, executive we conduct business. Our standalone in a timely manner through several management, employees and contractor Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy communication channels, including media staff), our suppliers and our joint venture was also released with our updated Code releases, stock exchange announcements, partners acting on our behalf in a in November 2019. We operate a risksocial media, newsletters and community controlled or operated joint venture. based anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) and investor meetings. We respond to A copy of our Code can be found at compliance program across our business stakeholder enquiries and requests for www.south32.net. which our Chief Executive Officer, Lead information, where appropriate. Team and Board support. We released an updated Code in November 2019 which includes our global Speak Up Details of our compliance program and Policy. During FY20, we also published an copies of our ABC and Speak Up policies Addendum to our global Speak Up Policy can be found at www.south32.net. to meet new Australian whistleblower protection laws. Our Speak Up Policy outlines the options for reporting a business conduct concern. Anyone can report a business conduct concern, including anonymously via our confidential EthicsPoint reporting hotline. We inform our Risk and Audit Committee and our Board of material business conduct concerns and material breaches of our Code. At South32, good governance is essential to the way we work – not just in what we do, but in how we act, how we communicate and how we evaluate our behaviour. 11 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Risk management Risk management is fundamental to Our risk management approach is Our approach to managing the maximising the value of our business delivered through our System of Risk sustainability aspects of our business-wide and informing its strategic direction. Management, which is aligned to the strategic risks and our operational-level Effective risk management enables principles of the International Standard for material sustainability risks are detailed in Risk Management AS/NZS ISO31000:2018. this report. us to identify priorities, allocate It applies to all employees, Directors, resources, demonstrate due contractors and our subsidiaries. With the impact of COVID-19, our current diligence in discharging legal and risk management focus is on keeping our regulatory obligations, and meet the Our risk management approach is people safe and well, maintaining safe and standards and expectations of our governed by our Risk Management reliable operations, and supporting our stakeholders. Framework, which has been in place communities, all of which are critical to since 2015. Our internal material risk protecting the future of our business. management standard defines the minimum mandatory requirements for management of risks that have a material impact on our purpose, strategy and business plans. These risks are regularly assessed and managed at both a company-wide strategic level and at an operational and project level. 12 South32 I II. Our sustainability approach III IV V VI VII VIII IX Sustainability framework As members of the ICMM and the UNGC, our approach to sustainability is based on ICMM’s Mining Principles, the UNGC Ten Principles and informed by the UN SDGs. These are reflected in our Sustainability Policy, our internal standards and our operational procedures. We have mapped the applicability of these frameworks to our sustainability approach throughout this report. ICMM Mining Principles and Position UN Sustainable Development Goals UN Global Compact Statements The UN SDGs are a set of 17 goals and As a signatory to the UNGC, we are The ICMM Mining Principles and Position 169 targets adopted by all 193 UN committed to the Ten Principles which Statements define good practice member states in 2015. The SDGs are relate to the four areas of human rights, environmental, social and governance at the heart of the 2030 Agenda for labour, environment and anti-corruption. requirements that support progress Sustainable Development. The key to These principles are embedded in our towards the global targets of the UN achieving the SDGs is working together approach to sustainability, and our SDGs and the Paris Agreement on climate with other stakeholders to develop and Communication on Progress against these change. The ICMM Mining Principles implement actions that contribute to the principles is detailed on page 77. and Position Statements are designed SDGs universal social, environmental and to respond to evolving stakeholder economic aspirations. expectations of the industry. South32 participates on the ICMM Council and various working groups. 13 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Stakeholders and collaboration Key related ICMM Principles Our stakeholders are integral to the The way we engage with our stakeholders success of South32. The nature of on a range of topics and issues is detailed our business means we operate in on page 69. diverse geographies and markets The sustainability issues facing our and have a diverse range of industry can be complex and multi-faceted. stakeholders with many interests Our approach to sustainability is supported and needs. We work to build positive by membership of industry associations, Key related SDG relationships with our stakeholders which provide opportunities to understand, in a meaningful and respectful way, learn and contribute to industry best guided by ICMM Mining Principles 9 practice, and influence matters affecting our business. Social Performance and 10 – Stakeholder Engagement, our Code The size and scope of the industry of Business Conduct and internal associations vary considerably, standards. representing interests at international, national, provincial and local levels. For We regularly engage our stakeholders us, they include mining industry and and receive information that helps us commodity associations, business groups, to manage risk, continuously improve think tanks, bilateral councils, networking and inputs to our annual sustainability and research groups. materiality assessment. It also helps us to increase engagement among our people, We acknowledge the significant interest communicate our positions on relevant from investors and other stakeholders issues, maintain our licence to operate and in these memberships. Our Approach create enduring social, environmental and to Industry Associations document economic value. Our stakeholder groups provides an overview of our industry include: association memberships, our approach to participation and how we manage our – Business partners; memberships. It is available at – Community-based organisations; www.south32.net. – Customers; – Governments and regulators; – Industry peers and associations; – Investment community; – Labour unions; – Local and Indigenous communities; – Media; – Non-government organisations; – Our employees and contractors; – Civil society partners; and – Suppliers. 14 South32 I II. Our sustainability approach III IV V VI VII VIII IX Materiality We conduct a materiality analysis each year to ensure a current understanding of the sustainability issues that matter most to our business and our stakeholders. We use the results of this process to review our sustainability approach, and to inform the focus and structure of the issues for our annual sustainability reporting. The most significant material issues identified through our FY20 analysis are described in Table 2.1. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index on page 78 includes our responses to the GRI Standards for general and topic-specific disclosures, and GRI Mining and Metals sector supplement indicators, where we have determined the issues to be material to South32. Table 2.1 FY20 material issues Material issue (1) Description Report reference Employee The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees is fundamental to our business. Stakeholders Staying safe and well health and expect consistent performance and the disclosure of any exceptions. Keeping our people safe and (page 31) safety well has been a core focus as we respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. Biodiversity There is an increasing expectation in society for companies to commit to ‘no net loss’ of biodiversity Land and biodiversity and land and improve land management practices to address biodiversity loss globally. (page 48) Business The COVID-19 pandemic has focused the attention of our business and our stakeholders on Our response to the continuity business continuity as we implement crisis management plans and respond to market volatility. COVID-19 pandemic Maintaining safe and reliable operations has been a core focus during our COVID-19 response. (page 24) Climate change There is growing stakeholder awareness of both the energy intensity of mining and metals Climate change production, and the opportunities to contribute to low-carbon economies with a focus on emissions (page 34) reductions. Community Our relationships with local communities are essential to our licence to operate. Communities want Working with relationships, to benefit from our activities and expect that we are managing the risks and impacts associated communities health, safety with our activities. Supporting our communities has been core to our response to COVID-19. (page 56) and development Economic Our economic contribution is directly linked to our licence to operate and the value we contribute to Economic contribution contributions our local communities and society. (page 20) Ethics and Our stakeholders expect us to maintain sound governance and transparency of our activities. Governance and business There is increasing focus from external stakeholders on environmental, social and governance integrity (page 10) integrity matters. Engaged Our people are fundamental to our success. Our focus on building an inclusive workforce is Our people workforce supported by inclusion and diversity, talent acquisition, retention and wellbeing approaches. (page 27) Human rights New and emerging legislation, particularly around modern slavery, looks to increase disclosure of Human rights how human rights risks are measured and monitored across our business and supply chain. (page 22) Operational Governments, communities and investors continue to expect good environmental performance, Environmental environment including how we manage effluents, waste and emissions at our operations to meet compliance stewardship (page 47) obligations and maintain our licence to operate. Responsible There is growing societal interest in the sustainability risks, impacts and opportunities across our Responsible value chain supply chain full value chain. (page 21) Tailings Communities and other stakeholders remain concerned about failure risk and seek assurance that Tailings management our management of tailings storage facilities is effective. Global industry focus on tailings (page 64) management is growing through the development of a new international standard for safe tailings management. Technology Advances in technology and innovation influence future mining strategies, including the way we Annual Report and innovation explore, operate and close our operations. This also links to our recruitment and retention of (page 15) talented employees, who are attracted to companies that adopt technology and innovation to create value. Water The protection and security of water supply and quality is an ongoing concern for stakeholders. Water stewardship In the mining industry, there is a strong stakeholder focus on mining impacts in water stressed (page 50) areas. Climate change will have direct consequences for water security. (1) In accordance with the GRI Standards, the boundary for each material topic has been identified. The boundary describes where the material topic impacts South32’s business and stakeholders. For the purpose of this report, South32 refers to material topics as ‘issues’. In FY20, the boundary for our material issues is both internal and external to South32. Internal boundary includes business partners, employees, contractors and the investment community. External boundary includes community-based organisations, customers, governments and regulators, industry peers and associations, labour unions, media, non-government organisations, civil society partners and suppliers. 15 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Performance We set company-wide and Table 2.2 Our FY20 targets and progress made during the year operational-level targets focused Our FY20 targets FY20 progress on our key performance areas of Health and safety health, safety, environment and community. These are aligned with A 15 per cent reduction in Total We are deeply saddened by the loss of one of our ICMM Mining Principles 5 (Health Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) colleagues following an accident at South Africa compared to FY19. Energy Coal. and Safety), 6 (Environmental Performance) and 9 (Social We reduced our TRIF to 4.2 during FY20, a reduction of nine per cent compared to FY19. This continues Performance). We track our our trend of improved year-on-year TRIF performance against these targets performance since FY17 but it did not meet our FY20 using key performance indicators, target of a 15 per cent reduction year-on-year. which are endorsed by the A 1:3 ratio of significant hazards In FY20, our hazard reporting improved, exceeding Sustainability Committee and form identified to significant events, our target. We achieved a 1:4 ratio of significant which encourages the reporting of hazards identified to significant events. part of our Business Scorecard hazards. each year. A 10 per cent reduction in potential In FY20, while we achieved OEL reductions at Hillside The indicators are monitored and material occupational exposures Aluminium, our indicator of potential material from the FY19 baseline, plus plans in exposures >100 per cent of the OEL increased overall. reported to the Sustainability Committee place to reduce the number of This was due to re-baselining of potential material on a quarterly basis to assess progress. workers exposed above the exposures at Khutala and Worsley Alumina following The Sustainability Committee determines Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL) a review of hygiene management practices. Exposure and reports the outcome of its evaluation by a further 10 per cent in FY21. reduction measures were implemented as planned at of the sustainability component of Cerro Matoso and Wessels; however, their resulting the annual Business Scorecard to the exposure reduction could not be confirmed due to Renumeration Committee. The Business COVID-19 activity restrictions. Scorecard outcome, together with Plans have been developed to reduce potential individual outcomes, determines the exposures in FY21, with projects identified at Cerro short-term incentive payment to our Chief Matoso, Hillside and Mozal. Executive Officer and Lead Team. People We review and revise our targets and Meet our measurable objectives to Overall representation of women increased by their indicators every year, informed increase representation of one per cent across our business year-on-year to by our continuous improvement employees and leaders who are 19 per cent. objectives, performance in the women. Representation of women on our Board was previous year, strategic and material 37.5 per cent and in our Lead Team was 44 per cent, risk profile, regulation, ICMM Mining consistent with our target. Principles, stakeholder expectations and Representation of women in our Senior Leadership benchmarking. Team remained stable at 36 per cent, below our target of 40 per cent. Our sustainability targets and performance in FY20 are listed in Table Representation of women in our Operational 2.2. Further detail on our remuneration Leadership Teams remained stable at 18 per cent, under our target of 20 per cent. approach and FY20 outcomes can be Meet our measurable objectives for Representation of Black People in our workforce and found on page 66 of our Annual Report. representation of Black People(1) in management in South Africa is 83 per cent and did Our actions to maintain or improve our South African workforce and not meet our target, but increased by one per cent performance in these areas is described leadership. compared to FY19. throughout this report. Overall, 92 per cent of new hires were Black People. One of our FY20 targets was to A two per cent increase in employee We conducted our annual survey to measure complete the first draft of our social engagement against the FY19 employee engagement, however it was impacted by performance framework and a plan for its baseline. the COVID-19 response, and analysis of the findings implementation. While we did complete was delayed and simplified. The overall results indicate that engagement has remained stable at the first draft of our framework and 60 per cent, which did not meet our target of a conducted a review at our Groote Eylandt two per cent increase against the FY19 baseline. Mining Company (GEMCO) operation to test and refine it, its completion and (1) As defined in the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Amendment Act 2013 (South Africa). implementation was put on hold during FY20 due to COVID-19. The work will be assessed in FY21 to determine the forward plan. 16 South32 I II. Our sustainability approach III IV V VI VII VIII IX Table 2.2 Our FY20 targets and progress made during the year continued In FY20 we were recognised and awarded Our FY20 targets FY20 progress for our sustainability performance. Key highlights included: Environment – Illawarra Metallurgical Coal was named Achieve Scope 1 and 2 emissions at In FY20, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions were 23,250kt Mining Operation of the Year at the New or below the 24,672kt CO2-e of CO2-e, six per cent below target. South Wales Minerals Council’s 2020 forecast. NSW Mining Industry and Suppliers Remain on track to meet our FY21 We are on track to hold our Scope 1 emissions at or Awards. This was in recognition greenhouse gas emissions target to below our FY15 levels in FY21. of business focus on operational hold our Scope 1 emissions at or below our FY15 baseline in FY21. excellence, meaningful contributions to local communities and ensuring its Progress decarbonisation We progressed our decarbonisation prefeasibility prefeasibility studies at Worsley studies at Worsley Alumina and Illawarra future is sustainable; Alumina and Illawarra Metallurgical Metallurgical Coal, where we are targeting – Our pursuit of inclusion and diversity Coal. substantial reductions in our Scope 1 emissions. across our Australian operations was Community recognised by the 2019 Women in Resources National Awards, which Develop a three-year plan for We developed a three-year strategic investment celebrates the contribution women strategic community investment. plan; however, with the emergence of COVID-19 in the make to the resources industry and second half of FY20, we put some of these activities their work to improve gender diversity on hold and reallocated the funding to support our and inclusiveness in mining. GEMCO’s communities through the pandemic. rehabilitation team won the Excellence Implement Community Investment We continued to implement community investment in Diversity Programs and Performance Plans for each operation and collect plans at all operations and invested US$24.5 million in data to report positive social impact. community initiatives and activities during FY20. This award for its gender diversity program. included US$7 million pledged to support our Finalists from GEMCO, Tasmanian communities’ response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Electro Metallurgical Company (TEMCO) During FY20 we developed a community investment and Cannington were also recognised impact measurement framework to measure the for their contributions across other impact of our investments across the areas of award categories; education, economic participation, health and social – Our flexible family care options made wellbeing and natural resource resilience. the Top 10 companies in a list of the best workplaces in Australia for new dads. The list was compiled by insurer HBF’s website Direct Advice for Dads and compared the paid leave policies for primary and secondary carers offered by Australia’s largest revenue-producing companies; – Our graduate program was recognised with a ranking in the GradConnection Top 100 list. The list was compiled using the number of unique student and graduate applications. We were also ranked by GradConnection as one of the Top 10 Most Popular Engineering and Resources Employers; and – Our participation in the 2019 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) assessment resulted in South32 being selected as an index component of the DJSI, specifically the DJSI Asia Pacific and DJSI Australia. 17 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Reporting Aligned with our Code of Business We participate in external third party Conduct and ICMM Mining Principle 1 performance benchmarking initiatives – Ethical Business, we are and sustainability related assessments, committed to transparent and including environment, social and governance (ESG) ratings agencies, accountable reporting on our proxy advisor questionnaires and data sustainability performance to our collection tools. In participating in these stakeholders. We encourage and assessments, we seek those that are welcome feedback, which supports the most informative regarding our our efforts to continually improve. sustainability approach and performance in comparison to our peers, and those We prepare our annual Sustainable that are broadly recognised by our Development Report in accordance with stakeholders. We use the results of these the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards assessments to inform our planning for (Core option) and the GRI Mining and continuous improvement. Metals Sector Supplement. Through this framework, we demonstrate how we During FY20, we responded to or address the ICMM Mining Principles and participated in: Position Statements, and the UN SDGs. – FTSE Russell; In line with our ICMM membership – ISS Governance, Environmental & Social requirements and transparency Disclosure QualityScore; commitments, each year we complete site-level validation of our alignment – MSCI; with the ICMM Principles and Position – S&P Global; Statements, and independent assurance of – Sustainalytics; our sustainability approach and data. Read – Transition Pathway Initiative; our FY20 Independent Assurance Report on page 90. – Vigeo Eiris; and – Workforce Disclosure Initiative. In line with our membership to the UNGC, this is our first year of issuing our annual This year, we also continued to respond to Communication of Progress (COP) which is individual requests for information on our integrated in this report. Refer to the UNGC sustainability approach and performance COP index on page 77. from investors and customers. We report our approach to climate change The quality of our corporate reporting is in line with the Financial Stability Board’s assessed by third-party organisations, Task Force on Climate-related Financial such as the Australian Council of Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, Superannuation Investors (ASCI). South32 which aim to ensure climate-related has been included in the ACSI ASX200 financial disclosures are consistent, composition for corporate reporting on comparable, reliable, clear and efficient, ESG disclosures since 2016. The most and provide decision-useful information current ASCI assessment rated South32’s to lenders, insurers and investors. sustainability reporting as sector 'Leading'. We apply the outcomes of these We issue an annual Modern Slavery assessments to inform our planning for Statement in accordance with the continuous improvement in our reporting. Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) and as a voluntary statement under the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015. All published statements can be found at www.south32.net. 18 South32 I II III. Working with integrity IV V VI VII VIII IX Working with integrity DELIVERING ON OUR COMMITMENTS 19 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Economic contribution Key related ICMM Principle We contribute to the sustainable Payment of taxes and royalties development of the countries and communities where we operate. Economic benefits generated by our US$751m activities include payment of taxes and royalties to local and national governments, paying dividends to Key related UN SDGs shareholders and wages to Community investment employees, developing our people and our local suppliers, investment in infrastructure, payments to US$24.5m suppliers and investment in community programs. Key related UNGC Principles OUR APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE We support initiatives that require companies to publicly share information on payments made to governments and communities, and governments to publicly disclose contracts and licences for the exploitation of minerals and other natural resources. Our approach is aligned with the ICMM Position Statement on Mineral Revenues and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), which promotes open and accountable management of mineral resource wealth. Each year, we publish an annual Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report, which outlines our approach to tax governance and dealing with tax authorities, details our tax payments to governments by country and by project, and discloses tax expense and international related party dealings on a country-by-country basis. The report also details our contracts for resource development. In FY20, we paid US$751 million to governments in taxes and royalties and US$24.5 million in community investments. We source goods and services within our local communities where possible and set targets at many of our operations for local spend, with consideration for government objectives and legislative requirements. Read more about our economic contribution in our Annual Report 20 South32 I II III. Working with integrity IV V VI VII VIII IX Responsible value chain Key related ICMM Principles We work with our customers and Our approach to the stewardship of our suppliers to achieve responsible minerals and metals products is based sourcing and product stewardship on best practice safe handling, transport across our value chain. Our value and use. It is guided by ICMM Principle 8 – Responsible Production and advice chain comprises 6,775 direct from industry bodies, including the Nickel suppliers in 55 countries and over Institute, the International Manganese 300 customers in 41 countries. Institute, the International Lead Institute, Key related UN SDGs We build strong partnerships with the International Zinc Institute, the our suppliers and customers that are International Aluminium Institute, and the mutually beneficial and aim to work with Australian Coal Industry Research Program businesses whose values and standards (ACARP). align with ours. In FY20, we conducted a review of the risks posed by the bulk shipping of our OUR APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE products against the United Nations (UN) Key related UNGC Principles and International Maritime Organisation Our approach to responsible sourcing (IMO) criteria on safe shipping. This review across our supply chain is focused on confirmed that the controls we have in working with our suppliers to minimise place, and the advice we provide to our health, safety, environmental, human rights supply chain partners and customers, are and other social risks. Our expectations aligned with the UN and IMO criteria. are outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, Sustainability Policy and our Also in FY20, in preparation for the United Sustainability and Business Conduct Kingdom (UK) leaving the European Supplier Requirements. We conduct risk Union, and to ensure ongoing access to assessments on our suppliers, build the the European market for our products, capability of our teams and suppliers to we transitioned our 'representative' align with our standards, and track the registration under the European REACH effectiveness of our work. Our approach to (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation respecting human rights within our supply and Restriction of Chemicals) regulations chain, together with our FY20 progress, from our UK entity to a reputable external is detailed in our annual Modern Slavery provider of product stewardship services Statement. based in Germany. Diagram 3.1 Our value chain Exploration Processing Mining Development & production Export to customers 21 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Respecting human rights Key related ICMM Principle We promote and respect the OUR APPROACH AND human rights of our employees, PERFORMANCE communities, customers, suppliers Our approach to respecting human rights and contractors. This is critical to is guided by internationally recognised the integrity and success of our human rights principles consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, business and our long-term ICMM Mining Principle 3 – Human Rights business partners. and principles one and two of the UNGC. Key related UN SDGs We know we can improve respect for It is also aligned to our commitments to human rights everywhere we work, the Voluntary Principles on Security and including through what we procure or sell Human Rights (VPSHR), and United Nations within our value chains. Today, our human Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights risks are most likely to be related to: Rights (UNGPs). This report and the index on page 77 summarise our progress – Workplace health, safety and labour against the UNGC’s Ten Principles and conditions, including freedom from forms our first annual Communication on slavery, rights to freedom of association Progress since joining the UNGC in 2019. and collective bargaining; Our approach focuses on identifying and – Equality and non-discrimination, managing human rights risks that would including gender equality, diversity and have the most severe impact on our inclusion and transformation in South Key related UNGC Principles employees, contractors, communities and Africa; workers in our supply chain. We invest – Water and sanitation; in community programs wherever we – Freedom of movement; operate and develop local suppliers to – Security services; improve capability and respect for human rights. Our commitments are incorporated – Land use and access rights; and within our Code of Business Conduct, – Communities that live near our our Sustainability Policy, standards and operations, including Indigenous guidelines, and applied across our business Peoples. to clearly articulate our expectations of our employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners. Read more about our FY20 performance on respecting human rights in workplace health and safety on page 31, in labour conditions on page 27, inclusion and diversity on page 27, transformation in South Africa on page 61, respecting rights to water on page 50, land use and access rights on pages 50 and 68, and working with our communities including Indigenous Peoples on page 60. 22 South32 I II III. Working with integrity IV V VI VII VIII IX Ensuring we have safe and easily accessible To build awareness of human rights across Employees that received grievance mechanisms is an important our offices and operations, in FY20 we held modern slavery training part of identifying and managing our risks. events tailored to our local contexts to 1,242 Our global Speak Up Policy is available at acknowledge and celebrate international www.south32.net in multiple languages Human Rights Day (10 December) and is for our employees and their relatives, and Human Rights Day in South Africa our suppliers, customers, community (21 March). In FY20, we delivered modern members, shareholders and anyone else slavery and human rights training to who deals with South32 to raise concerns 1,242 employees who have regular touch about our business conduct, including in points with human rights risks and trained Desktop assessments relation to a human rights violation. 34 suppliers on modern slavery risks. conducted on higher risk suppliers We conduct human rights due diligence We are committed to effective stakeholder 400 across our supply chain, which includes engagement and collaboration to leverage regular risk assessments, training and and share learnings regarding human awareness raising, building capability, rights. We participate in the ICMM Security remediation and tracking the effectiveness and Human Rights Working Group, the of our approach. In FY20, we improved the Sustainable Shipping Initiative Human depth and breadth of our risk assessments Rights Working Group and the Global by conducting 400 desktop assessments Compact Network of Australia. We on higher risk suppliers and independent convened and led a resources industry audits on 11 entities, including subcollaborative group to address risks of suppliers. modern slavery. We also contribute to external forums, such as the UN Business We regularly assess the human rights and Human Rights Forum, to support impacts of our operations on our local human rights policy and regulatory communities. All our operations and development. We have an ongoing projects have current human rights collaborative relationship with the assessments in place. During FY20 we Minderoo Foundation (Walk Free Initiative), conducted new human rights impact a global organisation with a mission to end and risk assessments for our Eagle modern slavery. Downs and Hermosa projects. This year we also completed rapid risk reviews of VPSHR compliance across our higher risk operations. The reviews highlighted areas for improvement against the VPSHR, including training and capability building, maturing our reporting procedures and incorporating our material risks into our Global360 risk management system. We have updated our VPSHR training module which will be released in FY21, and we are working with operations to address the other improvements. Read more about our approach and progress on managing human rights and modern slavery risks in our Modern Slavery Statement Respecting human rights is critical to the integrity and success of our business. 23 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Feature story OUR RESPONSE TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on our business in the second half of FY20. We began monitoring the situation in have a footprint. These actions included Where government measures required us January 2020 and implemented measures national lockdowns and the implementation to place operations into temporary care at that time to protect our people and to of border controls that required us to and maintenance, we ceased production in play our part in managing the spread of the rapidly adapt to the new environment. We a safe manner and subsequently ramped virus. Over the coming weeks and months, responded with several actions focused on up again progressively when necessary we closely followed the advice of the World three areas: controls had been implemented and we Health Organization, governments and our were permitted to do so. own experts. We took decisive action as the – Keeping our people safe and well; virus spread around the world, implementing – Maintaining safe and reliable operations; At all our sites, we developed and business continuity plans, revising travel and implemented appropriate critical controls guidance and providing information for our designed to minimise the risk of potential – Supporting our communities. exposure to COVID-19 and protect our employees. As the situation escalated, we established incident management teams All these areas are critical to protecting the employees and contractors. This has for all our locations and an emergency future of our business, and we stopped or included implementing new ways of working, management team in our corporate office to deferred any work that was not businessadapting shift patterns and ensuring social oversee the crisis response. critical to allow our people to focus on distancing measures are in place at site. the COVID-19 response and the work that We introduced a self-surveillance app for In March 2020, we saw significant matters most. government action to control the spread employees and contractors to complete of the virus in every location where we before coming to site and pre-shift 24 South32 I II III. Working with integrity IV V VI VII VIII IX temperature checks at every operation and As well as acting to minimise the spread public health awareness and education office. Employees are only allowed on-site if of the virus, we recognised the potential campaigns, building capacity in local health they pass the screening. impact of the pandemic on the mental care systems and supporting those who health and wellbeing of our people. For are unable to access critical goods and In South Africa, we have testing facilities and more information on supporting our people, services. For more information, see page 58. can accommodate employees who need to see page 30. self-isolate but cannot do so at home. For At the end of FY20, we were still seeing example, at South Africa Energy Coal we We identified potential risks for our the emergence of hotspots which are a partnered with local mining companies to communities related to COVID-19, both reminder that COVID-19 will continue to establish an isolation facility in Emalahleni from a health perspective but also access impact us and we cannot afford to be for employees and contractors who test to essential supplies and the associated complacent. Our priority is always to keep positive for COVID-19. economic impact. Through the South32 our people safe and well. We will continue to Global Community Investment Fund, we assess the measures we have in place and We continue to closely follow all applicable pledged US$7 million to the areas that address any opportunities for improvement guidelines from the South African need it most. Our COVID-19 community while closely following the advice of Government. This includes the provision investment plans cover prevention, governments and local authorities wherever of safe transport for employees to and preparedness, response and recovery. Our we have a presence. from operations with additional hygiene support has included provision of water, measures associated with vehicle use, essential hygiene and medical supplies, such as extra cleaning between use, the availability of sanitiser and reduced capacity to allow for social distancing. 25 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our people THE FOUNDATION OF OUR SUCCESS 26 South32 I II III IV. Our people V VI VII VIII IX Key related ICMM Principle Our people are the foundation of our INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY success. A key part of our strategy We are committed to achieving a truly to unlock the full value of our inclusive and diverse workplace. Our business includes engaging and Inclusion and Diversity Policy defines connecting our people to our diversity in the broadest possible sense purpose. and is supported by our Inclusion and Diversity Framework. We know that to Key related UN SDGs Our values guide the way we work together, unlock the value of diversity, we must build the standards that we set and how we hold inclusion as a priority and our Framework is each other to account. Together, we aim based on three key pillars: to create an inclusive workplace where our people are empowered to be the best – Build an inclusive workplace; they can be, contributing to exceptional – Build the future pool of diverse talent; business performance and sustainable and outcomes. We want to see our employees – Hire and develop diverse talent. not just perform but thrive, and our focus on their wellbeing doesn’t begin and end in Ultimately, we seek to create a workforce our place of work. that reflects the communities where we operate, rich in diversity of thought, and We have over 14,500 employees across where everyone’s contribution is valued, 19 operations and offices in nine countries. celebrated and rewarded. We recognise Key related UNGC Principles Read more about our global footprint in our and value all aspects of diversity and have Annual Report. long-term ambitions for our workforce to represent the countries and communities OUR APPROACH AND where we work. We focus our efforts PERFORMANCE on those areas where we can deliver Our people strategy takes a global view, significant positive change relevant to supported by local employees in the the local context. This means increasing countries where we operate. We attract, the representation of women across our retain and develop people who want to business, and in South Africa increasing make a difference through their work. the representation of Black People. These We are proud to be an employer that offers commitments are set out in detail in rich opportunities and global development our inclusion and diversity measurable and a work environment where our people objectives, which our Board reviews and can lead change and see the impact of approves annually. their work every day. Our approach has been recognised by awards which are In FY20, our objectives were to: outlined on page 17. – Demonstrate year-on-year improvement We are guided by our Code of Business in the representation of women Conduct and our values, and external employees by targeting gender standards such as the International Labour balanced recruitment and voluntary Organisation’s Declaration of Fundamental turnover; Principles and Rights at Work, the UN – Maintain the representation of women SDG on Gender Equality and ICMM Mining on our Board and South32 Lead Team Principle 3 – Human Rights. This year, at greater than 30 per cent and we redesigned the fundamentals of our 40 per cent respectively; people management approach. We have – Improve the representation of women in renewed our people mandate, better leadership teams, targeting 40 per cent defined responsibilities, performed a global of the Senior Leadership Team and review of our key policies, procedures and 20 per cent of the Operational documentation, and built new ways to Leadership Team by the end of FY20; collaborate and communicate. – Continue to support and improve Our approach is built around the following employment equity as guided and areas: inclusion and diversity, capability measured by applicable legislation; and and development, talent, planning for our – Continue to work towards employee pay future workforce, employee engagement equity, across gender and ethnicity. and employee relations. 27 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our people continued We made progress against several of our diversity commitments in FY20. Representation of women continued to increase year-on-year, we achieved our Board and Lead Team targets, and representation of women in our Operational Leadership Teams has remained stable. While we did not achieve our targets for representation of women in our Senior or Operational Leadership Teams, this will be a focus area for FY21. We achieved gender-balanced recruitment of women in development roles and scholarships, with 45 per cent awarded to women. Overall, 34 per cent of new hires were women (an increase of three per cent from FY19) and in South Africa, 92 per cent of new hires were Black People (an increase of nine per cent from FY19). Refer to page 61 for further information about our progress under the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Act and the Mining Charter 2018. Table 4.1 South32 workforce diversity performance Stated target Progress Measurable objectives Target Target date FY20 FY19 Improve representation of women Total employees Year-on-Year improvement 19% 18% in total workforce South32 Board 30% 30 June 2020 37.5% 38% Improve representation of women South32 Lead Team 30% 30 June 2020 44% 40% in leadership teams Senior Leadership Team(1) 40% 30 June 2020 36% 37% Operational Leadership Teams(2) 20% 30 June 2020 18% 18% Improve representation of Black Management roles(3) 70% 30 June 2020 55% 49% People in South Africa Total employees 85% 30 June 2020 83% 82% Achieve gender pay equity Funds allocated to address gender and ethnicity pay equity US$83,649 US$63,500 (1) The Senior Leadership Team are our leaders who report directly to the South32 Lead Team. (2) The Operational Leadership Team includes Managers and General Managers who report to the Vice President Operations or General Managers at an operation. (3) Management roles are leaders with an identified job grading, based on the requirements of their role and salary rate, of 13 or higher. We focus on pay equity by gender and To support our ongoing inclusion and All employees have access to LinkedIn ethnicity through global audits of reward diversity efforts, this year we launched Learning, an online training platform levels across our business, with the results an inclusion and diversity toolkit which is providing access to skills development reported to our Board annually. Since 2017, available to employees and contractors. through over 7,000 self-paced courses. we’ve been a Workplace Gender Equality The toolkit explains the value of inclusion We aim to provide a consistent approach Agency Pay Equity Ambassador, helping and diversity, why it’s important and how it to training through our SuccessFactors to create change in pay equity and gender improves wellbeing and the workplace for Learning Management System (LMS), equality. everyone. It explains unconscious bias and which our global training team oversees. includes access to online unconscious bias Our training programs offered through Between FY17 and FY19 we allocated testing. The supporting content aims to deLMS develop the skills and competency US$2.863 million to address pay equity. mystify inclusion and diversity, to make it of our people in sustainability, leadership Following our annual diversity audit in an approachable topic for all our people. and compliance. We have launched a new FY20, we paid a further US$83,649. global onboarding procedure and support In FY20, 73 undergraduates and 44 CAPABILITY AND DEVELOPMENT tools, designed to support leaders and new graduates joined our business through We promote a lifelong approach to starters from their first interaction with our our vacation and graduate programs. We learning, encouraging our people to drive business. hosted 170 trainees and 66 apprentices at their own professional development pathways. In turn, we offer opportunities In FY20, we concluded the Leadership nine of our operations – 49 per cent were to grow across our business, supported by Capability Program (LCP), completing women. We recruited an additional 226 our performance, development and talent a three and a half year journey to build learners(4) in South Africa, with 40 abilitymanagement processes. insights and targeted development plans impaired learners at our Hillside operation. for our 1,320 leaders. The core tools from We granted 380 new scholarships around Each year, our employees set performance this program have since been made the world, 250 of which were granted to and development goals to improve available to all employees. Based on women. effectiveness in their current roles, and to insights from the LCP, we commenced work In FY20, our Hermosa project supported an guide their future career progression. We on the Leadership Fundamentals Program, after-school technology program for Latina communicate our strategy and business a globally aligned but locally tailored girls in Santa Cruz County middle school, plans to enable our employees to set leadership program for our frontline Arizona, to promote careers in science, individual goals aligned to our priorities. leaders which will be rolled out from FY21. technology, engineering and mathematics Our performance and reward systems (STEM). The program aims to encourage are linked, so our people understand the interest in computer programming, coding relationship between their contributions, and robotics by the time the girls reach the performance of the business, and their high school. recognition and reward. (4) Learners refers to learnership, which is an experiential workplace learning linked to an occupation which is assessed by a statutory body and forms part of a nationally recognised qualification in South Africa. 28 South32 I II III IV. Our people V VI VII VIII IX TALENT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Our ability to identify, attract, support and We know that engaged people strengthen Our approach to employee relations is retain talented people is fundamental to our performance and contribute to set out in our principles-based global delivering our business strategy. We take the long-term success of our business. employee relations framework, which is a broad view of talent, development and By promoting honest and transparent embedded in each operation and function. training to build technical, operational and dialogue, we continuously learn and We hold our people to a high standard functional skillsets as well as leadership develop. As part of this, we conduct global and expect them to treat everyone fairly, capability. employee surveys annually to understand with respect and care. We’re committed what’s working well and what can be Our talent management process aims to: to providing a work environment free from improved in our workplace. harassment or any form of discrimination, – Promote the movement of key talent In FY20, we conducted our annual where everyone is encouraged and within the organisation; survey which focused on health and supported to speak up when our values – Align those people with challenging safety, leadership, engagement and our and standards are not being followed. work; and employees’ experience at work. Our principles include respect for our – Maximise value and to identify and people’s right to freedom of association, Analysis and release of results was develop internal successors for critical representation and collective bargaining. delayed and simplified this year to enable roles within South32. Where collective agreements specify our people to focus on the COVID-19 further consultation obligations, we meet Our Senior Leadership meet regularly pandemic response and business critical these commitments. At a minimum, to hold talent discussions to enable activities. The overall results indicate that our negotiations comply with relevant collaboration of our people across the engagement has remained stable at 60 legislation and aim to create outcomes that business. This enables us to share key open per cent. Participants reported a positive balance both our business and employee roles, profile employees who would benefit overall employee experience (an increase needs. from further development opportunities, of one per cent to 62 per cent) and an and identify gaps to close in our talent increase in perceptions of leadership In FY20, 63 per cent of our employees pipeline. capability (by two per cent to 71 per cent). were engaged under collective bargaining Employees responded favourably to safety agreements. This year, we successfully We have a range of programs in place to questions, with 86 per cent agreeing that re-negotiated three collective agreements build our global talent pipeline including ‘In my team, safety issues are raised and across our operations without any graduate programs, traineeships and acted upon’ and 80 per cent agreeing that industrial stoppages or incidents. These scholarships. We also work externally to ‘At South32, people will always stop work included agreements at Hillside Aluminium, build the mining industry’s future talent if conditions are unsafe’. We surveyed our Mozal Aluminium and Cannington port pipeline. We work with governments, people about their health perceptions operations. education providers and our communities for the first time and recorded a positive to demonstrate the value of a career in When we need to make a significant perception, with 78 per cent agreeing that STEM within mining. Every year we provide operational change or provide notice of ‘fitness for work issues are raised and opportunities for primary and high school termination of employment our processes acted upon’. students to learn and develop skills in are, at a minimum, compliant with all local STEM, and to encourage girls to consider legislation in the jurisdictions where we mining careers. work. In many cases, we provide notice well in excess of minimum standards, and we In South Africa, we sponsor the National always engage with our people as soon as Science and Technology Forum’s annual practicable if we identify a requirement to awards which recognise outstanding make a significant change to the business. contributions to STEM and innovation. This includes informing employees who In Australia, we sponsor the Inspiring Girls may be affected at the time or during the Careers Forum which aims to increase period where we intend to make changes. awareness of the range of diverse career pathways available in the resources sector, promote the benefits and opportunities available and build partnerships between industry and school communities. We also granted three South32 David Crawford engineering scholarships, providing Percentage of employees Participants in Leadership financial and work experience support who are women Capability Program for undergraduate and postgraduate 19% 1,320 engineering students. 29 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our people continued Supporting our people – tools for mental health and wellbeing The COVID-19 pandemic has presented a unique global EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM challenge with the potential to impact both the mental and All our employees and their families have access to our physical wellbeing of our people. To proactively manage this, Employee Assistance Program (EAP), a confidential counselling we’ve taken steps to enhance and expand our approach and and support service. It can help with a broad range of concerns, support our people when they’ve needed it most, including: including dealing with self-isolation and disruption, being – Launching a dedicated mental health and wellbeing intranet disconnected from loved ones, financial and legal questions, site; relationships, children’s needs, balancing work and home, remote work, and dealing with change, stress and uncertainty. – Expanding the information available on our existing family During this challenging period our people’s use of the EAP and domestic violence support intranet page; increased. – Providing additional mental health and wellbeing awareness and guidance for our leaders; DOMESTIC AND FAMILY VIOLENCE SUPPORT – Holding regular company-wide and operation-specific Q&A In line with our values and our Code, we do not accept violence calls with health and wellbeing themes; in any form. It’s important that our people are safe from violence both at work and at home, and that they are supported – Funding mental health support services at Groote Eylandt; to ask for help when they need it. We have a range of family and – Establishing a dedicated COVID-19 group on Yammer, our domestic violence materials designed to support all our people, internal social network, to increase connectivity; regardless of their gender, sexuality or other characteristics. We – Introducing online exercise and mindfulness routines at our have policies and procedures to support those at risk of family operations in Australia and Colombia; and or domestic violence, including referral to appropriate local services. – Creating medical clinics at GEMCO and Cerro Matoso to provide health care for our workforce and community. We have a long history of supporting ‘16 Days of Activism’ against gender-based violence in South Africa, and we’re While these tools were developed and implemented in direct proud to be part of an industry-led initiative in Australia to response to the unique mental health and wellbeing risks help end domestic and family violence. In November 2019, we associated with COVID-19, they will continue to be used across came together with 11 other organisations from the Western the business. Australian resources sector to take a strong stance against family and domestic violence. 30 South32 I II III IV. Our people V VI VII VIII IX Staying safe and well Key related ICMM Principle Nothing is more important than the HEALTH AND SAFETY RISK health, safety and wellbeing of our MANAGEMENT employees, contractors, suppliers Our health and safety risks are managed and communities. We are committed through our system of risk management, to working together safely and with a focus on common fatality risks. continually improving our systems In FY19 we updated our internal safety and processes at all our operations. standard and conducted a comprehensive Key related UN SDG review across all our operations against Most fatality and significant event risks the updated standard. In FY20, we are common across our industry. We have implemented improvement opportunities defined a set of minimum controls for the in the controls and supporting processes prevention of nine common safety-related for our common fatality risks. We also fatality risks across our operations. These increased our focus on the identification, are: reporting and control of fatality risks. This Key related UNGC Principle – Arc flash; focus resulted in a 58 per cent increase in our hazard reporting compared to FY19. – Confined spaces; – Dropped and falling objects; We also updated our internal health standard in FY20. This included a review of – Electrocution; our Occupational Exposure Limits (OELs) – Entanglement; against airborne contaminants, supported – Fall/movement of ground; by international and peer benchmarking, – Falls from height; and external expert review and internal review of our exposure data. As a result, – Lifting; and material changes have been made to our – Light vehicles/mobile equipment. OELs for respirable coal dust, respirable Health-related fatalities in the mining crystalline silica and both respirable and industry include long latency disease. inhalable manganese dust. In FY21, we We have also defined a set of minimum will continue to develop projects to reduce controls for the prevention of five common potential exposures across our business. health-related fatality risks across our We will prioritise implementation of operations. These are: those that reduce our highest potential exposures, with focus on respirable coal – Airborne contaminants; dust, respirable crystalline silica and both – Non-ionising radiation and thermal respirable and inhalable manganese dust. stress; Another area of our health focus is ‘Fitness – Hazardous substances; for Work’, which addresses physical and – Communicable and infectious diseases; mental health and wellbeing, drug and and alcohol use and fatigue management within our workforce. As part of our – Fitness for work. COVID-19 response we have prioritised OUR APPROACH our focus on mental health and wellbeing across our business (refer to page 30 for Our commitment and approach to more detail). everyone going home safe and well is aligned with ICMM Mining Principle 5 – To further mature our approach to health Health and Safety, and executed through and safety risk management, in FY20 our Sustainability Policy, our internal health we conducted a detailed review of the and safety performance standards, and way we disclose fatalities for contractor operational procedures, which are regularly activities associated with our operations updated. Our approach focuses on health that occur in locations that we do not and safety risk management, leadership, control. As a result of this review, for FY20 capability, assurance and performance. and going forward we will disclose these Improvement in our performance is incidents in our annual reporting. We also driven by enhancing the capability of improved our processes to influence offsite our operational employees to manage contractor transport related activities health and safety risks, learning from and are contributing to an ICMM working our significant events and striving for group looking at ways to improve fatality continuous improvement in everything reporting. we do. 31 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Staying safe and well continued HEALTH AND SAFETY LEADERSHIP HEALTH AND SAFETY AND CAPABILITY PERFORMANCE Safe operations We ask all our people to speak up and The health and safety of our workforce is stop work when it is not safe to continue. our priority. We also seek to influence and during COVID-19 Everyone has a responsibility to look out improve health and safety performance for themselves and each other. Together, in environments associated with our To keep our people and communities we aim to ensure our work is well-designed operations that we do not control. safe and well during the COVID-19 and that activities are executed in a safe pandemic we established transmission We are deeply saddened by the loss of and predictable manner. prevention controls at all our one of our colleagues, Duncan Mankhedi workplaces. Steps taken include: Highly engaged, effective and accountable Ngoato, a Diesel Mechanic Assistant for leaders are critical to everyone going Modi Mining, following an accident at the – Reducing and, in many cases, home safe and well. In FY20, we introduced Ifalethu colliery at South Africa Energy ceasing travel; a workplace interactions module in our Coal on 27 May 2020. We express our – Isolating and supporting people Global360 risk management system to deepest sympathies to Mr Ngoato’s family, confirmed to have COVID-19 or had support our leaders’ safety engagements friends and colleagues and we provided been exposed; in the field, and we have recorded support and counselling to them. A – Introducing screening and more than 50,000 interactions since its detailed investigation into this incident was surveillance to identify at-risk introduction. Our enhanced engagement undertaken and led by a member of our personnel and potential cases; and reporting has also enabled stronger Senior Leadership Team, with the results engagement on health and safety risk reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer, – Modifying the workplace and work between our leaders and the broader management team and Board. The key structures to maintain physical workforce. learnings have been shared across our distancing; operations. – Providing facilities for improved Over the last two years we have grown personal hygiene; our health and safety capability globally, Also in FY20, two people from our building a team with diverse experience contracting companies tragically lost their – Increasing cleaning regimes and and skills to address both strategic and lives in separate offsite road incidents sanitisation of high use areas and operational health and safety challenges during transport of our product to the equipment; and across our business. shipping ports. These incidents were – Issuing a new COVID-19 infectious associated with our Cerro Matoso and disease management procedure for ASSURANCE South Africa Manganese operations. We use during an outbreak. Assurance is a key component of our health seek to influence and improve the health While the COVID-19 pandemic had a and safety management system, and we and safety practices of our contractors significant impact on our business use the three lines of defence assurance undertaking activities associated with our in the second half of FY20, strong model. operations that occur in locations that we collaboration enabled our controls to do not control. We offered our support Our first line consists of checks by front be rapidly developed, implemented, to our contractor company and their line employees and managers on a routine communicated and improved. It also employees following these incidents and basis to ensure that controls are in place as resulted in a growth in the number of participated in the investigations for both tasks are being carried out. people who have actively engaged events. We also supported our contractors with our risk management system to Our second line involves reviews by to action the investigation findings. manage material health risk. functional experts, focused on improving Continuous improvement in our health the systems that support the operations. and safety performance is critical to In FY20, we completed second line reviews our goal that everyone goes home safe against our nine common safety fatality and well. To evaluate our progress, we risks at all our operations in accordance track and measure a range of health and with our updated internal safety standard. safety indicators as part of our Business Our third line involves internal and external Scorecard, as detailed on page 16. audits conducted by independent experts In FY20, we reduced our Total Recordable to ensure that our systems are effective Injury Frequency (TRIF) by nine per cent to and meet international standards. 4.2. This continues our trend of improved Each year our independent external year-on-year performance since FY17 and sustainability auditors review our health is a net reduction of 28 per cent in TRIF and safety systems at selected operations. since FY15. While our improvement in TRIF indicates that the design and execution of our approach to safety is effective, the FY20 outcome did not meet our target of a 15 per cent reduction. In FY20, while we achieved OEL reductions at Hillside Aluminium, our indicator of potential material exposures >100 per cent of the OEL increased overall. This was due to re-baselining of potential material exposures at Khutala 32 South32 I II III IV. Our people V VI VII VIII IX and Worsley Alumina following a review of Table 4.2 Overview of safety and health performance hygiene management practices. Exposure FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 reduction measures were implemented Fatalities from safety and health incidents – as planned at Cerro Matoso and Wessels; total(1) 1 0 1 1 however, their resulting exposure reduction Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) could not be confirmed due to COVID-19 (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – total 4.2 4.6(2) 5.1 6.1 activity restrictions. Total recordable illness frequency (TRILF) The reduction in potential exposures at (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – total 1.4 1.3 1.7 1.3 Hillside Aluminium resulted in: (1) Incidents are included where South32 controls the work location or controls the work activity. (2) Figure has been restated since it was previously reported due to a reclassification or recalculation of data. – Potential exposures to carcinogens >100 per cent OEL (Coal Tar Pitch Volatiles or CTPV) reduced from 90 Diagram 4.1 Total recordable injury frequency FY17 FY20 to 10, influenced by completion of exposure reduction projects during 8 FY20; and Rate per 1,000,000 hours worked – Potential exposures to carcinogens >200 per cent OEL (CTPV) reduced from 10 to 6 four, due to improvements at the Hillside Aluminium paste plant. Plans have been developed to reduce 4 potential exposures in FY21, with projects identified at Cerro Matoso, Hillside and Mozal Aluminium. 2 During routine inspections at Illawarra Metallurgical Coal in August 2019 6.1 5.1 4.6 4.2 we identified defects in the seals of 0 some of our compressed air breathing FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 apparatus (CABA) units, which are used by underground workers to protect them from harmful gasses in emergency situations. In response, we limited underground access while we investigated the cause and repaired or replaced all CABA units, after which normal operations resumed. Musculoskeletal illness and injury remain the most prominent sources of ill health and injury in our business, accounting for 45 per cent of total recordable occupational illness. In FY19, we piloted the introduction of an ergonomics program at our Australia Manganese operations to reduce the risk of hazardous manual tasks and reduce the prevalence of musculoskeletal illness and injury. During FY20 we extended this program to other Australian operations, with its global delivery put on hold due to COVID-19. We have progressively built leading indicators into our metrics to drive improved health and safety performance. In FY20, we introduced significant hazard reporting as a leading indicator to our performance reporting. This enables us to identify and eliminate hazards that have the potential for significant injury or fatality before an event can occur. We achieved a ratio of four significant hazards reported for every significant event in FY20, which is better than our target of three to one. 33 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our approach RISING TO THE CHALLENGE OF CLIMATE CHANGE 34 South32 I II III IV V. Climate change VI VII VIII IX Key related ICMM Principle The impacts of climate change are Our approach is underpinned by our increasingly being felt around the positions on key climate change matters. world and as a responsible global This year, we have defined these positions business, our investors, to support our external engagement with stakeholders. We support: communities, governments and other stakeholders expect us to – The Paris Agreement objectives manage the associated risks and to limit global temperature rise to Key related UN SDGs opportunities. below 2°C this century, and to pursue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5°C. As a direct and indirect emitter of We will regularly review our approach greenhouse gases through our operations in the context of the United Nations and value chain, we are committed to Framework Convention on Climate achieving the objectives of the Paris Change (UNFCCC) actions, credible Agreement, and to achieving net zero sources of climate science and emissions by 2050. emerging regulation; Key related UNGC Principles OUR APPROACH – Principle-based carbon price Our approach to climate change is guided mechanisms that promote leastby international standards, including the cost abatement, collaboration and recommendations of the Task Force on international transfers. There should be Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), bi-partisan policy linking to the Paris ICMM Climate Change Position Statement Agreement objectives, and flexibility and UN SDG 13, as well as regulatory in carbon market design during a schemes such as the National Greenhouse transition period to accommodate and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme in sectorand country-specific challenges; Australia, and the South African Carbon Tax. – Technology-neutral energy policy that balances affordable access to reliable We have been reporting our climate change energy and emissions reduction, and approach in line with the TCFD since 2017. technology-banded policy or subsidies In FY20, we commenced the process of to accelerate technology deployment; benchmarking our approach to climate and change and sustainability more broadly against the Sustainability Accounting – Collaboration across the value chain Standards Board Standards. to strengthen product stewardship, encourage innovation and decrease emissions. 35 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Governance The Sustainability Committee and EMISSIONS REDUCTION OPPORTUNITY Risk and Audit Committee of the In 2016, we set our long-term goal of Our approach to climate change includes Board assist the Board with achieving net zero emissions by 2050, in capturing opportunities associated with management of climate change risk line with the Paris Agreement. Our path the global transition to a low carbon and opportunity, emissions to achieve this is set through short-term economy. reduction targets and disclosures. emissions reduction targets, which we We regularly assess our customer review every five years. Commitment to Read more about our approach to preferences to ensure our products remain these targets is reinforced through our governance for sustainability on Lead Team’s ‘at risk’ remuneration under in demand and resilient. For example, page 10. South32's Short-term Incentive Plan. through our decarbonisation studies, we are actively working to reduce the carbon The Sustainability Committee receives In 2016, we also published our first fiveintensity of our alumina and metallurgical regular progress reports on climate change year short-term target to keep our Scope 1 coal products. from the Lead Team, which is regularly emissions in FY21 below our FY15 baseline, updated on developments in climate We assess the demand of products across and we remain on track to deliver on this science, policy, regulation, technology and a range of possible climate futures. Our commitment. We have commenced work to stakeholder expectations, from both internal pipeline of development options and review our emissions reduction approach and external experts. Our Board is also exploration programs include commodities and increase our ambition, along with briefed on climate change developments by with a favourable outlook in a low carbon developing our next short-term emission an external expert annually. future, with a bias to base metals. This reduction target which we will publish in includes, for example, the high-grade zinc, Our approach to climate change is focused FY21. Refer to the ‘Metrics and targets’ lead and silver Hermosa project in Arizona on three pillars: emissions reduction, section on page 41. in the United States. We have also formed climate change opportunity and resilience. Our emissions reduction is focused on the Ambler Metals Joint Venture, a highdecarbonisation projects, energy planning, grade copper-zinc-lead-gold-silver deposit technology development, portfolio located in North West Alaska. optimisation and carbon offsets for our We have progressed the divestment of residual emissions, aligned with our some of our more emissions intensive strategic objectives. In FY20, we continued operations, with the divestment of our to focus our decarbonisation studies South Africa Energy Coal business on track on our operations where we believe we to be completed in December 2020. The can achieve the most material emission sale will enable South Africa Energy Coal to reductions – at Worsley Alumina and be sustainable into the future as a critical Illawarra Metallurgical Coal (refer to the supplier of coal to meet South Africa’s ‘Metrics and targets’ section on page 43). energy generation needs, and for the benefit of employees, customers and local communities, consistent with South Africa’s transformation agenda. 36 South32 I II III IV V. Climate change VI VII VIII IX Resilience and risk assessment Climate change resilience has been identified as a strategic risk and opportunity for our business. Material climate change risks and opportunities are identified and assessed consistent with our other sustainability and financial matters (refer to the ‘Risk management’ section on page 12). Given the uncertainty of how climate change risks will impact our business, we complement our existing risk management approach with scenario analysis, aligned with the TCFD recommendations. Business resilience assessment – scenario analysis We’ve been using scenario analysis since the recommendations of the TCFD were first published in 2017, when we constructed a set of plausible and evidence-based, yet divergent, future scenarios to describe a spectrum of global temperature change outcomes. We assessed the resilience of our business and our strategy against these scenarios from FY17 to FY19. Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 describes the staged process we undertook to apply our scenarios, and our conclusions. We assess our resilience for both transition risk – the risks associated with changes to climate and energy policy and technology necessary to achieve the Paris Agreement objectives – and physical risk – the risks associated with changes in climate if the world fails to meet the Paris Agreement objectives. We update our resilience assessments at least every two years. Table 5.1 is a summary of our scenarios and how they are applied to assess our resilience. It also details the work we completed in FY20 to prepare for updates of our assessments in the coming years. Table 5.1 Our scenarios, how we apply them and FY20 progress on resilience assessments Scenario description and application FY20 progress Our central case: ‘Patchy Progress’ This scenario assumes a global temperature rise of 3°C, reflecting We updated the carbon price forecast in our central case through more current trends and technology developments, with limited detailed analysis of domestic carbon price policy developments in our key additional climate change action. This is our central case applied operating regions of Australia and South Africa. Our forecast price was annually for planning, budgeting and investment. It is updated each updated in the short to medium-term, reflecting current or imminent year to reflect carbon pricing developments and climate-related domestic pricing regimes in each region. commodity market dynamics. For the long-term forecast, we set the global carbon price at US$40 per tonne, covering direct emissions. To ensure we continue to make well-informed decisions in an uncertain policy environment, we also set a high-side case assumption for sensitivity analysis at US$100 per tonne. Our transition resilience assessment case: ‘Global Cooperation’ This scenario assumes a global temperature rise of less than 2°C, An update of our transition assessment will be completed in FY21 and reflecting a proactive and collaborative approach by governments, take into account dynamic global developments around the transition industries and society to reduce carbon emissions in line with the to a low-carbon economy. Paris Agreement objectives. We are reviewing scenarios recently released by the International Energy This scenario is applied to plan our transition to our net zero goal Agency (including the World Energy Outlook Sustainable Development and assess our resilience to transition risk. and Energy Technologies Perspectives scenarios) and other transition To conduct the assessments, relative demand for each of our scenarios to determine how we integrate this new information. We will commodities under this scenario have been compared to their also consider emerging developments in the lead up to the postponed demand under our 'Patchy Progress' central case, with differences 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the UNFCC (COP26), inferring an indicator of resilience. which is now scheduled for November 2021. Further details of our assessment approach and conclusions are in The results and conclusions of the assessment will be integrated in our Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 (pages 41-45). strategic planning processes and published in our FY21 reports. Our physical resilience assessment case: ‘Runaway Climate Change’ This scenario assumes a global temperature rise of 4°C, reflecting Throughout FY20, we have been applying the results of our physical an emissions trajectory where the world fails to meet the Paris resilience assessments to assess impacts on value and risk across the Agreement targets and the physical impacts of climate change are business. Gaps identified will be progressively closed through our more severe. This includes acute impacts (for example, from planning processes. Over time, this approach will enable more extreme weather events) and chronic impacts (for example, from accurate prediction of the range of anticipated costs resulting from droughts or heatwaves), which could harm the health of society and climate change. ecosystems. In FY20, we conducted internal assurance on our physical resilience To conduct the assessments, we analyse resilience across three key assessment approach and identified improvement opportunities to be impact categories: asset integrity and production continuity, addressed in our next update. maintaining supply chain and logistics, and worker health. This work will incorporate current climate datasets and further Further details of the assessment approach and conclusions are in integrate physical impact analysis into our business processes and Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 (pages 41-45). investment decisions. 37 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Resilience and risk assessment continued Climate change risks Table 5.2 summarises our material climate-related risks and our response to managing them. These risks will change over time. We will continue to review these risks and their mitigation on an annual basis, and over our short(3 to 5 years), medium(6 to 10 years) and long-term (11 to 50 years) time horizons, to ensure they remain current. Table 5.2 South32’s climate change risks Impact type and risks Our management response Policy Carbon pricing policies and associated regulatory mechanisms We assess policy risks in our resilience assessments using scenario may restrict emissions or increase costs for companies with analysis, which is updated every two years. We use the insights we liable emissions. gain from this analysis in our strategic planning. Policy uncertainty and sudden changes may limit the business’ We annually review the signposts and triggers for changes in carbon capacity to prepare for a structured transition. This could result pricing policy and how it affects us. This includes progress against in increased costs and disruption to the business. the Paris Agreement objectives, government policy and regulation. Policy change may also affect the demand dynamics for some of In the shortto medium-term, our central case includes carbon our commodities, such as metallurgical coal and aluminium. prices reflective of current or imminent domestic pricing. We apply a global price of US$40 per tonne over the long-term. This is applied in capital allocation and investment evaluations. To ensure we continue to make well-informed decisions in an uncertain policy environment, we also set a high-side case assumption for sensitivity analysis at US$100 per tonne. Emissions reduction is a central pillar of our approach to climate change. We set emissions reduction targets which form a component of our Lead Team’s ‘at risk’ remuneration under South32's Short-term Incentive Plan. We are committed to reviewing and ratcheting down our targets every five years. Through reviewing and achieving these targets, we will progressively reduce our carbon emissions to achieve our goal of net zero emissions by 2050. Supply chain Stakeholders across our supply chain may experience similar Our scenario analysis incorporates potential policy-based impacts changes in policy to those outlined above, and we may face on our supply chain to test resilience of our portfolio to these risks. changing regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside of our Our assumptions under these scenarios are updated every two own operating environments. years. We use the insights we gain from this analysis in our strategic planning. Costs associated with this may be passed on from an upstream perspective, but also may have a downstream impact on We calculate and disclose our annual Scope 3 emissions to the relative competitiveness and demand for some of our identify the scale and sources of our supply chain emissions and commodities and/or operating margins. transition risks. We calculate these using the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and industry-published emission factors where relevant. We disclose details of our Scope 3 calculation approach and reference sources on www.south32.net. The divestment of South Africa Energy Coal would reduce our Scope 3 emissions by around 50 per cent. Our efforts to reduce the emissions of our metallurgical coal and aluminium supply chain is focused where we can leverage the most influence. Our approach is designed around three pillars: (i) individual engagement, (ii) industry initiatives and (iii) research and development (technology). 38 South32 I II III IV V. Climate change VI VII VIII IX Table 5.2 South32’s climate change risks continued Impact type and risks Our management response Portfolio and growth As pollution concerns or scarcity pressures increase, air quality, We closely monitor and manage our environmental risk and water, biodiversity and related environmental regulation may opportunity profile and performance. This includes assessment of become stricter. This may impact on the costs of, or access the expectations of our stakeholders, engagement with local and to, key inputs such as water, and/or our ability to secure national governments, and review of emerging regulation. This is land approvals for greenfield developments or operational supported by the results of our scenario analysis to identify risks. expansions. Our internal sustainability standards (described throughout this report) set our approach to managing our environmental risks and impacts, which are aligned to regulatory requirements and the ICMM Mining Principles. These are reviewed on a regular basis to pre-emptively respond to future policies. Legal Governments, companies and directors may face litigation We closely monitor legal developments and litigation trends because of climate change impacts associated with greenfield in jurisdictions in which we operate and seek advice on major developments or operational expansion, compensation for developments when necessary. To limit our relative litigation damages caused by climate change impacts, or further action or exposure, this information is integrated into our proactive approach adaptation. to climate-related risk assessments, management and disclosures. Reputation Shareholders (including activist groups) and other stakeholders To understand their expectations and communicate our progress, are increasingly focused on the credibility and effectiveness of we prioritise regular and open dialogue with our shareholders, companies’ climate change disclosure, risk management and the proxy advisors, civil society groups, investor representative bodies activities of their industry associations. and other stakeholders on climate change and broader ESG issues. If we do not set and implement effective actions to address We provide comprehensive, transparent information to and disclose our climate-related risks, our credibility and stakeholders on our climate change business position, policies, reputation with a range of stakeholders may suffer. Shareholder risks and management actions. We were early adopters of the TCFD concerns regarding our climate change approach could lead to Framework and have integrated this approach into our business shareholder-supported resolutions. processes. Damage to our reputation could impact our capacity to secure We support a principle-based carbon price mechanism that promotes investment capital, insurance and approvals for greenfield least-cost abatement, collaboration and international transfers. developments or brownfield expansions. We set voluntary short-term carbon reduction targets and have committed to transition to net zero emissions by 2050 in line with the Skilled staff may not want to work with us if they do not support Paris Agreement. Our short-term emissions reduction targets form a our approach to climate change. component of the Lead Team’s ‘at risk’ remuneration under South32's Short-term Incentive Plan. We assess and monitor the climate change and energy positions of our industry associations to test alignment with our own positions. Technology changes Disruptive new low emissions technologies may change demand Our scenario analysis considers potential new technology impacts for our products (see ‘Market changes’ on page 40). on our operations and commodities. Our assumptions under these scenarios are updated every two years. We use these insights in our We may experience challenges adopting new technologies strategic planning. necessary to support our emissions reduction targets into our existing systems. We apply an integrated approach to evaluate the suitability of innovation and technology, which considers productivity, cost, The cost and unproven nature of new technology could reduce safety and our environmental and social footprint. our productivity and profit margins. We maximise our success in realising the benefits of new technologies by partnering and collaborating with a range of organisations developing the solutions to reduce emissions across our industry. 39 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Resilience and risk assessment continued Table 5.2 South32’s climate change risks continued Impact type and risks Our management response Market changes The supply, demand and price for our commodities may change Our scenario analysis considers potential new technology impacts as technology evolves (including potential substitution of some on our commodities. Our assumptions under these scenarios are products) and consumer demands shift. updated every two years. We use the insights we gain from this in our strategic planning. Markets are increasingly directing funding towards greener products and solutions, which creates a risk of comparatively Our regular updates on supply and demand forecasts, coupled with lower or more competitive access to finance, investment and detailed market surveillance, enable us to anticipate and respond to insurance. technology change in a timely manner. As governments and other companies act on climate change, For long-term changes, our forecasts consider potential there is a chance we could be exposed to higher costs for the technology-based impacts on product demand to test our portfolio products which we rely on, such as power or water. resilience and identify new opportunities. We are directing our growth and exploration programs to reshape our portfolio towards commodities with a favourable outlook in a low carbon future. We believe several of our portfolio commodities would benefit from a transition to a low carbon economy and have identified opportunities to create value by focusing our business on these commodities. Production and logistics delays We run established processing facilities and mine geologicallyOur scenario analysis assesses resilience of all our operations to bound ore bodies, connected by rail, road, ports and sea. the physical impacts of climate change. We are using the outcomes to improve business continuity planning, operational resilience These may experience production and logistics delays because and better understand future adaptation requirements. These of extreme weather (such as bushfires, cyclones and flooding). assessments allow us to quickly adapt to a changing climate and Droughts, heat extremes or unseasonal weather variability could get back on track following extreme weather or other acute events. also create water stress or contribute to worker ill-health and the We use the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool to screen spread of disease. This could impact our operations. our operations for water scarcity and oversupply risks and we The physical impact of climate change may increase proactively manage or adapt accordingly. rehabilitation and/or closure liabilities. It may also impact the Each of our operations has a closure plan in place, which includes a terms or availability of finance or insurance. risk assessment. These plans are routinely updated. Social impacts As we reduce the emissions profile of our business, the actions We assess and manage our climate change risks and impacts we take to make this transition may impact surrounding both to our operations and to our communities, including the communities, business or employment, causing economic and use of scenario analysis. Where we could be faced with transition social impacts. For example, changing energy sources for our decisions that will impact the resilience and continued prosperity of operations. our communities, we will partner with them and others to manage those impacts. Physical risks of climate change can turn into social risks, such as conflict over access to natural resources. Our operations in We make contributions to development programs to help regions with poorly developed social support systems could be communities build resilience against the impacts of climate change. more vulnerable to the physical impacts of climate change. This may lead to decreased food and water security and create a challenging operating environment. 40 South32 I II III IV V. Climate change VI VII VIII IX Metrics and targets: our performance SCOPE 1 AND 2 PERFORMANCE Diagram 5.1 Scope 1 emissions from FY15 baseline In FY20, our total Scope 1 emissions (direct emissions) were 10.4 million tonnes of 12 CO2-e, which is below our FY15 baseline 11.1 (refer to Diagram 5.1). FY21 is the last year 10 10.6 10.5 10.2 10.4 of our first short-term emissions reduction Million of tonnes CO2 -e target, which is to keep our Scope 1 emissions below our FY15 baseline. We 8 remain on track to achieve this target. 6 FY20 reductions in our Scope 1 emissions in comparison to FY19 were due to implementation of our decarbonisation 4 projects, our decision to place our Metalloys smelter on care and maintenance 2 and the country-wide lockdown in South Africa in response to the COVID-19 pandemic (refer to Diagram 5.3). 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Our Scope 2 emissions (imported Scope 1 FY15 Baseline electricity) continue to be dominated by our Hillside and Mozal aluminium smelters, which account for approximately 89 per cent of our global Scope 2 Diagram 5.2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions footprint. In FY20, our Scope 2 emissions were 12.9 million tonnes of CO2-e, partly 25 23.4 23.5 23.3 due to a shortfall in delivery of third22.6 22.8 party contracted hydropower to Mozal Aluminium, which necessitated greater 20 consumption of carbon intensive electricity Million of tonnes CO2 -e from Eskom (refer to Diagram 5.4). 15 In FY20, our combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions was 23,250 kilo tonnes of 12.3 12.0 12.6 13.0 12.9 CO2-e, which was in line with our target to stay at or below our emissions forecast 10 of 24,672 kilo tonnes of CO2-e (refer to Diagram 5.2). 5 11.1 10.6 10.2 10.5 10.4 0 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Scope 1 Scope 2 41 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Metrics and targets: our performance continued SCOPE 3 PERFORMANCE Diagram 5.3 FY20 Scope 1 emissions Scope 3 emissions are our indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in our value chain. We calculate Scope 3 emissions for our business using 0.6 the methodology detailed in the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard 3.1 10.4 FY20 Scope 1 Australia South Africa and apply industry-published emission factors where relevant. Details of our Scope emissions Colombia (Mt CO2-e) 6.7 3 calculation approach and reference sources can be found on www.south32.net. In FY20, our Scope 3 emissions totalled approximately 110 million tonnes of CO2-e. Most of our Scope 3 emissions are associated with downstream use of sold products, mainly associated with combustion of energy coal from South Diagram 5.4 FY20 Scope 2 emissions Africa Energy Coal, accounting for 42 per cent of our Scope 3 emissions or 0.2 46 million tonnes of CO2-e. A further 37 million tonnes of CO2-e or 34 per cent 0.4 of our Scope 3 emissions arise from downstream processing of our manganese ores and alloys, alumina and aluminium commodities into various end-products. The remainder of our Scope 3 emissions come from input goods and services 12.9 FY20 Scope 2 Australia South Africa including transportation and distribution emissions Colombia of our products (refer to Diagram 5.5). We (Mt CO2-e) are currently examining options to work with our customers to further reduce our Scope 3 emissions (refer to page 43 for 12.3 more detail). EMISSIONS REPORTING For our Australian operations, we report our greenhouse gas emissions, energy Diagram 5.5 Sources of FY20 Scope 3 consumption and energy production emissions annually to the Clean Energy Regulator 0.7% 1.3% (CER) under the NGER Scheme. Our NGER 1.0% data is publicly available on the CER 2.5% 1.0% website at www.cleanenergyregulator. gov.au. We use this data and our forecasts Purchased goods and services to update our emissions baselines, Capital goods in accordance with the Australian Government’s recently amended Safeguard Mechanism. We expect to 110 Mt CO2-e 34.1% Fuel and energy-related activities Upstream transportation and distribution complete the submission of relevant 59.4% Sources of Processing of sold products applications by the first half of FY21, with FY20 Scope 3 Use of sold products updated baselines to be applied following emissions (%) Investments approval by the CER. 42 South32 I II III IV V. Climate change VI VII VIII IX For our South African operations, we (HILT CRC) in Australia. The purpose of Scope 3 report our greenhouse gas emissions the HILT CRC is to collaborate across the Our efforts to reduce emissions across and performance annually against our heavy industrial sector, government and our value chain are focused on where we pollution prevention plans under the research institutions to identify the lowest have the most influence through individual National Greenhouse Gas Reporting cost and fastest pathway for companies engagement, industry initiatives and Regulations. FY20 was the first full year to accelerate their transition to a low research and development (technology). of implementation of the South African carbon future. Through the HILT CRC, Carbon Tax and we recently had our we aim to develop new technologies and In FY20, we have explored opportunities to combined carbon budgets approved by innovation that support our long-term partner directly with customers across our the Department of Environment, Forestry decarbonisation at Worsley Alumina. steel and aluminium supply chain to reduce and Fisheries. We are due to make our first overall emissions. We also continued to At Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, our gas collaborate on new technologies. Our payment in October 2020 for the 2019 tax drainage system improvement efficiency support for the HILT CRC may present reporting period. project is in the execution phase and we additional decarbonisation partnership TARGET REVIEW achieved post drainage capture efficiency opportunities across our value chain. We will define and disclose our next set of of 56.5 per cent in FY20. The captured We will include further details on our emissions reduction targets in FY21, with methane is either flared or directed to third Scope 3 progress and opportunities in our the next target period commencing in party to generate power. Both activities FY21 corporate reports. FY22. Through these targets, we will define significantly reduce the amount of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) released into the Voluntary offsets our next short-term targets for Scope atmosphere by converting methane to CO2, Based on our expectations of the life of 1 and 2, and our high-level approach to providing an abatement of approximately our operations and current technology achieve net zero by 2050. 88,700 tonnes of CO2-e in FY20. development trajectories, we anticipate FY20 DECARBONISATION PLANNING that residual emissions will remain in Also at Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, we our portfolio in 2050. In the absence of PROGRESS completed a pre-feasibility study for our technology breakthroughs, we anticipate Decarbonisation projects Appin North Goaf Drainage and Flaring that we will need carbon offsets to In FY20, we continued to focus our projects, and advanced studies on reach and maintain our goal of net zero decarbonisation studies at operations Ventilation Air Methane (VAM) capture and emissions by 2050. We view offsets as a where we are targeting substantial utilisation. VAM capture and utilisation complementary mechanism to support reductions in our Scope 1 emissions remains one of our biggest opportunities our decarbonisation, particularly where Worsley Alumina and Illawarra Metallurgical to reduce our carbon footprint at Illawarra decarbonisation alternatives remain Coal. These operations make up Metallurgical Coal. Finding a technological undeveloped, or not technically or 59 per cent of our global Scope 1 footprint. solution to address this source would economically feasible. At Worsley Alumina, we processed 18,500 be a significant achievement for our business and the broader sector. We During FY20, we reviewed the offsets wet metric tonnes of timber waste product continue to work in partnership with market dynamics, assessed offset types (biomass) in place of fossil fuels at our Australia’s Commonwealth Scientific and in our key jurisdictions, and identified multi-fuel cogeneration facility, abating Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), opportunities that may have social and 23,500 tonnes of CO2-e in FY20. We Australia’s national science agency and environmental co-benefits, aligned with also completed a trial to determine the Low Emissions Technology Australia our broader sustainability objectives. We logistical, supply and safety challenges (LETA), a group of Australian black coal approached external providers to explore associated with ramping up our use of industry representatives investing in procurement, pricing and project supply biomass to achieve further emissions the demonstration of low emissions options. This information is being used to reductions. coal technologies, to progress these inform our emission reduction approach While our studies found increased biomass studies and explore further funding and and support our planning to comply with usage at Worsley Alumina is technically partnership opportunities to accelerate regulatory carbon schemes in Australia and feasible and may support regional this work. South Africa. economic diversification, it also identified supply chain and safety challenges We remain focused on identifying and associated with sourcing and processing assessing further decarbonisation options higher volumes of biomass. As a result, across our business, such as energy we have focused our decarbonisation supply alternatives, new technologies, studies at Worsley Alumina on energy expansion of decarbonisation projects, and water efficiencies related to our mud and longer-term studies for adaption washing and settling processes. We are or replacement of infrastructure. We also progressing a study that aims to build also continue to review partnership and flexibility into our fuel and energy supply funding opportunities to accelerate our mix, while also substantially reducing the decarbonisation activities. operation’s emissions. We are committed to investing in collaborative research and development initiatives to accelerate our decarbonisation studies. In FY20, we supported a bid to establish a Heavy Industry Low-carbon Transition Cooperative Research Centre 43 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Collaboration, partnerships and industry associations Rising to the challenge of climate REVIEW OF INDUSTRY In FY20, we identified that the Queensland change requires a global response. ASSOCIATIONS’ POSITIONS Resources Council potentially holds a We collaborate with our investment ON CLIMATE CHANGE position that is misaligned with our own, as community, civil society groups, In FY19, we engaged an independent third while its 2018 published Position on Energy party to conduct a high-level assessment and Climate Change includes support industry peers, representative of our associations that hold active for ‘global action on climate change’, bodies, government and nonpositions on climate change, to understand it does not directly reference support government entities, research any material divergence from our own. The for the Paris Agreement. The climate institutions, customers and other outcomes of this review were disclosed change positions of three associations, key stakeholders on climate change in Our Approach to Climate Change the Arizona Mining Association, the to accelerate our learning and Report 2019, and concluded that despite Colombian Mining Association and South enhance our knowledge. divergence in some areas, no material African National Energy Association were departures existed that would cause us to not able to be determined from publicly We recognise the importance of ensuring exit any associations at this time. available information and we were unable the purpose and policy positions of our to confirm a defined position through associations and partners are closely This year we have undertaken a more direct engagement within the review aligned with our own on material matters, extensive review of the climate change period. We will continue to engage with including climate change. We also positions of a subset of our associations, these associations in FY21 to clarify their acknowledge the significant interest from which were selected due to their profile positions, determine any divergence investors and other stakeholders in these or exposure to climate change issues. from our own positions and explore policies and advocacy undertaken by We reviewed current publicly available opportunities for alignment or further our association memberships on climate information such as formal policies, website action. change. content, advocacy activity and media articles and directly engaged with each For those industry associations where In FY20, we engaged with our investors, association. These engagements included there is current alignment with our policy and investor-led and civil-society groups both informal contact throughout the year positions, we will continue to monitor the on our approach to climate change to as part of our normal association activity, advocacy of these associations to ensure understand their expectations. These and more formal discussions specifically on they are aligned with their stated position stakeholders play a critical role in informing climate change. and our own, and that they support the our business, the broader industry objectives of the Paris Agreement. and governments, while supporting We acknowledge that an association’s collaborative action. position is not only reflected in its Table 5.3 provides a summary of the published materials, but may also include outcome of our review and the focus of our Our memberships of associations such informal advocacy, which requires engagements with these associations into as the ICMM and the Australian Carbon clarification and context. This may make it FY21. Market Institute (CMI) support the broader difficult to define an association’s position; evolution of our approach to climate however, our membership enables us to change. We also work with research clarify, query and understand advocacy groups such as CSIRO, LETA and ACARP to motivations while maintaining the enhance our access to industry knowledge opportunity to influence on matters of on decarbonisation. importance to us. Our engagements with industry associations are managed in line with Our Approach to Industry Associations. Where there is potential misalignment on a material issue between our positions and that of our associations, we engage with the association to explain our position and seek to better understand our differences. We advocate our position on areas of material divergence and explore opportunities for alignment. We remain prepared to terminate our membership where material misalignment prevails that ultimately outweighs the benefits of our membership. You can read Our Approach to Industry Associations on www.south32.net. 44 South32 I II III IV V. Climate change VI VII VIII IX Table 5.3 Summary of current alignment with industry associations Associations with positions that are aligned with South32’s position. Associations with positions that are potentially misaligned with South32’s position or their position is unclear. Associations where publicly available positions are not available and a position wasn’t able to be confirmed through direct engagement within the review period for this report. Industry association Our focus Arizona Mining Association, AMA’s policy position on key climate change matters are not publicly available and weren’t able to be USA (AMA) confirmed within the review period for this report. Consistent with Our Approach to Industry Associations, we are engaging with AMA to better understand their advocacy for thermal coal in America and will encourage them to develop transparent climate change policy positions, aligned with the Paris Agreement. Australian Coal Association ACARP’s research objectives are aligned with our policy positions. Research Program (ACARP) As a research association, ACARP’s purpose is to facilitate research and development funded through a levy on saleable coal. Their support for research into improving ventilation air methane (VAM) capture technology is directly relevant to our decarbonisation program at Illawarra Metallurgical Coal. Business Council The BCA’s policy positions are aligned with our own. of Australia (BCA) BCA recently published its position on energy and climate change that states support for the science of climate change, the Paris Agreement and technology-neutral energy policy. We welcome these developments and will continue to engage and advocate with BCA on climate change matters. Carbon Market Institute The CMI’s policy positions are aligned with our own. (CMI), Australia The CMI is a strong advocate for the transition to a net zero emission economy and the objectives of the Paris Agreement. They have also provided valuable insights to support the development of our carbon offsets strategy. Chamber of Minerals and The CME’s policy positions are aligned with our own. Energy (CME), Western We have welcomed CME’s confirmation of their support for the Paris Agreement and market-based carbon Australia pricing mechanisms. We continue to support CME’s role in facilitating industry collaboration on climate change policy in Western Australia. Low Emissions Technology LETA's research objectives are aligned with our positions. Australia (LETA, formerly In 2019, LETA revised the objectives of its Constitution narrowing its scope to deliver tangible, large-scale Coal21) projects to develop technologies that support the transition to a low emission global economy. We will continue to engage with LETA to support their research portfolio, focused on projects with potential to support the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This includes LETA’s current focus on improving the economics and critical safety controls for scaling up the use of VAM technology, which is relevant to our decarbonisation program at Illawarra Metallurgical Coal. Asociación Colombiana ACM’s policy positions on key climate change matters are not publicly available and weren’t able to be de Minería (ACM) confirmed within the review period for this report. (Colombian Mining ACM does not currently have a published policy on climate change and energy but is supportive of Association) Colombia’s commitment to the Paris Agreement. We are involved in technical working groups coordinated by ACM focused on environmental and social matters, which are deeply valuable to Cerro Matoso, and we will advocate for the ACM to establish a transparent position on climate change aligned to the Paris Agreement. Minerals Council South The Minerals Council’s policy positions are aligned with our own. Africa (Minerals Council) The Minerals Council is instrumental in facilitating the just transition of South Africa towards a low carbon economy. We will continue to engage with the Minerals Council on climate change, as well as a range of other mining-related matters relevant to our South African operations. New South Wales Minerals The NSWMC’s policy positions are aligned with our own. Council (NSWMC) In 2020, the NSWMC clarified and published their climate change positions. These align with our positions including support for the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and technology neutral energy policy. Queensland Resources The QRC potentially holds a policy position misaligned with our own. Council (QRC) The QRC published its Position on Energy and Climate Change in 2018 which outlines their support for ‘global action on climate change’ but does not directly reference support for the Paris Agreement. Consistent with Our Approach to Industry Associations, we have engaged with QRC on this issue and will continue to seek clarity on its position, advocate our own position, and identify opportunities for alignment. South African National SANEA’s policy positions on climate change matters are not publicly available and weren’t able to be Energy Association confirmed within the review period for this report. (SANEA) Given our Scope 2 emissions profile in South Africa is as a result of our facilities’ current reliance on the coal-dominated energy grid, our membership of SANEA provides us important access to information and collaboration opportunities to address the unique energy, social and climate change challenges in South Africa. We will continue to engage with SANEA and advocate for them to establish a transparent position on climate change matters aligned to the Paris Agreement. 45 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Environmental stewardship PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT 46 South32 I II III IV V VI. Environmental stewardship VII VIII IX Key related ICMM Principle At South32, being responsible Working with our local communities helps stewards of the environment is us understand our environmental impact, integral to the way we work. address community concerns and improve Successful environmental our practices. Our community engagement and complaints and grievances processes management is essential to our enable us to record and respond to business and our relationships with complaints about environmental issues local communities and other such as dust, noise and water management Key related UN SDGs stakeholders. We work to protect in a timely manner. Read more about this natural resources including water, on page 59. air, land and biodiversity so they are Our environmental considerations span the preserved for future generations. full life cycle of our business. An essential We operate in a wide variety of part of our work is securing environmental environments which support a diversity approvals for our exploration and of ecosystems. Without responsible development projects, as well as life Key related UNGC Principles stewardship, activities at our operations extensions of our existing operations. have the potential to impact these We have significant environmental ecosystems through land clearing and approvals in progress to support our removal of habitat and biodiversity, and mine plans at Worsley Alumina, Illawarra contamination or degradation of land and Metallurgical Coal, GEMCO, Cerro Matoso water resources. and to support the development of our OUR APPROACH AND Hermosa project. PERFORMANCE We undertook a detailed review of our Our approach to responsible environmental internal environment standard in FY20 to stewardship is designed to manage our ensure that it supports performance in our risk profile, and harness opportunities to key stewardship areas (such as water and partner with our local communities and biodiversity) and supports the on-ground authorities to build the resilience of the management of all environmental aspects. ecological values in our areas of influence and in some cases, beyond. It is aligned Our systems and standards are regularly with our stewardship commitments as reviewed to ensure they reflect current a member of the ICMM and guided by legal requirements and ICMM guidelines. ICMM Mining Principle 6 – Environmental We conduct internal and external Performance, and other recognised assurance to evaluate our performance industry guidelines and statutory and identify opportunities to further frameworks. improve. Through our annual planning, we assess our performance and changing Our commitment to responsible risk profile, to determine priorities for the environmental stewardship is embedded coming year. within our Code of Business Conduct and Sustainability Policy, and our environmental In FY20, we responded to questions and management approach is codified in our clarified concerns from the Centre for internal environment standard. Additional Environmental Rights in South Africa, requirements specific to our local regarding compliance with our water contexts are included in our operational licences, as part of their broader review of management plans and procedures. compliance across the South African coal industry. Our environmental management is supported by EQuIS, a global environmental data management database that was implemented during FY19 and FY20 to improve our data recording and information sharing across the business. 47 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Land and biodiversity Key related ICMM Principle We seek to protect ecosystems and OUR APPROACH AND avoid and minimise biodiversity PERFORMANCE impacts and land disturbance. We Our approach to managing biodiversity and recognise the importance of land is guided by ICMM’s Mining Principle 7 biodiversity conservation, the need – Conservation of Biodiversity and Position Statement on Mining and Protected Areas, for properly designated and as well as industry guidelines and our legal managed systems of protected requirements. Key related UN SDG areas, and integrated land use planning. We have undertaken not to Our commitment to land and biodiversity explore or mine in World Heritage is embedded within our Sustainability Areas and to respect legally Policy and codified in our internal environment and closure standards, with designated protected areas. the local/regional biodiversity context Globally, we have land holdings of around considered in the development of Key related UNGC Principle 700,000 hectares, of which 90 per cent operational procedures. Our standards are in Australia. Of these landholdings, include requirements for assessment we have disturbed around three per cent of biodiversity risks and opportunities, and rehabilitated around two per cent. We conservation of high biodiversity value have set aside just over 2,000 hectares areas, pre-clearance surveys and of land for conservation at Cerro Matoso, progressive rehabilitation. South Africa Energy Coal and Illawarra To identify operations with material Metallurgical Coal. biodiversity-related risk and opportunity, Some of our operations are exposed to we apply a screening process that elevated biodiversity risk due to their considers: proximity to protected areas and high – Projected changes in climate conditions; biodiversity value areas, or interaction with threatened species. These include: – Proximity of the operation to areas of high conservation value; – Worsley Alumina is located in the – Regional context, development planning south-west region of Western Australia, and cumulative impact implications; which is one of 36 global biodiversity hotspots in the world, as defined by – Community concerns and perceptions; Conservation International. We also and manage the spread of dieback (a plant – Media analysis. pathogen that can cause disease, death and potential extinction in susceptible plants, and loss of habitat for animals) at this operation; – At GEMCO, we manage the risk of spread of the cane toad and potential impacts on a number of threatened species, such as the vulnerable Northern Hopping Mouse (Notomys aquilo); and – At Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, we have programs in place to protect and manage a number of sensitive vegetation communities and nationally listed species, such as Persoonia hirsute, which occurs within and adjacent to our operations. 48 South32 I II III IV V VI. Environmental stewardship VII VIII IX Where a material biodiversity-related risk Since 2016, GEMCO has worked in South32’s Intelligent Land Management has been identified, we conduct impact collaboration with the Northern Territory (ILM) program was initiated in 2016 to assessments, and develop and implement Department of Environment and Natural generate shared financial, social and controls. We align our controls with Resources, the Anindilyakwa Land Council environmental value from our nonregulatory requirements and the mitigation and the Department of Agriculture, Water operational lands and assets, while hierarchy of avoidance, minimisation, and Environment to develop a Threatened increasing the climate resilience of our restoration through to offsetting where Species Management Plan. The plan operations and host communities. In FY20, necessary. At Worsley Alumina, we focuses on threatened terrestrial fauna we continued our ILM assessments and commenced work in FY20 on biodiversity species occurring across the Groote project development at our Australian offset planning that will evolve over the archipelago and maps out management, operations; however, our work program coming years to guide our approach research and monitoring actions for the was delayed due to COVID-19. The program to future offsetting over the life of the next ten years. Key actions from the has been deferred in FY21 due to the operation. plan have been described in GEMCO’s ongoing impacts of COVID-19 on our biodiversity offset strategy and a steering business and ILM partners and will be We progressively rehabilitate areas no committee has been established to help assessed for recommencement in FY22. longer required for mining or processing oversee the implementation of the plan. activities. During FY20, we rehabilitated 400 hectares of disturbed land across We continue to look for opportunities our operations, increasing our total to engage externally to promote rehabilitated area to 15,950 hectares. We improved biodiversity outcomes. We monitor the success of our rehabilitation are collaborating with industry peers against specific end-state performance in the south-west of Western Australia criteria and continually improve our to improve regional biodiversity value techniques to increase success rates and and manage dieback around Worsley ecological value. For example, in FY20 Alumina. At Illawarra Metallurgical Coal at Worsley Alumina we commenced a we are supporting research to improve seed production trial using a modified propagation success of Persoonia hirsute. rehabilitation technique to construct temporary seed orchards within existing rehabilitation areas. This trial aims to enhance ecological diversity by using our land for cultivation of native seed to complement our wild seed collections. We expect our first harvest in January 2021. GEMCO has worked in collaboration with the Northern Territory Department of Environment and Natural Resources, the Anindilyakwa Land Council and the Department of Agriculture, Water and Environment to develop a Threatened Species Management Plan. 49 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Water Key related ICMM Principle Water is a valuable shared resource Almost 54 per cent of our water input is that requires integrated consumed in our operational processes management to ensure it is available or evaporated. The remainder is either and suitable for use by everyone. It discharged in line with our regulatory requirements to surface water, is a critical input for our business for groundwater, sea water or piped to third mining, refining and smelting parties. through to dust suppression, tailings Key related UN SDGs management, drinking and We have identified material watersanitation purposes. Given this related risks at Hillside Aluminium, reliance on water, it is essential we Mozal Aluminium, Worsley Alumina, Hotazel Manganese Mines and Illawarra have security of supply, while Metallurgical Coal. These risks include avoiding impacting the quality and a range of challenges for long-term availability of water for communities security and access to water, for both our and the environment within the operations and neighbouring communities. Key related UNGC Principles catchments where we operate. Read more about our strategic risks on page 24 of our Annual Report. Water is a strategic risk for our business due to: OUR APPROACH AND – Security of supply and potential for PERFORMANCE competition and conflict for water Our approach to water stewardship access; takes a whole of catchment view when looking at our operational water supply. – Climate change and its projected Our objective is to manage and reduce physical impacts on our operations operational risks, protect and optimise and catchments, including decreasing our long-term business value, and support rainfall and drought, increased extreme our communities to meet future water weather events and increasing challenges. Our approach is guided by temperatures; the ICMM Position Statement on Water – The growing importance of water as a Stewardship, is aligned with our legal scarce resource and access to water as requirements and codified in our internal a human right; and environment and closure standards. We – Evolving stakeholder expectations. report our data in accordance with the Minerals Council of Australia’s Water Six of our operations and one of our Accounting Framework. development projects are located in areas of baseline water stress. We determine We maintain water balances for all baseline water stress using the World our operations and conduct periodic Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct water resource risk and opportunity Tool(1) based on operations within ‘medium assessments, which consider: to high’ areas of water stress or above, – Baseline water stress, as defined by the including ‘arid to low water use’(2) areas. For WRI Aqueduct Tool; the remainder of our operations: – Rainfall and evaporation predictions; – Three are located within areas of ‘low to – The results of our climate resilience medium’ baseline water stress; and assessments; – Three are located within ‘low’ baseline – Operational water requirements and water stress areas. production forecasts; Almost all the water we source for – Water supply options in the catchment; our operational needs comes from groundwater and surface water, with – Socio-economic context; and smaller volumes from sea water and third– Knowledge from local and regional party suppliers. Our operations that require governments on municipal water supply. the largest volumes of water are Worsley Alumina and South Africa Energy Coal. Approximately half of our water input is low quality water that is considered unsuitable for most purposes. We recycle as much water as possible to limit our dependency on shared water. (1) The WRI Aqueduct Tool has limitations due to the limited detail of datasets for some of these locations, and the exclusion of groundwater resources. (2) The definition of ‘arid and low water use’ is derived from the WRI Aqueduct Tool and the descriptions for baseline water stress: Low (<10 per cent); Low to medium (10 20 per cent); Medium to high (20 40 per cent); High (40 80 per cent); Extremely high (>80 per cent); Arid and low water use; and no data. 50 South32 I II III IV V VI. Environmental stewardship VII VIII IX Our FY20 water data is provided in the Table 6.1 Our material water-related risks and contextual water targets(1) ‘Sustainability performance data’ section Water-related Contextual Year on page 74. Operation material risk/s water target it was set FY20 progress Hillside Drought in the region We will develop an FY19, This target is under For operations with material waterAluminium means there is a risk integrated and currently review. related risks, we implement controls of variability and catchment-wide under which consider the broader catchment We commenced disruptions in water water management review. mapping of the current context. For Hillside Aluminium and Mozal supply to our smelter. plan by the end of water-related initiatives Aluminium, we have installed desalination FY20, with the and context of the plants to maintain a secure supply through expectation that Mhlathuze Catchment. periods of drought, reducing the load the plans will be fully implemented This information will be on the municipality water network. For used to revise the Worsley Alumina, we are investigating by the end of FY23. target for Hillside options to reduce overall water Aluminium to align consumption at the refinery, recognising commitments with broader water scarcity issues for the immediate water needs region. At Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, we of the catchment and have invested in water treatment plants at its communities. This Appin West to maximise water reuse and review is planned for the first half of FY21. reduce our reliance on the Sydney water Hotazel Growing water This target will be Not In FY20, we network and we are studying options Manganese scarcity, increasing developed in FY22. applicable. commenced for reuse of our mine discharge water at Mines competition for development of an Dendrobium. resources and the operational water To assist in managing our material waterageing distribution strategy aimed at infrastructure in the sustainable use and related risk, we develop contextual water region mean there is management of water targets. These specific, time-bound a water supply risk security for our future commitments aim to deliver an intended to Wessels and activities, the Hotazel outcome based on the environmental Mamatwan mines, town and communities and social context of the local catchment. and the town of in the region, to be Establishment of our contextual water Hotazel. progressed during targets is informed by: FY21. Illawarra Growing water This target will be Not In FY20, we continued – Existing water-related management Metallurgical scarcity in the region, developed in FY22. applicable. to build maturity in our activities; Coal stakeholder focus water management – Targets for water use in operational and changing processes, with a focus activities; regulatory on risk management requirements are and supporting the life – Current and forecast status of risks to operational extension of the catchment conditions; water management, Dendrobium mine. – Current catchment user needs and regulatory compliance and the local regulatory processes (local water Sydney water context); and catchment. – Our external water commitments Mozal Drought in the Identify FY19, We reviewed and including the UN SDG 6 targets. Aluminium region, water opportunities updated updated our target to restrictions and to improve in FY20. align commitments with Our material water-related risks, contextual extreme weather community access immediate water needs water targets and FY20 progress are mean there is a risk to water of the of the catchment and detailed in Table 6.1. of variability and Boane District its communities, and disruptions in water by June 2022. specifically within the supply to our smelter. Boane District in which we operate. Worsley Insufficient water in Work towards FY19 We progressed studies Alumina the refinery delivering a on projects that have catchment lake could 10 per cent the potential to deliver result in water supply reduction in water co-benefits in water disruptions to the demand at the demand reduction, refinery. refinery by FY28. decarbonisation and energy security. (1) This table excludes South Africa Energy Coal, which is subject to a current divestment process. 51 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Feature story ILLAWARRA: A PROUD HISTORY WITH A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Illawarra Metallurgical Coal has a proud place in the heart of New South Wales’ southern coalfields and a tradition of working in partnership with local communities and supporting local businesses and families. Illawarra Metallurgical Coal has a long If approved, the project will support the To meet our internal water management history of mining in the region dating continuation of 500 direct jobs at the mine standards, we have worked to design back to 1935. This operation has evolved as well as create an additional 200 jobs our current and future mining areas to over the last 85 years and today we during construction. The extended life of avoid sensitive surface features. Specific operate two large underground longwall the Dendrobium mine would contribute measures include longwall setbacks of up metallurgical coal mines – the Appin approximately A$700 million in royalties, to one kilometre from walls of prescribed mine and the Dendrobium mine – as taxes and rates along with a net benefit dams, and no longwall mining beneath well as the West Cliff and Dendrobium of A$2.8 billion to the New South Wales Cordeaux and Avon dams, named coal preparation plants. We produce economy. It would ensure the continued watercourses and key stream features high quality metallurgical coal used for support for local businesses and sustain including waterfalls and permanent pools. steelmaking, which is used domestically the supply of metallurgical coal to and around the world. BlueScope Port Kembla Steelworks, which The outcome of these commitments itself is a major local employer. will leave over 25 million tonnes of coal The next step in South32’s investment in unmined, supporting our sustainable the Illawarra region is the Dendrobium TAKING A RESPONSIBLE mining practices while maintaining mine extension project to extend the life APPROACH a viable project well into the future. of the Dendrobium mine. The mine has Additionally, the Dendrobium mine South32 takes its environmental development consent until 2030; however, operates under a regulatory framework responsibilities seriously and we its current mineable reserves will be which includes strict performance criteria understand the sensitivities of working depleted by 2024. The company is seeking and comprehensive monitoring and in the Metropolitan Special Area, where approval for the continuation of longwall reporting requirements. the Dendrobium mine operates. mining activities within the mine’s existing lease. 52 South32 I II III IV V VI. Environmental stewardship VII VIII IX ENGAGING OUR STAKEHOLDERS of 775 submissions have been received. Of our stakeholders, we are progressing Our engagement in relation to the those, 720 submissions were from members opportunities at our operations to Dendrobium mine extension project has had of the public, with 81 per cent indicating improve broader sustainability of water a strong focus on ensuring the best outcomes support for the project. management throughout the catchment. for water management and the environment We also supported the work of an Illawarra Metallurgical Coal Vice more broadly. The Illawarra Metallurgical independent expert panel established in President Operations Wayne Bull said: Coal team began engaging the community 2018 by the New South Wales Government to “The sustainable management of and other stakeholders from an early stage review and report on coal mining activities in water is critical to the mine’s ongoing – holding regular discussions on the project. the Greater Sydney Water Catchment Special success. We are committed to the The company has also engaged fully with Area. The panel was led by the Office of the highest environmental standards and the New South Wales Government, key NSW Chief Scientist and Engineer and we working with the community and all agencies and entities including WaterNSW, provided water-related data, briefings and levels of government to achieve the best NSW Department of Planning, Industry and inspections of the catchment in areas relevant outcomes.” Environment, Dam Safety NSW, Sydney Water, to our operations. NSW Environment Protection Authority and We are proud to be a central part of the local government. The New South Wales Government Illawarra and Wollondilly communities and announced in 2020 that it had accepted all 50 remain committed to being a responsible Our Environmental Impact Statement – a recommendations made by the independent company with a sustainable future. We key part of the Dendrobium mine extension panel, creating greater certainty for all look forward to many more years of project approvals and planning process – stakeholders and further protection for the operation, providing jobs, opportunities went on public display in July 2019. A total region’s water supplies. Through working with and support for the communities in which we operate. 53 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Other environmental stewardship responsibilities The nature of our mining and processing activities can result in gaseous air emissions, dust, noise and waste. We aim to prevent and minimise any effect on neighbouring communities and the environment. EMISSIONS WASTE MANAGEMENT The air emissions from our operations Aside from tailings, which is our highest include oxides of sulphur (SOx), oxides of volume waste stream from our mining nitrogen (NOx) and particulate matter. Our operations, we manage various other greenhouse gas emissions are detailed in waste streams including waste rock, the ‘Climate change’ section of this report. wastewater and waste materials containing hazardous chemical or physical properties. Our approach to controlling and monitoring Read about our approach to tailings waste air emissions is focused at their source on page 64. and on understanding impacts on local airsheds (air catchment areas). To help Our approach to managing waste is guided reduce the potential impact and improve by ICMM Mining Principle 8 Responsible ambient air quality, we actively engage in Production, and the mitigation hierarchy local airshed forums and studies near our of prevention, minimisation, reuse, operations. For example, we participate in recycling, energy recovery and disposal. the Collie airshed study in the south-west Waste considerations are included in our of Western Australia, which is within the operational risk assessments. airshed of Worsley Alumina. During FY20, we continued work on a We report annually on the air emissions waste reduction methodology to deepen from our Australian operations to the our understanding of our risks and National Pollutant Inventory which can be opportunities. This work will assist us to viewed at www.npi.gov.au. identify initiatives to reduce our footprint. During FY20, we enhanced our ambient air monitoring programs across a number of our operations with a focus on particulate matter. We increased real-time monitoring capacity at several sites including Metalloys, TEMCO, GEMCO and Cannington. These changes have enabled us to refine and improve our operational management processes and minimise the impact on the surrounding environment. At Cerro Matoso we continue to focus on managing fugitive dust emissions through the development of an improved air dispersion model and an ambient air monitoring program. Our air emissions data is provided in the ‘Sustainability performance data’ section on page 73. 54 South32 I II III IV V VI VII. Working with communities VIII IX Working with communities BUILDING STRONG AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIPS 55 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Working with communities continued Key related ICMM Principles We are a business with a purpose Investing in our communities and believe trust and transparency From providing jobs and business are essential to the way we operate. opportunities, to empowering suppliers For us, this means being in touch and supporting community programs, with the broader community, we know we can make a significant contribution to the way people live and considering different perspectives work. and working together to create value for all our stakeholders. Our operations are just one part of a bigger picture. When planning our community We care about the people and groups who investment, we look beyond the life of are interested in and have a say in what we our operations and focus on the people do, or who are impacted by our operations. surrounding them, working in partnership Key related UN SDGs OUR APPROACH AND to create healthier and stronger PERFORMANCE communities. Understanding our communities Our Community Investment Framework There is broad socio-economic diversity sets priority investment areas aligned with across the various communities, regions the UN SDGs and reflect our communities’ and countries in which we operate, priorities. These are: and we work to build strong, honest – Education and leadership: Quality and meaningful relationships with our education is the foundation of economic communities. and social prosperity and supports the We follow rigorous processes to development of emerging and future understand the unique social, cultural and community leaders; legal contexts we’re operating in. Informed – Economic participation: Economic by ICMM Mining Principle 9 – Social opportunity and participation ensure Performance, our internal community that local and regional economies are standard describes our community resilient now and sustainable into the engagement approach and responsibilities. future; We regularly complete and review social – Good health and social wellbeing: baseline studies, social impact and Health and social wellbeing are integral opportunity assessments, community to sustainable development and perception surveys and stakeholder contribute to vibrant communities; and identification and analysis to identify and understand who our stakeholders are and – Natural resource resilience: Key related UNGC Principles what they need. We have regular, open and Communities that live in balance with honest conversations to better understand their natural environments are resilient what our stakeholders need and expect. and sustainable. During FY20, we developed an impact measurement framework to measure the impact of our investments across these areas. The framework is being applied to existing and new community investment partnerships in FY21. This will help us consistently improve our community investment approach and enhance our impact. 56 South32 I II III IV V VI VII. Working with communities VIII IX During FY20, we invested US$24.5 million in Diagram 7.1 FY20 community investment community initiatives and activities which by country(1) included: – Training 600 local farmers surrounding our Mozal Aluminium operations in 1.84 agricultural production techniques and improved connections to markets to 7.44 help build a sustainable agricultural Australia sector in the region; – Partnering with Queensland Minerals and Energy Academy through 9.73 24.5 FY20 community Colombia Mozambique South Africa Cannington to develop the science, investment by country (US$ million) United States technology, engineering and 3.76 mathematics (STEM) skills of over 150 students with a focus on increasing 1.73 women and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander representation; – Sponsoring the Imbumba Foundation’s Caring4Girls program in South Africa (1) Community investment consists of direct investment, in-kind support and administrative costs. which aims to keep girls in school when they have their menstrual cycle by providing sanitary packs. The program has supported over 3,000 girls; – Helping more than 500 families to build and renew their own houses in Colombia, leading to improved health and social wellbeing outcomes; – Providing over 100 villages with improved access to water and sanitation services at our African operations as part of our COVID-19 response; – Matching US$207,225 of employee contributions through our Matched Giving Program. Since 2016 we have matched more than US$498,000 of employee contributions; and – Donating A$1 million to organisations From providing jobs and business dealing with the Australian bushfire crisis. opportunities, to empowering Our FY20 community investment included suppliers and supporting community US$5.09 million to areas that urgently needed assistance in responding to the programs, we know we can make COVID-19 pandemic, supporting our a significant contribution to the way communities’ efforts to prevent, prepare, respond and recover from the disease. people live and work. Read more about our community COVID-19 contributions on page 58. Read more about our work with communities at www.south32.net.au 57 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Working with communities continued Supporting our communities during COVID-19 Our response to COVID-19 is built around As part of this investment commitment, Examples of the community outreach that three areas – keeping our people we: has taken place across our operations, safe and well, maintaining safe and include: – Donated R10.5 million to the South reliable operations, and supporting our Africa Solidarity Fund and pledged R50 – In Australia, we donated A$200,000 to communities. million to help the local communities support local economic and business As COVID-19 began to spread rapidly surrounding our South African recovery post COVID-19, established a around the world, we established a operations; new medical clinic on Groote Eylandt COVID-19 Community Investment Fund, – Donated A$1 million to support the to manage impacts on local health pledged US$7 million to the areas that local communities surrounding our services and distributed care packages needed it most. We developed a regional Australian operations, distributed for Indigenous communities and response approach across all our between three organisations – The supplied 233 laptops to support online operations using a four-stage framework: Royal Flying Doctor Service, Foodbank schooling; – Prevention: Creating awareness and Lifeline – to assist people living in – In Colombia, we distributed 30,000 and supporting the prevention of regional and remote areas and provide food parcels, 98,000 items of medical an outbreak of COVID-19 in local mental health services and essential supplies, 125,000 litres of water and communities and in the workforce to supplies to those that need it most; 900 COVID-19 testing kits; prevent transmission; – Matched US$47,804 of employee – In South Africa, we distributed over – Preparedness: Identifying what needs contributions dollar-for-dollar to 30,000 masks and hand sanitiser, to be done to respond effectively, causes responding to COVID-19 in provided screening tools and PPE and to support local authorities South Africa, Mozambique, Colombia, for field staff for 100,000 households in preparing for an outbreak in Australia, the United States and and improved access to water and communities including capacity and Singapore; and sanitation services to more than 100 capability building; – Partnered with business groups local villages; – Response: Supporting efforts to to the Hermosa project, Cannington, – In Mozambique, we renovated the respond effectively to an outbreak in Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, TEMCO Matola health clinic to accommodate local communities; and and Worsley Alumina on socioCOVID-19 patients and distributed over economic recovery initiatives worth 80,000 items of medical equipment to – Recovery: Strengthening health US$278,802 in total. avoid spread of COVID-19; and systems and socio-economic resilience of communities to rebuild and respond – In the United States, we contributed to similar outbreaks in the future. US$60,000 for the upgrade of medical infrastructure and donated US$50,000 for urgent financial relief to small businesses in Southern Arizona. 58 South32 I II III IV V VI VII. Working with communities VIII IX Protecting our communities Listening to our communities Diagram 7.3 FY20 community We are committed to working with our We listen to and report complaints and complaints by type communities to understand and manage grievances which we receive, anonymously the potential impacts of our operations and or otherwise, through our complaints to keep them healthy and safe. mechanism and we address them as a priority. 17 We actively monitor existing and emerging 20 health risks and trends that may impact Our community complaints and grievances communities surrounding our operations. process is aligned with the Guiding 280 Recent examples of community health Principles on Business and Human Rights 34 risks include nickel exposure, silicosis, and the UN’s Protect, Respect and Remedy coal workers’ pneumoconiosis and chronic Framework, specifically to: FY20 community low-level manganese exposure. Our complaints – Acknowledge, investigate and membership of industry associations, 41 by type document all complaints; such as the ICMM and the International 166 Manganese Institute, provide guidance and – Allow for anonymous reporting of research into best practice management of complaints; potential community health impacts. – Complete appropriate remedial action; At our manganese operations which are – Communicate transparently with located close to communities, fit-forcomplainants; and Noise purpose air quality monitoring programs – Be readily available to all members of Traffic are in place to measure and model the host communities. Other impact of dust. We have redesigned and Dust enhanced the air monitoring programs, In FY20, we updated our internal guidance across all our operations to improve our Engagement including the addition of real-time monitoring equipment at GEMCO, TEMCO complaints and grievance process. We will and Metalloys, which enables continuous continue to assess the effectiveness of our improvement in operational management processes. of fugitive emissions. We received 280 complaints in FY20 Since 2015 Cerro Matoso has run a compared to 123 complaints received in community participatory environmental FY19 (refer to Diagram 7.3). This was mainly monitoring program that has given due to more noise complaints at Illawarra community members the technical skills to Metallurgical Coal and Worsley Alumina. understand and participate in the air and Fifty-nine per cent of the complaints were water monitoring. The program is to be noise-related and of these, 46 per cent expanded with more community members were recorded at Illawarra Metallurgical being trained to participate in the Coal and 50 per cent at Worsley Alumina. environmental monitoring and surveillance At Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, in response and it will be bolstered by the installation to complaints related to driver behaviour, of seven new monitoring stations to be we implemented training and drivers placed in the communities later in 2020. code of conduct guidelines. To better The stations will measure particulate manage noise, we have reduced vehicle matter, nickel and meteorological variable reversing alarms, improved monitoring and will also be analysed and presented to and coordination between personnel, and the communities on a two-yearly basis by a regular briefing of the workforce on the university that specialises in environmental importance of minimising impacts on our and public health. local communities. 59 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Working with Indigenous Peoples We recognise the traditional rights CULTURAL HERITAGE RECONCILIATION IN AUSTRALIA and values of Indigenous Peoples We support the preservation of cultural South32’s vision for reconciliation is for an and respect their cultural heritage. heritage. We recognise and respect sites, Australia that embraces the histories and places, structures and objects that are cultures of Aboriginal and Torres Strait We work to obtain free prior and informed culturally or traditionally significant. Islander peoples and that, as a nation, we consent before we operate, consistent work collectively towards supporting all with the ICMM Position Statement on We conduct heritage surveys in Australians. Our Reconciliation Action Plan Indigenous Peoples and Mining and consultation with traditional and local (RAP) outlines how we’ll do this, and what the International Finance Corporation’s communities to identify and protect areas we’ll do to create and sustain meaningful Indigenous Peoples Performance Standard. and objects of significance. Governed and respectful relationships. As a company, we understand the by our community and environment importance of engaging and working with standards, we ensure our governance We recognise that to achieve our purpose our Traditional Owners and Indigenous processes and cultural heritage approvals we must contribute to the societal groups in relation to our activities and meet legal and stakeholder requirements. efforts of reconciliation. Built on mutual processes. Our work is supported by cultural respect, these relationships will result awareness training of our employees, in real opportunities for both Aboriginal AGREEMENTS which is tailored to the local context at and Torres Strait Islander peoples and We currently have 10 formal agreements each location. the business. We want to be a partner with Indigenous Peoples’ communities in the success of Aboriginal and Torres at GEMCO and Cerro Matoso. Three In Australia, we engage with Aboriginal Strait Islander peoples in and around the agreements with the Traditional Owners and Torres Strait Islander peoples across communities where we operate. of Groote Eylandt and the Anindilyakwa our operations to ensure we understand Land Council enables us to mine in the our commitments to manage cultural While several of our operations have western and eastern leases and conduct areas of significance. Our operations and longstanding relationships with Aboriginal exploration in the island’s southern projects intersect many areas of cultural and Torres Strait Islander communities, areas. In Colombia, Cerro Matoso has significance such as anthropological we commenced our formal reconciliation seven community agreements with the sites which have spiritual importance, journey in October 2018 when we officially Indigenous Zenu People for improved and significant waterways with links launched our first RAP. This helped us health and socio-economic outcomes and to Dreamtime stories shared by the establish the foundations of our approach. we have voluntarily entered into another Traditional Owners. Management measures Some of our key achievements since the eight agreements with Cerro Matoso nonsuch as cultural heritage management launch of our ‘Reflect’ RAP include: Indigenous communities including the plans and chance finds procedures are in two Afro Colombian communities of San place to meet our commitments in line with – Incorporating reconciliation objectives José de Uré and Boca de Uré. Developed agreements and legislative approvals. into our Community Investment in consultation with our communities, Framework and stakeholder Our internal processes to manage cultural these agreements lay the foundation for engagement plans; heritage are integrated across the business improved health and socio-economic so that site work programs take account of – Hosting National Reconciliation Week outcomes. areas of cultural significance and the views and NAIDOC Week events at our of traditional and local communities. In operations around Australia to celebrate late FY20, we commenced a review of our the unique cultures of our Traditional approach to cultural heritage management Owners; to determine where we may need to – Implementation of an Indigenous strengthen or enhance our systems. Participation Plan at GEMCO to further increase participation for the Anindilyakwa people; – Increasing local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander contracting spend at GEMCO by more than 13 per cent; and – Joining Supply Nation to increase opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses across Australia to work with us. 60 South32 I II III IV V VI VII. Working with communities VIII IX During FY20, through our community TRANSFORMATION IN SOUTH Department of Trade and Industry investment plans across Australia, we AFRICA B-BBEE Scorecard continued key partnerships that support Transformation in South Africa refers All our South African operating entities our RAP: to change that enables Black People are audited annually for transformation to participate meaningfully in the main progress in terms of the Department of – The MJD Foundation on Groote Eylandt, streams of the economy, by ways of Trade and Industry (DTI) B-BBEE Act 2003 which works with people suffering from owning, managing and controlling as amended by Act 46 of 2013. The DTI Machado-Joseph Disease, to support productive assets. Legislation has been released new Codes of Good Practice on the funding of new medical equipment passed to redress South Africa’s historical preferential procurement, enterprise and and technology, services such as socio-economic inequalities including supplier development, skills development, physiotherapy, and improvements to the Broad-Based Black Economic general principles, and updates on remote community service delivery; Empowerment (B-BBEE) Act and the interpretations and definitions which – The Polly Farmer Foundation learning Mining Charter. became effective in December 2019. clubs on Groote Eylandt to tutor and support primary school-age children; In September 2018, the new Broad-Based Our South African operations will be and Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter assessed against these Codes with respect for the Mining and Minerals Industry to the FY20 measurement period. We will – Boddington District High School for an (Mining Charter 2018) introduced changes include the findings in our FY21 reporting. Aboriginal student engagement and to targets to strengthen meaningful achievement strategy to help increase Our transformation plans have helped us transformation of the mining and minerals the attendance and performance of increase our B-BBEE recognition points industry. In December 2018, the new Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander from FY19. Table 7.1 shows our scorecard Implementation Guidelines for the Mining students. increase from FY18 to FY19. Charter 2018 was released. During FY20 we established a partnership Table 7.1 DTI B-BBEE recognition points We report our progress against targets in with the Australian Indigenous Education the Mining Charter 2018 on an annual basis, FY18 FY19 FY19 Foundation for a national Indigenous Operation Points Points Level with reports submitted to the Department secondary school scholarships and Hillside Aluminium 80.48 82.09 5 of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE). employment pathways program and Hotazel commenced scoping and design for an Transformation plan Manganese Mines 72.64 81.43 5 Indigenous Leadership and Governance South Africa’s transformation imperative Metalloys Alloy Program at GEMCO, Groote Eylandt. aligns to our purpose. Each operation in Smelter 62.98 76.64 6 We were proud to launch our Innovate South Africa has a transformation plan South Africa based on transformation objectives and Energy Coal 70.21 81.47 5 RAP in September 2020, which raises the bar on our previous commitments as we legislative requirements. The plans include Levels as defined by the South African DTI B-BBEE Codes actions and initiatives that support yearof Good Practice. The maximum score achievable is 111 work towards embedding reconciliation points, and compliance is above 41.(1) Certificates are activities in our core business practices on-year improvements. issued in October each year for the preceding financial year. and decision-making. Our Innovate To transform our business in South Africa, RAP represents the next phase of work we focus on local interests. By seeking (1) Greater than 100 Level 1 Compliant status with 135 per cent B-BBEE recognition. across the Relationships, Respect and local talent, suppliers and new business Greater than 95 but less than 100 Level 2 Compliant Opportunities Framework, consolidating opportunities, we’re contributing to status with 125 per cent B-BBEE recognition. what we have done to date and introducing Greater 90 but less than 95 Level 3 Compliant improved competitiveness and economic status with 110 per cent B-BBEE recognition. new goals. Our Innovate RAP commits us to growth. Greater than 80 but less than 90 Level 4 Compliant supporting reconciliation by: status with 100 per cent B-BBEE recognition. While we made good progress in Greater than 75 but less than 80 Level 5 Compliant – Establishing ourselves as an employer delivering our FY20 projects in line with status with 80 per cent B-BBEE recognition. Greater than 70 but less than 75 Level 6 Compliant of choice for Aboriginal and Torres our transformation plans, the impact status with 60 per cent B-BBEE recognition. Strait Islander peoples and growing our of COVID-19 in South Africa delayed Greater than 55 but less than 70 Level 7 Compliant Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander implementation of some projects due to status with 50 per cent B-BBEE recognition. Greater than 40 but less than 55 Level 8 Compliant workforce by five per cent year-on-year; national lockdown restrictions. status with 10 per cent B-BBEE recognition. – Increasing the procurement of goods Less than 40 Non-Compliant status with zero per cent B-BBEE recognition. and services from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander businesses by 10 per cent year-on-year; – Ensuring our people are culturally aware and possess the skills and knowledge to respectfully engage with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in their day-to-day work; and – Building and maintaining strong relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in the communities where we operate. 61 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Working with Indigenous Peoples continued Social and Labour Plans and enterprise We are satisfied with the maturity levels SOUTH AFRICA ENERGY COAL supplier development of our ESD framework, which has a theme DIVESTMENT We are committed to delivering socioof ‘value beyond compliance’. Our focus In November 2019, we entered into a economic upliftment as detailed in in FY20 has been to increase our local binding conditional agreement with Seriti our Social and Labour Plans (SLPs) for suppliers and ensure sustainability for all Resources for the sale of South Africa our mines and our socio-economic our beneficiaries. All our approved ESD Energy Coal, with the intention that it development plans. These have been businesses have been enrolled for business becomes sustainable, black-owned and developed in consideration of sociodevelopment support to ensure that operated in line with the South African economic baseline information and directors are equipped with the skills and Government’s transformation agenda. As in alignment with the Integrated knowledge to run their businesses. part of the agreement, Seriti Resources will Development Plans (IDPs) of local also fund the acquisition of shares in South In FY20, we spent over US$4.59 million authorities. Consultations with the local Africa Energy Coal for two trusts which will across our South African operations on authorities and key stakeholders were hold equity on behalf of employees and the development of suppliers through conducted through the IDP process communities. our ESD programs in line with our FY20 resulting in the selection of the projects to transformation plans. All suppliers are Subject to a number of material conditions be supported. based in the communities in which we being satisfied, the transaction remains At Hotazel Manganese Mines, our SLP for operate. on track to be completed in the December the period FY19-FY23 was approved by 2020 half year. Approximately 91 businesses participated the DMRE with 11 community projects at in our ESD grant funding program in FY20 an estimated value of R87 million (US$5.4 through various forms of support including million) to be implemented over the five assets, equipment, materials, and tools as years. During FY20, we commenced well as business mentorship and coaching implementation of the second year of programs. these projects, including an education program aimed at improving high school Employment equity and skills students' performance and providing development career guidance and support to apply for Our transformation plans include targets post-school opportunities. for year-on-year improvements in demographic representation across all We made positive progress on delivering levels of management, at all our operations against commitments in the SLP for in South Africa. South Africa Energy Coal. Highlights included construction of the Rockdale The skills development plans for each community health centre, a community operation are aligned with the objectives skills development program and training of of the SLP, DTI codes and employment local Small, Medium and Micro Enterprises equity, to ensure the supply and availability to provide services to South Africa Energy of skilled, competent and empowered Coal’s operational and community projects. employees. It also provides career development for employees and the Through enterprise and supplier communities in which we operate. development (ESD), our goal is to develop and empower small local businesses to be In FY19, the representation of Black financially and operationally independent in employees across our South Africa line with our transformation plans. operations was 72 per cent of our junior management, 59 per cent of middle management, 45 per cent of senior management and 69 per cent of our top management.(1) (1) Representation figures for FY20 are available in October as part of the certification of the South African DTI B-BBEE recognition. 62 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII. Responsible operations IX Responsible operations MANAGING OUR MINING AND PROCESSING ACTIVITIES 63 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Tailings Key related ICMM Principle Management of tailings and water Our approach is consistent with the retaining dams is an integral part of ICMM Tailings Governance Framework our mining and processing activities. and Position Statement on Preventing We are committed to the safe and Catastrophic Failure of Tailings Storage Facilities and industry practices such as responsible management of our the Australian National Committee on tailings storage facilities (TSFs). Large Dams (ANCOLD) guidelines. These Tailings dam failure is a strategic risk requirements are embedded within our Key related UN SDGs for our business due to the potential internal dam management standard, which for catastrophic consequences to includes: communities, the environment and our – Accountability and competency: Our business. We have 37 TSFs across our tailings specialists set our standards, operations, and 20 of these are active. oversee implementation and integrate Sixteen of our TSFs use the upstream improvements to support our health, construction method across seven safety and environment teams or Key related UNGC Principle locations. A directory of our TSFs operational tailings experts; at each operation is available on www.south32.net, including the TSFs of our – Long-term tailings planning: Longnon-operated interests. At an operational term planning and budgeting for new level, we manage tailings dam failure as a TSFs, including evaluation of alternative material risk at GEMCO, Worsley Alumina, storage practices and locations; Cannington, Illawarra Metallurgical Coal – Design and construction requirements: (the water dam) and South Africa Energy Our TSFs must be designed and Coal. constructed using the ANCOLD guidelines as the minimum standard OUR APPROACH AND using suitably qualified engineers and PERFORMANCE independent specialists for review; Our approach to TSF management is – Operating and monitoring designed to maintain their structural requirements: All TSFs must have integrity. We design, construct, operate, an Operations, Maintenance and monitor, maintain and decommission Surveillance (OMS) manual, must be all our TSFs consistent with regulatory operated and monitored according to requirements, applicable guidelines, the OMS manual and are monitored and standards and obligations. We apply this managed by the engineering teams at rigour across all phases of the TSF life each site with no excess water; and cycle, from initial planning and site location through to closure, rehabilitation, post– Risk management: All tailings and water closure monitoring and maintenance. retaining structures must be classified according to the ANCOLD consequence category (hazard rating) classification. The classification should be determined with the assistance of independent expertise and use appropriate dam break scenarios and methodologies. 64 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII. Responsible operations IX As a member of ICMM, we are working In addition to our normal operational with our peers to better understand and monitoring of TSFs, in FY20 we implement best practices to manage TSF implemented Group-wide Interferometric risks. We are supportive of the new Global Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) Industry Standard on Tailings Management monitoring at our operations, using satellite developed by the Global Tailings Review data to evaluate deformation. (a joint initiative between the ICMM, In November 2019, we became aware of United Nations Environment Program and occasional burning of the coal slurry within Principles for Responsible Investment). the Rietspruit TSF at the closed Rietspruit We will review the new requirements in mine in Mpumalanga. This was identified conjunction with ICMM implementation through work being conducted to assess guidelines and will progressively integrate our dams under ANCOLD standards. requirements into our standards and Mitigation measures were implemented practices. to minimise any potential impact to the We review and audit TSFs regularly, structure. This included covering burning including internal and independent areas, digging a drainage channel that external assurance activities, to monitor enabled excess water run-off to be the controls in place and confirm managed and construction of a berm to compliance with our standards. We also provide an additional barrier. We have also work closely with our joint venture partners increased monitoring of the TSF while the at our non-operated sites to support the closure plan is being implemented. effective management of TSFs. We support the transparent disclosure In line with our approach to ensure all our of our TSF management and respond to dams globally are classified and managed stakeholder requests for information. For in accordance with ANCOLD, we completed example, in response to the Investor Mining an assessment of the majority of our dams and Tailings Safety Initiative in 2019, we against these guidelines in FY20. Our published our Tailings Storage Facilities progress was disrupted by COVID-19 as the Management report with details on our TSF lockdown restrictions prevented site work. inventory at the time. 65 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Feature story REMEDIATING DECADES OF LEGACY MINE WASTE The Hermosa project is a high-grade zinc, lead and silver development option near the town of Patagonia in southern Arizona. South32 became the owner of the Hermosa project following the acquisition of Arizona Mining in August 2018. 66 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII. Responsible operations IX Nestled in the Patagonia Mountains in Identifying the most appropriate method community and other stakeholders Santa Cruz County, around 1,600 metres of tailings storage was important to have visited the site to learn more about above sea level, the area around the ensure the safe and sustainable operation the remediation work that has been Hermosa project is unique in terms of of the facility. The design and approach undertaken. biodiversity and ecotourism. Protecting adopted was a dry stack facility, which the local environment and preserving the means the tailings are highly compressed Pat Risner, President of the Hermosa character of the local community is a key with low moisture levels, minimising project, says: “South32 works to high focus for the team. seepage risk and maximising stability. standards and that matters deeply to our A multilayer liner system beneath the dry stakeholders, whether they own wells The Hermosa project is located at a site stacked tailings collects any water that downstream from our site, own livestock that was first developed in the late 1890s soaks through or runs off the tailings and close to the waterways, or own shares in and mined for its lead, zinc and, to a lesser channels it to a water treatment plant. The our company. It also matters deeply to extent, silver. It includes the remains of liner system also includes a leak detection everyone who works at Hermosa. We need the former Trench Mine, a closed mine system designed to verify design to be able to hold our heads high when we which was last operated more than 50 performance. talk about our work, and I’m proud to say years ago, and this brought with it some that we can do that. We have gone above environmental legacy issues that needed The redesigned TSF meets the highest and beyond the requirements of the state to be addressed. standards of safety in tailings storage of Arizona in our approach to remediating and water conservation and complies the legacy tailings.” Waste material, known as tailings, is with the Australian National Committee produced in the mineral recovery process on Large Dams (ANCOLD) – a globally The remediation work was conducted and usually takes the form of a liquid recognised industry standard for tailings under the Voluntary Remediation slurry made of water and fine mineral management. Program (VRP) of the Arizona Department particles that are created when mined ore of Environmental Quality, a program is crushed, ground and processed. The project to remediate more than two designed to encourage property owners million tonnes of waste from historic and other interested parties to voluntarily The existing tailings at the site of the mining was carried out over two years invest in recovering contaminated sites to Hermosa project, left behind from and concluded in December 2019. It cost the appropriate standards. The program decades of mining activity, had a high more than US$30 million and involved director, Laura Malone, says: “South32 moisture content and were located over a million combined work hours from has done a great job in designing and directly on undisturbed ground. This South32 employees and contractors, most working with the VRP to ensure that once-common type of tailings storage of them local to Santa Cruz County. we have the right system in place to allowed stormwater to soak through the address everything that's coming off tailings, reach the undisturbed ground Today, the TSF is safer and more stable. their property, to include their future and enter local waterways during heavy The facility is managed and monitored processing. rainfall, carrying various contaminants in by our engineers on an ongoing basis, the process. in accordance with the highest safety “It’s a win for the environment, and that's standards in the industry. first and foremost. It's a win for South32, As the Hermosa project is located on a because they have a viable mine site, site which required remediation, in 2017 With the Hermosa project nearing the and they're going to be able to be in that the team set about designing a new conclusion of a pre-feasibility study into area for a long time. And it's a win for the tailings storage facility (TSF) and water options for future mine development, agency, because we know we have a site treatment system that would reduce the it was important that the remediation that is being managed appropriately and risk of contamination of local waterways. demonstrated South32’s operating works well with the agency to address any standards in order to build trust with of our concerns.” communities in and around the town of Patagonia. Members of the local See more about our dry stack tailings storage facility on www.south32.net. 67 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Closure Key related UN SDG Planning for the closure of our During FY20, we continued to implement operations and sites is an essential our closure plans across our operations part of the mining life cycle. We aim and executed a range of progressive to achieve safe, stable closure closure activities, including: outcomes which are aligned with our – Rehabilitation of 400 hectares of business, environmental and social previously mined areas across our objectives. operations; Key related UNGC Principles Operations within our portfolio that – An update of closure plans for Cerro are late in their life where closure Matoso, Illawarra Metallurgical Coal, planning has commenced include Metalloys and the Hermosa project; GEMCO and Cannington. Areas of focus – Progressing closure planning of tailings to manage closure risk include review storage at GEMCO to the feasibility of regulatory requirements, approach study stage; to decommissioning and dismantling – Completion of remediation of tailings infrastructure, cost estimation, removal or from a closed mine located on our treatment of waste materials, remediation present-day Hermosa project site. Read of any contaminated sites, rehabilitation more about our remediation work on of disturbed areas, and impacts on local page 66; economies and communities where we – Continuation of removal of redundant have a significant presence. As part of this infrastructure at Illawarra Metallurgical work, we seek opportunities to partner Coal, such as power poles and power with our communities and governments lines no longer in use; and to identify post-closure land uses that generate environmental, social and – Active participation in industry closure economic value. forums such as ICMM’s closure working group and the establishment of a CoOUR APPROACH AND operative Research Centre (CRC) for PERFORMANCE closure in Australia (CRCTiME). Our approach to closure is integrated After consideration of its future economic with our life of operation planning. We viability we made the decision with aim to optimise our closure outcomes by our joint venture partner to place our planning for closure during the design of South African manganese alloy smelter, our operations and ensuring our activities Metalloys, on care and maintenance. We during operations are consistent with also progressed the review of TEMCO, our achieving our closure objectives, including Australian manganese alloy smelter, and progressive rehabilitation. engaged our employees, governments Our approach is guided by the ICMM and all other stakeholders throughout the Integrated Mine Closure Good Practice process. In August 2020 we entered into a Guide, aligned with our regulatory binding conditional agreement for the sale requirements and codified within of GEMCO’s shareholding in TEMCO to an our internal closure standard. These entity within GFG Alliance. requirements are embedded in our At the end of FY20, the total closure and closure plans for each operation, which rehabilitation provision for our business are routinely updated. Each plan outlines amounted to US$1,830 million. closure criteria, final land use options, providing the basis for closure cost estimates and associated financial provisions in our financial statements. Our life of operations plans provides guidance for progressive rehabilitation, which is planned annually and budgeted for by each operation. 68 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Our stakeholders Stakeholder Why we engage How we engage Business partners We engage our joint venture partners to ensure Joint Venture Boards and Committee meetings, Joint Joint venture risks are being adequately managed, appropriate Venture operational review calls and assurance audits. partners. governance mechanisms are in place and that value is We engage frequently through a regular schedule and delivered for shareholders. as required. Community-based We maintain regular contact with local environmental Group meetings and briefings, one-on-one meetings, organisations groups and community-benefit organisations and newsletters, phone calls and general correspondence. Not-for-profit charities to understand their interests or concerns Our interactions are regular and as required. organisations at the about our operations and planned activities, so their community level. feedback can inform our approach. Customers We are committed to reliable product supply including We closely engage with our customers on all issues, Companies that buy volume, quality, cost and delivery. including ensuring that our products are used in the our products. most efficient way. We also participate in product stewardship initiatives and customer surveys. We engage frequently through a regular schedule and as required. Employees and We recognise the value of our people and the We engage with our people using a variety of contractors importance of timely and transparent engagement. communications channels. This includes meetings, People that work videos, toolbox talks, newsletters, forums, With a well-informed and engaged workforce, the for us. presentations, and web-based forums including business is best placed to achieve its strategy. SharePoint, Teams and Yammer. The frequency of our engagement is daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, half yearly and annually depending on the engagement channel. Governments and We rely on a high level of public policy certainty to Engagement with government and regulators is wideregulators make commercial and operational decisions, in order to ranging, depending on the local context and issue. At local, national and develop mineral resources with a minimum of risk. We engage through face-to-face meetings, emails, international levels. We build and maintain positive relationships to ensure submissions, telephone calls and mail correspondence, governments and regulators understand policy and as required. regulatory impacts on the business. Industry peers and Membership of key industry associations provides Through regular participation in meetings, working associations opportunities to understand, learn and contribute to groups, committees and policy feedback processes. Associations of industry best practice. Our participation provides an shared interest avenue to engage in and influence matters affecting groups. our industry. Financial Our Lead Team present our performance, strategy, We present on matters, including performance metrics community operations and prospects to shareholders and and results, in a timely manner. We answer shareholder Including lenders, potential investors, in accordance with securities law, to and investor requests (phone, email and face-to-face shareholders, debt achieve fair valuation of South32 securities in the equity discussions). and equity analysts. markets. We meet with the financial community annually We engage with our lenders, rating agencies and other through engagements such as roadshows or financial institutions to ensure the South32 credit conference calls, including Lead Team or Board profile is accurately assessed to support the Group’s members in these engagements, as required. ability to maintain a diversity of finding sources. Labour unions We engage with labour unions to discuss various We connect with employee representatives and Employees and aspects of workers’ rights and interests. representative groups via telephone conversations, contractors are face-to-face meetings, negotiations, letters and emails, represented by as required. unions at many of our operations. Local and We recognise our operations can have both a positive Our engagements vary depending on the location of Indigenous and negative impact on our communities. We support the operation and the stakeholder, in accordance with communities community practices that empower people to our Stakeholder Engagement Plans. Engagements Local communities, make choices and enable communities to increase typically include face-to-face meetings, community including Indigenous control over decisions that affect their lives, beliefs, consultative committees and forums, operational open groups, that have institutions, wellbeing and the lands they occupy or days, newsletters, web-based information, telephone interests and otherwise use. conversations and site visits. We also take part in concerns in relation community activities and engage through various to our operations. community initiatives. 69 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Our stakeholders continued Stakeholder Why we engage How we engage Media We acknowledge the role the media plays as a source Engagement with media is carried out via telephone, Print, online, of information about our operations and planned face-to-face meetings, news releases, briefings, broadcast and social activities. We engage regularly with print, online, presentations, site visits, web-based information and media. broadcast and social media to ensure our information web-broadcasts, as required. is offered in balance to other information. Non-government NGOs are interested in specific issues relevant to their We monitor NGO campaigns and seek to engage with organisations group, such as human rights (including health and groups at local, national and international level, where (NGOs) safety), environmental issues or transparency. relevant. Organisations that hold specific interests in environmental, social and human rights issues. Civil society To ensure that we and our partners operate in a way We engage with potential partners through the project partners consistent with values and performance. process and through regular project updates as Public or private required. organisations that we partner with on specific projects that have a societal benefit. Suppliers We require surety in supply of the various products we The various responsible entities for procurement Large and small purchase, as well as understanding the supply chain we will engage suppliers regularly through contractual businesses that we are purchasing from. agreements, performance reviews and training, and procure items from. according to our internal standards and ongoing updates. 70 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Sustainability performance data The following sustainability performance data across people, environment and economic aspects are reported for financial years and unless stated otherwise represent operations that are wholly owned by South32 or operated by South32 in a joint venture operation, from 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020. Where there have been changes to previously reported data, this is denoted (shown in italics). Restatements occur due to changes in multipliers outside of our control, such as emissions factors, or where we have improved the way we apply our reporting standards. Refer to the glossary on page 88 for abbreviations, terms and definitions used. PEOPLE Employee, safety and health overview FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 Employees(1) 14,554 14,244 14,192 14,002 Fatalities from safety incidents(2) – employees 0 0 1 0 Fatalities from safety incidents(2) – contractors 1 0 0 1 Fatalities from health incidents(2) – employees 0 0 0 0 Fatalities from health incidents(2) – contractors 0 0 0 0 Value of fines and prosecutions – safety (US$) 0(4) 45,730 1,336 0 Total recordable injuries – total 225 264(5) 268 288 Total recordable injuries – employees 114 131 151 188 Total recordable injuries – contractors 111 133 117 100 Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – total 4.2 4.6(5) 5.1 6.1 Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – employees 4.3 4.7 5.6 7.1 Total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – contractors 4.1 4.4 4.6 4.8 Total actual significant events(3) 1 1 1 1 Total potential significant events 331 297 194 202 Total recordable occupational illness – employees 63 55 74 54 Total recordable occupational illness – contractors 15 18 15 10 Total recordable illness frequency (TRILF) (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – total 1.4 1.3 1.7 1.3 Total recordable illness frequency (TRILF) (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – employees 2.4 2.0 2.7(5) 2.0 Total recordable illness frequency (TRILF) (per 1,000,000 hours worked) – contractors 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.5 To ensure that incident classification definitions are applied uniformly across our workforce, we have adopted the United States Government Occupational Safety and Health Assessment guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injuries and illnesses. (1) Employee numbers are direct employees and exclude Non-Executive Directors except where stated otherwise. (2) Incidents are included where South32 controls the work location or controls the work activity. (3) Total actual significant events result in an actual severity level 4 or greater HSEC impact and includes injury or illness, environmental, equipment damage and community impacts. (4) In FY20, we recorded no fines or prosecutions relating to safety performance. (5) Figure has been restated since it was previously reported due to a reclassification or recalculation of data. Workforce distribution Gender Age groups Employment type (1) Total Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Permanent Temporary employees Australia 745 4,173 404 3,271 1,243 4,678 240 4,918 Brazil 7 9 0 13 3 16 0 16 Canada 2 5 0 6 1 7 0 7 Colombia 109 773 40 608 234 836 46 882 Mozambique 95 949 57 829 158 1,019 25 1,044 Singapore 73 47 4 100 16 109 11 120 South Africa 1,681 5,750 930 4,971 1,530 6,876 555 7,431 United Kingdom 24 13 0 27 10 33 4 37 United States 30 69 19 63 17 97 2 99 Total 2,766 11,788 1,454 9,888 3,212 13,671 883 14,554 (1) Employment contract type is for direct South32 employees only. Employees by gender and employment type(1) Female Male Total Permanent – total(2) 2,441 11,230 13,671 Permanent – full time 2,376 11,209 13,576 Permanent – part time 74 21 95 Temporary 325 558 883 Total 2,766 11,788 14,554 Percentage 19% 81% (1) Employment contract type is for direct South32 employees only. (2) Figures for total permanent employees includes full time and part time permanent employees. 71 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Sustainability performance data continued Workforce diversity Gender Age groups Percentage Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Black People (1) South32 Board(2) 37.5 62.5 0 12.5 87.5 12.5 Executives and senior management(3) 37.5 62.5 0 59 41 75 Management 26 74 0 77 23 54 Supervisory/professional /operational support 19 81 10 68 22 84 (1) Black People refers to Africans, Coloureds and Indians who are citizens of the Republic of South Africa by birth or descent (as more fully defined in the South African BroadBased Black Economic Empowerment Amendment Act 2013). (2) Board includes Non-Executive Directors. Black People percentage on the Board include members of the Board who are Black / Total members regardless of location. (3) Executives and Senior Management include members of the South32 Lead Team and Senior Leadership Team. Diversity representation Percentage FY20 Women representation of total workforce 19 Women represented on South32 Board 37.5 Women represented in South32 Lead Team 44 Women represented in Senior Leadership Team(1) 36 Women represented in Operational Leadership Teams(2) 18 Representation of Black People in South Africa in total workforce 83 Representation of Black People in South Africa in management roles(3) 55 (1) The Senior Leadership Team are our leaders who report directly to the South32 Lead Team. (2) The Operational Leadership Team includes Managers and General Managers who report to the Vice President Operations or General Managers at an operation. (3) Management roles are leaders with an identified job grading, based on the requirements of their role and salary rate, of 13 or higher. Pay ratio of women to men based on salary(1) Australia Colombia Mozambique Singapore South Africa United States Total Executives(2) and senior management 1.08 0.00 0.00 0.52 0.00 0.00 1.02 Management 0.94 0.91 0.96 0.79 0.96 0.79 0.94 Supervisory/professional/ operational support 1.00 1.23 1.05 0.76 1.02 1.04 0.98 (1) Countries with less than 50 South32 employees are not listed, however the data is included in the overall total. (2) Executive figures exclude key management personnel. Parental leave profile Employees Women Men Employees that took parental leave during FY20 510 229 281 Employees who were expected to return from parental leave during FY20 429 158 271 Employees who did return from parental leave during FY20 421 152 269 Return to work rate of employees who took parental leave (percentage) 98 96 99 Employee hiring rate per region Gender Age groups Total Percentage Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 hiring rate Africa 13.46 6.08 24.11 6.57 1.60 7.62 Asia 19.18 6.38 50 14 6.25 14.17 Australia 20.67 9.08 37.13 9.94 4.67 10.84 Europe 41.67 15.38 0 29.63 40.00 32.43 South America 62.50 55.41 63.16 59.42 44.44 57.55 North America 10.34 3.32 27.50 4.03 0.84 4.23 Total 16.23 7.28 28.40 8.03 3.11 8.98 Employee turnover per region Gender Age groups Total Percentage Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 turnover rate (1) Africa 2.31 3.15 2.13 2.57 4.86 2.97 Asia 4.11 4.26 0 5 0 4.17 Australia 11.54 5.22 9.16 5.87 6.03 6.18 Europe 0 7.69 0 3.70 0 2.70 South America 0 33.78 26.32 17.39 44.44 23.58 North America 6.90 3.32 2.50 3.38 5.06 3.79 Total 4.99 4.10 4.40 3.84 5.51 4.27 (1) Turnover rates are calculated using the total number of employees per region for FY20 as the denominator and the total count for FY20 as the numerator. Turnover rates include employees who left South32 voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement or death in service. These figures exclude employee departures as a result of redundancy or end of contract. 72 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices ENVIRONMENT Operational environment overview FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 Significant environmental incidents 0 1 0 0 Value of fines and prosecutions – environment (US$) 0(1) 23,719 506,802 110,390 Total energy used (petajoules) 172 176 174 174 Oxides of sulphur emissions (tonnes) 41,625 37,586(2) 35,803 39,192 Oxides of nitrogen emissions (tonnes) 12,156 24,763 10,892 10,425 Mercury emissions (tonnes) 0.60 0.85 0.72 0.86 Total hazardous mineral waste (kilotonnes) 24,148 23,741 22,627 16,226 Total non-hazardous mineral waste (kilotonnes) 4,849 5,458 5,909 16,236 (1) In FY20, we recorded no fines or prosecutions relating to environmental performance. (2) Figure has been restated since it was previously reported due to a reclassification or recalculation of data. Landholdings, biodiversity and closure FY20 Total South32 landholdings – land owned, leased or managed (hectares) 689,083 Biodiversity management plans implemented, where required (percentage) 100 Operations with closure plans in place (percentage) 100 Land disturbance, rehabilitation and conservation FY20 Total land disturbed (hectares) 23,553 Total land rehabilitated (hectares) 15,950 Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated (hectares) 7,603 Total land rehabilitated against land disturbed (percentage) 40 Newly disturbed land during FY20 (hectares) 806 Newly rehabilitated land during FY20 (hectares) 400 Land set aside for conservation during FY20 (hectares) 0 Total land set aside for conservation (hectares) 2,010 Designated protected areas per South32 country presence Portion of owned, leased or Areas on or containing portions of managed land in the area or Areas adjacent to land managed by land managed by our operations containing portions of designated our operations (number) (number) protected areas (hectares) Australia Terrestrial 2 12 41,063 Freshwater 0 0 0 Maritime 1 0 0 Colombia Terrestrial 3 1 334 Freshwater 1 0 0 Maritime 0 0 0 Mozambique Terrestrial 0 0 0 Freshwater 0 0 0 Maritime 0 0 0 South Africa Terrestrial 1 0 0 Freshwater 0 0 0 Maritime 0 0 0 Total for South32 Terrestrial 6 13 41,397 Freshwater 1 0 0 Maritime 1 0 0 73 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Sustainability performance data continued IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats per South32 country presence Critically Near Number endangered Endangered Vulnerable threatened Least concern Australia 3 5 13 12 497 Colombia 7 10 22 10 535 South Africa 3 7 8 11 423 Water accounting overview Water quality FY20 Source / destination Type 1 Type 2 Type 3 High Low Total FY19 total FY18 total FY17 total Inputs/Withdrawal Surface water 17,436 6,726 25,164 24,162 25,164 49,326 46,370 56,376 49,419 (megalitres per Groundwater 8,536 8,163 18,567 16,699 18,567 35,266 38,763 33,087 29,295 annum) Seawater 0 0 195 0 195 195 456 863 415 Third party water 2,897 3,309 310 6,206 310 6,517 3,704 4,746 13,107 Total 28,869 18,198 44,236 47,067 44,236 91, 304 89,293 95,072 92,236 Outputs/Discharge Surface water 5,210 4,547 1,706 9,757 1,706 11,463 12,828 13,581 15,163 (megalitres per Groundwater 25 0 1,088 25 1,088 1,113 14,352 14,270 3,585 annum) Seawater 0 1,969 381 1,969 381 2,350 2,769 4,034 3,570 Third party water 174 0 3,116 174 3,116 3,289 3,260 2,382 11,505 Other 42,439 630 6,490 43,069 6,490 49,559 45,724 43,046 38,613 Total 47,848 7,146 12,781 54,994 12,781 67,774 78,932 77,313 72,436 Consumption (megalitres per This is intentionally blank as this is not reported annum) Total by type 49,559 45,724 43,046 38,613 Efficiency – all South32 sites This is intentionally blank as this is not reported (percentage) Total by type 56 59 55 53 Recycling and reuse (megalitres This is intentionally blank as this is not reported per annum) Total by type 115,042 129,653 117,516 102,264 Water data has been presented in accordance with the Minerals Council of Australia (MCA) Water Accounting Framework (WAF) and meets the ICMM disclosure requirements for water quality. The water quality categories in the MCA WAF are directly linked with current ICMM definitions. Types 1 and 2 are considered ‘High Quality’ and type 3 considered as ‘Low Quality’. The GRI definitions of water quality are divided into ‘freshwater’ (water with concentration of total dissolved solids equal to or below 1,000 mg/L) and all remaining quality as ‘other water’. The GRI definition of ‘freshwater’ aligns with the MCA WAF definition of type 1. ‘Other water’ links to types 2 and 3. Our operational reporting model does not include the reporting of diversions, being water that is diverted away from or actively managed by a site but not used for any operational purposes. The sum of the categories may vary to the total figure due to rounding. Operations with water-related material risk Worsley Illawarra Hotazel Alumina Mozal Hillside Metallurgical South Africa Manganese Megalitres per annum Source / destination Refinery Aluminium Aluminium Coal Energy Coal (1) Mines(2) Inputs/Withdrawal Surface water 10,361 491 3 374 19,884 13 Groundwater 3,940 0 0 2,373 14,105 1,060 Seawater 0 195 0 0 0 0 Third party water 3,313 53 702 735 324 202 Total 17,615 739 706 3,482 34,314 1,275 Output/Discharge Surface water 0 305 0 1,445 5,144 0 Groundwater 0 0 0 0 0 109 Seawater 0 100 0 1,969 0 0 Third party water 0 0 266 143 2,674 7 Other 9,703 51 440 868 10,004 450 Total 9,703 455 706 4,425 17,823 566 Consumption Total 9,703 51 440 868 10,004 450 Water data has been presented in accordance with the Minerals Council of Australia Water Accounting Framework and meets the ICMM disclosure requirements for water quality. The sum of the categories may vary to the total figure due to rounding. (1) Water for South Africa Energy Coal includes Ifalethu, Wolvekrans, Khutala, Klipspruit and Mine Closure NPI operations. (2) This is a cumulative figure of South32 mines in the region. 74 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Operations in areas of baseline water stress Water quality Megalitres per annum Source / destination Type 1 Type 2 Type 3 High Low FY20 Total Input/Withdrawal Surface water 11,595 2,219 24,608 13,813 24,608 38,422 Groundwater 7,932 7,739 17,793 15,670 17,793 33,464 Seawater 0 0 0 0 0 0 Third party water 1,043 3,309 310 4,352 310 4,662 Total 20,570 13,266 42,711 33,836 42,711 76,548 Output/Discharge Surface water 5,210 0 1,323 5,210 1,323 6,534 Groundwater 25 0 511 25 511 536 Seawater 0 1,969 281 1,969 281 2,250 Third party water 174 0 2,165 174 2,165 2,339 Other 36,999 353 5,841 37,351 5,841 54,851 Total 42,408 2,322 10,121 44,730 10,121 56,557 Consumption Total This is intentionally blank as this is not reported by type 42,129 Efficiency – all South32 sites (percentage) Total This is intentionally blank as this is not reported by type 44 Recycling and reuse (megalitres per annum) Total This is intentionally blank as this is not reported by type 43,803 As defined using the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Tool found at https://www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct. Accessed July 2020. Water data has been presented in accordance with the Minerals Council of Australia Water Accounting Framework and meets the ICMM disclosure requirements for water quality. These figures exclude Cerro Matoso, Hillside, Metalloys, Mozal, TEMCO, Worsley Alumina Mine and Materials operations, Bayside, Eagle Downs and Mine Closure NPI projects, and corporate offices. Primary sources of energy used Petajoules FY20 Coal and coke 51 Distillate and gasoline 8 Electricity 78 Natural gas 27 Other 8 Total energy used(1) 172 Renewable sources 33 (1) Total energy used excludes renewable sources. Sources of greenhouse gas emissions Millions of tonnes of CO2-e FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 Electricity 12.9 13.0 12.6 12.0 Fugitive sources 2.8 2.7 2.5 3.0 Coal and coke 4.7 3.8 3.8 3.8 Other sources 0.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 Natural gas 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 Distillate and gas 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.5 Total 23.3 23.5 22.8 22.6 Total greenhouse gas emissions Millions of tonnes of CO2-e FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 GHG – Scope 1(1) 10.4 10.5 10.2 10.6 GHG – Scope 2 market-based(1) 12.9 13.0 12.6 12.0 GHG – Scope 2 location-based(2) 21.1 19.6 19.8 19.6 GHG Scope 1 and 2 23.3 23.5 22.8 22.6 GHG Scope 3(3) 110 116 117 125 The sum of the categories may vary to the total figure due to rounding. (1) Measured according to the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. (2) In accordance with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 disclosure requirements, our location-based Scope 2 emissions were 21.1Mt of CO2-e, which is 8.2Mt of CO2-e higher than our market-based emissions. This difference is associated with our purchased of hydroelectric power at Mozambique Aluminium. Unless otherwise noted, all Scope 2 emissions reported are calculated using the market-based method. (3) The calculation of our Scope 3 emissions is in accordance with the methodologies in the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. 75 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Sustainability performance data continued Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by category Millions of tonnes of CO2-e FY20 FY19 Purchased goods and services 2.7 3.4 Capital goods 1.4 1.3 Fuel and energy-related activities 1.1 2.2 Upstream transportation and distribution 1.1 1.2 Processing of sold products 37.5 37.9 Use of sold products 65.3 69.6 Investments 0.8 0.8 Total 109.9 116.4 South32 currently uses Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Assessment Report 4 (AR4). The calculation of our Scope 3 emissions is in accordance with the methodologies in the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. ECONOMIC Economic contributions overview FY20 FY19 FY18 FY17 Total revenue (US$ million) 6,075 7,274 7,549 6,950 Underlying EBIT (US$ million) 446 1,440 1,774 1,648 Underlying earnings (US$ million) 193 992 1,327 1,146 Basic underlying earnings per share (US cents) 3.9 19.7 25.7 21.6 Profit/(loss) after tax (US$ million) (65) 389 1,332 1,231 Capital expenditure (US$ million) 676 652 430 316 Exploration expenditure (US$ million) 61 74 40 27 Wages, salaries and redundancies (US$ million) 864 969 1,008 858 Government and other royalties paid and payable (US$ million) 165 181 147 178 Community investment (US$ million) 24.5 17.3 20.4 14.3 Total corporate income tax paid (US$ million) 407 557 496 244 Total corporate income tax accrued on profit/loss (US$ million) 249 543 333 402 Community investment by country US$ million FY20 Australia 7.44 Colombia 3.76 Mozambique 1.73 South Africa 9.73 United States 1.84 Total 24.5 76 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Reporting framework indices TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES We support the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and have committed to the completion of business activities that will result in South32 quantifying its climate-related financial risk. Below we have mapped the recommendations against specific South32 references. TCFD focus area Recommended disclosure Reference location Governance South32 is required to disclose the organisation’s governance Our sustainability approach Governance and around climate-related risks and opportunities. integrity (page 10) Climate change Governance (page 36) Corporate Governance Statement Strategy South32 is required to disclose the actual and potential Annual Report Risk management (page 24) impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Climate change (pages 34 45) organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material. Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 Risk Management South32 is required to disclose how the organisation Climate change Governance Resilience and risk identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks. assessment (page 37) Annual Report Risk management (page 24) Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 Metrics and Targets South32 is required to disclose the metrics and targets used Climate change – Metrics and targets: to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and our performance (page 41) opportunities where such information is material. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS We uphold the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) relating to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. South32 joined the UNGC in August 2019, and this Sustainable Development Report serves as our first Communication on Progress, as we describe our progress in embedding these principles into South32’s strategies and operations. In our first year of reporting, we have mapped the principles against specific report sections or other standalone reports. We will continue to work towards improving our alignment against the UNGC Ten Principles and improving the description of our performance outcomes. UNGC aspect Principle Reference location Human rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and Our sustainability approach Governance and integrity (page 10) respect the protection of internationally Working with integrity Economic contribution (page 20); proclaimed human rights. Responsible value chain (page 21); Respecting human rights Principle 2. Make sure that they are not (page 22) complicit in human rights abuses. Our people Our people (page 27); Staying safe and well (page 31) Climate change (pages 34 45) Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship (page 47); Water (page 50) Working with communities (pages 55 62) Responsible operations Closure (page 68) Labour Principle 3. Business should uphold the Working with integrity Responsible value chain (page 21); freedom of association and the effective Respecting human rights (page 22) recognition of the right to collective Our people Our people (page 27) bargaining. Working with communities (pages 55 62) Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Modern Slavery Statement Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Business should support a Working with integrity Responsible value chain (page 21); precautionary approach to environmental Respecting human rights (page 22) challenges. Climate change (pages 34 45) Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship (page 47); greater environmental responsibility. Land and biodiversity (page 48); Water (page 50) Principle 9. Encourage the development and Working with communities (pages 55 62) diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Responsible operations Tailings (page 64); Closure (page 68) Anti-corruption Principle 10. Business should work against Our sustainability approach Governance and integrity (page 10) corruption in all its forms, including extortion Working with integrity Economic contribution (page 20); and bribery. Responsible value chain (page 21) Corporate Governance Statement 77 Sustainable Development Report 2020 GRI content index We have applied the reporting principles of GRI 101: Foundation 2016 standard in this report. GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Annual Report 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Annual Report – Operating and financial review (pages 1 – 23) 102-3 Location of headquarters Annual Report – Company directory (Inside back cover) 102-4 Location of operations Annual Report – South32 at a glance (page 2) Annual Report – Financial and operational performance summary (pages 102-5 Ownership and legal form 32 – 55) 102-6 Markets served Annual Report – Our business model (page 8) 102-7 Scale of the organisation South32 at a glance (page 4) Our people (page 27) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) 102-9 Supply chain Working with integrity (pages 19 25) Significant changes to the organisation and its supply 102-10 chain Annual Report – From the Chair and CEO (page 4) Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10); Risk 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach management (page 12) Our sustainability approach – Sustainability framework (page 13); 102-12 External initiatives Performance (page 16); Reporting (page 18) Our sustainability approach – Stakeholders and collaboration (page 14) Climate change – Collaboration, partnerships and industry associations (page 44) 102-13 Membership of associations South32 Industry associations and memberships Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Annual Report – From the Chair and CEO (page 4) From the CSO (page 2) 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Annual Report – Risk management (page 24); Directors’ report (page 60) Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10); Risk management (page 12); Sustainability framework (page 13) Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Corporate Governance Statement Code of Business Conduct and Speak Up Policy 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Governance Statement Our sustainability approach Governance and integrity (page 10) EthicsPoint reporting hotline Governance 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) 102-19 Delegating authority Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) environmental, and social topics Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Our sustainability approach – Stakeholders and collaboration (page 4) environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of highest governance body and its Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) performance 78 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Governance continued 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, Annual Report – Risk management (page 24) and social impacts Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10); Risk management (page 12); Sustainability framework (page 13); Materiality (page 15) Sustainability Policy 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual Report – Risk management (page 24) Risk and Audit Committee Risk Management Framework 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social Annual Report – Risk management (page 24); Directors’ report (page 60) topics Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10); Risk management (page 12); Sustainability framework (page 13); Materiality (page 15) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) reporting Sustainability Committee 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Annual Report – Risk management (page 24); Directors’ report (page 60) Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report – Remuneration report (page 66) Renumeration Committee 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual Report – Remuneration report (page 66) Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our sustainability approach – Stakeholders and collaboration (page 14) Appendices – Our stakeholders (page 69) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Our people – Employee relations (page 29) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our sustainability approach – Stakeholders and collaboration (page 14) Appendices – Our stakeholders (page 69) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our sustainability approach – Stakeholders and collaboration (page 14) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) Appendices – Our stakeholders (page 69) Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Annual Report – Financial report (page 88) statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 102-47 List of material topics Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 102-48 Restatements of information Any restatements are noted 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes have been made from the previous reporting period 102-50 Reporting period Financial year 01 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 102-51 Date of most recent report This report, 04 September 2020 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report South32ESG@South32.net 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Standards Core option 102-55 GRI content index This GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Annual Report – KPMG Independent Auditor’s Report (page 139) KPMG Independent Assurance Report (page 90) 79 Sustainable Development Report 2020 GRI content index continued Management approach to disclosures An overview of the process used to determine the South32 material issues* together with the reason why they have been deemed material to our business is provided in the ‘Materiality’ section on page 15. Further detail, including our approach to managing the underlying issues associated with these issues, is discussed in the relevant pages referenced within this section. Information on our current activities and actual performance is provided throughout this report, this GRI content index and in the FY20 Annual Report. More specific information, including publicly available copies of relevant information, can be found at www.south32.net where indicated for each GRI disclosure below. MATERIAL TOPICS Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Economic performance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Economic Annual Report – Financial report (page 88) contributions Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Financial report (page 88) Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) Sustainability performance data – Economic (page 76) 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Climate change (pages 34 45) opportunities of climate change 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report – Financial report (page 88) Market presence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Engaged workforce Our people (page 27) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our people (page 27) Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender South32 complies with local laws and regulations. We ensure our entry compared to local minimum wage level wages are equal to minimum wages according to the local regulations. Indirect economic impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Economic Annual Report – Progress against our strategy (page 12); Our contribution contributions and Community relationships, (page 20); Financial report (page 88) health, safety and development Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) Working with communities – Investing in our communities (page 56) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Sustainability performance data – Economic (page 76) 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Annual Report – Financial report (page 88) Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) Working with communities – Investing in our communities (page 56) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Working with communities – Investing in our communities (page 56) Procurement practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Working with integrity – Responsible value chain (page 21) integrity Working with communities – Transformation in South Africa (page 61) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working with integrity – Responsible value chain (page 21) Working with communities – Transformation in South Africa (page 61) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) *For the purpose of this report, South32 refers to material topics as ‘issues’. 80 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) integrity Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Corporate Governance Statement Code of Business Conduct and Speak Up Policy Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Corporate Governance Statement 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Corporate Governance Statement taken Anti-competitive behavior 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) integrity Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Corporate Governance Statement Code of Business Conduct and Speak Up Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Corporate Governance Statement 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) anti-trust, and monopoly practices Corporate Governance Statement Tax 207-1 Approach to tax Annual Report – Financial report (page 88) Working with integrity – Economic contribution (page 20) Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report 207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management The current Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report refers to information to 30 June 2019. The Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report 2020 will be published later in the year on www.south32.net. 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of The current Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report concerns related to tax refers to information to 30 June 2019. The Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report 2020 will be published later in the year on www.south32.net. 207-4 Country by country reporting The current Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report refers to information to 30 June 2019. The Tax Transparency and Payments to Governments Report 2020 will be published later in the year on www.south32.net. Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Climate change Climate change (pages 34 45) Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Climate change (pages 34 45) Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Climate change (pages 34 45) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate change (pages 34 45) 81 Sustainable Development Report 2020 GRI content index continued Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Water and effluents 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Water stewardship Annual Report – Risk management (page 24) Environmental stewardship – Water (page 50) Our Approach to Water Stewardship Report 2019 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Risk management (page 24) Environmental stewardship – Water (page 50) Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environmental stewardship – Water (page 50) Feature story: Illawarra a proud history with a sustainable future (page 52) Working with communities (pages 55 62) 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environmental stewardship – Water (page 50) Working with communities (pages 55 62) 303-3 Water withdrawal Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 303-5 Water consumption Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Biodiversity and land, Climate change (pages 34 45) Climate change Environmental stewardship – Land and biodiversity (page 48) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Climate change (pages 34 45) Environmental stewardship – Land and biodiversity (page 48) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside of protected areas 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental stewardship – Land and biodiversity (page 48) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Climate change Annual Report – Risk management (page 24) Climate change (page 34 45) Our Approach to Climate Change Report 2019 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate change (pages 34 -45) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate change (pages 34 -45) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate change (pages 34 -45) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) other significant air emissions 82 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Environmental compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) integrity, Operational environment Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Environmental stewardship (pages 4654) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Environmental stewardship (pages 46 -54) 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) regulations Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) In FY20, we had no environmental events that resulted in a major impact to the environment. We recorded no fines or prosecutions relating to environmental performance. Supplier environmental assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Working with integrity – Responsible value chain (page 21) integrity Sustainability and Business Conduct Supplier Requirements 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working with integrity – Responsible value chain (page 21) 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Working with integrity – Responsible value chain (page 21) environmental criteria Sustainability and Business Conduct Supplier Requirements 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Working with integrity – Responsible value chain (page 21) and actions taken Sustainability and Business Conduct Supplier Requirements Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Engaged workforce Our people (pages 26 33) Inclusion and Diversity Policy 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our people (pages 26 -33) Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) 401-3 Parental leave Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) Labor / management relations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Engaged workforce Our people – Employee relations (page 29) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our people – Employee relations (page 29) 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Our people – Employee relations (page 29) changes MM4 Strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s Nil. duration Our people – Employee relations (page 29) 83 Sustainable Development Report 2020 GRI content index continued Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Occupational health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Employee health and Our people – Staying safe and well (pages 31 33) safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) investigation 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) 403-6 Promotion of worker health Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) 403-10 Work-related ill health Our people – Staying safe and well (page 31) Sustainability performance data – People (page 71) Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Engaged workforce Our people – Capability and development (page 28) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our people – Capability and development (page 28) 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee As migration of our operations to the Learning Management System is in process, we are unable to report our training completion rates and average hours with confidence. We expect to be able to disclose training data in FY21. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular In line with our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FY20 annual performance and career development reviews performance review process did not take place as usual. While all our people continued to maintain regular performance conversations and check-ins, these were not recorded in our online performance management system, and we did not allocate individual performance outcomes. As such, we are not able to report a percentage of employees who completed online performance reviews this year, though we are confident regular performance discussions occur as a priority throughout our business. Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Engaged workforce Our people (pages 27 – 30) Inclusion and Diversity Policy Corporate Governance Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Sustainability performance data – People (pages 71 72) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Our people – Inclusion and diversity (page 27) Sustainability performance data – People (pages 71 72) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Annual Report – Remuneration report (page 66) men Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) integrity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) taken 84 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Freedom of association and collective bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Engaged workforce Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) Our people – Employee relations (page 29) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) Our people – Employee relations (page 29) 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Our people – Employee relations (page 29) freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Child labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) integrity Modern Slavery Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Nil. incidents of child labor Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) Modern Slavery Statement Security practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) integrity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies Nil. or procedures Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) Rights of Indigenous Peoples 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) integrity Working with integrity – Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Working with Indigenous Peoples (page 60) Corporate Governance Statement Conflicts Minerals Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Working with integrity – Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Working with Indigenous Peoples (page 60) Corporate Governance Statement 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Peoples Working with integrity – Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Working with Indigenous Peoples (page 60) Corporate Governance Statement MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or Working with communities – Working with Indigenous Peoples (page 60) adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities 85 Sustainable Development Report 2020 GRI content index continued Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Human rights assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Our sustainability approach – Responsible value chain (page 21); integrity, Human rights Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Listening to our communities (page 59) Modern Slavery Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Responsible value chain (page 21); Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Listening to our communities (page 59) Modern Slavery Statement 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 100 per cent. reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Our sustainability approach – Respecting human rights (page 22) procedures Local communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Community Annual Report – Our contribution (page 20) relationships, health, safety and development Working with communities (pages 55 62) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Our contribution (page 20) Working with communities (pages 55 62) Our sustainability approach – Performance (page 16) Sustainability performance data – People (page 71); Economic (page 76) 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 100 per cent. impact assessments, and development programs MM6 Significant disputes relating to land use, customary Nil rights of local communities and indigenous peoples MM7 Grievance mechanisms used to resolve disputes This relates to MM6. relating to land use, customary rights of local Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) communities and Indigenous peoples, and the outcomes Working with communities – Listening to our communities (page 59) Supplier social assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Responsible supply Our sustainability approach – Responsible value chain (page 21); chain Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Listening to our communities (page 59) Sustainability and Business Conduct Requirements 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Responsible value chain (page 21); Respecting human rights (page 22) Working with communities – Listening to our communities (page 59) 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Our sustainability approach – Responsible value chain (page 21) criteria Sustainability and Business Conduct Requirements Public policy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) integrity Code of Business Conduct and Speak Up Policy Corporate Governance Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – Governance (pages 56 87) Code of Business Conduct and Speak Up Policy Corporate Governance Statement 415-1 Political contributions Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) 86 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices Disclosure number Disclosure title Reference location or explanation Socioeconomic compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) integrity Working with communities – Transformation in South Africa (page 61) Corporate Governance Statement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our sustainability approach – Governance and integrity (page 10) Working with communities – Transformation in South Africa (page 61) Corporate Governance Statement 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Annual Report – Directors’ report (page 60) social and economic area Corporate Governance Statement Artisanal and small-scale mining MM8 Number (and percentage) of company operating Nil sites where artisanal and small-scale mining takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks Resettlement MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number In FY20, we completed settlement of one household within the South of households resettled in each, and how their Africa Energy Coal extension project. livelihoods were affected in the process Closure planning 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) 103-2 Management approach on Ethics and business Responsible operations – Closure (page 68) integrity, Working with communities, Operational environment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report – xx (page x) Feature story: Remediating decades of legacy mine waste (page 66) Responsible operations – Closure (page 68) MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure 100 per cent plans Other material topics 103-1, 103-2 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) Management approach and evaluation on Business Annual Report – From the Chair and CEO (page 4) continuity Feature story: Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic (page 25) 103-1, 103-2 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) Management approach and evaluation on Tailings Annual Report – Risk management (page 24) management Responsible operations – Tailings (page 64) Feature story: Remediating decades of legacy mine waste (page 66) Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) MM3 Overburden, rock, tailings and sludges and their Sustainability performance data – Environment (page 73) associated risks 103-1, 103-2 Explanation of the material topic and boundary Our sustainability approach – Materiality (page 15) Management approach and evaluation on Annual Report – Progress against our strategy (page 15) Technology and innovation 87 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Glossary Baseline water stress CO2-e Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The ratio of total annual water withdrawals Carbon dioxide equivalent. GRI is an international independent to total available annual renewable supply, organisation that has established an Community investment accounting for upstream consumptive use. international framework and standards Contributions made to support communities Higher values indicate more competition for sustainability reporting. South32 that we operate in, or have an interest in. among users. The values and definition of prepare our Group-level annual Sustainable Our contributions to community programs baseline water stress have been derived from Development Report in accordance with the comprise direct investment, in-kind support WRI Aqueduct (Working Paper) 2014. GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (Core and administrative costs. option) and the GRI Mining & Metals Sector Biodiversity COVID-19 Supplement. Refers to the variety of life on Earth – the Is an infectious coronavirus disease which Grade different animals, plants and microcauses respiratory illness. On 11 March 2020 organisms, their genes and the ecosystems of Any physical or chemical measurement of the the World Health Organization declared the which they are a part. characteristics of the material of interest in COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic affecting samples or product (JORC Code). B-BBEE many countries globally. Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment. Greenfield EBIT An exploration or development project Black People Earnings before interest and tax. located outside the area of influence of our Refers to Africans, Coloureds and Indians who EBITDA existing mine operations/infrastructure. are citizens of the Republic of South Africa by Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Group birth or descent (as more fully defined in the and amortisation. Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Refers to South32 Limited and its subsidiaries Amendment Act 2013 (South Africa)). Employee and joint arrangements. Board Any person in full-time, part-time or casual Injury employment engaged by South32 on a The Board of Directors of South32 Limited. An occupational injury occurs during a temporary or permanent basis pursuant to a single work shift or a single exposure to Brownfield contract of service. an agent(s) causing an acute toxic effect, An exploration or development project Energy coal which can be identified by time and place located within an existing mineral province, Used as a fuel source in electrical power resulting from direct contact with an object which can share infrastructure and generation, cement manufacture and various following an instantaneous event. Examples management with an existing operation. industrial applications. Energy coal may also include cut, puncture, laceration, abrasion, Carbon emissions be referred to as steaming or thermal coal. fracture, bruise, contusion, chipping tooth, For our reporting purposes, these are the amputation, insect bite, electrocution, or a Energy consumption thermal, chemical, electrical or radiation burn. aggregate carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) Energy consumption for activities where Sprain and strain injuries to muscles joints emissions of carbon dioxide (CO₂), methane we have operational control includes fuel connective tissue are classified as injuries (CH₄), nitrous oxide (N₂O), hydrofluorocarbons consumed in both stationary and transport when they result from a slip, trip, fall or other (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphur combustion. Where energy is consumed to similar accidents. hexafluoride (SF₆). generate a secondary energy stream (for We measure emissions according to the World example electricity generation or transfer Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Resources Institute/World Business Council of unprocessed natural gas to natural gas (IPCC) for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas ready for distribution), only the primary The IPCC is the international body for Protocol, which includes: energy consumption is reported. Excludes assessing the science related to climate – Scope 1 carbon emissions that are energy consumed but not combusted (such change. The IPCC was set up in 1988 by the direct carbon emissions from our own as lubricant and solvent use) and energy World Meteorological Organization (WMO) operations, including the electricity we embodied in waste streams (such as flared and United Nations Environment Program generate at our sites; gas). (UNEP) to provide policymakers with regular assessments of the scientific basis of climate – Scope 2 carbon emissions that are indirect ESG change, its impacts and future risks, and carbon emissions from the generation of Environmental, social and governance. options for adaptation and mitigation. purchased electricity; and Fatality International Council on Mining and Metals – Scope 3 carbon emissions that are A health or safety event where an injury or (ICMM) carbon emissions in our supply chain. occupational illness has caused the death of ICMM is an international organisation Catchment one or more person(s). dedicated to improving the social and The area of land from which all surface FYXX environmental performance of the mining runoff and subsurface water flows through Refers to the financial year ending 30 June and metals industry. As a corporate member, a sequence of streams, rivers, aquifers and 20XX, where XX is the two-digit number for South32 commit to implementing and lakes into the sea or another outlet at a single the year. reporting on the ICMM Mining Principles, river mouth, estuary, or delta. Catchments which define environmental, social and include associated groundwater areas and Greenhouse gas (GHG) governance requirements. South32 might include portions of waterbodies (such For our reporting purposes, these are the participates on the ICMM and various working as lakes or rivers). In different parts of the aggregate anthropogenic carbon dioxide groups. world, catchments are also referred to as equivalent (CO2-e) emissions of carbon dioxide (CO₂), methane (CH₄), nitrous oxide (N₂O), International Energy Agency (IEA) ‘watersheds’ or ‘basins’ (or sub-basins). hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons The IEA is a collaborative organisation of 30 Contractor (PFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF₆). These member countries. Its aims include energy Any organisation or individual (other than a are measured according to the World security and economic development. It South32 employee) who provides labour to Resources Institute/ World Business Council develops and publishes a range of reference South32 pursuant to a contract for service. for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas materials including the WEO and IEA Market Protocol. Reports. 88 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices International Financial Reporting Standards Operational Leadership Team Transformation (IFRS) The Operational Leadership Team includes A national strategy in South Africa aimed Accounting standards as issued by the IASB Managers and General Managers who report at attaining national unity, promoting (International Accounting Standards Board). to Vice President Operations or General reconciliation through negotiated settlement Managers at an operation. and non-racism. JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee comprising Paris Agreement Underlying earnings representatives of The Australasian Institute A global climate agreement that was agreed Underlying earnings is profit after tax of Mining and Metallurgy (AusIMM), Australian under the United Nations Framework and earnings adjustment items. Earnings Institute of Geoscientists (AIG) and Minerals Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at adjustments represent items that don’t Council of Australia (MCA) as well as the the 21st Conference of the Parties in Paris reflect our underlying operations. We believe Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), the (30 November to 12 December 2015). The that Underlying earnings provides useful Financial Services Institute of Australasia Paris Agreement sets in place a durable and information, but shouldn’t be considered as (FinSIA) and the accounting profession. dynamic framework for all countries to take an indication of, or an alternative to, profit or climate action from 2020, building on existing attributable profit as an indicator of operating JORC Code international efforts in the period up to 2020. performance. The Australasian Code for reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Recordable illnesses Underlying EBIT Ore Reserves 2012 Edition prepared by the The sum of work-related (fatalities + Underlying EBIT is profit before net finance JORC. permanent impairment >30 per cent of body + costs, tax and after any earnings adjustment lost time illnesses + restricted work illnesses + items, impacting profit. It’s reported inclusive Management roles medical treatment illnesses). of our share of net finance costs and tax of Management Roles are Leaders with equity accounted investments. It isn’t an IFRS an identified job grading based on the Recordable injuries measure of profitability, financial performance requirements of their role and salary rate of The sum of work-related (fatalities + or liquidity and may be defined and used 13 or higher. permanent impairment >30 per cent of body in differing ways by different entities. We + lost time injuries + restricted work injuries + Materiality believe that Underlying EBIT provides useful medical treatment injuries). Materiality is the threshold at which an issue information, but shouldn’t be considered as or topic becomes sufficiently important that Senior Leadership Team an indication of, or alternative to, profit or it should be reported. Beyond this threshold, The Senior Leadership Team includes Vice attributable profit as an indicator of operating not all material topics will be of equal Presidents, Group Managers and Project performance. importance and the emphasis should reflect Directors who report directly to the South32 Water scarcity the relative priority of these material topics Lead Team. In accordance with the CEO Water Mandate, and indicators. Significant environmental incidents Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines, Metallurgical coal Any environmental events with an impact September 2014, water scarcity refers to the A broader term than coking coal that includes where the potential severity level is 4 or volumetric abundance, or lack thereof, of all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal greater with a major impact/s <five years to freshwater resources. used for the pulverised coal injection process. land, biodiversity, ecosystem services, water Water stress resources or air. Musculoskeletal occupational illness In accordance with the CEO Water Mandate, Musculoskeletal disorders are injuries or Sustainable development 2014; water stress refers to the ability, or lack disorders of the muscles, nerves, tendons, Defined as supporting the needs of the thereof, to meet the human and ecological joints, cartilage, and supporting structures of present without compromising the ability demand for freshwater. Stress comprises the upper and lower limbs, and spine that of the future generations to meet their own three primary components: availability, are caused, precipitated or exacerbated by needs. quality, and accessibility and is based sudden exertion or prolonged exposure to on subjective elements and is assessed Tailings differently depending on societal values, such physical factors such as repetition, force, Those portions of washed or milled ore that as the suitability of water for drinking or the vibration, or awkward posture. are too poor to be treated further or remain requirements to be afforded to ecosystems. Occupational illness after the required metals and minerals have An occupational illness is any abnormal been extracted. World Resources Institute Aqueduct Tool condition or disorder, other than one A global water risk mapping tool that helps Total Recordable Injury Frequency (TRIF) companies, investors, governments and other resulting from an occupational injury, caused The sum of (recordable injuries x 1,000,000) users understand where and how water risks or aggravated by exposures to factors ÷ exposure hours. This is stated in units of and opportunities are emerging worldwide. associated with employment. It includes acute per million hours worked for employees and The tool uses a peer reviewed methodology or chronic illnesses or diseases which may be contractors. We adopt the United States and the best-available data to create maps of caused by inhalation, absorption, ingestion or Government Occupational Safety and Health water risk. direct contact. Administration (OSHA) guidelines for the Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL) recording and reporting of occupational The concentration of a substance or agent, injuries and illnesses. exposure to which, according to current Total Recordable Illness Frequency (TRILF) knowledge, should not cause adverse health The sum of (recordable illnesses x 1,000,000) effects nor cause undue discomfort to nearly ÷ exposure hours, for employees and all workers. contractors. This is stated in units of per Occupational Safety and Health million hours worked for employees and Administration (OSHA) contractors. We adopt the United States The OSHA of the United States Department Government Occupational Safety and Health of Labor. We adopt these guidelines for the Administration (OSHA) guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational recording and reporting of occupational injuries and illnesses to ensure that injuries and illnesses. classifications are applied uniformly across our workforce. 89 Sustainable Development Report 2020 Independent Assurance Report Conclusion a) Assured sustainability information – Limited assurance Based on the procedures performed, and evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material misstatements in the Assured Sustainability Information, as described below, which is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards), the International Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework and the basis of preparation as disclosed in the South32 Limited Annual Report (AR) and Sustainable Development Report (SDR) for the year ended 30 June 2020. b) GHG Emissions – Reasonable assurance In our opinion, South32 Limited’s reported Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions of 23.3 Mt CO2-e (Scope 1 and 2) for the year ended 30 June 2020 are prepared in accordance with the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI and WBCSD) GHG Protocol (market-based method) and the basis of preparation as disclosed in the AR and SDR. c) Water Inputs and Outputs – Reasonable assurance In our opinion, South32 Limited’s reported Water Inputs of 91,304 megalitres and Outputs of 67,774 megalitres are prepared in accordance with the Minerals Council of Australia’s Water Accounting Framework and the basis of preparation as disclosed in the AR and SDR. ASSURED SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION The Assured Sustainability Information comprised the following data and statements: – Sustainable Development Report (except for Climate Change Resilience and Risk Assessment and Collaboration, Partnerships and Industry Associations; People(1); and Feature Stories) available on South32 Limited’s (South32) website at https://www.south32.net/ investors-media/investor-centre/annual-reporting-suite; – The following sections in the Annual Report available on South32’s website at https://www.south32.net/investors-media/investorcentre/annual-reporting-suite: – “Working safely” – Emissions reduction against FY15 baseline and FY20 community investment disclosures in “Stable and predictable performance while minimising impact” – “Create enduring social, environmental and economic value” – “Making a difference now and for generations to come” CRITERIA USED AS THE BASIS OF REPORTING The criteria used as the basis of reporting includes the GRI Standards (Core level of disclosures), the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework published by the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the GHG Protocol published by the WRI and WBCSD, the Minerals Council of Australia’s Water Accounting Framework, and the basis of preparation disclosed in the AR and SDR, prepared by the Directors and Management of South32 (criteria). BASIS OF CONCLUSIONS We conducted our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and ISAE 3410 Assurance on Greenhouse Gas Statements (Standards). In gathering evidence for our conclusions our assurance procedures comprised: – interviews with senior management and relevant staff at corporate and 7 operating sites; – assessment of the suitability and application of the criteria in respect of the Assured Sustainability Information, GHG emissions and total Water Inputs and Outputs; – evaluation of the design and implementation of the key systems, processes and controls for collecting, managing and reporting the Assured Sustainability Information, and testing of certain controls for collecting, managing and reporting the GHG emissions and total Water Inputs and Outputs; – risk analysis, including print, online media and social media searches, to validate the completeness of South32’s own materiality assessment and to determine the scope of assurance testing at corporate and operating sites; – assessment of the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements set out in the Assured Sustainability Information; (1) Employee, safety and health overview within the Sustainability Performance Data has been assured. © 2020 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Document Classification: KPMG Confidential 90 South32 I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX. Appendices BASIS OF CONCLUSIONS CONTINUED – agreeing the Assured Sustainability Information to relevant underlying sources on a sample basis; – agreeing the GHG emissions and total Water Inputs and Outputs data to relevant underlying sources in accordance with the International Standard on Auditing ISA 530 Audit Sampling and Other Means of Testing; – an assessment that the indicators reported were in accordance with the GRI Standards Core level of disclosures and Subject Matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework. In accordance with the Standards we have: – used our professional judgement to plan and perform the engagement to obtain assurance that the Assured Sustainability Information, GHG emissions and total Water Inputs and Outputs are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; – considered relevant South32 internal controls when designing our assurance procedures, however we do not express a conclusion on the effectiveness of those internal controls; and – ensured that the engagement team possesses the appropriate knowledge, skills and professional competencies. HOW WE DEFINE LIMITED AND REASONABLE ASSURANCE The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that it will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements, including omissions, are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence relevant decisions of the Directors of South32. USE OF THIS ASSURANCE REPORT This report has been prepared for South32. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report, to any person other than South32, or for any other purpose than that for which it was prepared. South32’s responsibility Our responsibility South32 is responsible for: Our responsibility is to perform limited assurance in respect of the Assured Sustainability Information, including Subject Matters – determining that the criteria is appropriate to meet their needs; 1 to 4 of the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework and – preparing and presenting the Assured Sustainability Information, reasonable assurance in respect of GHG emissions and total Water GHG emissions and total Water Inputs and Outputs in Inputs and Outputs, and to issue an independent assurance report accordance with the criteria; that includes our conclusions. – determination of South32’s GRI Standards Core level of Our independence and quality control disclosures in accordance with the GRI Standards and guidelines; We have complied with the independence and other relevant ethical – establishing internal controls that enable the preparation and requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants presentation of the Assured Sustainability Information, GHG of the International Federation of Accountants, and the applicable emissions and total Water Inputs and Outputs that are free from requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control 1 to material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; maintain a comprehensive system of quality control. – ensuring the basis of preparation in accordance with which the Assured Sustainability Information has been determined and compiled is clearly and unambiguously set out in the AR and SDR; – telling us of any known and/or contentious issues relating to the information subject to assurance; and – maintaining integrity of the website. Adrian King KPMG Perth 3 September 2020 © 2020 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Document Classification: KPMG Confidential 91 Sustainable Development Report 2020 www.south32.net
