outland denim 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 July 2019 30 June 2020 Photo by Carin Garland Photography table of contents 4 A LETTER FROM THE FOUNDER 47 OUTLAND DENIM’S ETHICAL TRADING POLICY 6 WE ARE ABOUT 48 SOCIAL IMPACT 7 OUR IMPACT 49 MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT 7 OUR MISSION 50 INTRODUCING THE OUTLAND 8 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS DENIM MEDICAL CLINIC 10 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS 52 OUR FOUR PILLARS 12 OUR ORIGINS 53 OPPORTUNITY 14 AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS 54 LIVING WAGES 15 OUR POINT OF DIFFERENCE 54 CROSS-TRAINING 16 INTRODUCING THE MAEKA STANDARD™ 55 EDUCATION 18 OUR CULTURE 56 OUR PROGRAMS 19 OUR EMPLOYEES 60 STAFF STORIES 20 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 62 CAMBODIAN STAFF SURVEYS 22 OUR TECHNOLOGY 64 OUR INFLUENCE 24 WATER WISE 68 PARTNERSHIPS 25 LESS ENERGY 69 MEDIA AND EVENTS 26 ZERO HARMFUL CHEMICALS 70 OUR RESPONSE TO COVID-19 27 WASTE AND REPURPOSING 71 OUTLAND DENIM FIRST TIER 28 DYED RESPONSIBLY COVID-19 RESPONSE TIMELINE 29 CHARITY PARTNERSHIPS 72 SUPPORTING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 30 AMY FORMER DURING COVID-19 31 THE HARRIET BLACK 74 OUR PIVOT 32 DESIGN 76 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABLITY 36 RAW MATERIALS 77 OUR INVESTOR COMMUNITY 37 PRIMARY RAW MATERIALS 78 AT A GLANCE AND COMPONENTS 79 ACCOUNTABILITY 40 SUPPLIERS 82 STATEMENT OF CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT 40 TIER 1 MANUFACTURING 42 TIER 2 MATERIAL PRODUCTION 44 TIER 3 PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL PROCESSING denim 44 TIER 4 PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL EXTRACTION 44 TIER 5 PRIMARY RAW MATERIAL for freedom. FEEDSTOCK 46 TRACEABILITY SCORING 3 Photo by Carin Garland Photography a letter from our founder This benchmark sustainability report from at a time when many would have been tempted Outland Denim comes as a result of the tireless to hide dollar bills under their bed mattresses, efforts of our team to set a high standard of and also through the incredible increase in our our commitment: un sdgs performance for the fashion industry, within our own operations, and as individuals personally. online sales, which shows that you trust us to deliver as a brand. They are to be commended on the results. To our Stakeholders, While it might seem illogical to discuss sales Our Social and Environmental Impact and finance in a sustainability report, it’s my I am pleased to confirm that Outland Denim Manager, Leisl Lancaster, and our Marketing belief that economics can’t be separated from reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of Communications Coordinator, Athina Cantle, sustainability; that business needs to put its the United Nations Global Compact in the are deserving of particular recognition here money where its mouth is, and that’s what we areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment for the considerable work they have put into strive to do at Outland Denim. and Anti-Corruption. writing this report. The repercussions of COVID-19 for people Outland Denim seeks to pursue zero Though Outland Denim was born of a singular working across the fashion value chain have exploitation in every aspect of it’s business. desire to do something to eradicate human too often been devastating. Our ongoing trafficking, the company has always been commitment is to ensure that we represent and To be accountable to this mission we have about community; the sharing of skills; shared speak for the most vulnerable while making aligned as a signatory to the UN Global purpose and passion; and the desire to make continual improvements to our business to Compact Network’s Ten Principles. a positive impact on the world. It has been ensure equity for all. my job as CEO to ensure that our team has In this annual Communication on Progress, a channel to do their best work, and are This extends to our stewardship of natural we describe our actions to continually encouraged to make improvements where resources. We are acutely aware that the Photo by Annika Damon improve the integration of the Global they see fit. depletion of our shared natural capital has Compact and its principles into our business a disproportionate impact on vulnerable strategy, culture and daily operations. COVID-19 has posed particular challenges communities that have less capacity to cope We also commit to sharing this information for our brand and our company, as it has with the changes wrought by climate change with our stakeholders using our primary for the entire fashion industry, but what this and industry malpractice. channels of communication. time in history has shown me is that you cannot underestimate the desire of people Our first sustainability report represents a to contribute to positive change despite welcome chance to stop and reset a new their circumstances; that, in fact, if given the agenda for our company and our brand going impetus, people want to actively make good forward. I hope you enjoy the read, and, as from a bad situation. always, we welcome your feedback. This was proved to us through the timing of james bartle our Equity Crowd Funding Campaign, which Founding CEO raised AUD$1.32 million from small investors 4 5 ENV AL IRO CI N S O AL NT ME SE URPO PRO P DUC T ECONOMIC we are about Photo by Amy Higg Photography + social, environmental and economic justice; our mission to set the highest standard of social, environmental and + creating opportunities for people in need; economic sustainability within the fashion industry by way of our product, policies, practices and partnerships to foster a future that + taking responsibility for environmental impact; is exploitation free and promotes freedom, justice and equity. + actively working toward the elimination of slavery; #zeroexploitation Outland Denim seeks to pursue “zero exploitation” in every aspect of its business to assure customers that their jeans are untainted by slavery, poor labour + forging pathways toward regenerative and standards or environmentally harmful materials and techniques. circular fashion; #madeonpurpose Each one of our garments is made with the intention to fulfil our social and + amplifying the voices of the vulnerable; environmental commitment to create positive change. #thepeoplesbrand + challenging the fashion industry status quo. We are a humanitarian brand led by a social mission to correct injustice with the desire to positively impact all our stakeholders, from customers to investors, staff and our suppliers, to media and the fashion industry at large. 6 7 2020 sustainability highlights Moving to 100% 85% of formerly at-risk Announcement of Maeka, Up to 86% less water, 93% natural raw materials leather-free designs. Cambodian staff at reduced a chance to further our impact 57% less energy, and used in the past 12 months. exploitation risk level after within the fashion industry by 83% less chemicals used 6 months of employment at manufacturing for other brands. in our Wash and Outland Denim. Finishing facility. 250kg of biodegradable Launch of Outland Denim 94% direct supply chain Launch of the most 750 people, including staff cassava bags replaced plastic onsite Health Clinic & traceability that has also sustainable vintage-wash and household members, poly bags for international Education Centre. met strict social and denim on the market. impacted by stable employment transport of garments. environmental criteria. at Outland Denim. 8 9 sustainability goals you’ll notice the icons below throughout this report in reference to our social, environmental, and economic goals. good A goal that we commit to achieve in the next 12 months. better A goal we hope to achieve in the next 2 years should resource allow. best An overarching, long-term goal that we strive to achieve in 5 years. Indicates an innovation or research project currently in progress in partnership with a government body, university, or institution. 10 11 Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow our origins in 2008 outland denim founder james bartle went to the cinema with his wife to see taken , a fictional film inspired by the very real usd$150 billion illicit trade of human beings. it was his first introduction to the world of human trafficking and he was driven to learn more. James later had the opportunity to travel to The formative manufacturing process adopted Asia with an anti-trafficking group and saw by Outland Denim would allow these young first hand what it was like on the ground, and women to operate from home, in their how human traffickers prey on vulnerable respective remote villages, with pedal press young girls. sewing machines and hot-coal irons. James learnt that once a girl has been rescued Nearly a decade later, Outland Denim operates and integrated into her family or community, a two centralised, stand-alone, sustainable sustainable career path is vital for securing her production and wash facilities in Cambodia, future. Outland Denim was designed to create and we have opened our doors to welcome that sustainable career path. staff from varying backgrounds of vulnerability. With them, we have been able to create a It was from here that the foundations for product of a premium standard worn and loved Outland Denim were laid as an avenue for by people the world over. training, employment and career progression for women who have experienced, or are at Today we are proud to have cultivated a risk of experiencing, sex trafficking. unique business model that proves that the fashion industry can be the solution to some We first welcomed a small group of five of the world’s most pressing social and aspiring seamstresses who had been environmental issues. recommended to us by a non-government organisation (NGO) with frontline operations This Sustainability Report represents our in Cambodia. These women needed work best efforts to continue to do the hard work in a safe space owing to their experiences required of the world’s foremost humanitarian of exploitation. and truly sustainable denim brand. 12 13 Photo by @samjamphoto_ Photo by Carin Garland Photography Still by Jeremiah Overman awards and certifications our point of difference Our garments are made in our very own production and finishing facilities, which allows us a degree of operational agility, security and traceability above those brands who outsource their manufacturing. The ownership of our “first tier” manufacturing operations in Cambodia, in addition to our head office in Australia, also puts Outland Denim in a unique place to manage its environmental, social, cultural and economic impact. This vertical integration gives us greater control over our product, our supply chain stewardship, our brand image and ultimately our impact. • The first Australian denim brand to become a B Corporation and second globally • Thomson Reuters Foundation Stop Slavery Award Winner SME 2020 cut’n sew facility finishing facility head office • Rated A+ on the Baptist World Aid Ethical Fashion Report 2018 and 2019 Kampong Cham, Cambodia Phnom Penh, Cambodia Queensland, Australia • Listed as Rivet 50 member 2019 • Members of the UN Global Compact Initiative • Associate Partner of the Global Fashion Agenda, 2019 In 2019 we expanded our Cut Our first Wash and Finishing While Outland Denim wearers • MR Magazine Sustainability Leader Award 2019 and Sew facility into a new, facility opened in 2019, reside in locations from • One of the first brands to earn the Eco-Age brandmark 1297m 2 space. Currently 73 equipped with state-of-the-art Tokyo to Los Angeles and • Rated “great” on the Good On You app staff work in this beautiful water and energy reducing everywhere in between, • Named one of 10 Sustainable Fashion Leaders by Common Objective, 2019 • Recipient of 2019 Anti-Slavery Australia Freedom Award new facility, cutting, sewing technology. This is where the Gold Coast Hinterland • B Lab 2019 Best for the World Honoree in the area of Community and fastening hardware to designs come to life and remains the home base of our • 2019 Global SDG Award winner (No Poverty, and Decent Work and Economic Growth categories) your Outland Denim jeans. finishing touches are made. global operations. 14 15 introducing the maeka standard ™ through almost 10 years of research, implementation and refinement, we have worked to develop the highest standard of social and environmental sustainability in our production. The Maeka Standard™ certification represents the high expectation of sustainability that we expect from ourselves as a manufacturer and as a brand. It encompases the policy, results and goals that you will read in this report. We look forward to offering the confidence assured by the Maeka Standard™ to other brands as we begin our foray into ethical and sustainable manufacturing in earnest. In producing garments for other labels, we aim to alleviate unnecessary doubling up of intellectual capital and infrastructure with their associated costs while making the segue into sustainable manufacturing a more streamlined process for brands desiring to make this transition. When you see the Maeka Standard™ stamp on the a garment, you can have confidence that your clothes were made in the best way possible new for you, the planet, and for humanity. standard Photo by Karen Walker in The Goldie jacket and Sage jean from the Outland Denim x Karen Walker collection. Karen Walker is the first to begin working with MAEKA, with product already fashion. in development. 16 17 Photo by Amy Higg Photography 102 TOTAL UK PERMANENT 1 EMPLOYEES LONDON CAMBODIA 73 LEADERSHIP TEAM KAMPONG CHAM 12 PHNOM PENH 79% 21% our FEMALE MALE PERMANENT EMPLOYEES culture AUSTRALIA Photo by Sophie Baker Photography 13 QUEENSLAND 1 NEW SOUTH WALES 81% 19% 2 FEMALE MALE VICTORIA unpaid internship and unpaid internship and volunteer work policy is Integrity Honesty Honour volunteer work policy guided by the advice and requirements of the Fair Work Ombudsman, Queensland. Outland Denim is privileged to attract and welcome a small group of internship and workplace flexibility volunteer team members each year. We are grateful for the opportunity to provide We support a healthy work-life balance and a glimpse into the world of sustainable encourage flexible, autonomous working Generosity Excellence fashion for young people who are interested arrangements with our Administrative and in pursuing a career in the field, while Managerial staff to suit their lifestyle, family, contributing to the unique Outland Denim story. and location. Driven by an ethos of Zero Exploitation, our 18 19 environmental sustainability denim is a major contributor to environmental degradation. “currently, five billion pairs of jeans are cleaning up the dirty side of denim. produced every year. to produce these, about 420 million m 3 of water and 900,000 tons of chemicals Our aim is to use our brand to revolutionise While we still have a way to go, our aim are used and over 2 million people are exposed to the way jean manufacturing is undertaken; is to create a manufacturing eco-system techniques that are detrimental to their health.” 1 to partner with and lead our industry to and product lifecycle that turns our current reduce our collective environmental impact; environmental impact into one that leaves the carmen silla and to use Outland Denim as a case study in planet in a better place. Director of Marketing and Communication at Jeanologia reducing and, in time, eradicating the negative environmental impact of the fashion industry. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), We are researching and developing projects there are links between the exploitation of with partners globally to break ground people, and ‘ecocide’ (i.e. the “destruction on reducing the environmental impact of of the natural environment, especially when manufacturing and consumption. deliberate”). Climate change acts to exacerbate inequalities, insofar as vulnerabilities to Our own facilities use new technology to climate change coupled with global economic substantially reduce water, energy, and forces are more likely to send people into chemical consumption and outputs. Our strict poverty. In this way, sustainability is more than supply chain criteria ensures each of our raw just environmental. Sustainability is social, material suppliers shares in our values and environmental, and economic. demonstrates leadership in sustainability. Photo by Amy Higg Photography 1. fashionunited.uk/news/fashion/jeanologia-on-how-to-make-the-denim-industry-more-sustainable/2017102726481 20 21 made with e-flow the leading technique for transferring wash recipes to our jeans. our technology 95% less 40% less 90% less our production style, combined with state-of-the-art water* energy* chemicals* finishing techniques, results in premium, finished products with less environmental impact. *compared to traditional techniques. made with laser the most environmentally friendly way to create character on our jeans. Photo by Amy Lawrence Our state-of-the-art Wash and Finishing Facility is already using market-leading made with ozone water, power and chemical reducing methods in the processing of our jeans, but we continue to invest into and develop processes to further improve our the greenest oxidising agent available. environmental bottom line. 65% less 20% less 80% less water* energy* chemicals* *compared to traditional techniques. 22 23 less energy water wise made with The fashion industry is responsible for made with up to 86% 10% of the world’s carbon emissions 3 and up to 57% approximately 8% of global greenhouse gas The fashion industry is the second largest consumer of the world’s water supply. 2 less water emissions are generated by the apparel and less energy footwear industries. 4 in the Wash and Finishing in the Wash and Finishing But in using Laser, Ozone, and E-Flow process when compared to process when compared to technology, we are able to create denim Using Laser, Ozone, and E-Flow technology, conventional methods. conventional methods. garments with significantly less water than we are able to create denim garments conventional methods. with significantly less energy usage than Our highest impact Our lowest impact Our highest impact Our lowest impact denim wash uses denim wash requires conventional methods. As of 2019, we denim wash uses denim wash requires Depending on the requirements of each have also integrated solar energy into our 58.7% 86.11% 35% 35% design, each denim wash will require a less less Production facilities. less less different level of water use. Our design and water* water* energy* energy* textile experts work together to bring designs Depending on the requirements of each to life with less reliance on water use. *during the wash and finishing process. design, each denim wash will need a different *during the wash and finishing process. level of energy use. Our design and textile experts work together to bring designs to life with less reliance on energy. • Develop on-going water management program for Finishing Facility; • Increase use of solar energy in Cambodian Production Facility; • Provide water and safe sanitation education to Outland Denim staff and surrounding communities. • Conduct a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) measuring the impact of Outland Denim’s Carbon Footprint. • 100% recycled water to be used in Wash and Finishing Facility. Implement a closed loop water • Increase use of clean energy in all manufacturing facilities; filtration system; • Track the environmental impact of every garment through the Wash and Finishing process by • Track the environmental impact of every garment through the Wash and Finishing process by using 3 rd party Environmental Impact Management scores; using 3 rd party Environmental Impact Management scores; • Create a product that is 100% carbon neutral; • Be subject to a case-study evaluating the effects of water recycling on water and plastic • All domestic and international logistics to be carbon neutral. pollution in the garment sector. • Become carbon + ; • Remove 100% of irrigated cotton in the production of our garments; • Achieve Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions by 2030; • Investment in this area will help achieve the Royal Government of Cambodia National Action Plan • All Outland Denim washes to measure in the ‘Low Impact’ category by using 3 rd party goal of ensuring every Cambodian has access to water, sanitation and hygiene by 2025. Environmental Impact Management scores. 2. www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/A-New-Textiles-Economy_Full-Report_Updated_1-12-17.pdf 3. www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/assets/downloads/A-New-Textiles-Economy_Full-Report_Updated_1-12-17.pdf 4. www.businessoffashion.com/articles/professional/responsible-fashion-business-sustainability-planet-future 24 25 zero harmful chemicals waste and repurposing Every Outland Denim garment is made with 100% of excess textile waste from outland denim’s production Zero Harmful Chemicals; better for you, the facility is directed towards textile recycling research, environment, and our team. made with not-for-profit social enterprises and ngos for training and awareness projects. The use of harmful substances in textile production has negative effects on farmers, up to 83% factory workers, and the surrounding less chemicals Waste is a key issue facing the globe right • 250kg of biodegradable cassava bags replaced environment. now. With growing populations, increased plastic poly bags in international transport; in the Wash and Finishing consumption and unsustainable resources, • Use of 35% recycled polyester in pocket linings; Using Laser, Ozone, and E-Flow technology, process when compared to the issue of waste needs to be addressed. • Over 93% of range uses natural raw materials. we are able to create denim garments conventional methods. with significantly less chemical usage than Over 70% of clothing textiles end up in landfill Outland Denim prioritises partnering with Our highest impact Our lowest impact or incinerated. (Ellen MacArthur Foundation) suppliers who have water and waste management conventional methods. denim wash uses denim wash requires processes in place. Currently, 80% of Outland Depending on the requirements of each design, 44% 68% With an overabundance of textile waste Denim’s second tier direct suppliers implement less less waste management systems. each denim wash will require a different level chemicals* chemicals* being generated by the industry, textile of chemical use. Our design and textile experts manufacturing has a lot to answer for. Finding work together to bring designs to life with *during the wash and finishing process. sustainable solutions to textile recycling will less reliance on chemicals over any kind, even allow for a greater utilization of raw material Outland Denim is currently those that are safe. energy inputs, while reducing secondary researching waste management systems that will go beyond pollution and landfill masses. safely removing waste from We exclusively use chemicals that meet at • Green-screen landfill to have a positive least one of the certifications to the right, • Bluesign In the last 12 months: environmental impact for the while following a strict adherence to the • Standard 100 by OEKO-TEX ® • 120 reusable water bottles were provided to broader community. ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substance staff to replace plastic bottles; List (MRSL). • Finalise environmental testing and continue diverting Outland Denim textile waste to research and • All material suppliers to hold Standard 100 by OEKO-TEX ® certification; development programs; • Proceed testing chemicals through the ZDHC Manufacturing Restricted Substance List gateway. • 100% of direct suppliers waste management systems signoff. • Track the environmental impact of every garment through the Wash and Finishing process by • 100% of all post-industrial waste materials to be diverted from entering landfill within two years. using 3 rd party Environmental Impact Management scores; • Prioritise use of Bluesign certified chemicals. • Find a solution to textile waste in landfill, that can be utilised by Outland Denim as well as other brands; • Create carbon offsets as a by-product of products sold; • Research new sustainable and safe chemical options to get all Outland Denim wash and finishing • Create waste management system that leaves planet and people in a better position; processes to measure in the ‘Low Impact’ category using 3 rd party Environmental Impact • Establish plastic free facilities; Management scores. • Implement post-consumer recycling or second-hand program. 26 27 dyed responsibly we prioritise the use of natural indigo dyes derived from a plant species called indigofera. Use of natural vegetable dyes means that Where vegetable dyes are not available, we charity partnerships workers are not exposed to toxic chemicals ensure any dyes are certified organic or have and the likelihood or severity of water been tested for harmful chemicals. pollution is reduced, leading to an overall in the last 12 months, increase in the sustainability of our jeans. outland denim has donated It is thought that 20% of industrial water pollution globally is attributable to the dyeing We are collaborating with $244,000 worth of product research partners and and treatment of textiles. 5 industry leaders to further to thread together to deliver new, good quality minimise our water, chemical denim to people in the australian community Where available, we use “Saveblue” dyes, and power usage at the which have been found by Cukurova University mill level. This includes the who are doing it tough. to save 87.5% of water in the dyeing process dyeing and processing of denim. Our desire is to see compared to conventional methods. further reduced impact that is scalable, technology driven The use of toxic synthetic indigo dye poses and available to other brands. a major threat to environmental and human health in and near manufacturing facilities. Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow • Continue research program into black dye alternatives that use organic or plant-based dyes; • Continue partnership with Thread Together to support local community members with dignified • Increase use of water-saving, “Saveblue” dyes in range. new garment choices. • Implement findings of research program into black dye alternatives that use organic or plant• Establish similar partnership programs in each of Outland Denim’s major regions of based dyes into 100% of Outland Denim’s black denim range. distribution, including the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada. • Collaborate across the fashion industry to make research into black dye alternatives available and • Partner with Thread Together and other charity partners to mobilise Outland Denim employees to usable for other brands manufacturing denim. support the delivery of jeans to clients. 5. www.wri.org/blog/2017/07/apparel-industrys-environmental-impact-6-graphics 28 29 amy former the harriet black the world’s most sustainable vintage-wash denim on the market our best seller This year we introduced the Amy Former jean, the most sustainable vintage-wash denim jean on The much loved Harriet Black jean is our best selling style. It is also one of our lowest impact the market today. A combination of natural fibres including organic cotton, recycled cotton, and jeans environmentally, in the finishing process. lyocell makes up Amy’s rigid denim. The fabric’s open-style weave results in a beautiful, rich colour contrast, and allows our wash recipe to react to the fabric faster, and a short wash process means When it comes to our classic black denim jeans, less is more. We barely touch our black denim less environmental impact. Made up of all-natural fibres (without polyester and elastane), choosing jeans making this wash low impact and better for the environment. the Amy jean will ensure significantly less micro-plastics are released into our waterways when laundered. in the wash and finishing process we utilised: in the wash and finishing process we utilised: *than *than conventional conventional 67% 46% 83% 77% vintage-wash 58% 70% 50% black denim less water* less energy* less chemicals* less worker jeans. less water* less chemicals* less worker jeans. impact* impact* Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow Photo by Carin Garland Photography 30 31 design Photo by Carin Garland Photography “sustainability is a key lens for our design team. from raw materials to our classical approach to design, we aim to produce the most sustainable garments we can. as we are constantly researching new technologies, our standards are also evolving and improving. we strive to remain agile and open to embracing new and better methods, to ensure that our products are being elevated to the highest levels of sustainability and design.” matt traynor Brand Manager 32 33 Photo by Carin Garland Photography design our design lens starts with sustainability. For us, this means we are looking at the full lifecycle of our products, from our raw materials to our production and handling, and deciding what will make a well-rounded impact across our key sustainability measurement points: social, environmental and economic. We are committed to producing in a way that minimizes our negative impact on power usage, water consumption and chemical usage while maximising our potential to make a positive impact through the world’s most progressive social empowerment agenda for a fashion brand. transitioning from two full seasonal collections per year to six small, capsule collections per year. In the next 12 months, instead of seasonal collections, we will produce bi-monthly capsule collections and expand into new garment categories. These products will be available directly to the consumer as well as to Outland Denim’s wholesale clients. The shift will support retailers by offering a shorter lead time from design to delivery, minimise the risks associated with long lead forecasting, minimise dead stock and overstock (inventory that does not sell or cannot be sold), and offer newness to consumers with a considered approach. 34 35 Photo by Carin Garland Photography raw primary raw materials and components materials organic cotton Outland Denim has selected certified organic Our conclusion took into account the significantly cotton as its primary fibre in the production of its superior performance of organic cotton in regard to products. 100% of the denim we choose to work its economic and environmental aspects, as well as with contains organic or recycled cotton. its promising social impact. over 93% natural raw materials We came to our decision to use organic cotton The selection of organic cotton means zero use of after utilising external researchers to generate agrochemicals. Long term use of agrochemicals can unbiased assessments of the impacts for various dramatically reduce soil health and severely affect cotton alternatives. workers’ health. material consumption by weight: Our multi-criteria analysis (MCA) was undertaken Elimination of chemicals and GMOs in organic when we were first sourcing our preferred agriculture benefits the health and safety of denim supplier. The MCA looked into BT-cotton, farmers and communities, contributing to the UN natural organic and Fairtrade. It assessed how well Sustainable Development Goals of Good Health each alternative fulfils the various objectives of and Well-being (SDG3), Clean Water and Sanitation Outland Denim. (SDG6), Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG8), Sustainable Cities and Communities (SDG11), The criteria researched for each cotton Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG12), 93.1% 0.19% 0.15% 0.2% 0.02% 0.004% alternative included: Climate Action (SDG13), and Life on Land (SDG15). Organic Recycled Better Cotton Lyocell Leather Jacron • Water Pollution Cotton Cotton Initiative Cotton Paper • Water Use To understand the full environmental and social • Soil Quality impact of Outland Denim’s organic cotton, and how • Physical Health it contributes to the SDGs, we are working hard synthetic hardware • Mental Health to derive more first-hand knowledge at the farm • Gender Equality level. This includes understanding the farmers’ • Community Benefits knowledge, capacity, competence, access to • Income to farmers resources, working capital, levels of innovation and • Costs to Outland Denim other supports. 1.87% 1.75% 1.61% 0.96% Virgin Elastane Recycled Metalware After considering the final scores in combination We will continue researching and learning to Polyester Polyester with all of Outland Denim’s objectives, it was broaden our understanding as new and more decided that out of the alternatives assessed, sustainable solutions become available. Sustainability starts with thoughtful design and the considered selection of the most sustainable raw organic cotton was the most suitable for materials possible. We aim to minimise impact on the environment by sourcing the most sustainable materials Outland Denim. available on the market today, while investing in research to discover even better materials for tomorrow. At Outland Denim, we prioritise the use of natural fibres or biodegradable materials that have low-impact production methods. While we have not been able to eliminate the use of virgin polyester completely from our manufacturing owing to a number of factors, we are currently investigating polyester alternatives. Polyester production for textiles released about 706 billion kg (1.5 trillion pounds) of greenhouse gases in 2015, the equivalent of 185 coal-fired power plants' annual emissions. 6 According to McKinsey & Company, 20-35% of all microplastic flows into the ocean are attributed by fashion. 6. wri.org/blog/2017/07/apparel-industrys-environmental-impact-6-graphics 36 37 Photo by Sabine Bannard Still by Annika Damon Photo by @samjamphoto_ metalware jacron paper thread Outland Denim aims to further reduce its Of the brand patches used by Outland Denim in the Outland Denim has begun changing its thread over performance in our denim is a crucial part environmental footprint through increasing its past 12 months, 19.81% were made of jacron paper, from a core spun poly cotton thread to EcoVerde, of sustainability. In other components of our use of buttons, burrs and rivets crafted with which we had been researching and trialing prior to a 100% recycled premium polyester core spun products such as our pocket bags, we are utilising a more sustainable colours and finishing processes. inclusion in our production. Animal rights are thread. Waste plastic is collected from various recycled polyester which helps add to the strength Outland Denim has begun using a range of something close to the heart of many Outland Denim industrial and post-consumer sources. Used plastic and durability through our laundering process and sustainable metal colours made without any customers, so we wanted to be able to cater to their (PET) bottles are a significant proportion. These onwards into the products life cycle. electroplating processes. By eliminating the values while choosing a supplier that could also live are collected, sorted, cleaned, ground into flakes electroplating process, the sustainable metal up to our high expectations when it comes to quality. and then melted down and extruded into the fibre Polyester is a component of our raw materials colours use less water and less chemical and filaments from which EcoVerde sewing threads that we will continue to reduce our reliance on substances as well as saving electricity usage Made from raw cellulose, jacron offers excellent are made. Because it consists entirely of recycled as adequate and more sustainable alternatives and thermal energy. No harmful substances are dimensional stability. Frameless Asia, our suppliers plastic fibres, EcoVerde has a significantly lower become accessible. We are actively looking for used due to removing any galvanic process during of jacron paper patches, utilize the HIGG index to carbon footprint than virgin fibres. and researching with mills for solutions in this production. The sustainable metal colours provide measure their sustainability practices and have space. Though polyester is utilised to strengthen a solution that will confidently minimize Outland implemented water recycling and waste reduction fabrics, and therefore, increases the life of the Denim’s environmental footprint. initiatives within its facilities. As a Bluesign system virgin and recycled polyester garment, it has negative environmental impacts partner they are required to meet a high level of (such as releasing microplastics as well as it’s end Outland Denim has begun introducing Natulon safety for both people and the environment, to At Outland Denim, we have chosen to utilise of lifecycle lack of degradability). We are actively Zip Tape into its products, as it is made from use resources responsibility and to continuously both recycled and virgin polyester in our garments. looking for a solution that will allow our products recycled materials, such as PET bottles and other improve their environmental performance. Their Currently we believe that virgin polyester performs to both perform to the highest standards while also post-consumer materials using the latest material jacron patches are OEKO-TEX ® Standard 100 to a higher standard and also slows the release avoiding a negative environmental impact. recycling technologies. certified to ensure they are tested for harmful of microplastics into waterways, as opposed to substances. Frameless Asia employees enjoy recycled polyester. Creating longevity and high a fair wage. leather Packer Leather is a fifth-generation, family owned leather producer in Queensland, Australia. The Queensland Government has awarded Packer We are currently working with for their clean processes and environmental denim mills deeply invested in • Make 100% of the Outland Denim range leather-free; stewardship. Packer Leather received Gold, the the development of fabrics that • Further use of natural cellulose fibres and therefore reduced use of polyester; highest rating available, by the Leather Working can replace the plastic content • Expanding range and products for increased employment opportunities and job creation; Group for their sustainable environmental business (i.e. polyester) in denim with • Test durability by way of laundry test. practises. Adhering to European restricted bio-available solutions. Currently, substance lists, recycling 40% of water used, these eco-friendly fabrics are at • Decrease environmental impact of using stretch fabrics while maintaining and improving utilising solar and significantly reducing the a development stage that require product durability; consumption of natural gas and release of CO 2, significant improvement in order • Expand product repair opportunities; Packer were the natural choice for Outland to prove high performance and a • Change the interlining of jean waistbands to an option crafted using recycled polyester fibres. Denim patches. long life-cycle. • Remove the environmental impact of using stretch fabrics in the post-consumer phase. 38 39 CHINA suppliers TURKEY VIETNAM CAMBODIA TIER 3 TIER 4 TIER 5 TIER 1 TIER 2 PRIMARY RAW PRIMARY RAW PRIMARY RAW MANUFACTURING MATERIAL MATERIAL MATERIAL MATERIAL PRODUCTION PROCESSING EXTRACTION FEEDSTOCK Outland Denim’s supply chain tiers have been assessed based on Traceability Scoring criteria. Outland Denim requires each supplier, in each tier of the supply chain to meet or exceed a minimum of 75% of the criteria, to be considered ‘Traceable’. Please see Traceability Scoring for more information, page 46. AUSTRALIA tier 1: manufacturing 100% achieved traceability* Outland Denim Cut and Outland Denim Wash and Sew Facility Finishing Facility LOCATION: CAMBODIA LOCATION: CAMBODIA * % of the supply chain tier that has met or exceeded the minimum requirement in order to be defined as Traceable. 40 41 tier 2: material production 100% achieved traceability* buttons and rivets zippers Sourced from: Timay and Tempo Sourced from: YKK LOCATION: Turkey LOCATION: Vietnam • Zero Harmful Chemicals • Part of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals • Standard 100 by OEKO-TEX® certified Initiative (ZDHC) • Zero harmful chemicals denim • Holistic support for workers Sourced from: Bossa Denim LOCATION: Turkey labels CHINA • Leaders in sustainability Sourced from: QLM Labels • Zero harmful chemicals LOCATION: Cambodia • Organic cotton • ISO9001:2015 Quality Management System certification • Water wise • Local Cambodian supplier • Prioritises the well-being and up-skilling of staff jacron patch Sourced from: Frameless Asia Sourced from: CJ Labels LOCATION: China LOCATION: Cambodia • Vegan • Use environmentally friendly water-based inks on labels • Water/waste recycling and reduction • Transparent in raw materials TURKEY VIETNAM initiatives • Standard 100 by OEKO-TEX® certified • Fair wages for employees • Forest Stewardship Council members • Bluesign systems partner packaging suppliers minor suppliers leather brand patch CAMBODIA Sourced from: Packer Leather tote bags LOCATION: Australia Sourced from: Fabric Offcuts • Australian Business LOCATION: Cambodia • Award winning environmental practices • Made by our entry-level seamstresses • Vegetable tanned • Crafted from locally sourced remnant fabric pocket lining customer packaging Sourced from: Beijing Kailong Yisheng Textile Sourced from: Austcor | PrintTogether | NovaPress LOCATION: China LOCATION: Australia • 35% recycled materials • Designed for re-use in the event of return or exchange • 100% wastewater recovered • Compostable and recyclable • Renewable energy • Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Cotton transit packaging bags Sourced from: Cleanbodia thread LOCATION: Cambodia Sourced from: Coats • Cassava root starch AUSTRALIA LOCATION: Vietnam • Bioplastic certified • ZDHC Initiative • EN 13432 biodegradable bags • ISO 14001 ‘Environmental Management • Made from biologically renewable sources Systems’ certified • Zero harmful chemicals transit packaging boxes • Fair wages for employees Sourced from: ES Packaging • Plastic and water recycling processes LOCATION: Cambodia • Community driven approach • Closed-loop recycling system • Forest Stewardship Council certified • Raw Materials chemicals all tested * % of the supply chain tier that has met or exceeded the minimum requirement in order to be defined as Traceable. 42 43 r aw m a tier 3: primary raw material processing ry 100% achieved traceability* te a pri m organic cotton agency & processing rial or on cotton agency #1 cotton gin and baling plant #1 t n i c c ot ga Agrona Sökpam Pamuklu San Tic Ltd Şt LOCATION: Turkey LOCATION: Turkey • Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) certified • Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) certified • 100% disclosure of organic cotton farm locations cotton gin & baling plant #2 cotton agency #2 Ertemur Tarim CHINA Akasya LOCATION: Turkey LOCATION: Turkey • Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) certified • Global Organic Textile Standard certified • 3 x independent auditors Control Union (Organic EU), ISO 9001 and Joint Health and Safety Unit tier 4: primary raw material extraction 60% achieved traceability* TURKEY VIETNAM To achieve 100% Traceability for Tier 4, Outland Denim is working to have knowledge of the exact locations for all of the organic cotton farms in our supply chain. CAMBODIA cotton farms cotton farm cotton farm Agrona Akasya LOCATION: Turkey LOCATION: Turkey • 29 x organic cotton farmer’s names and • 12 main locations of organic cotton farms locations provided provided (approximately 170 farmers) • Inspected by certification body Control Union • Inspected by certification body Control Organic EU Union Organic EU • No GMO seed allowed • No GMO seed allowed • No artificial fertilizer • No artificial fertilizer • No pesticides • No pesticides AUSTRALIA tier 5: primary raw material feedstock 100% achieved traceability* organic cotton seeds cotton seed supplier #1 cotton seed supplier #2 Agrona Akasya Gokkusagi ProGen Seed Inc. LOCATION: Turkey LOCATION: Turkey * % of the Primary Raw Material supply chain tier that has met or exceeded the minimum requirement in order to be defined as Traceable. 44 45 traceability scoring Outland Denim has developed an internal Sustainability and Ethics Criteria through which Outland Denim has developed a Traceability to filter its direct Major Suppliers (2 nd tier). Score for its supply chain tiers based on the methodology that the supplier of origin for Outland Denim chooses to work with suppliers each raw material must score a minimum that score a minimum of 80% based on meeting of 75% of the total available score. This and exceeding the following Sustainability and score is generated through each supplier’s Ethics Criteria: transparency in providing and exceeding the following criteria: • Agree and adhere to Outland Denim’s Ethical Photo by Amy Higg Photography Trading Policy; • Raw material breakdown; • Exact name and address of supplier is • • Country of origin of raw materials; Business name and location; • provided and publically available; Evidence of employee wages to ensure legal outland denim’s ethical trading policy • Externally assessed social standard/ requirements are met (at minimum); certification; Outland Denim’s Ethical Trading Policy for all parties contributing to the supply chain is firmly • Adheres to a recognised Manufacturing / • Externally assessed environmental established on respect for human and labour rights. It has been set upon the foundations of The Restricted Substance List (MRSL and/or RSL); standard/certification. Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, and, in turn, the International Labour Organization’s Four • Provided raw material/ingredients list of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Outland Denim requires all supply chain partners to material; sustainability and ethics criteria meet or exceed the standard outlined in its Ethical Trading Policy. • Visited by Outland Denim personnel, has provided audit results to Outland Denim, 94% of the direct supply chain has met Outland Criteria for adherence with this policy requires that the supplier company upholds freedom of or has been assessed by an internationally Denim’s Sustainability and Ethics Criteria. association and collective bargaining, and the elimination of forced labour (including employee recognised external certification body. protection around recruitment fees), child labour and employment discrimination. the outland denim ethical trading policy covers these categories: 1. No Forced Labour 8. Working Hours Are Not Excessive • Outland Social and Environmental Impact Manager or representative of Outland Denim to visit 2. No Child Labour 9. Regular Employment organic cotton farms to research social standards; 3. No Discrimination 10. Traceability of Suppliers and Raw Materials • Support vulnerable worker populations down the supply chain with training in local language about human rights, modern slavery and anti-trafficking; 4. Respect for Freedom of Association 11. Health and Safety of Products • 100% of direct supply chain meet Outland Denim’s Sustainability and Ethics Criteria; & Collective Bargaining 12. Environmental & Community Awareness • 100% Traceability* achieved for every tier of our primary raw material supply chain. 5. No Harsh or Inhumane Treatment 13. Confidentiality of Information • Support suppliers with free training, plans and programs to improve social conditions for all workers; 6. Safe and Hygienic Working Conditions 14. Legal Requirements • Assess further to current methods the use of fibres used for our raw materials, taking into account 7. Wages Are Paid 15. Code Implementation the environmental impact of each; • Traceability Scoring System and Sustainability and Ethics Criteria implemented for minor suppliers (ie. packaging). Further to the above policy requirements, Outland Denim has supported suppliers as necessary by providing resources and examples of ways to create and/or strengthen their child labour • Work with suppliers and farmers in supporting improvements for water, pesticide and chemical and remediation plans. energy usage during production; • Monitoring farmers’ income to ascertain that fair cotton prices and wages are being paid; • Partner with experts to ensure a robust human rights due diligence program is in place throughout Outland Denim has provided information and explained concepts such as living wages and the the supply chain, from farm to final product. importance of transparency to further educate our supply chain partners. 46 47 modern slavery statement Outland Denim was proud to provide recommendation to the creation of Australia’s Modern Slavery Act 2018. Outland Denim will continue to input into relevant government policy such as Australia’s Modern Slavery Act and the Inquiry into Australia’s Aid Program, as these align with our core mission to be part of combating modern slavery through a business model. Outland Denim will submit a Modern Slavery Statement in 2021. Although we are not legally obligated to do so, we wish to fully support the Government’s actions in creating this legislation and encourage other SMEs to consider also submitting. social impact 48 49 Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow introducing the outland denim medical clinic The year 2019 saw the establishment of our this holistic model will first on-site medical clinic to provide health directly contribute to reducing support and care. The facility is equipped instances of exploitation, while with introductory resources on topics such as: demonstrating an economically high blood pressure; diabetes; depression; cervical cancer; scabies; nutrition; colds; beneficial model for other malaria; nutrition for children; diarrhea; and businesses to replicate. menstrual health. The Outland Denim clinic has a Health Hotline that all employees are welcome to use for health support or advice. They can access this hotline anonymously if they wish to do so. The Outland Denim Medical Clinic is supported by the Australian Government and Outland Denim. We would like to express our thanks for funding support, which contributes to our goal of Photo by Amy Higg Photography providing high-quality health care, education and support to Outland Denim employees, and in turn, to see their quality of personal, “it is an incredible privilege to be part of professional and family life improve. pioneering a brand and business model that holds people, planet and purpose at its core. we believe this is what true sustainability has to look like, in order for business to become the force for good • Welcome an on-site mental health support professional to the team; that our world needs.” • Collate health data to guide educational seminar topics and monitor overall impact of the clinic. leisl lancaster • Develop, facilitate and replicate a Mental Health program aimed at employees with low levels of literacy and education who have experienced exploitation prior to their employment with Outland Social and Environmental Impact Manager Denim. Improve self-care, mental health and, therefore, workplace productivity and satisfaction; • Contribute to a reduction in preventable disease and illness in workforce and workforce households. • Open Outland Denim Health Clinic for the benefit of the wider local community. 50 51 opportunity Providing employment opportunities to those 85% of staff (formerly at risk ) who are vulnerable and those who may not report a reduced level of risk to receive the opportunity to work otherwise. exploitation after 6 months of employment at outland denim. Approximately 14.5% of Outland Denim’s fulltime Cut and Sew Facility employees have We interview each staff member when they come from NGO partners working with people commence work with Outland Denim, and who have come out of human trafficking and again after six months of employment. Staff other forms of exploitation. who had come from situations causing our four vulnerability to exploitation are informally However, approximately 76% of employees assessed as to whether employment with have come from exploitative situations or from Outland Denim has been part of changing their a position of vulnerability to being exploited. level of vulnerability. The level of vulnerability to exploitation is pillars assessed considering the employee’s from 2016 to 2020, we have been previous situation. able to impact 750 people, staff Risk factors for vulnerability may include: and household members and dependants, who benefit from • Feeling fearful in their previous place of stable employment with outland work due to safety standards, intimidation, denim and living wages. opportunity harassment, or lack of basic rights under the international labour laws; living wages • Limited or unregulated options for work cambodian staff numbers cross-training • due to lack of education; Receiving less than a minimum wage; 2016 2020 education • Experience of trafficking or forced labour; 100 90 • Sole income earner for dependents with 80 limited safety nets; 70 • Long-term unemployment; E M PLOYE E S 60 • Significant debt; • Member of a people group experiencing 50 96 40 85 severe marginalisation or discrimination; • Severe physical or learning disability. 30 20 36 28 10 6 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Y EA R *As of 1 January 2020 52 53 Photo by Amy Higg Photography living wages 100% of our staff have the opportunity to enjoy a living wage. All Outland Denim Cambodia staff receive • Cost of living data from employee and training in financial management and budgeting. local surveys and online research (trading 17% of staff report their debt has reduced economics). thanks to the financial management education with Outland Denim. On average in 2019, the Outland Denim Cambodia staff member lives in a 1 in 6 people are employed by the fashion household with: industry, however less than 2% enjoy a • 5.1 family members living wage. 7 35% 40% of garment workers are not paid a minimum wage. 8 • 2.2 income earners education over 105 hours of education Outland Denim strongly believes that education Our wage methodology is guided by: cross-training and training programs in the is a crucial part of the holistic approach • The Anker Method last 12 months. required to combat modern slavery and the • Food Unlike a standard garment factory, our further exploitation of people. • Housing seamstresses are trained in every element • Other essential needs (transport, of the jean-making process. Over a period of As part of our holistic approach to staff care, our staff receive education as part of their In Outland Denim’s situation, as is often the health care, eduction, savings) approximately two years our trainee staff enrol employment in areas that will support their case in the garment industry in South East Asia, • Consultation with long-term Cambodian in a program of cross-training and upskilling to personal growth as well as their families and low levels of education have resulted in staff based frontline rescue agencies, NGOs and gain a deep knowledge in the areas of cutting, communities. Topics include health, human having limited knowledge in the crucial area of social businesses; finishing, and sewing. With demonstrated trafficking awarness, English, financial health, as well as many other important areas. • Average number of Outland Denim staff proficiency, our seamstresses are given household members and income earners; the opportunity to progress their careers to managment, self defence and more. The education and training at Outland Denim was To give context around the need for Outland • Seniority and experience; managerial roles. unfortunately disrupted between 23 rd March Denim’s workshops, of our Cut and Sew Facility and 30 th June 2020 due to COVID-19. staff approximately 42% have not gone past a Primary (Grade 6) level of education and We also encourage our leadership team in approximately 17% of staff have not gone past • Acquire evidence that all second tier suppliers remunerate their staff with a fair wage; a 4 th Grade level of education. • Continue to influence industry and advocate for better wages throughout the supply chain. Cambodia to undertake various training and development opportunities whenever possible. 88% of outland denim cambodian • Outland Social and Environmental Impact Manager (with a social auditing expert) to visit supplier facilities to ensure social compliance and that Corrective Action Plan (CAPs) are being followed; Due to COVID-19, we regretfully needed to employees have shared • Expand on Living Wage Methodology and research for each location and tier in Outland Denim’s pause education programs while our facilities knowledge from their training supply chain. were closed, meaning education hours were workshops with others in their • All suppliers in each tier to remunerate their staff with a fair wage, adequate to ensure a decent reduced by approximately 30% in the past standard of living; families and communities. 12 months when compared to the 2019 • Establish retirement fund for Outland Denim Cambodia staff. calendar year. 7. Fashionopolis: The Price of Fast Fashion & The Future of Clothes 8. 7. Fashionopolis: commonobjective.co/uploads/?file=28-Poverty-a42.pdf The Price of Fast Fashion & The Future of Clothes 8. commonobjective.co/uploads/?file=28-Poverty-a42.pdf 54 55 our programs Health Sickness is a common cause for families falling The World Bank 9 has commented that into debt bondage in Cambodia. Debt increases health and education both remain important vulnerability to trafficking and other modern challenges and development priorities for slavery situations. On an economic level, sick Cambodia. WHO also states that cervical leave affects the productivity and therefore, cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality profitability of business. among women in Cambodia. An estimated 1500 women are newly diagnosed with Outland Denim’s health program has been cervical cancer and at least 900 women die designed with guidance from health of the disease each year. 10 professionals including a qualified Australian Nurse and an American Physician’s Assistant, With such a diverse range of backgrounds, from this training, we’ve seen 17% of staff report their debt both working in the local community. Outland Denim ensures all education on health, investigations into trafficking has reduced thanks to the and in particular sexual health, is approached cases started, that have resulted education from outland denim. Their guidance and expertise combined with sensitively and with cultural awareness. in relatives and friends of management insights from on-the-ground English Program outland denim employees experience, staff surveys, and research into Human Trafficking Awareness Our unique English program focuses on being located. common local health issues, inform our health By teaching employees about human speaking and listening skills to ensure that programs which over the last 18 months trafficking and developing their understanding employees with low education levels can still primarily focused on: of the signs, we raise awareness of, and Financial Management benefit and participate. therefore reduce trafficking in, their families Debt increases vulnerability to trafficking General Health and communities. and other modern slavery situations. Run by Additionally, to increase employability and • First Aid a qualified Cambodian finance professional, give opportunities for practice on a daily • Ergonomics Outland Denim partners with anti-trafficking employees are educated on important aspects basis, our programs include industry specific • Safety in the workplace experts to provide these education workshops on financial management including: terms. Leadership team members are notified • COVID-19 prevention to our employees. Employees are given direct on words and topics from the English classes, access to a hotline for professional support, • Saving, budgeting and wise spending; to practise the new words with employees. Women’s Health should they require services in investigation • Financial planning (children’s education, English language posters with pictures are • Sexually transmitted diseases and retrieving back victims of trafficking. housing, etc.); positioned around the Cut and Sew Facility to • Cervical cancer • Investing; naturally incorporate and encourage learning in • Hep B • Discussing finances with family; 100% of outland denim employees the workplace. • HIV • Responsible borrowing, debt and interest received education at outland • Menstrual health rates; denim on identifying and • Using a local bank account, and the reporting human trafficking. benefits of using a bank account. 9. www.worldbank.org/en/country/cambodia/overview 10. www.wpro.who.int/cambodia/topics/cancer/en/ 56 57 Self Defence Trauma Informed Care for Management and Our annual self defence program is run by Leadership Staff a USA Special Forces team. This program is It’s important that our management and designed to increase staff confidence in self leadership team are equipped with the tools defence techniques, increase self-confidence, and knowledge they need to support staff and equip staff members with the skills to members that have experienced trauma. defend themselves. This workshop, run by International Justice in our 2019 training, 87.5% Mission (IJM) assisted the management of staff said this workshop team in: increased their confidence • understanding trauma; about what to do in a • understanding the impact of trauma; dangerous situation. • understanding the four main areas of stress; Safety • and creating strategies for trauma-informed Our safety program educates on various engagement. topics such as chemical management, workplace safety and traffic safety. Culture Training for foreign leadership Working cross-culturally, Outland Denim’s Labour Law for Management management staff bring a myriad of valuable This includes education surrounding skills to the table. To enhance their capacity Cambodian Labour Law and the Legal for effectiveness in their roles, we conducted requirements for employment contracts, weekly culture training modules focusing on working conditions in the garment sector, unpacking the complexities of cross-cultural collective rights, labour dispute resolution work, while equipping team members with and the Cambodia tax law. practical tools. • Re-establish education and training programs post facilities closure due to COVID-19; • Establish in-house library and education centre, also equipped with resources for children’s education at home; • Provide access to free cervical cancer screenings for all female employees. • Deliver 150 hours/year of free education programs; • Open current programs and education to wider local community. • International certification or accreditation for training; • Scholarships for staff to further education; • Introduce additional educational topics such as small business, nutrition classes, agriculture, environmental impact and further leadership development. 58 59 staff stories rom chang* maly* Rom Chang is a single mother and sole income Maly left school in Grade 8 to pursue work in a earner, providing for herself, her two children, factory cutting patterns to support her parents. her mother and her grandmother. With a limited The 10 th born out of 14 children, she is now safety net, she and her family were entrenched able to support her own three children while in significant debt, a widespread problem sending money home to her ageing parents in low-income countries such as Cambodia. who are both in ill health. She is determined to Denied basic rights under international labour figure out how to get the job done no matter law, she left her former garment industry how difficult. workplace to join Outland Denim. Today, Rom Chang is not only debt free but also sponsors rachanay * her nephew to go to school. Rachanay was left with the burden of caring for her younger siblings at 20 years of age when samphy* her mother died. She had dreamed Samphy, 26, was referred to Outland Denim of becoming a teacher before having to leave by a frontline NGO working with women school in Grade 3. She wants to give her rescued from situations of sexual exploitation children the education that she could not have. and human trafficking. She is now an Assistant If with the educational support of Outland Team Leader. She stopped going to school in Denim, she is able to read and to write, she Grade 7 because her family did not have would like to become a team leader. Photo by Pip Cree money and her father had passed away, meaning she had to contribute to the family income. Since joining Outland Denim, she has “outland denim created the denim program to help financial security and more time to spend with her family. *Names have been changed to protect the identity their staff improve their skills and knowledge. they of the staff member. Outland Denim staff have always give me opportunities to learn and improve consented to the use of their stories. charaya* my unique skills. when i have made a mistake, they Charaya stopped school in Grade 9 to start always encourage me and do not put pressure on selling fruit with her sister. One of seven me. they are very compassionate guys.” children, she started sewing at age 16 to contribute to the family income. She dreams thong sithy of one day opening her own sewing shop Operations Manager in Cambodia utilising the technical skills she is learning at Outland Denim. 60 61 TOP 10 EMPLOYEE ANSWERS: TOP 10 EMPLOYEE ANSWERS: how is outland denim different to other factories? how has your life changed since working with outland denim? 12% BETTER TECHNICAL TRAINING 57% FINANCIAL SECURITY 8% WORKPLACE SAFETY 28.5% JOB SECURITY TAKES INTEREST 79% IN STAFF 20% MORE TIME WITH FAMILY PERSONAL WELLBEING 14.5% EDUCATIONAL WORKSHOPS ARE PROVIDED 32.5% FEEL MORE VALUED IN THE WORKPLACE MANAGEMENT CARE 39% WORKPLACE SATISFACTION & HAPPINESS 75.5% FOR STAFF FEEL LISTENED TO BY 10.5% FEELING SAFE AT WORK 66.5% MANAGEMENT 11% WAGES ARE BETTER 36% INCREASED TECHNICAL SKILLS 34.5% NO FORCED OVERTIME 28.5% INCREASED PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION 13.5% 43% BETTER QUALITY OF LIFE LEARNING NEW SKILLS 24.5% 21% HOPE FOR THE FUTURE BETTER HOURS 62 63 our influence marketing and imagery referencing our workforce Whether it is something we notice or not, It is fundamentally our duty to protect our marketing and imagery have an effect on the production workforce and wider staff from way we see the world and on how we define unwarranted attention and misrepresentation, ‘beauty’ or ‘aspiration’. We recognise that as particularly that which may impinge on their a brand projecting imagery and messaging to character within the community. the world, that we have a role to play in this. We have a duty of care to not misrepresent our commitment to you is that our staff’s stories in any communications we will work to diversify our insofar as the economic or media imperative takes precedence over her future wellbeing marketing, imagery and and/or character standing. Photo by Sabine Bannard influencer network. this is not a campaign, nor a tokenistic We seek never to sensationalise, lionize, gesture. we take our role as demonize or stigmatise subjects, to present “brands have an enormous responsibility to the “the people’s brand” very the objective truth where possible, and to consumer and to society at large to reflect back seriously, and you will see longrespect the country and laws therein. reality and not distort it for profitable gain. term consistent change from us. Our media guidelines are designed to protect as a humanitarian “people’s brand”, outland denim the privacy of our team, and are informed by should play its part in the projection of the Department of Foreign Affairs (Australia), imagery and messaging that is empowering and The Australia Council for International representative of all people, with regard Development (ACID) and the Ethical to body shape, size and ethnicity.” Storytelling initiative. erica bartle Communications Director 64 65 united nations world day against trafficking in persons As a social enterprise, we have a responsibility to help educate consumers about social and environmental injustice. Our largest annual social awareness campaign is July 30 th, the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons. Photo by Sarah Rafferty @iamsarahgrafferty << CLICK TO READ ARTICLES 66 67 Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow partnerships in the past 12 months media and events Our presence in the media and participation in speaking engagements and events 54 events and 344 provide opportunities for us to educate and speaking press engage industry, government, consumers, engagements mentions media, and students in sustainable fashion and social injustice. “partnerships play an essential role in the overall success of outland denim’s unique business model. it is through our relationships with ngos, government agencies, industry bodies, educational institutions and other like-minded • Release dashboard to public providing live information on company social and environmental impact; • Continue to provide education to consumers as to the part they play as an ‘ethical’ shopper; businesses, that we are able to deliver best • Continue to provide education to consumers and the industry on living wages; practices in the industry.” • Continue to provide education to consumers on caring for denim; • Diversify our marketing, imagery and influencer network. sally townsend • Provide education to consumers on certifications and what they mean; Head of Advocacy and Alliances • Calculate and make public the social and environmental impact of one Outland Denim garment. • Our long-term goal is to demonstrate to the wider fashion industry and business in general that purpose-led business can be profitable while protecting the planet and humanity. 68 69 our response to covid-19 “rather than pulling away during a crisis, outland denim strongly believes that brands and businesses need to lean in and engage with as many individuals connected to the creation of its products as possible.” leisl lancaster Social and Environmental impact Manager Photo by Amy Higg Photography Although the outbreak of Novel Coronavirus Australian staff were able to work from home COVID-19 has caused so much devastation and during the COVID-19 outbreak and many of our disruption across the world, we remain hopeful. Australian staff, including senior management, We have all witnessed community minded chose to salary sacrifice while self-isolating moments of generosity and compassion. to help the company weather the immediate economic effects of a decline in wholesale Our thoughts are with those who continue to orders, preferring that our Cambodian suffer the effects of COVID-19, and we want to colleagues continue to be paid while on acknowledge and thank all those who worked leave. Our Australian staff are beneficiaries and continue to work tirelessly to slow the of the Australian Government’s generous spread of the virus and those who are putting JobKeeper scheme. themselves in harm’s way to care for those affected. “The commitment level and generosity We are committed to ensuring the well-being of our Australian staff has been of all workers within our operations and remarkable, but when you run a supply chain. We have implemented a purpose-driven brand, you attract three-pronged approach to our COVID-19 purpose-driven people who naturally response, encapsulating: will put the higher vision above their • Our Australian headquarters; personal comfort levels.” • Our Cambodian operations; and • The Cotton Farming communities that make james bartle up 3 rd and 4 th tier of our supply chain. Outland Denim Founding CEO 70 71 supporting our supply chain during covid-19 Subsequent stages of the program utilize the communications channel established to open a grievance process where instances of exploitation can be reported and addressed. this world first program of its kind, sağ salim, bridges the gap between each stage of the supply chain. The cotton farming sector dominates employment within the fashion and textile industry, which is estimated to employ one in As part of our wider COVID-19 response, six to eight working people around the globe. we initiated a labour monitoring program, This includes workers farming crops for raw Sağ Salim (meaning ‘safe and sound’), in materials, processing raw materials into yarn, partnership with Sydney-based Precision dyeing/treating, cutting/sewing, finishing Solutions Group (PSG) designed to reach and logistics work, among others. The ILO the earliest stages of our supply chain: the estimates that the cotton farming sector alone suppliers of raw materials and cotton farmers. employs 350 million people worldwide. The program actively seeks out instances the impact of this program of exploitation, slavery, and unsafe working thus far has been powerful. conditions and puts methods in place to outland denim is deepening resolve them. The areas targeted in the pilot our understanding, building include, but are not limited to, organic cotton connection and hearing the farms in Turkey from which Outland Denim’s cotton is sourced. voices and experiences of the people working on the farm level In the pilot stage, the program’s primary of many fashion supply chains. function was to act as a communications we look forward to sharing more channel for information and resources on the results of sağ salim in relating to COVID-19. The program was able august, 2020. to distribute 80 COVID-19 prevention kits in cooperation with organisations working with asylum seekers and migrants. 72 73 our pivot “we are not strangers to fostering local partnerships turbulent times. outland denim To minimise the necessity for travel, we launched in brisbane, australia, have fostered local partnerships to assist in the hottest summer of the past in company projects and management in Cambodia as well as further down our 100 years offering only black supply chain. skinny jeans, and people still purchased. we launched our production of capsule equity crowdfunding campaign collections in the early days of covid-19, Instead of seasonal collections, we will and yet eois continue to come in produce bi-monthly capsule collections every day because no matter the and expand into new garment categories. These products will be available directly to timing, this is a business model the consumer as well as Outland Denim’s people believe in and want wholesale clients. The new model will to back.” allow Outland Denim to continue wholesale james bartle partnerships with stockists such as Nordstrom, Founding CEO David Jones, and Bloomingdales, despite the disruption COVID-19 has caused to the opening our manufacturing traditional fashion calendar. The shift will facilities to other brands under support retailers by offering a shorter lead the name ‘maeka’ time from design to delivery, minimise the risks By offering the opportunity for other brands associated with long lead forecasting, minimise to produce using the socially, environmentally dead stock, and offer newness to consumers and economically sustainable facilities that we with a considered approach. have established and become known for, we can stretch our impact and grow our business. The Outland Denim team in Australia has the Global fashion label Karen Walker is the first unique ability to connect on a daily basis with to begin working with MAEKA, with product the local leadership team in Cambodia, to already in development. schedule the production calendar and ensure realistic timeframes are calculated. We believe “No company will get through the pandemic the capsule collections will result in a more alone, and fashion players need to share consistent workflow, giving more structure data, strategies and insights on how to to the working week of our employees and navigate the storm. Brands, suppliers, ultimately allowing more consistent training contractors and landlords should also find and education programs to be incorporated. ways to share the burden.” (The Business of Fashion) 74 75 Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow A breakdown of business performance is not something that you would typically expect from a sustainability report. However we believe that sustainability is social, environmental, and economic. Without a holistic approach we are simply placing bandaids on issues. To be truly sustainable we need to protect people, protect the planet, and be economically viable to continue. And so in this section of the report, we share the challenges, opportunities, and achievements that contributed to our economic sustainability in the past 12 months. economic Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow sustainability our investor community For us, it’s simple, the more we grow, the 1,012 new 63% greater impact we can have. Outland Denim female investors investors “strong, sustainable economic growth is crucial to In the past 12 months we saw an opportunity to have greater impact by expanding our facilities achieving our social mission of offering training and to manufacture for other brands. employment opportunities to people who would otherwise The majority of 92% of investors fall through the gaps in the global market economy. this To fund this expansion, we chose to Equity investors are Australian 40 or younger. Residents has become only more apparent in light of covid-19 with the Crowdfund, which is similar to regular crowdfunding but results in contributors resultant light shed on the inadequacies and injustices of becoming investors in the business. the fashion industry.” james bartle By choosing this path, we were able to offer 83% of investors named company’s Founding CEO an opportunity of ownership in Outland Denim social justice values as primary reason at an accessible figure to the wider community for investing who have supported us since day one. 76 77 accountability at a glance With the support of these 3 rd party ellen macarthur jeans • 199.47% increase in digital investment; organisations and initiatives, our practices redesign project are continuously measured, reported, and • Employment of Head of Digital at Outland Denim Australia; therefore improved. The Jeans Redesign project shares new guidelines to tackle waste and pollution • 18.90% increase in Sales and Marketing investment; elevate alongside the harmful practices associated with the current production of jeans. The • Launch into two of the US top department stores, ELEVATE is a code of conduct that outlines the project establishes the minimum requirements relevant issues and expectations we have for for durability, material health, recyclability, Nordstrom and Bloomingdales; our facility, including: and traceability, as set out by over 40 • Launch into David Jones Men’s; denim experts. • Transparency & Business Integrity • Management Systems; • The launch of ‘MAEKA’, our facilities made available for The Jeans Redesign project will employ the • Hiring, Disciplinary & Termination; Child Labor; principles of a circular economy to ensure the production of garments for other brands; • • Forced Labor; positive impacts for the environment, society, • Harassment or Abuse; and the health of those people working in • Completed debut brand collaboration with Karen Walker. • Non-Discrimination; its industry. • Freedom of Association & Grievance Mechanisms; Over thirty leading brands, manufacturers, • Foreign Migrant Labor; and fabric mills are using the Jeans Redesign Photo by Ivana Martyn-Zyznikow • Wages and Benefits; • Hours of Work; guidelines to make jeans that will be available • Health & Safety; on the market by Autumn 2020. • Environment; • Increase revenue generated by digital/online sales to offset wholesale losses • Sub-Contracting; Our commitment is to meet the Ellen MacArthur experienced as a result of COVID-19; • and Homework. • Continue to nurture wholesale brand partnerships with retailers who align with our brand Jeans Redesign Project requirements by May values and provide product accessibility at scale; 2021 for 75% of our range. • Continue to improve our direct sales experience through more streamlined websites across The criteria and guidelines are maintained all our regions; by ELEVATE and were developed based • Expand our product range to ensure loyal customers are able to “shop Outland” for more of their rooy on local and national laws, International wardrobe requirements without sacrificing dedication to sustainability; • Capture market share from brands who have shown little real desire to remunerate their supply Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and ROOY, developed by HATCHED, measures, chain workers fairly or to genuinely invest into sustainability. benchmarked against industry protocols. manages and communicates our impact in ELEVATE assessments take place every two real time in a dashboard that can be shared • Have a expand to have staff working full time in producing for other brands in Cambodia; years by external auditors to assess our Cut internally, with shareholders, and • Formalise holistic stockist support program; and Sew Facility in Cambodia. with customers. • Offer investors better-than-average returns on investment. • Provide manufacturing services to the world’s largest brands; • To help facilitate existing manufacturers to producing to the Maeka Standard™; • For the Outland Denim brand to have market share in the premium denim space. 78 79 environmental impact ethical fashion report measurement (eim) Outland Denim is one of only two brands to EIM scores measure the water, energy, receive an A+ grade across all five criteria chemical, and worker impact of our assessed as part of Baptist World Aid’s Ethical sustainable finishing processes in Fashion Report. The 2019 Ethical Fashion comparison to conventional processes. Report grades 130 companies representing 480 brands from A+ to F, based on the strength of floor and field their systems to mitigate against the risks of forced labour, child labour, exploitation, and This world-first human rights auditing harm to the environment in their supply chains. technology operates 24/7 in the Outland Denim Cut and Sew Facility and the Wash b corporation Facility. The installation of cameras and sensors has provided instant insight Outland Denim is the first Australian Denim and monitoring into areas and ways to brand to become a certified B Corporation. improve safety measures, detailed data on Certified B Corporations meet the highest environmental impact, and a new level of standards of overall social and environmental accountability to ensure employee rights performance, transparency and accountability are upheld. and aspire to use the power of business to solve social and environmental problems. Seven machines at the finishing factory are Unlike traditional corporations, Certified B continuously being monitored for power usage, Corps are legally required to consider the allowing us to more accurately measure our impact of their decisions on all stakeholders. carbon footprint. the 2030 global sustainable Staff Privacy development goals Privacy and security of our employees is paramount. Employees were notified of the The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) installation of this system and the intended use were adopted by all United Nations Member of sensors, 2 weeks prior. The Floor and Field States in 2015 as a universal call to action to team do not use controversial methods such end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that as facial recognition and they received advice all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030. from Australian lawyers, experienced working Outland Denim reports annually and publically with devices in SE Asia. on significant improvements made towards achieving each of the 17 SDGs. Our partners at Floor and Field have experience with General Data Protection In 2019, Outland Denim was awarded the Regulation compliance, AI ethics, and security inaugural Global SDG award in two categories, best practice, which allows Outland Denim to the first Goal 1 (No Poverty), and the second have regular discussions and receive expert Goal 8 (Decent Working Conditions and advice on privacy and security topics. Economic Growth). 80 81 Photo by Carin Garland Photography statement of continual improvement In an effort to pursue “Zero Exploitation” in every aspect of business, Outland Denim recognises that it is not perfect. It is to be expected that we will fall short of the ideal. However, we are committed to making continual improvements and are always seeking to do better, to push forward, and plough new ground. We hope to be an encouragement to the fashion industry by moving toward a more economic and ecologically sustainable business model with ethical practices that will benefit not only the environment but the very real lives of the many individuals and families that make up the communities most at risk of exploitation. denim for freedom. 82 Photo by Carin Garland Photography
