Just for me. Austrian Post Delivered: What I indulge in AUSTRIAN POST Sustainability Report 2019 Everywhere, naturally, reliable. Just for me. Austrian Post Reliable in every way. That is our objective. We consider our mission on the one hand to be providing nationwide postal service throughout Austria, while on the other hand, we are also responsible for ensuring that mail items reach their recipients flawlessly and punctually. Whether large or small, we see this as our duty. We provide our services according to a self-concept that goes beyond merely performing our jobs. We see ourselves as everyday companions and we are fully engaged in life – for people: everywhere, naturally, reliable. Austrian Post. Austrian Post is deeply rooted in Austria CONTENT Reading guide GRI A S Our pictograms show the different sections Sustainable GRI Index Annual Sustainability Internet of the report as Development Report Report well as additional Goals information. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 01 04 Just for me. Austrian Post Magdalena Dannerer, Branch Office Employee 10 Statement 14 Company 14 — Austrian Post at a Glance 16 — Integrated Corporate and Sustainability Strategy 20 — Sustainable Corporate Governance 64 24 — Stakeholder Management Just for me. 27 — Material Topics Austrian Post EMPLOYEES 32 Just for me. Austrian Post STRONG COOPERATION – ECONOMY BASED ON APPRECIATION CLOSE TO THE 82 Just for me. CUSTOMER – Austrian Post WITH DIGITAL AND SOCIETY ANALOGUE OFFERS CONNECTED TO HOME – 46 Just for me. ASSUMING RESPONSIBILITY Austrian Post AND ENSURING SUPPLY ENVIRONMENT QUALITY OF LIFE – WITH PURPOSEFUL ENVIRONMENTAL 95 FURTHER INFORMATION 97 — About this Report AWARENESS 99 — Facts & Figures 111 — GRI Index 122 — Independent Assurance Report 124 — Contact and Legal Notice Post on the way to ­­Cover: the recipients Julia Seidler, Campaign Management and Peter Koller, International Affairs Content _____ We are working for you. For us, this is more than just a job. For us, this also offers the opportunity to connect people with each other. Delivered by us: your very personal MOMENT OF HAPPINESS Austrian Post Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post Austrian Post – for Austria Katarina Bogdanovic, Branch Office Employee Austrian Post – _____ 04 Anticipation is the best gift of all ­Julia Seidler, Campaign Management and Peter Koller, International Affairs Austrian Post is out there working every day to deliver the big and the small moments FOR THESE of happiness. MOMENTS OF HAPPI NESS Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 05 Just for me. Every mail item passes through many busy hands at Austrian Post. Many employees work tirelessly in various areas of the company to ensure a smooth process. Four of them give these pages a face. They each tell their own – very personal – story. Vienna calling – the city is Austria’s metropolis and headquarters of Austrian Post. Together, we are Austrian Post. You can find more insights into POST@INSIGHT Marina Hoermanseder, Designer of our work and the personal stories the new Austrian Post uniforms behind our everyday heroes on Instagram. Austrian Post instagram.com/ unserepost Moments of Happiness _____ 06 Osman Tütüncü is a postman Working for you in Vienna’s 3rd district. every day Of course, I have routine bills mixed with p ­ ersonal letters in my bag. But I prefer delivering things that make people happy. THEN I FEEL A BIT LIKE THE BEARER OF GOOD NEWSOsman Tütüncü has been delivering his mail in an electric Renault Kangoo for five months. ENVIRONMENT For more information about the electric fleet, see the ENVIRONMENT section starting on page 46. Austrian Post relies on modern e-vehicles. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post Grazielly Cavalcante Dias is 07 ready to help all customers at the branch office every day. I enjoy being the contact person for questions and I am happy to be able to network people in my job every day. The smile when someone is finally holding their long-awaited package in their hands is a MOMENT From the letterbox to the e-vehicle fleet – everything has a uniform look. OF HAPPINESS FOR ME TOO Austrian Post is there for its customers SOCIETY For more information about nationwide infrastructure, see the SOCIETY section starting on page 82. Moments of Happiness _____ 08 Resul Arda Bas is responsible for everything that gets the mail item to the addressee faster. My job is to make sure all customers GET THEIR PARCELS AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE. There are complex logis­tical processes behind this. ECONOMY Smooth processes make speedy delivery possible For more information about innovations in logistics, see the ECONOMY section starting on page 32. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 09 Anita Edlinger enjoys being an Austrian Austrian Post takes its role as a Post employee because, as a dedicated family-friendly company seriously. woman, she can forge her own path at the company. Even in a management position, Austrian Post offers me FLEXIBLE OPPORTUNITIES TO MANAGE MY PRIVATE and LIFE my career. EMPLOYEES For more information about working at Austrian Post, see the EMPLOYEES section starting on page 64. Moments of Happiness _____ REGIONAL, 10 DIGITAL AND CARBON NEUTRAL GRI 102-14 Launched in 2011, Austrian Post’s CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative POST@INSIGHT has placed the company in a pioneering Austrian Post publishes a Sustainability Report position. The integrated sustainability every year. and corporate strategy is currently being reviewed and consolidated into one comprehensive concept to ensure the company continues to hold this position in the future. Georg Pölzl In the thick of things – Austrian Post Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 11 This report is entitled “Austrian Post. With us, it’s personal”. We invest in expanding Can your business really maintain the human touch in the digital age? Georg Pölzl (GP): I believe it can and always will. We visit 3.4 milour logistics area lion Austrian households every day. Delivering the mail brings us close and enter into to people as they go about their daily lives. Our extensive network of postal branch offices also supports face-to-face interaction and is gaipartner­ships where ning in importance due to our new banking services. necessary. We define our company as regional, digital and carbon neutral, and this will continue to be the case in the future. Despite ongoing digitalisation, we continue to place a very strong emphasis on maintaining a presence across multiple regions. We play a key role right in the heart of society, providing reliable services even in places no longer served by other operators. We are taking a two-pronged approach to the important issue of digitalisation – it’s not a case of having to choose between one thing or another. Austrian Post consistently serves both Walter Oblin (WO): There has been a signifithe human and the digital worlds through our innovative digital solucant decline in volumes of addressed letters all over tions and the many ways our services are provided through face-tothe world. Direct mail volumes are also proving to be face contact. volatile. However, we know that physical mail continues to be very important to many customers today. How does being carbon neutral fit into this strategy? We are continually optimising our services to achieve Peter Umundum (PU): When we launched our CO2 NEUTRAL higher efficiency and to ensure we can offer the deli­DELIVERY initiative nine years ago, we decided to make all our deliveries very options our customers require. For example, since of letters, parcels, magazines and direct mail in Austria carbon neutral. 2018 customers have been able to decide whether they This pioneering initiative consists of three concurrent courses of action: would like a document to be delivered the next day or efficiency enhancements, alternative technologies and offsetting the within two to three days. remaining emissions. We are continually developing the first two meaAll the changes in the parcel and letter services sures. As we take our company into the future, we believe that focusing need to be backed up by investment. We are ready to on regional and digital aspects puts us in a strong position to respond meet this challenge which is why we are focusing on effectively to issues emerging from global megatrends. creating an infrastructure that can support what our customers expect both now and in ten years’ time In 2019 Austrian Post delivered 127 million parcels, a volume increase of 18%, making it a record year for the company. Do these developments have an effect on What does this mean for the business and especially for letter maiyour commitment to sustainability? ling services? GP: What’s important to our customers is importPU: It demonstrates that the fast-growing digital world and the ant to us. This means every concept is carefully assesphysical world need to be aligned. We are rising to the challenge of sed to ensure that all our services can be provided in bringing the two worlds together and ensuring that higher volumes of the most sustainable way possible. With this in mind, goods can be transported as quickly as possible with zero environmenwe have set out comprehensive objectives which focus tal impact. This is why we are developing our logistics capabilities and on four key areas: economy, environment, employees entering into strategic partnerships when required. and society. The ability to provide carbon-neutral deliveries is naturally an extremely important issue for a by logistics and postal services company. We are aiming 2030 to switch our entire vehicle fleet over to non-fossil fuels for last-mile deliveries by 2030. This will represent a major step forward. completely emission-free delivery on the “last mile”. Statement _____ 12 With approx. 1,800 WO: Reviewing our sustainability strategy involves scrutinising both our environmental objectives and the social and governance aspects. We aim to be an employer that considers the needs of society and our employees. We try to take a transparent and proactive approach to issues such as workforce diversity, career opportunities and additional voluntary social benefits, with initiatives such as our post.sozial association. It branches our bank business makes therefore stands to reason that we became a member of the UN Global a major contribution to safeguarding our regional strength. Compact in 2007 and why we are fully committed to abiding by the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We are the only ATX-listed company to be on the CDP Climate Change A List and we also feature on the Women’s Career Index. Additionally, we score highly on various indexes for environmental, social and governance performance, which is evidence that the financial markets also value the depth of our commitment. We stand for If Austrian Post is shipping higher volumes of parcels, will a sustainably stable carbon emissions increase despite all your good efforts? PU: We have seen an increase in absolute carbon emissions in 2019 business model. due to the general growth in parcel volumes and since we took over parcel deliveries in Austria from our partner Deutsche Post DHL Group. Having Walter Oblin said this, now that we have integrated our partner’s parcel volumes into our network, we have been able to replace Deutsche Post DHL Group’s system that used to run in parallel. In addition, our fleet of electric vehicles is now helping to minimise the increase in carbon emissions. We want to do more in this area which is why over the next ten years we are completely electrifying last-mile deliveries and are working on numerous innovative city logistics solutions. How do you ensure that regular stakeholder engagement takes place in order to support the important issue of corporate social responsibility? WO: We believe that it is extremely important to talk openly and honestly with all stakeholder groups. This is the only way we can fully understand their priorities and needs early on in the process. It also ensures that we can discuss our ideas, latest developments and measures with well-informed stakeholder groups ahead of time. With this in mind, we are planning to reinforce the concept of regionalism through the different types of discussions we hold, for example, we intend to host our Stakeholder Roundtables in a number of different locations. Starting in April Austrian Post’s new bank99 will also be placing a strong emphasis on personal service … GP: Our decision to set up bank99 was to establish a genuine counterpoint to the common trend in most of the banking sector. At a time Walter Oblin, when other banks are focusing on large towns and cities, we can proDeputy CEO, Mail & Finance vide services to our customers wherever they are – even in rural areas. Our regional approach is underpinned by approximately 1,800 branches. Walter Oblin has been the Management This extensive network enables our banking business to play an importBoard member responsible for Finance since ant role in maintaining regional strength across Austria. Our two-pronged 1 July 2012. He has also been responsible approach also directs this strategy. We work on the premise that financial for the Mail & Direct Mail and Mail Solutions Divisions since 1 January 2019. As a result, issues boil down to a matter of trust. Modern internet services are very he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive useful, however, it’s important to ensure we interact with our customers Officer of the Group. in person, especially when trust is such a key issue. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post Our new financial 13 services company bank99 can reach 99% of the Austrian population. Georg Pölzl Before we conclude our interview, do you think you could give us a glimpse into the future? What are the main challenges facing Austrian Post over the coming years? Which objectives have been set and what part is sustainability going to play? GP: We don’t view sustainability as a separate measure at Austrian Post. Our aim is to ensure that it is fully integrated into every Georg Pölzl, strategic and operational process across the business. What we do CEO, Chairman of the and how we do it should always achieve long-term benefits. Integrating Management Board this ethos into our business model is an important part of the strategic Georg Pölzl has been Chairman of the Manage­ alignment project we are currently working on. We need to reconcile all ment Board and Chief Executive Officer of our current challenges, such as the decline in mail volumes, increased ­Österreichische Post AG since 1 October 2009. He is taking a consistent, efficient and service-­ capacity requirements for the parcel business and the launch of our oriented path to keep Austrian Post success­ own financial services business. This is vital to ensure we can remain a fully on track in the face of market liberalisasustainable and profitable business over the long term. tion and to prepare it for the future. We believe that we are steering the right course to ensure we can successfully navigate the megatrends transforming society and business today. We will resolutely follow this course of action and prioritise We provide sustainability as we continue to develop our product and service portfolio. This involves constantly enhancing the environmental aspects of our a unique, logistics solutions and other services. We will also continue to promote diversity in the workplace with our “Expedition Elly”. nationwide network Peter Umundum, Member of the Management throughout Board, Parcel & Logistics Austria. Peter Umundum has been the Management Board member responsible for the Parcel & Logistics Peter Umundum Division since 1 April 2011, which is present with own companies in eight European countries. He also took over the chairmanship of the Supervisory Board of European transport network EURODIS. He has also been responsible for production and logistics in the mail and parcel areas since 1 January 2019. Statement _____ 14 Austrian Post at a Glance  GRI 102-2, 102-5, 102-7, 102-45, 102-46 The core business of the Austrian Post Group, also referred to as Austrian Post or the Group in this report, encompasses the transport and delivery of letters, direct mail items, print media a ­ nd ­parcels as well as various logistics services. With some 20,300 employees and annual revenue of EUR 2bn, Austrian Post is the leading logistics and postal services provider in the country. Corporate Structure returns management, the transport of valuable goods and and Business Areas  cash, webshop logistics and webshop infrastructure. The two operating divisions are complemented by GRI 102-2, 102-5, 102-7, 102-10 the Corporate Division. It is responsible for all services A majority stake in Austrian Post is held by relating to administering the Group, innovation man­ ­Österreichische Beteiligungs AG – ÖBAG. Detailed infor­ agement and the development of new business models. mation on the company as well as on the Austrian Post There were no major changes in the corporate structure share and shareholder structure can be found in the Annual of ­Austrian Post during the period under review. Report 2019. refer to the Annual Report 2019, Austrian Post concentrates its business activities p. 04f, 79ff, 82ff in two divisions, namely the Mail & Branch Network Divi­ sion and the Parcel & Logistics Division. The Mail & Branch Network Division collects, sorts and delivers letters, postcards, addressed and unad­ Mail & Branch Network dressed direct mail items and newspapers. In addition, Austrian Post offers postal and telecommunications Division  products as well as financial services. Austrian Post 690 335 also provides energy services and offers its customers a wide range of online services. The offering is com­ plemented by new services for business and direct mail, including address, data and mailroom management, intelligent scanning and response management.  letters million million The transport and delivery of parcels and express print media and 519 mail service items (EMS) for private and business custom­ 349 million regional media ers comprise the core business of the Parcel & ­Logistics 95.4 Division. In addition to express delivery, the service spec­ trum of the Parcel & Logistics Division also ­encompasses a wide range of value-added services. They include fulfil­ million % ment solutions such as warehousing, commissioning, addressed and 3.2 billion unaddressed of all letters mailed with direct mail items Austrian Post reach their recipients on the next working day Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 15 Austrian Post’s Presence GRI 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 Austrian Post and its Group com­panies operate in nine countries, but 92% of Group revenue is generated in Austria. Österreichische Post AG is a market leader in the country for the delivery of letters, direct mail items and print media as well as parcels. Österreichische Post AG offers its services throughout the entire country, featuring 1,770 service points, including 415 company-operated branch Parcel & Logistics Division  offices and 1,355 postal partners. Its network of postal service points ranks among the country’s 127 96.3% largest private customer networks. refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 04f, 79ff, 82ff million of all parcels parcels and are delivered within Nationwide EMS items two working days. Infrastructure   1,770 service points 6 International Markets Austrian Post has a strong 95.2% mail and international presence in the parcel and logistics of all parcels are 9 growth market. delivered to the recipient on the next working day. parcel logistics Germany centres  14,815 letterboxes Slovakia  9,070 Austria delivery staff Hungary Croatia Serbia Bosnia and Bulgaria Herzegovina Montenegro Turkey 1 1 Not consolidated Austrian Post at a Glance _____ 16 Integrated Corporate and Sustainability Strategy  Austrian Post attaches great importance to the sustainable orien­ tation of its operating activities. For this reason, ecological and ­social factors also play a decisive role in the company’s strategy and ­management in addition to the economic aspects. Austrian Post knows that sustainability aspects can only make the com­ pany viable for ­the future and ensure its long-term success when they are implemented in harmony with one another. Mission W  e deliver values – reliably, confiden­tially and personally.  e are the first choice for all our W ­customers, partners and employees – 1. Defending market yesterday, today and tomorrow. leadership in the core business  e are the leading postal and logistics W provider in Austria. We are growing in Europe as a successful specialist. 2. Profitable growth in selected markets 3. Enhancing efficiency Mission Statement and optimising the cost The three main values of the mission statement: structure 1. Customer focus Our central focus is the customer. 4. Customer orientation 2. Economic efficiency and sustainability and innovation We focus on the future. 3. Communication and appreciation We are all part of Austrian Post. Financial Goals The Code of Conduct and Ethics supports the implementation of the mutually held values. → Solid revenue development The compliance management system ensures → Sustainably high profitability adherence to the rules. → Continuation of the attractive dividend policy Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 17 In order to defend its market leadership, Austrian Post is sustainably further developing its core business. At the same time, the company fulfils its universal service obligation with an eye to customer requirements and keeps the well-being of employees, society and the environment in continual focus. Austrian Post is pursuing a pre-defined growth strategy and continually expanding its service portfolio. This ensures long-term job security and offers the public a wider selection of services. Issues of relevance to the environment are always taken into consideration here as well. Austrian Post taps synergy potentials, reduces employee fluctuation and increases economic efficiency through consistent review of process and staff costs as well as investment in innovations. An efficient logistics network and innovative delivery options also benefit society and the environment. Solutions oriented to customer requirements are the key to Austrian Post’s long-term success and ability to ensure the reliable supply of postal services. All its services and innovations take into account customer convenience, environmental impact and implications for employees. Sustainability Goals Economy Environment Employees Society →F  urther develop the → Protect the climate and → Promote a corporate → Ensure reliable supply sustainable business conserve resources and leadership culture of postal services model of Austrian Post and shape framework → Strengthen environ→ Pay attention to health conditions →F  ocus on customers mental awareness and safety and innovation → Promote social commitment Integrated Corporate and Sustainability Strategy _____ 18 Sustainable profitability is the top priority of Aus­ Sustainable trian Post. It forms the basis for further expansion of its services for the benefit of customers, the promotion of Development Goals its international business and the modernisation of the GRI 102-12, 103-2 logistics infrastructure. Austrian Post has been a member of the UN Global Accordingly, Austrian Post is relying on four Compact since 2007. In implementing its goals and activi­ different approaches that comprise the core of the com­ ties, Austrian Post orients itself to the ten principles of the pany’s strategic orientation. Moreover, the four dimen­ UN Global Compact for responsible corporate manage­ sions of sustainability – economy, employees, society ment in regard to human and labour rights, environmental and environment – are integrated into the strategy of the protection and anti-corruption. Furthermore, Austrian company. In line with the motto “PRO ACTIVE! Austrian Post is committed to compliance with the 17 global Sus­ Post. Sustainable for Austria”, this ensures the ongoing tainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations. sustainable orientation of the entire company. They took effect in January 2016 and are designed to Building on the four cornerstones of the corpo­ provide a globally valid framework for sustainability until rate strategy and taking into consideration the mate­ 2030. Along with 192 other member states of the United rial topics identified in cooperation with the company’s Nations, Austria has also adopted these sustainabil­ stakeholders, two primary and two sustainability objec­ ity goals. The measures and programmes carried out by tives were assigned to each of the four sustainability Austrian Post are actively contributing towards achieving dimensions. Every year various milestones that serve as eleven of the 17 sustainability goals. targets are defined for the primary objectives. They are To see how the individual Sustainable Development implemented within the scope of various sustainabil­ Goals are allocated to the material topics of Austrian Post, ity projects. The Austrian Post projects underscore the please refer to pages 28 – 31. The sections of this report integration of the corporate and sustainability strategy marked with the symbol SDG outline how Austrian Post is as practiced and embodied by the company. In 2020 putting the SDGs into practice. Austrian Post will revise its integrated corporate and sustainability strategy as part of an integrative process.  Material Topics refer to p. 28ff T 01 Austrian Post’s Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals  As a stock corporation, a stable economic performance (SDG 8) is at the heart of Austrian Post's business operations. As a service company, Austrian Post attaches particular importance to the social orientation of its business activities. Health care (SDG 3) and training programmes (SDG 4), the promotion of gender equality (SDG 5) as well as anti-discrimination and diversity (SDG 10) are firmly embedded in the company. As a logistics company, the ecological orientation of its business is be­ coming increasingly important for Austrian Post. The focus is on climate protection (SDG 13), which Austrian Post actively supports by promot­ ing a sustainable infrastructure (SDG 9), using renewable and innovative technologies (SDG 7) and actively promoting environmentally-friendly consumption and production patterns (SDG 12). In carrying out its business operations, Austrian Post contributes to a sustainable society (SDG 11) and the development of the rule of law (SDG 16). Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 19 Honours and Awards  GRI 102-12 CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Austrian Post operates in a sustainable manner – In 2019 Austrian Post was assigned the best possible this has been confirmed by the capital markets and vari­ result, an A rating, by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), ous national and international ratings. the world’s largest database for corporate environmental and climate information, which is extensively used by cap­ ital market participants to evaluate investments – making Austrian Post the only ATX company to be included in the CDP Climate Change A List. This recognition not only con­ firms Austrian Post’s transparent environmental reporting but also serves as evidence of the quality of the initiated MSCI ESG RESEARCH climate protection measures. In 2019 Austrian Post was once again assigned the best possible rating of AAA in the MSCI Environmen­ tal, Social and Governance ratings. As part of the rating process, the company was evaluated according to the best-­inclass approach and compared to other companies in the postal sector. Expansion of the company’s fleet of electric vehicles was assessed as especially positive. ECOVADIS The company’s attractive remuneration systems, continu­ EcoVadis awarded a “Gold Recognition Level” rat­ ing education and professional development offerings ing to Österreichische Post AG in recognition of its CSR for employees and good, solid business management activities. EcoVadis is a sustainability assessment platform structures were also highlighted by MSCI. which aims to improve the environmental and social prac­ tices of companies by CSR performance monitoring within the supply chain and supporting companies in improving their sustainability scorecards. ISS ESG ISS ESG is one of the world’s leading rating agen­ cies in the field of sustainable investments. Austrian Post was awarded the prime status rating within the context IPC GOLD AWARD 2019 of the ESG corporate rating in 2019. As a result, ­Austrian Austrian Post actively participates in international Post ranks among the leading transport and logistics programmes such as the “Environmental Measurement companies in terms of sustainability. and Monitoring System (EMMS)” of the International Post Corporation (IPC). It was presented with the IPC Gold Award in 2019. Integrated Corporate and Sustainability Strategy _____ 20 Sustainable Corporate Governance  Austrian Post is one of the country’s flagship companies. The company is aware of the exemplary role and the respon­ sibility which goes along with this status and aims to fulfil its responsibility in every respect. Austrian Post there­fore attaches great importance to responsible and transparent corporate management. The Joint Mission Statement the principles of the UN Global Compact, thus compris­ ing the foundation for an open, respectful and legally-­ GRI 102-16, SDG 16 compliant corporate culture. Austrian Post wants to be perceived as a responsi­ All other Group guidelines and behavioural instruc­ ble company that acts with integrity. Proper and responsi­ tions are based on the Code of Conduct and Ethics and ble business management plays a major role in this regard. are derived from it. The Code is available on the Austrian Austrian Post also expects ethically impeccable and exem­ Post website in all Group languages. plary behaviour from all employees at all times, regardless A separate Code of Conduct for Suppliers of of their position. The mission statement was developed in ­Austrian Post was developed in 2011. It obligates contrac­ 2010 in order to create a mutually shared value system tors of Austrian Post as well as their subcontractors and a clear benchmark for executives and employees. It and suppliers to comply with minimum legal, social and stipulates the core values by means of which the corporate ecological standards. and sustainability strategy are to be implemented. post.at/Code-of-Conduct On the one hand, the mission statement serves as an orientation for the conduct of employees and the Man­ agement Board and their dealings in everyday work. On Responsibility for the other hand, it provides clear objectives and shows that sustainable corporate success at Austrian Post cannot Sustainability be defined and achieved via economic aspects alone, but GRI 102-18, 102-19, 102-20 must also encompass the social sphere, the environment The issue of sustainability is of crucial importance and employees. to Austrian Post. For this reason, on an organisational level, post.at/mission-statement responsibility for sustainability is directly in the hands of Chief Executive Officer Georg Pölzl in the “Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management depart­ Code of Conduct and Ethics ment”. The department maintains an ongoing dialogue with the various business units. Intercompany working groups GRI 102-16, SDG 16 deal with current sustainability-related issues, formulate The mission statement was used as a basis for corresponding objectives and define appropriate meas­ developing the Code of Conduct and Ethics. It describes ures – always on the basis of the integrated sustainability the principles and behavioural norms which are binding and corporate strategy. Great importance is attached to at Austrian Post. The Code serves as a reference frame­ an interdisciplinary approach and cooperation among the work for employees and executives in their daily dealings individual units. with one another and for responsible behaviour towards The Management Board integrates ­sustainability-­ business partners and the public. Its contents also related issues in the highest decision-making bodies reflect the commitment of Austrian Post to comply with and processes, for example at Management Board and Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 21 Corporate Governance The Code of Conduct GRI 102-18 for Suppliers Austrian Post considers corporate governance to of Austrian Post  comprise responsible, transparent business management with a long-term orientation. Good corporate governance is a crucial facet of sustainable corporate management 1. Respect for human dignity ­at Austrian Post, going far beyond simply adhering to legal regulations. Key aspects include respect for the interests 2. Adherence to legal regulations of shareholders, openness and transparency in corporate 3. Promotion of equal opportunity and diversity communication to all stakeholder groups, and avoidance 4. Ban on child labour of conflicts of interests in corporate bodies. Austrian Post also considers efficient cooperation between the Man­ 5. Ban on forced labour agement Board and Supervisory Board to be an important 6. Adherence to national labour laws characteristic of good corporate governance. In order to maintain and further strengthen the 7. Support for freedom of association and company’s high internal corporate standards, the Manage­ freedom of assembly ment Board and the Supervisory Board align corporate 8. Ensuring occupational health and safety management and control to national and international principles. Since its initial public offering, Austrian Post 9. Adherence to environmental and has been committed to adhering to the Austrian Cor­ safety regulations porate Governance Code (ACGC). Austrian Post reports 10. Adherence to respective national extensively on corporate governance annually in its Cor­ anti-corruption laws porate Governance Report. refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 19ff 11. Prevention of conflicts of interest 12. Implementation by the contractor, influence on business and contractual relations ESG Risk Management GRI 102-11 Comprehensive risk management is a key corner­ stone of good corporate governance. Austrian Post oper­ ates a comprehensive risk management system integrating all business units and Group companies. The Management Board defines the risk policy of the company and sets out a framework for the risk management system. The objective of risk management is to identify risks at an early stage and to manage them by taking appropriate measures designed to keep any potential Supervisory Board meetings, in order to ensure the com­ deviation from the company’s business targets as low as pany’s sustainability-oriented corporate development. In possible. Because of the company’s sustainable orienta­ its role as the highest governing and supervisory body, the tion, it takes ecological, social and ethical aspects into Supervisory Board performs its duties by taking account consideration in its risk management efforts. There were of the economic as well as social and ecological respon­ no sustainability risks in 2019 which impacted any devia­ sibility of the company. Important corporate decisions on tions from Group targets. social and ecological aspects are made in accordance Further details on the central risk management with the mission statement of Austrian Post and on the system, risk strategy and policy, the internal control basis of relevant legal regulations. system as well as a description of the risks with which Sustainable Corporate Governance _____ 22 Austrian Post is confronted and details on environmental the areas of economy, environment, employees and ­society risks can be found in the Annual Report 2019. were paramount here. Pursuant to the TCFD approach Due to the increasing significance of sustaina­ (Task Force on Climate-related Financial ­Disclosures), bility risks to the company’s business activities, the Risk increased focus was placed on climate-­related risks. Management department and the CSR & Environmen­ Because of their special importance, the focus for 2020 tal ­Management department stepped up their inter­ will be on further integrating ESG risks into Group-wide departmental exchange in 2019. The most important risks risk management and expanding the ESG risk manage­ and opportunities for Austrian Post with respect to ESG ment system accordingly. ­criteria (environmental, social, governance) were i­dentified refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 99ff within the context of an interactive process. Risks from T 02 Responsible Corporate Management   Responsible corporate management, or good corporate Structure governance, is characterised by compliance with laws Management and regulations, respect for the interests of ­shareholders, Shareholder Capital Board & Rights Structure openness and transparency toward all stakeholder Supervisory Board groups in the capital structure, corporate communication and the remuneration of the Management Board and Supervisory Board. Moreover, efficient cooperation and control between the Management Board and Corporate Supervisory Board is the prerequisite for good corpoDiversity Compliance Governance rate ­governance. Since its initial public offering, Öster­ reichische Post AG has been unreservedly committed to adhering to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code (ACGC). Remuneration Management Transparency Group Auditing Board & Disclosure Supervisory Board Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 23 Compliance and As part of compliance with the General Data Anti-corruption Protection Regulation (EU GDPR), Austrian Post has implemented new processes and adapted existing Österreichische Post AG and its Group compa­ processes to the new legal situation over the course of nies have established a compliance culture based on the the past several years. Various guidelines were issued mission statement and the Code of Conduct and Ethics on data protection-specific topics and communicated to to ensure ethically impeccable and exemplary behaviour. all employees. A data protection organisation has been Austrian Post attaches particular importance to proper established as well. conduct towards business partners and customers as well Despite implementation of internal processes and as with public authorities and institutions. This is comple­ precautionary measures for data protection, in 2019 the mented by all employees in the Group avoiding any appear­ Austrian Data Protection Authority declared the processing ance of corruptibility or dishonesty in their business of the statistically calculated “party a ­ ffinities” marketing dealings. Austrian Post resolutely rejects unfair business classifications as unlawful and levied an administrative practices and corruption and implements appropriate penalty of EUR 18m. This penalty is not yet legally binding. measures to prevent them. According to the authorities, Austrian Post is violating the The Corporate Governance Report provides fur­ General Data Protection Regulation by processing market­ ther information and the Non-financial Report includes ing classifications. details on anti-corruption. Austrian Post has a different legal opinion, how­ refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 21, 49ff ever. The company does not view marketing classifications as personal data because these are probabilities calcu­ lated entirely statistically through marketing analysis Data Protection procedures and bear no relation to the actual conduct of and Data Security the person in question. The question of whether or not probability statistics constitute personal data has not yet Austrian Post has large volumes of customer and been conclusively legally determined. company data requiring a high degree of integrity. Accord­ Austrian Post will continue expanding and devel­ ingly, confidentiality as well as security of information and oping its data protection organisation in future as well. data are extremely important issues for Austrian Post. The company plans to automate as many data protection For this reason, Austrian Post identified the issue of data processes as possible in order to ensure rapid, high-qual­ protection and data security as a material topic. ity processing. Due to technical developments and the steadily Austrian Post reports on data protection and data increasing importance of data for the successful develop­ security as well as its corresponding goals in the Non-­ ment of Austrian Post, the Austrian Post Group imple­ financial Report 2019. ments extensive measures to ensure the confidentiality of post.at/dataprotection customer and company data as well as the integrity and availability of the IT systems operated by Austrian Post. Sustainable Corporate Governance _____ 24 Stakeholder Management  Austrian Post is one of Austria’s largest employers and an integral part of Austrian society. The expectations of ­Austrian Post are as diverse as Austrian society itself. Austrian Post therefore engages in ongoing dialogue with its stakeholder groups. This enables Austrian Post to recognise their expectations, identify improvement potential and transform this in­formation into concrete measures. their implementation with its stakeholders. The aim of Austrian Post’s stakeholder management is to get to know and understand the concerns of its interest groups better and take them into account. Furthermore, ongoing communication is important for successive further development of the sustainability strategy. The sustainability targets and measures of Austrian Post are also strongly focused on the demands and expectations of its stakeholders. Engaged in a Dialogue with The Stakeholder Roundtable was held on 3 October 2019 for the ninth time. Stakeholder Groups GRI 102-21, 102-43, 102-44 Austrian Post’s stakeholders are included in a ­variety of ways. In addition to daily, direct customer contact with Austrian Post employees, the Stakeholder Diverse Expectations Roundtable is a pivotal dialogue format. Held annually, in Focus it provides ­various stakeholders such as customers, sup­ pliers, employees, NGOs and investors with the oppor­ GRI 102-42 tunity ­to share their needs and concerns directly with In 2014 Austrian Post identified its relevant stake­ ­Austrian Post. For its part, Austrian Post uses this format holder groups and evaluated them in conformity with to become better acquainted with its stakeholders through ONR 192500, the certifiable guideline to ISO 26000. This dialogue with them. analysis revealed that the Austrian Post interest groups In organising the Stakeholder Roundtable, come from different business segments of the company. ­Austrian Post attaches great importance to providing a Bundling various stakeholder groups enables Austrian balance among the participating stakeholder groups as Post to specifically address their respective requirements. well as between genders. This diversity leads to a dynamic By means of broad-based dialogue, Austrian Post strives exchange which benefits both Austrian Post and the to identify their needs as well as to further cement and stakeholders themselves. The Stakeholder Roundtable expand its already good and open relationship to the was held on 3 October 2019 for the ninth time. Austrian interest groups. Post discussed current and planned future measures in Using various dialogue formats, Austrian Post the four dimensions of sustainability – economy, environ­ develops and discusses strategic goals, measures and ment, employees and society – with the approximately Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 25 T 03 Stakeholder Groups  GRI 102-40 Austrian Post engages in dialogue with various stakeholder groups and relies on different forms of interaction. In addiShareholders Customers Employees NGOs tion to the annual Stakeholder Round­ table, Austrian Post exchanges views with political decision-makers, and gives its stakeholders the opportunity to partici­ pate via different communication chanCommunities/ Public nels. Mayors Authorities Social Friends & Associations Competitors Partners Family Transport Government Media Suppliers Service Providers 60 participants. The stakeholders had the opportunity In the dimension of society, stakeholders attached to evaluate the measures in regard to the added value they special importance to the needs-based adaptation create for Austrian Post and for the national economy, of ­universal postal services and timely shaping of the society, employees and the environment. Stakeholders ­Austrian Post partner network, expansion of self-service were also asked to come up with their own new measures solutions, strengthening of stakeholder participation, for Austrian Post and to evaluate these in regard to their the increase of services in rural areas and promotion of added value. innovation. In the area of employees, valuable input from both In order to promote sustainable economic develop­ external and internal stakeholders included a respectful ment, the stakeholders encouraged Austrian Post to rein­ leadership culture, flexibilisation of working hours and force trust in the digital sphere and optimise economic parental leave models (including active parental leave performance taking account of resource conservation and management), the improvement of onboarding processes rural areas. and integration of sustainability goals into target agree­ Each year, it is highly beneficial for Austrian Post ments for executives. to discuss opinions and needs together with representa­ In the environmental area, factors identified as tives of all relevant interest groups. Stakeholder input is especially important included sustainable construction, processed internally and the findings used as the basis for fostering of employee mobility, consistent expansion adapting existing projects or launching new ones. The next of environmental management systems with the establish­ and tenth Stakeholder Roundtable is scheduled to be held ment of environmental ambassadors and examination of in the autumn of 2020. slow delivery as a delivery alternative. Stakeholder Management _____ 26 There are also other opportunities and formats Transparency in Safeguarding for stakeholder groups to express their opinions, exchange Political and Economic Interests views or participate in the decision-making process: GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Employee survey (every two years) According to the Lobbying and Interest Represen­ Customer service for private customers tation Transparency Act (LobbyG), which took effect on (available during normal business hours) 1 January 2013, employees are required to register and dis­ Customer service for business customers close cases in which they represent the interests of their (available during normal business hours) company in the political arena. Customer survey (quarterly) The employee interests are represented through  Investor Relations department (available Austrian Post employees directly as well as through during normal business hours) membership in various associations (e.g. Austrian Federal Compliance hotline (available during Economic Chamber, Federation of Austrian Industries, normal business hours) PostEurop, International Post Corporation, EMOTA). In Ombudsperson for employees (available addition, external consultants monitor relevant political during normal business hours) developments on a national and European level and report Annual General Meeting for shareholders their findings to Austrian Post. (held once a year) All relevant information relating to the lobby­ E-mail address for issues relating to ing activities of Austrian Post is publicly available. This sustainability (csr@post.at) includes the names of company lobbyists, lobbying ­positions and the lobbying expenditures of Austrian Post, which exceed EUR 100,000 annually. Interaction with Political Austrian Post is not only listed in the Lobbying and Decision-makers Interest Representation Register of the Austrian Minis­ try of Justice (lobbyreg.justiz.gv.at; registration number Österreichische Post AG engages in a continual LIVR-00196), but has also been listed in the voluntary EU exchange of views with political interest groups and deci­ Transparency Register since November 2014. sion-makers. As a leading logistics company, Austrian Post conveys its concerns to the government with regard to political decisions affecting postal market regulations, mail and parcel delivery, transport and logistics and any other areas. Österreichische Post AG is also committed to ensuring that the political framework is in line with the company’s goals as well as the needs of its customers. The underlying objective is to promote a broad, mutual understanding, attract support and optimally exert influ­ ence. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 27 Material Topics  The materiality analysis is an important tool for deter­mining and prioritising the manifold areas of action in the sphere of sustainability. Working together with external stakeholders and internal specialists in an interactive process, Austrian Post has defined material sustainability topics. T 04 Materiality Matrix of Austrian Post  10 Economy Environment H Employees IG H Society R Y VE Customer proximity 9 Data protection Service and customer and data security orientation Corporate culture Further education Climate protection and working environments and professional and energy 8 IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS development Innovation and future technologies Responsible Resource procurement efficiency Regional infrastructure and reliability of supply 7 Occupational safety and health protection Growth and value creation 6 Social commitment H IG H 5 5 6 7 8 9 10 SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, ECOLOGICAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS Material Topics _____ 28 GRI 102-46, 102-47 of customer proximity, service and customer orientation, The fundamental prerequisite for systematic and climate protection and energy, innovation and future tech­ targeted sustainability management is the identification of nologies, regional infrastructure and security of supply material topics. Austrian Post identified, discussed and as well as resource efficiency were considered by stake­ clustered these topics together with external stakeholders holders to be the most important. Stakeholders believe at the Stakeholder Roundtable 2017. Subsequently, these that these topics have far-reaching impacts as well. issues were ranked according to their importance from a How Austrian Post takes these material topics into stakeholder perspective. The company plans to revise the account within the context of its sustainability manage­ materiality analysis and develop a new materiality matrix ment, which management approaches it pursues in each in 2020. case, and the progress it has made with respect to the Following the Stakeholder Roundtable, in-house material topics is handled in the four sections of this report groups of experts defined the material topics which dealing with the thematic priorities. were categorised with respect to their economic, ecological The reasons why these topics are considered to be and social impacts. The entire process was audited. of material importance, what impacts they have and the The outcome of both rounds of voting is displayed SDGs associated with them are presented in the following in a materiality matrix. Overall, the revision process table: reveals that the importance of most material topics and their impact is generally assessed as high. The aspects Material Topics of Austrian Post GRI 103-1, 102-46, 102-47 T 05 Material Economic Topics  Main Targets → Further Develop the Sustainable Business Model of Austrian Post → Focus on Customers and Innovation Material issues according to Impacts and responsibility / GRI standard / the matrix SDGs influence of Austrian Post internal performance indicators Growth and Growth and value creation are key factors in GRI 201: Economic Performance value creation the economic success of Austrian Post. Other GRI 205: Anti-corruption indirect effects arise from the related volume GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior of contract orders, taxes and fees GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Innovation and Modern and innovative products and services No adequate GRI standard exists at the present future technologies comprise a crucial prerequisite of economic time. An internal performance indicator is success. Other companies, the Austrian state currently being evaluated and society also profit from innovations and investments in infrastructure Service and Customers in Austria, especially customers in No adequate GRI standard exists at the present customer orientation the company’s core business, directly benefit time. The internal performance indicators used from the service and customer orientation. here are the customer satisfaction analysis With respect to those areas in which Austrian (CSI) results Post does not perform the services itself but, for example, works together with external delivery staff, the company only indirectly and to a limited extent has an in­fluence on service and customer orientation Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 29 T 06 Material Social Topics  Main Targets → Ensure Reliable Supply of Postal Services and Shape Framework Conditions → Promote Social Commitment Material issues according to Impacts and responsibility / GRI standard / the matrix SDGs influence of Austrian Post internal performance indicators Regional infrastructure and Austrian Post safeguards the regional infra­ GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts reliability of supply structure and ensures a reliable supply of postal services for the benefit of Austrian Other internal performance indicators are the society and customers in Austria. Due to the requirements imposed by the universal service universal service obligation of Österreichische obligation (nationwide network of postal ­ Post AG, this material topic only applies to service points and stipulated delivery quality) Österreichische Post AG and not to its Group companies Social Socially disadvantaged sections of the popula­ No adequate GRI standard exists at the present commitment tion in Austria are supported by social projects time. The internal performance indicators are carried out by Austrian Post. As a partly statetotal sponsoring expenditures and total amount owned company, Austrian Post aims to assume of donations its corporate social responsibility to a special degree Data protection and Austrian Post adheres to all valid legal regula­ GRI 418: Customer Privacy data security tions relating to the protection, legitimate use and confidentiality of personal data as well as data security. Personal data is processed in line with data protection regulations, especially the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the Austrian Data Protection Act, special provisions contained in the Postal Market Act and all other relevant laws Material Topics _____ 30 T 07 Material Employee Topics  Main Targets → Promote a Corporate and Leadership Culture → Pay Attention to Health and Safety Material issues according to Impacts and responsibility / GRI standard / the matrix SDGs influence of Austrian Post internal performance indicators Corporate culture and A strong joint image of Austrian Post and a GRI 401: Employment working environments positive corporate culture are important basic GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations prerequisites for creating an attractive working GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity environment for employees. This promotes em­ ployee identification and satisfaction. Austrian Post believes that only satisfied employees will be able to optimally contribute to the long-term value creation of Austrian Post Occupational safety and Measures to ensure safety at the workplace GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety health protection and health protection positively impact employ­ ee health. Only employees who are fit for work can ensure the reliable supply of postal servic­ es in Austria. Austrian Post only has a limited influence on occupational safety and health protection at its partner companies. However, minimum standards are defined in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers Further education and Austrian Post employees are given individual GRI 404: Training and Education professional development support in order to enable them to optimally manage their professional challenges Customer proximity Regular contact between employees and No adequate GRI standard exists at the present customers is of particular importance and an time. The internal performance indicators used important factor of Austrian Post’s ability to here are the customer satisfaction analysis achieve a high level of customer satisfaction (CSI) results Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 31 T 08 Material Environmental Topics  Main Targets → Protect the Climate and Conserve Resources → Strengthen Environmental Awareness Material issues according to Impacts and responsibility / GRI standard / the matrix SDGs influence of Austrian Post internal performance indicators Climate protection As a logistics company, Austrian Post has GRI 302: Energy and energy direct and indirect (e.g. via partner companies) GRI 305: Emissions environmental impacts. Effects on the climate and air quality particularly arise from operating vehicles and the use of energy in operating postal service points, logistics centres, delivery bases and office buildings in Austria Resource efficiency As a logistics company, Austrian Post has GRI 301: Materials direct and indirect (e.g. via partner companies) GRI 302: Energy environmental impacts. The conscious use and GRI 306: Effluents and Waste handling of natural resources, for example energy and waste, is a matter of course for Austrian Post in order to further reduce nega­ tive impacts Responsible Austrian Post also assumes its responsibili­ GRI 204: Procurement Practices procurement ty in the supply chain based on a responsible GRI 205: Anti-corruption and primarily regional procurement. The aim GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior is to keep negative environmental and social GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment impacts to a minimum GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Material Topics _____ 32 Just for me. Austrian Post ECONOMY CLOSE Austrian Post is Strongly Committed. To Meeting Customer Needs. TO THE CUSTOMER Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 33 In order to prepare for the future, Austrian Post is making massive investments in its infrastructure 2019 was a record-­ breaking year: ­Austrian Post transported 127 million parcels – up by 18%. Strategic Partnership with DHL In 2019, competitors became partners: As the number one on the Austrian parcels market, Austrian Post has entered into a trail-blazing strategic partnership with Deutsche Post DHL Group. Austrian Post has been delivering DHL parcel shipments to ­private individuals in Austria since August 2019. The company took on approx­ imately 150 employees, ten delivery bases, three logistics centres and some 600 delivery rounds from DHL for this purpose. Vice versa, DHL is handling the delivery of corresponding items from Austria in Germany. This brings Austrian Post one step closer to reaching its IN LIGHT OF THE RAPID ­ delivery target of 150 million parcels in Austria by 2021. CHANGES taking place in the The two industry giants have also been collaborating on last-mile parmarkets, Austrian Post is cel deliveries in Slovakia and the Czech Republic since September. “The DHL group company PPL CZ s.r.o. gives us a professional partrelying on innovation, investner for the growing cross-border e-commerce business in the Czech ment in its capabilities and Republic, while our group company IN TIME s.r.o. is enabling us to generate ­additional parcel business in Slovakia”, said Carsten Wallcustomer relationships for the mann, Head of business unit Turkey & CEE Parcel. long-term expansion of its market leadership. With Digital and Analogue Austrian Post employees are now Offers delivering DHL parcels as well Moments of Happiness _____ 34 The acquisitions of adverserve and D2D were key On all Channels steps in the The Dialog Marketing Report 2019 estimaexpansion of this high-potential tes that EUR 7.1bn was spent on advertising in Austria. Although the strongest growth was seen in the business area. online channels, nearly 90% of the advertising market is still devoted to classic media, printed dialogue marketing material and various event formats. MarAndreas Thöni, Head of Strategy, keting managers and consumers alike continue to Digitalisation & Innovation regard non-digital communication channels as relevant for advertising. This makes finding the right combination of online and offline communication all the more important for companies that advertise. “This is exactly where we see our future”, explained Thomas Auböck, Head of business unit Key and Business Accounts, Mail & Branch Network Division. “Building on our market leadership in the classic printed advertising ­brochure market, we have continually expanded our competence in the field of digital advertising in order to offer advertisers customer-centric, nationwide, efficient and performance-oriented marketing via both online and offline channels.” In this context, Austrian Post has defined four objectives which it is using to integrate relevant megatrends into its offer strategy on the advertising market while relying on new, data-driven business models and the expansion of performance-oriented markeJulia Seidler, Campaign ting solutions using a variety of channels. Further development of innovations for Management FOUR classic advertising productions Tapping new advertising channels and advertising channels exclusive to Austrian Post Data-driven marketing Scaling of performance-oriented 360° marketing and new, data-driven business models strategic objectives for the advertising market. The majority acquisitions completed in 2019 at the subsidiaries adverserve and D2D are an important step in this strategic alignment. Austrian Post has significantly enhanced its competence in the field of digital advertising as a result. KUVERT is delivered reliably to Austria’s letterboxes twice a week Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 35 Yard Logistics of the Future The future of parcel logistics in practice is already visible today at the Austrian Post logistics site in Vienna Inzersdorf. After presenting numerous innovative solutions for the “last mile” over the course of the past several years, Austrian Post is now shifting the focus to autonomous POST@ yard logistics. In Inzersdorf, the company is testing an autonomous veINSIGHT hicle developed together with the Austrian Institute of Technology (AIT) Parcels are for the transport of containers at logistics sites. growing steadily in importance. The autonomous transfer vehicle independently brings so-called swap bodies from their parking places the gates and docks them there automatically. In future, the transfer vehicle will be powered by an electric drive, substantially reducing carbon, pollution and noise emissions during positioning of swap bodies. Automation will reduce stress on the employees, increase frequency and optimise safety and resource efficiency. The new solution is also driving digitalisation: Orders issued via “slips of paper and voice radio” are turning into plannable, digitalised processes. The future is also making itself felt in the unloading process for the containers: As part of an innovation project unique throughout Europe, Ibrahim Saleh, Parcel Logistics Employee ­Austrian Post and the start-up PHS have developed a mobile unit and a stationary unit which, when connected with each other, permit automaThe Flyer as ted unloading. Known as the rapid unloader, this fast, automated and economic system cuts parcel unloading times in half and takes the stress Advertising off the employees. The solution has been in full operation in the HagenMedium brunn logistics centre since August 2019. Half of those surveyed who could remember being influenced to make a purchase from bricksIn the current year we are and-mortar retailers said it evaluating the environmental was a flyer that triggered their purchasing decision. The flyer impact of the advertising is the most important advertising medium KUVERT and the medium in this context. Austrian Post commercial flyer 41 throughout the course of % the product lifecycle in order to derive suitable sustainability of companies expect to increase measures. their expenditures for dialogue markeManuela Bruck, Head of Corporate Communications, ting online by 2022 * Customer Initiatives and Customer Service 66 % of those surveyed share Autonomous yard logistics accelerate processes and take the stress off employees. information from flyers and brochures with friends and family * * Source: Dialog Marketing Report 2019 Moments of Happiness _____ 36 Quickly, securely and easily – that’s how parcels should reach customers. 507t of parcels are transported by Austrian Post on average per day. Austrian Post registered a new record in Adrian But, Parcel Carrier the number of parcels delivered in 2019 Capacity Offensive in Parcel Logistics Austrian Post transported 127 million parcels alone last year – 18% more than in the prior year. In light of the rapidly growing volume of parcels, Austrian Post is continually investing in its parcel logistics. In addition to ongoing optimisation and increasing of sorting capacity, investments in the 2019 financial year focused primarily on the new sites in Hagenbrunn, Kalsdorf and Thalgau. Austrian Post is also The new logistics centre in Hagenbrunn in Lower Austria has been in full setting new environmental operation since September. The state-of-the-art facility on 70,000 m2 protection standards is able to handle 13,500 parcels per hour with 20 swap body entrance gates, 20 truck gates and 26 swap body exit gates. During the peak in Hagenbrunn with an Christmas season, 200 employees in three shifts prepared approximately 200 delivery rounds or some 240,000 parcels per day. in-house photovoltaic facility, LEDs and an Austrian Post chose the site in the Styrian city of Kalsdorf for Austria’s newest and largest parcel centre due to the excellent transport environmental manageconnections and proximity to Graz. The company is creating some 280 jobs at the centre on just under 100,000 m2. The ground-breaking ment system as well ceremony was held in March 2019, and completion is scheduled for as a shuttle bus for mid-2020. With investments of some EUR 60m, Austrian Post is creating sorting capacities for up to 13,500 parcels per hour. This will give employees. it the ability to process increasing volumes of parcels at the same high quality as now. Robert Modliba, Head of business unit Operations Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 37 POST@INSIGHT Post City Linz Sustainability aspects play A miniature city in the heart of Linz. Post City Linz, a pivotal role in Post City Linz. currently being constructed at the former site of the Austrian Post logistics centre near the main train station, is designed to become a model city district for the Upper Austrian capital in the coming years. In future, some 5,500 persons will live, shop and work on the approximately 4-hectare area with its ideal transportation connections. According to Michael Ullrich, Head of business unit Group Real Estate, sustainability aspects and smart city activities play a key role here: “Our concept integrates a wide range of contemporary and Post City Linz is planned future-proof solutions. These extend from innovative climate to be a new flagship district façade solutions and green roof areas, open free spaces and green zones to promote urban beauty and facilitate micro-climate management, as well as sustainable power, cooling and Our concept integrates heating solutions and mobility ­concepts for pedestrian and bicycle traffic all the way to a planned city district app that a wide range of will function like a digital concierge service for specific properties”. Following an EU-wide, two-stage competition for contemporary and future-proof its ambitious project, Austrian Post selected the draft by the architecture firm Nussmüller Architekten ZT GmbH in solutions. Graz. “Our goal was to connect attractive living and shopping spaces and modern office and commercial areas with appealing green spaces and open areas”, explained Harald Engelke, Michael Ullrich, Head of business unit who is the Head of Project Development. “We have found a Group Real Estate visionary solution now.” Construction is scheduled to begin in late 2021. © Nussmüller/Mathy The new city district has a little bit of everything: ­living space, work areas and entertainment offers. Robert Coric, Digital Advertising Services and Moments of Happiness _____ Kathrin Pulides, POS Marketing & Visual Merchandising 38 The Customer in Focus at Austrian Post’s Services Selfservice zone Post office Delivery staff Pick-up box Pick-up station Customer Signature release authorisaPostal tion partner Preferred A neighbour B C A Contact from home B Austrian Post service centres C  The future: Austrian Post “is keeping pace” with the customer, it is moving closer to their everyday life. Everything will become easier for the customer. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 39 Economy  Profound changes characterise the business environment in which Austrian Post operates. Austrian Post continuously monitors and analyses the underlying conditions in order to be able to optimally respond to change and adapts its targets accordingly. Trends and Challenges  96.3 % of all parcels are delivered within two GRI 102-15 working days. Progressive digitalisation, growing competitive pressure and the internationalisation of markets are leading to changes in the marketplace. These trends pose major challenges for the entire logistics sector and thus for Austrian Post as well. The company is actively adapt­ ing to these changes in order to safeguard its long-term economic success. Digitalisation is resulting in a decrease in letter mail volumes. Austrian Post is opening up new business areas to compensate for the loss of revenue from the letter mail business. New growth opportunities are posed by the growing online business and increasing volume of parcels. At the same time, Austrian Post is creating innovative digital solutions to continue fulfilling future customer needs as effectively as possible. In addition to factor cost increases as well as economic and market developments, the development of staff costs is one of the external influencing and success factors Austrian Post has to deal with in the short term and long term. In essence, the trends impacting Austrian Post and the challenges they pose can be summarised as follows: E-SUBSTITUTION – PRESSURE ON THE CORE BUSINESS Austrian Post creates innovative digital solutions Communication is becoming more digitalised, and and service offers. the letter mail business is declining. Austrian Post has to offset this loss of revenue by means of new and lucra­ tive sources of income. GROWING COMPETITIVE PRESSURE Private customer parcel volumes are rising thanks to the steadily growing importance of online commerce. However, competition is also intensifying. Economy _____ 40 Management Approach of This strategic direction is in line with material Austrian Post topics identified by stakeholders within the context of the materiality analysis in the focus area of the economy: GRI 103-1, 103-2 Austrian Post is resolutely defending its leading Growth and value creation position in Austria and aims to profitably grow in the Innovation and future technologies markets it has defined. To ensure its future success, Aus­ Service and customer orientation trian Post continually invests in the expansion and mod­ ernisation of its infrastructure and working processes. In Austrian Post relies on new, innovative business addition, it pursues an attractive dividend policy for the ideas and the implementation of efficiency enhancement benefit of its shareholders. programmes as a means of generating growth and value Austrian Post seeks to fulfil the growing demands creation and being able to offer attractive dividends to of all its customers. Innovations therefore play an espe­ its shareholders. cially important role. The focus is always on one ques­ For additional information on the material issues tion: How can added value for senders be increased and in the focus area of the economy and their connection to comfort improved for recipients? In answering this ques­ the SDGs, please see page 18. tion, Austrian Post benefits from operating in close prox­ imity to its customers and being aware of their wishes and expectations. This knowledge enables Austrian Post Achievements in 2019 and to develop suitable offerings and services. It ensures the company’s competitiveness and increases customer Targets for 2020 satisfaction. GRI 103-3 The economic objectives of Austrian Post were defined for the entire Group. For this reason, the target achievement assessment incorporates Group data. Overview of Economic Objectives T 09 Main Target → Further Develop the Sustainable Business Model of Austrian Post  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 8 The target of achieving Group revenue of Continued stable Group revenue in 2020 Continued stable Group revenue in 2019 EUR 2bn was achieved in spite of a challenging (revenue of EUR 2bn in 2019) (revenue of EUR 2bn in 2018) business environment SDG 8 Measures were continuously implemented Ongoing optimisation of structures and pro­ Ongoing optimisation of structures and again in 2019 to optimise structures, increase cesses to further reduce costs and increase processes to further reduce costs and enhance efficiency and reduce costs. As a result, efficiency efficiency the Austrian Post Group generated an EBITDA margin of 15.8% in the year under review SDG 8 At EUR 200.6m the Austrian Post EBIT in 2019 Target of generating stable operating earn­ Target of generating stable operating earn­ was 4.9% below that of the previous year ings (EBIT) at the level of 2019 (2019 EBIT of ings (EBIT) at the level of 2018 (2018 EBIT of EUR 200.6m) EUR 210.9m) SDG 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 Increased focus on sustainable character of product innovations, in particular with regard to social and environmental dimensions Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 41 T 10 Main Target → Focus on Customers and Innovations  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 8, 11 Promotion of online services such as the Ongoing promotion of online services such as Promotion of online services such as the Post app, Postcard App and online parcel stamp the Post app and e-letter Post app and e-letter SDG 8, 11 Implementation of various IT projects to increase user-friendliness of different online service offers (homepage, Post app, AllesPost etc.) SDG 8, 11 45,633 Post pick-up boxes are at the disposal Expansion of Post pick-up boxes to a total of Medium-term doubling of of customers 50,000 by 2020 self-service solutions 66,464 post office boxes at pick-up stations Expansion to 78,000 post office boxes at pick-up stations by 2020 413 self-service zones are at the disposal of Further expansion of self-service zones customers Growth and Value Creation Disclosure Project (CDP) and was added to the CDP Climate Change A List. This and other ESG ratings show GRI 201-1, SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 that Austrian Post is already operating in a sustainable Those who want to generate sustainable value manner from a capital market perspective. have to operate in an economically sound and profita­ Since full-scale market liberalisation took effect in ble manner. Austrian Post sees significant opportunities Austria, Österreichische Post AG has been a universal ser­ for the entire company in the sustainable orientation vices provider, guaranteeing the supply of high-­quality of its business activities. In 2019 Austrian Post received postal services throughout the country. Öster­reichische the best possible mark – an A rating – from the Carbon Post AG generates about 88% of Group revenue. Together with its Group companies, Austrian Post is also active in Germany and Southeastern and Eastern Europe Martina Supper, International in the fields of Mail and Branch Network as well as Parcel Business Development and Logistics. Solid revenue development, sustainably high prof­ itability and the continuation of the attractive dividend policy are the declared goals of Austrian Post. The targets relating to the environment, society and employees have a positive impact on the influencing factors of sustainable profitability, such as employee satisfaction and energy efficiency. What’s more, only an economically successful company can fulfil its social responsibility. Fundamentally, Austrian Post believes that sustainably successful busi­ ness management must take account of both financial and non-financial aspects and contribute to value creation. More information on the business model and the strategy of Austrian Post can be found in the Annual Report 2019.  refer to the ratings on p. 19, and Austrian Post at a Glance, p. 14 refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 06f, 08ff, 10ff Austrian Post relies on sustainable growth and new areas of business in order to remain successful in the future. Economy _____ 42 Analysis of Value Creation GRI 201-1, SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 Austrian Post pursues the goal of generating sustainable added value on behalf of its stakeholders and society as a whole. The value generated by the company in 2019 consisted of the following: T 11 Analysis of Value Creation  Österreichische Post AG 1 Austrian Post Group 2 EUR m 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 ORIGIN Revenue and other operating income 1,881.6 1,862.4 1,945.8 2,051.60 2,054.6 2,153.0 less advances –691.1 –705.3 –830.3 –798.8 –822.9 –965.7 thereof materials and purchased services –346.8 –361.9 –392.5 –409.9 –441.2 –473.3 thereof other operating expenses –286.8 –274.2 –370.4 –316.1 –287.1 –374.4 thereof depreciation and amortisation –57.6 –69.1 –67.5 –86.8 –94.5 –118.1 ADDED VALUE 1,190.4 1,157.1 1,115.5 1,252.80 1,231.8 1,187.3 DISTRIBUTION to employees (salaries, social contributions) 983.7 935.7 912.2 1,023.40 1,011.9 980.1 to shareholders (dividends) 138.5 140.5 140.5 3 138.5 140.5 140.5 3 to the Republic of Austria (taxes) 53.8 62.9 57.5 59.4 65.1 61.6 to creditors (interest) 0.4 2.4 0.2 0.3 1.0 4.7 Balance 14.0 15.6 5.1 31.3 13.2 0.3 ADDED VALUE 1,190.4 1,157.1 1,115.5 1,252.80 1,231.8 1,187.3 1 Pursuant to Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) 2 Pursuant to IFRS 3 Proposal to the Annual General Meeting on 16 April 2020 The revenue of EUR 2,153.0m generated by Aus­ of Österreichische Post AG amounting to EUR 140.5m trian Post in 2019 (incl. other operating income) was offset (subject to approval by the Annual ­General Meeting by advances in the amount of EUR 965.7m. The resulting on 16 April 2020). Moreover, EUR 61.6m was paid to the added value of Austrian Post totalling EUR 1,187.3m was Republic of Austria as taxes and duties. mainly distributed to employees directly in the form of wages and salaries and indirectly via social contributions. Payments of the Republic of Austria The total amount assigned to employees was EUR 980.1m. to Österreichische Post AG refer to the Annual Report 2019 p. 111ff for more information about the earnings situation GRI 201-1, SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 Österreichische Post AG benefits from public sector Payments of Österreichische Post AG funding for individual projects, and also actively partici­ to the Republic of Austria pates in projects funded by the European Commission, such as “Smarter Together”. The support and know-how of the GRI 201-1, SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 Climate and Energy Fund, the Austrian Research Promotion For the 2019 financial year, the majority Agency, the Vienna Business Agency and other government owner (52.85%) of Österreichische Post AG, namely funding bodies enables Österreichische Post AG to imple­ Öster­reichische Beteiligungs AG – ÖBAG, will receive ment projects featuring a high level of research and innova­ EUR 74.3m in dividends from the total dividend payout tion and/or relevance to environmental protection. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 43 The objective of several mobility projects is to fur­ ther expand climate-friendly mobility solutions in the form of e-vehicle fleets. These projects are financed largely by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Union and the Federal Ministry for Sustainability and Tourism. Austrian Post has created a central funding man­ agement unit to optimally support project managers. As a competent internal and external contact partner, the company provides assistance on everything from applica­ tion submission to the invoicing of project costs. 6.1 % smartertogether.at Dividend Policy GRI 201-1, SDG 5, 7, 8, 9 dividend yield An attractive dividend policy is not only a key cor­ nerstone of the company’s investment story, but also the foundation of its entire corporate philosophy. At least 75% of the Group’s net profit should be distributed to share­ holders each year. For the 2019 financial year, the Man­ agement Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 16 April 2020, the distribution of a dividend totalling EUR 140.5m (EUR 2.08 per share) to shareholders In order to meet the expectations of it as a ­service for approval. company, Austrian Post is continually expanding or improv­ The dividend policy of Austrian Post is based ing its services on the basis of internal R&D measures. on a solid business model and strong cash flow from Moreover, Austrian Post consistently works on optimising operating activities. Austrian Post generated earnings its processes and procedures. New innovative solutions of EUR 201m in 2019. Despite comprehensive maintenance are explored and developed either in-house or together investments the operating free cash flow remained on with cooperation partners. In many cases, this leads to new a high level and thus forms a solid base on which the com­ market standards for the entire logistics sector. pany will be able to make investments and pay dividends Innovation at Austrian Post is driven by an interplay in the future. At the end of 2019, the dividend yield was of central management and decentralised innovation teams 6.1%. Accordingly, Austrian Post has ranked among the in the business areas responsible for the products and most attractive dividend stocks both in Austria and inter­ services. The newly created central innovation management nationally in recent years. underscores the relevance of research and development for corporate management. It serves as a partner to the business areas for digital transformation and bases its Innovation and Future activities on identifying market needs and future trends Technologies in a timely manner and ensuring Austrian Post’s long-term competitiveness through appropriate initiatives. GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 203-1, SDG 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 In addition to its own development activities, The market in which Austrian Post operates is Austrian Post has also been cooperating with reputable continually changing. In this dynamic environment, the Austrian universities, universities of applied sciences development and launch of innovative products and the and other research facilities for a long time. Key partners expansion of the portfolio to include new business areas include the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG), are essential keys to sustainable success. Austrian Post the Climate and Energy Fund and the Vienna Economic therefore continuously works on complementing and Chamber. The objective of this collaboration is to ­further improving its products and services, optimising its exist­ intensify its focus on innovation and to be able to rely ing processes and work flows and opening up completely on sound scientific research findings in the ­development new business areas. of products and services. When it comes to innovation, Economy _____ 44 413 self-service zones throughout Austria. Customers can pack, stamp and send their post 24 / 7 in the Austrian Post self-service zones. ­key factors include investment in state-of-the-art tech­ Service and Customer nologies and continual improvement and expansion of the Austrian Post infrastructure. The investments and inno­ Orientation vations are not limited to property, plant and equipment GRI 103-1, 103-2 but are also designed to improve everyday working life. Austrian Post is well acquainted with the wishes Austrian Post is establishing modern and up-to-date and expectations of its customers, which has proven to working models to ensure that it can operate efficiently be a key cornerstone of its success. Only when a company and economically both now and in future. knows what its customers want it can offer innovative and The company is always looking for funding oppor­ customer-oriented services and thus achieve entrepre­ tunities, both for innovations and investments. The CSR neurial success in the long term. & Environmental Management department advises and In line with its guiding principle “Everything we do supports all the relevant business areas here as well as revolves around our customers”, Austrian Post focuses coordinating R&D tax credits. on the needs of its customers and steadily works on new Additional information is available in the Non-­ products and services which respond to current cus­ financial Report. tomer requirements for greater flexibility in a pinpointed  refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 53 manner. The emphasis is placed on customer conveni­ ence and service quality on the basis of flexible delivery concepts and online solutions as the answer to changing customer demands and the general shift in the market. These services include the Post app, which can be used to redirect parcels for pick-up in branch offices for example or to deliver e-letters. In 2019 and 2020 Austrian Post Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 45 has set itself the goal of integrating current online solu­ The average CSI value for Austrian Post this year was 70 tions into a modern IT environment in order to make them points. That is the company’s best result since it began even ­easier for customers to use. The company is using a measuring customer satisfaction. Austrian Post is very “release train” for this purpose, a modern project planning proud of this score. Its initial result was 64 points in 2011. technique that increases transparency regarding interde­ Customer service plays a key role in customer pendent process steps and positively impacts the success ­satisfaction. Austrian Post offers all customers the oppor­ of the project as a whole, thus facilitating agile project tunity to get in contact via e-mail, contact form or Face­ planning. The priorities for the various project sub-sec­ book. Several thousand inquiries related to data privacy tions, known as “sprints”, are determined in a democratic information were sent to Austrian Post Customer Service grassroots approach involving all project participants. This in 2019. All of these inquiries were answered in a timely is made possible through visualisation of project inter­ manner. dependencies, which clearly show how sub-projects can positively or negatively impact one another. Customer Satisfaction GRI 102-43, 102-44, 103-3 Austrian Post always strives to offer its custom­ ers all services, be it new ideas and innovative services or standard offerings, in the best quality possible. This approach pays off, as illustrated by constantly good customer satisfaction levels. Customer satisfaction was measured on a quarterly basis during the reporting period by the renowned Institute for Empirical Social Studies (IFES). The “Customer Satisfaction Index” (CSI) encom­ passing customer satisfaction and customer loyalty is determined by means of a representative survey with a sample size of n = 2,000 per wave. Measuring customer satisfaction in accordance with the CSI scale considers 50 index points or less to represent a critical level and 51 to 60 points as moder­ ately content, whereas a score of more than 61 points is considered to be good and higher than 70 means very good. An outstanding level of customer satisfaction is from 81 points up to the highest possible score of 100. Customer Satisfaction 2019  70 82 82 % % rated the mail rated the parcel points – the delivery staff as “very delivery staff as “very average CSI value good” or “excellent” good” or “excellent” Economy _____ 46 Quiet and environmentally friendly: cargo bicycles are good for the environment and take the pressure off of cities. Sustainability on the Last Mile In the public discussion on city logistics in Vienna, providers of courier, express and parcel services (CEP) are regularly blamed for the general traffic overload. A study by the Institute for Transport and Logistics Management at the Vienna University of Economics and Business has shown, however, “that CEP service providers contribute far less to overall traffic than is repeatedly claimed. What is more: In comparison to other sectors, parcel logistics are efficient, sustainable and environmentally friendly”, said Stefan Heiglauer, Head of business unit Parcel & Therese Kränkl, Investor Relations Logistics for Austria. CEP service providers in Vienna With make up just 0.8% of overall traffic. At 6%, the share of delivery vehicles from skilled trades and technical firms is approximately seven times as high. The majority (86.5%) is composed of passenger cars, which also Purposeful take up most of the parking spaces. Environmental Awareness AS A LEADING LOGISTICS AND POSTAL SERVICES PROVIDER, Austrian Post bears special ­responsibility for the environment. It is there­fore reducing green­house gas emissions, energy consumption and residual waste as well as raising awareness among POST@INSIGHT Austrian Post places great employees for environmental emphasis on resource conservation and environmental protection. issues. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 47 Just for me. Austrian Post ENVIRONMENT QUALI TY OF LIFE Our Goal: Rapid Delivery that Protects the Climate and Conserves Resources. Moments of Happiness _____ 48 Magdalena Dannerer, The great advantage of Branch Office Employee our city hub concept is that thanks to the intelligent bike alternative, our employees can deliver almost Our branch office staff are happy to assist with the same number of parcels your questions as with classic delivery. Stefan Heiglauer, Head of business unit Parcel & Logistics for Austria “These findings will have no impact on our efforts to consistently improve sustainability on the last mile as well. We see enormous potential in conversion to e-powered vehicles”, said Robert Modliba, Head of business unit Operations. These vehicles also play a key role in the “City Hub Vienna” project. Over a POST@INSIGHT three-month period in 2019, Austrian Post tested The “last mile” is the final parcel delivery from centrally located “city hubs” via leg of delivery to the customer. e-cargo bikes in Vienna’s third district. The delivery staff started out from these hubs on e-cargo bikes and brought the pre-sorted parcels to their recipients in an environmentally friendly manner. This alternative transport method reduces both carbon emissions and noise pollution. As a result of the well-designed concept, it proved possible to deliver the same volume of parcels via cargo bike as with a parcel delivery vehicle during the test phase. The project was funded by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology and implemented by Schieneninfrastruktur-Dienstleistungsgesellschaft mbH as part of the “logistics advancement” programme. 3 Austrian Post tested the city hub concept in Vienna for three months. Fast delivery has utmost priority. Adrian But, Parcel Carrier Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 49 1,750 All parcels in Austria are delivered carbon neutral is the number of e-vehicles in the Österreichische Post AG fleet in 2019. Carbon-Neutral Delivery Approximately a decade ago, Austrian Post launched the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative to deliver all letters, parcels, magaHIGH zines and direct mail items in Austria in a carbon-neutral manner. In addition to increased efficiency and compensation, the main focus of company measures is the use of alternative technologies. Continual LIGHT expansion of e-mobility on the last mile to the destination plays a key role here. Austrian Post purchased 249 Renault KANGOOs in 2018 and 2019 for this purpose. This makes Europe’s top-selling electric utility vehicle the The “Green Graz” project is also heart and soul of the Austrian Post e-fleet, which comprises a total contributing to this aim. of 1,750 vehicles. “Our four photovoltaic plants are already generating clean energy that can be used to supply our entire e-fleet”, said Franz Austrian Post is seeking to make Leitner, Head of Transport & Services. “With the largest e-fleet in the the capital of the Austrian state country, we are the industry trailblazer and demonstrating that we are serious about pursing our strategic goal of emission-free delivery on of Styria the first city in the country the last mile by 2030”, says Leitner with pride. to enjoy 100% emission-free delivery of parcels by August 2021. By the end of 2021, Austrian Post plans to implement: complete usage of small electric trucks in all city districts of Graz first-time  usage of electric vans in delivery expansion of integrated and shortdistance logistics in city areas followed by parcel and letter delivery for Graz from Kalsdorf Our customers are fully dedicated too. Moments of Happiness _____ 50 The Future: Green Events Even the invitations for the Austrian Post 2019 Christmas party made it clear that the Christmas tree decorations wouldn’t be the only thing green at the event for more than 1,300 attendees. From climate-friendly arrival by public transport or shuttle service all the way to regional catering and the central location of the venue, Austrian Post put a great deal of effort into ensuring that the party would be a “green event”. Two Austrian Post events were awarded with this certificate during the reporting period. Starting immediately, the company has voluntarily committed itself to the goal of organising all events in an environmentally friendly manner and having its largest events – such as the annual kick-off, the Christmas party, the “Prospekt Award” and the Annual General Meeting – certified as “green events” with the Austrian Ecolabel. The Ecolabel for green meetings and green events has been a seal of quality for environmentally conscious management and social responsibility since 2012. The Austrian The following criteria are crucial for the planning and execution Ecolabel for of green events and are to green events has be implemented for all Austrian Post events: been the quality  CLIMATE PROTECTION AND MOBILITY seal for environguaranteeing arrival by public transport, as clearly stated in the invitation mentally conscious  PROCUREMENT, MATERIAL MANAGevents since 2012. MENT AND WASTE MANAGEMENT waste separation, reusable dishware, returnable bottles, ground coffee, Ingeborg Gratzer, Head of Press unwrapped give-aways Relations & Internal Communication  EVENT VENUE energy efficiency, waste management concept  MEALS environmentally certified catering, regional goods, vegetarian options  ENERGY AND WATER green electricity, energy-efficient equipment, water-saving sanitary facilities  SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY accessibility, balanced participant management, inclusion of NGOs  COMMUNICATION email invitations, reusable productions, reusable table displays, communication regarding green 2020 measures, resource-friendly printing Kick-off Event Waltraud Kugler and Claudia Weichselbaum, on environmental paper Event Management Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 51 FOR GREATER Post Prospekt Award Show 2019 QUALI TY OF LIFE “Green” Poldis The Post Prospekt Award Show 2019 in October was one of the “green events” certified by the Austrian POST@INSIGHT Ecolabel. During the event, Austrian Post awarded the most popular flyers with “Golden Poldis”. The Environmental management systems are validated annually. total of 24 awardees in various categories had been previously selected from a short list of 68 flyers by 44,100 consumers. Among other things, the consumers Certified Environmental also chose the most popular flyers in the category Management System of “sustainability”. The focus in this category was on the contents of the flyers such as energy-saving Austrian Post accords great importance to envimeasures or renewable energies. Advertisers will also ronmental protection and sustainability and has integrated be able to submit sustainably produced flyers for them into the organisation as part of a regulated managethe next awards show. ment process. The environmental management system introduced in 2016 and certified in accordance with ISO 14001 is an important tool here. The international standard ISO 14001 lays out requirements for an environmental management system with which every organisation can reduce its environmental impact, fulfil legal and other obligations and reach its environmental goals. The focus of the management process is on increasing environmental awareness among employees and reducing energy consumption and residual waste. One example of activities designed to increase awareness is the environ“Post am Rochus” mental contest that the Austrian Post Group company in Vienna Medien.Zustell GmbH organised with operations-related 380 quiz questions about the environment and awards for the most innovative ideas for operational environmental protection. Following certification of the logistics centres in Vienna Inzersdorf, Wernberg and the Group company Medien.Zustell GmbH, the company also had the new distribution centre in Hagenbrunn certified in accordance with ISO 14001 in 2019. In the interest of continual improvement of its environmental management systems, Austrian Post has them validated annually by a certified auditor from TÜV Austria. During the current year of 2020, it plans to have the the number of events Austrian Post holds per year. corporate headquarters “Post am Rochus” certified as well. Moments of Happiness _____ 52 The Environment in Focus 649 electric bikes * 428 electric mopeds * 673  electric vehicles up to 3.5t * 1,750 electric vehicles in total * * Österreichische Post AG Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 53 Environment  As a logistics company, Austrian Post has a special responsibility to the environment. To fulfil this responsibility, Austrian Post constantly analyses current developments and challenges and adapts 10 % its measures and targets accordingly. more electric vehicles at Österreichische Post AG Trends and Challenges  than last year. GRI 102-15, 103-2 The logistics sector is an important growth market: increasing globalisation is leading to a rise in international trade. E-commerce is booming as well, and with it, the volume of parcels. As a consequence, demand for logistics services and innovative solutions is growing. Austrian Post is closely monitoring this development, since it affects more than just its business success: the logistics solutions offered by Austrian Post connect people, regions and countries, create jobs and generate added value. The busi­ ness activities also have effects on the environment and climate, especially due to emissions of climate-changing greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. Given these conditions, the task for Austrian Post With 1,750 single and multi-track electric vehicles, Austrian Post currently has the largest fleet of e-vehicles in the country. is twofold: as one of the country’s flagship companies, Austrian Post believes it bears a special responsibility to actively help in efforts to achieve national climate protec­ tion targets. The central challenge and task for Austrian Post, as one of the largest logistics companies in the country, is not only to reduce climate-changing green­ house gases like carbon dioxide but to also avoid them to LOCAL EMISSIONS – E-MOBILITY AND the greatest possible extent. This in turn should minimise A MODERN VEHICLE FLEET environmental impacts as far as possible – despite the Logistics services have to be provided in a pin­ growing transport volume due to the e-commerce boom. pointed and timely manner – with as little environmental There are also environmental megatrends which burden (dust, noise, NOx) as possible. impact Austrian Post and its business operations and pose challenges: ENERGY TRANSITION AND CONSEQUENCES – ECOLOGICALISATION OF ENERGY SOURCING GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE – TAKING RESPONSIBILITY The necessary energy transition motivates large Climate change affects us all and imposes obli­ logistics companies such as Austrian Post to save energy gations on us all. Austrian Post has therefore set itself and purchase green electricity. a scientifically based carbon reduction target. The aim is to contribute to the Paris climate protection goal of holding global warming to no more than 2 °C and to limit global warming to less than 2 °C. Environment _____ 54 SHORTAGE OF RESOURCES – INCREASE Risks relating to carbon emissions arise from IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY technology and emissions trading. A financial risk arises Long-term price increases for resources require in emissions trading should prices of emission certifi­ the company to continually assess whether these cates increase. Unreliable or immature technologies could resources are being used efficiently enough. This issue is slow down the modernisation of the vehicle fleet, pre­ extremely important for Austrian Post, especially in the venting Austrian Post from achieving its climate targets. vehicle fleet. This in turn affects the reputation of Austrian Post, which has defined ambitious targets in its climate policies. URBANISATION – SMART CITY LOGISTICS SOLUTIONS In steadily growing cities with increasingly dense structures, postal service companies need new approaches Management Approach for transporting goods or mail items from one place to another. of Austrian Post GRI 103-1, 103-2 As a large logistics company, Austrian Post has a Environmental Risks responsibility to minimise the environmental impact of for Austrian Post its activities and to reduce its environmental footprint. Austrian Post has been consistently integrating climate GRI 102-15, 201-2 and environmental protection measures into its core The environment is shaped by a wide variety of business for many years and has also established a series events that cannot be predicted precisely. Environmental of Groupwide environmental protection measures. These risks impacting Austrian Post primarily arise from natural are tailored to reflect the material topics defined within influences. These include the physical consequences of the context of its dialogue with stakeholders. They are climate change, such as weather effects. Transitory risks designed to minimise environmental risks and optimally such as normative changes, economic influences and exploit opportunities: slowly advancing technological developments also affect the activities of Austrian Post. For this reason, the GroupClimate protection and energy wide risk management system deals with potential envi­ Resource efficiency ronmental risks which could arise for the company. The  Responsible procurement precise environmental risks arising from Austrian Post’s business operations are explained in greater detail in the For more information on the key environmental Annual Report. issues and their relation to the Sustainable Development refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 59 Goals (SDGs), see page 31. Physical Climate Risks Climate change and the related acute effects on Achievements in 2019 and the weather impact the infrastructure in Austria. This can in turn lead to detours, interruptions and delays Targets for 2020 in freight transport and delivery services. If weather GRI 103-3 extremes cause the company to be unable to guarantee Austrian Post considers efforts in the area of nationwide postal services over a given period of time, environmental protection to be an ongoing process. It has additional financial obligations could result. Austrian defined the goal of protecting the climate and conserving Post’s properties could also be impacted more frequently resources. It also intends to further strengthen environ­ in the future as a result of severe weather effects such mental awareness within the company. Austrian Post as flooding, mudslides and damage caused by hail. manages and evaluates its performance and progress on the basis of its specified main targets and the derived Transitory Climate Risks measures: all indicators relating to the environment can A further risk lies in the amendment, tightening or be found starting on page 105. new enactment of environmental legislation. These can sometimes lead to substantial investments. Higher taxes or increasing energy costs triggered by a shortfall of natu­ ral resources could also result in higher costs. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 55 Overview of Environmental Targets T 12 Main Target → Protect the Climate and Conserve Resources  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 13 The carbon emissions of Österreichische Post AG Continuation of the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY Continuation of the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY and their compensation were confirmed by initiative initiative and evaluation of expanding it to Group TÜV Austria again in 2019. No expansion will be companies undertaken until further notice due to strategic Evaluation of an Austrian Post forest protection decisions or reforestation project SDG 13 Carbon emissions of Österreichische Post AG Calculation of a new science-based target for Science-based carbon reduction target: reduc­ increased by 9.3% due to rising parcel volumes maximum global warming of 1.5 °C tion of carbon emissions by 14% by 2025 (base (in particular also due to assumption of volumes year: 2013) and evaluation of carbon reduction from DHL) (base year: 2013). No expansion to targets for Group companies Group companies will be undertaken until further ­notice due to strategic decisions SDG 9, 13 1,750 electric vehicles were in use at Öster­ Deployment of 100% electric vehicles for all Deployment of 100% electric vehicles for all reichische Post AG at the end of 2019, or 19.5% delivery operations (last mile) by 2030 delivery operations (last mile) by 2030 of all delivery vehicles By 2022 all mail and parcel deliveries in Graz 100% “green mail delivery” takes place in Eisen­ will shift from diesel-powered ­vehicles to 100% stadt. “Green” delivery services apply to more electric vehicles than 90% of letter and direct mail items in Vien­ na, Wiener Neustadt and St. Pölten. In the other provincial capitals, 60 – 80% of all mail items are delivered using “green” methods. The “Green” mail delivery” will be extended ­successively to rural areas SDG 7 Implementation of 25 energy efficiency measures Additional energy efficiency measures at Further implementation of energy efficiency in the categories of lighting, room heating, elec­ Österreichische Post AG and its Group compa­ measures at Österreichische Post AG and its tricity measurement and water heating at Öster­ nies based on the energy audit Group companies and performance of a Group­ reichische Post AG and its Group companies wide energy audit Performance of a Groupwide energy audit with a focus on buildings, vehicle fleet and transport logistics SDG 9 Recycling management was reorganised at the Implementation of optimisation and quality as­ Continued optimisation and quality assurance Österreichische Post AG Wernberg Logistics surance projects in additional logistics centres projects at Österreichische Post AG in the field Centre. Efficient disposal of recyclables was and delivery bases of Österreichische Post AG of waste and recycling management included during planning for the construction of the Hagenbrunn Logistics Centre SDG 7 The photovoltaic system on the roof of the new Construction of a new photovoltaic plant with Construction of a photovoltaic power plant on the Hagenbrunn Parcel Centre with 499 kWp was 499 kWp on the roof of the new parcel centre in roof of the new Hagenbrunn Parcel Centre and erected and commissioned at the end of 2019 Kalsdorf and planning of four further photovol­ exploration of other potential sites taic plants with a capacity of 1,521 kWp Preparation of a life-cycle assessment (LCA) in accordance with ISO 14040 for the Austrian Post advertising medium “Kuvert” to identify environ­ mentally intensive process steps. The value chain is to successively be made more environmentally friendly Environment _____ 56 T 13 Main Target → Strengthen Environmental Awareness  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 7, 9, 13 The Hagenbrunn Parcel Centre was successfully ISO 14001 certification of the corporate Preparation for ISO 14001 certification of two certified in accordance with ISO 14001 headquarters “Post am Rochus” other sites (the Hagenbrunn Logistics Centre and the corporate headquarters “Post am Rochus”) A concept was developed for the certification of the corporate headquarters “Post am Rochus” SDG 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16 The CSR INSIDE concept will be incorporated in Integrative and Groupwide process to revise Roll-out of the internal quality seal “CSR INSIDE” 2020 into an integrative and Groupwide process the sustainability strategy to certify projects and employees on the issue of to revise the sustainability strategy sustainability Conduct of an employee survey on the topic of sustainability SDG 3, 13 With more than 240 participants in the “Austria Continuation of the participation in the “Austria Internal promotion and nationwide participation Goes Biking” initiative, Austrian Post took second Goes Biking” initiative to enhance environmental in the “Austria Goes Biking” initiative to enhance place in the “Absolute number of participants” awareness and promote health environmental awareness and promote health category SDG 9, 11 A project concept to recycle working clothes The project to recycle working clothes which are Project to recycle working clothes which are which are no longer in use was developed no longer in use will take place in February or no longer in use March 2020 SDG 10, 11, 13 In 2019, one customer and one employee event All major events (annual kick-off, Christmas Application of the manual for sustainable each were carried out and certified as Green ­party, Post Prospekt Award Show, Annual events at Austrian Post events Events. The manual was applied for smaller General Meeting) are carried out and certified events as Green Events and the manual is applied for smaller events SDG 9 During the course of the project, eight bee Evaluation of expansion of the project to Pilot project for settling bee colonies in the colonies were settled on the green areas of the other sites logistics centre at Vienna Inzersdorf mail centre at Vienna and the first Austrian Post organic bee honey was harvested Climate Protection and Energy companies in Austria. In addition, the company operates four photovoltaic plants with output of around 2,000 GRI 103-2 kilowatt peak (kWp), another one with output of 499 kWp The CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative is at the is currently under construction, and four further systems centre of activities in the area of climate protection and with output of around 1,500 kWp are in the planning phase. energy. Within the context of the initiative launched in All the remaining unavoidable carbon emissions 2011, Austrian Post delivery of all mail items within Austria at this time are offset in a third step by support provided is carbon-neutral. The primary focus of the environmental to national and international climate protection projects. efforts is to continually and extensively reduce green­ These three steps have enabled the delivery of all mail house gas emissions (refer to the illustration p. 57). items by Österreichische Post AG within Austria to be car­ In this context, the first step is taking measures bon-neutral since the initial year 2011. This is confirmed to ensure greater efficiency in core processes. This each year by TÜV Austria. This has made Austrian Post a includes optimising energy efficiency of buildings and pioneer in this field both nationally and internationally. lighting and continually modernising the vehicle fleet. The CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative is sig­ However, the energy efficiency of technical infrastruc­ nificantly helping to heighten environmental awareness ture such as conveyor systems in the logistics centres is among employees, customers and other stakeholder also being analysed intensively and improved. groups. In the employee survey conducted every two years, The second step involves the use of alternative employees rate the carbon initiative as positive. It also forms of energy. Österreichische Post AG has been using contributes to identification with the company. only electricity from renewable energy sources since The initiative CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY is well 2012. Since the beginning of 2017, Austrian Post has been received not only by employees but also by the public. exclusively procuring renewable electricity from Austria, This is demonstrated by the high level of awareness in and since 2018, this has also been the case for all Group the customer satisfaction surveys conducted on this Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 57 Emissions Austrian Post has been able to reduce emissions by 2% compared to the year in which the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative was launched. Up to 2017, there were also yearly successes: emissions always fell in comparison with the previous year. The consistent and ongoing energy-­ saving measures implemented by Austrian Post and the increased use of alternative energies have resulted in a considerable reduction in emission levels. Despite numerous energy efficiency measures, Austrian Post was not able to significantly reduce the emis­ sions it causes in the past two years. In 2018, there was a slight increase in emissions again for the first time. This was The CO2 NEUTRAL primarily due to the strong growth in the parcel business. Emissions also climbed by 9.3% in 2019 in comparison to DELIVERY the base year. The strong growth in the parcel segment initiative consists (+82.5% in the period 2013 to 2019) and the larger parcel of three steps  volumes resulting from the acquisition of DHL increased the kilometres driven by Austrian Post. This led to higher energy consumption in the vehicle fleet and thus to more carbon emissions. 1.  fficiency increases in core processes E Key indicators as well as further information on e. g. a modern vehicle fleet and energetic optimisation of buildings reporting boundaries, calculation methods and conversion factors can be found in the Facts & Figures section. 2. I ncreased use of alternative technologies  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 108f e. g. electricity from renewable sources and expansion of the e-vehicle fleet Science Based Targets 3. C  ompensation for unavoidable Österreichische Post AG has intensified its com­ carbon emissions mitment to climate protection through its participation in the Science Based Targets initiative, an international organisation supported by, among others, the World Results Wide Fund for Nature. It pursues the goal of actively All items are delivered in a CO2 neutral manner involving companies in climate protection. Austrian Post in Austria by Österreichische Post AG. This is conjoined the initiative back in 2016 and has thus been a firmed each year by TÜV Austria. And more than trailblazer when it comes to the scientifically substanti­ 150 customers use the logo in their communication ated approach to developing a carbon-reduction target. activities. Austrian Post is only the second Austrian company to submit a science-based target. This is in line with the results of the Paris Agreement on climate change, and thus contributes to ensuring that global warming is limited to under 2 °C. More specifically, Österreichis­ che Post AG aims to cut its own carbon emissions by 14% by 2025 (base year 2013). Since the calculation of the first science-based target in 2016, the assumptions topic every six months. The carbon-neutral delivery of for calculating growth in the parcel business and the their mail items does not burden their carbon footprint framework conditions have changed significantly. A new either. Interested business customers can request a science-based target is therefore being calculated in ­certificate to confirm the carbon-neutral delivery of all 2020, which should also contribute to a maximum global their mail items in the previous year. Österreichische warming of 1.5 °C. Post AG issued about 500 such certificates in 2019. They The commitment to these holistic and scientific can also use the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY logo for their targets requires a decrease in carbon emissions along the communication. entire value chain. These not only encompass emissions Environment _____ 58 in Österreichische Post AG’s sphere of influence (Scope 1 and Scope 2) but also carbon emissions from suppliers (Scope 3 Targets). Accordingly, this makes collaboration with suppliers that likewise pay attention to the environ­ Climate Protection mental compatibility of their business operations even Targets for Austrian Post  more important for Österreichische Post AG. 14 Climate Protection on a National and International Level Austrian Post is not only committed to climate % protection with internal measures, but also proactively supports climate and environmental protection pro­  jects outside the company. As part of the CO2 NEUTRAL less carbon DELIVERY initiative, Austrian Post is currently support­ emissions by 2025 (base year 2013) ing a variety of climate protection projects in Austria and abroad to offset unavoidable emissions. In Austria % 100 itself, support is provided to projects such as replacing outdated heating systems that run on fossil fuels with modern pellet heating or purchasing electric vehicles for charitable organisations. Through these efforts, Austrian Post avoids carbon emissions and supports the regional  economy through high environmental profitability. electric vehicles Österreichische Post AG also supports numerous for delivery (last mile) certified climate protection projects on an international by 2030 level, including the generation of renewable energy by solar power facilities in India. Other projects support development of an inexpensive and efficient stove for people in Kenya and Honduras. This is meant to reduce fuel consumption and minimise health risks. In Virunga National Park in Ruanda, Austrian Post contributes to protecting the mountain gorillas that live there. Climate protection and regional development are of great importance to Austrian Post as one of the leading companies in Austria. For this reason, the company plans sciencebasedtargets.org to offset unavoidable emissions with its own projects in the future. Austrian Post is currently studying ways to implement a forest protection or reforestation project of its own. Ecological Transport If Austrian Post wants to avoid or reduce carbon emissions as a logistics company, transport operations offer the most promising leverage. Each year mail and parcel carriers deliver 4.6 billion mail items to more than four million households and companies in Austria. In doing so, they circle the globe several times – on foot, by bike, but also on mopeds, in cars and in trucks. Austrian Post is working intensively on structuring its transport operations to be as environmentally compatible as possible. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 59 The delivery staff can reach about 25% of the Reaching the Target with delivery areas in an environmentally friendly way on foot Alternative Drives or by bicycle. The other delivery areas can only be reached Alternative drives are playing an increasingly impor­ using motorised vehicles. The aim in this area is to find tant role in delivery. Austrian Post once again increased solutions which are equally or almost as environmentally the number of electric vehicles in its fleet in 2019. It is compatible. Two key aspects are optimising route planning supported by the funding programme ­“klima:aktiv mobil” of and modernising the vehicle fleet with the objective of the Austrian Federal Ministry Climate Action, Environment, increasing efficiency in both areas. Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology (BMK) and the  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 107 federal government’s Climate and Energy Fund. Öster­ reichische Post AG now operates 1,750 electric vehicles Fleet Optimisation on the Last Mile today, including 1,077 single-track electric vehicles and and in Freight Transport special vehicles (quads and trikes) as well as 673 electric Austrian Post deploys 8,897 transport vehicles cars. This makes Austrian Post the largest e-fleet oper­ each day. The condition of the vehicles plays a key role ator in Austria. The Austrian Post Group deployed 1,762 in the efficiency of the vehicle fleet. For this reason, e-vehicles in the year 2019. Austrian Post focuses on deploying modern vehicles with The further expansion of the e-vehicle fleet has low emission classes and carries out regular maintenance been implemented since 2018 within the context of sev­ work as a means of optimising efficiency in the vehicle eral general projects in rural areas of Austria. Support fleet. Environmental compatibility is a priority when it comes from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural comes to new acquisitions for the vehicle fleet: if no elec­ Development (EAFRD) and the Austrian Federal Ministry tric vehicles are procured, Österreichische Post AG will of Sustainability and Tourism. purchase the least polluting emission class available for Austrian Post is going one step further for more vehicles: Euro 6 for two-track vehicles and Euro 4 for sin­ ecological transport operations: the entire delivery of mail gle-track vehicles. This reduces emissions and increases and parcels to customers will be carried out by electric environmental friendliness. vehicles by 2030. At present, the share of electric vehicles Austrian Post has also undertaken major efforts used for delivery at Österreichische Post AG is 19.5%. in its freight transport in recent years to protect the Electric vehicles are currently used primarily environment and the climate. The primary focus is on in congested urban areas, especially in Vienna and the rejuvenating its vehicle fleet and thus applying mod­ provincial and district capitals. In its “Green Provin­ ern technologies. The entire transport logistics fleet is cial Capitals” project, Austrian Post defined the goal in equipped with EEV or better exhaust gas technology – past years of delivering all mail and direct mail items to more than half of the fleet currently has advanced EURO ­private customers in the provincial capitals in a “green” 6 exhaust gas technology. In 2019, for example, another or carbon-neutral manner and to completely forego fossil 15 environmentally friendly EURO 6 trucks were pur­ energy. Conventional mopeds or automobiles should no chased. The EURO 6 engines are extremely efficient with longer be used. Instead, delivery is carried out com­ respect to carbon emissions. The combination of highly pletely on the basis of the staff’s own muscle power or effective catalytic converters, the additive Ad-Blue and electrical energy. closed particulate filters reduces soot particles and fine  For more information on City Logistics, dust from being emitted from the engine, so that these see p. 46, 54 trucks now discharge hardly any fine dust. The spatial utilisation of trucks was increased Austrian Post is making an important contribu­ to reduce fuel consumption and emissions. In addition, tion to climate protection with its ecological transport routes were optimised to minimise unnecessary trips and operations – and this has been recognised. Austrian Post’s the types of vehicles deployed were adjusted to routes e-mobility projects have already received a number of with lower utilisation levels. prizes, including the internationally recognised “Energy Österreichische Post AG also focuses on driver Globe World Award” presented in 2018 for the elec­ training: in 2019, all drivers were trained in fuel-efficient tric mobility concept. In 2019, the ARBÖ Environmental driving as part of the C95 training course. One measure Prize was awarded to Austrian Post for its CO2 NEUTRAL derived from this is the regular mandatory check of the ­DELIVERY initiative. tyre pressure, which resulted in a more efficient use of fuel and a reduction in noise emissions. Environment _____ 60 The central location provides close proximity to the local public transport system. The new corporate headquarters “Post am Rochus” located on Rochusplatz in Vienna’s third municipal district was also designed with ecological and energyefficient construction in mind and the building was constructed using low-energy construction methods. “Post am Rochus”  In addition to innovative building tech­ The building was also planned to be nol­ogy with the use of thermal groundwater, sustainable and environmentally friendly this includes concrete core activation for room with respect to mobility. cooling. The building is also equipped with The connection to public t­ ransport energy-saving LED technology and sensor-­ is almost perfect: there is a subway con­ controlled automatic sun protection. nection in the immediate vicinity and the The building’s design and a ­ dditional nearest train station is within walking dis­ support from the building technology ­enable tance. ­Support for e-mobility at “Post am the net energy demand for heating and Rochus” is also exemplary: the building con­ cooling to be kept low. “Post am Rochus” tains one of the first fast charging stations was ­certified GOLD by the Austrian Sustain­ in all of ­Austria, with 150 kW. able Building Council (ÖGNI) as a symbol for an energy-­efficient building. Ecological Building Building Management Structure Austrian Post is continually striving to decrease energy consumption in buildings and thus reduce emis­ GRI 302-4, SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 sions. It consistently monitors energy consumption and is With more than one million square meters of usable successively converting the lighting systems in its logistics building space, Austrian Post also requires a large amount centres to LED lighting solutions. Austrian Post ensures of energy for its sites. For this reason, Austrian Post has that new buildings are constructed in a sustainable and implemented various measures to minimise the footprint efficient manner. To ensure this in the long term, develop­ of its activities and to become more ecological from year to ment of a guideline with criteria for sustainable buildings year – but without compromising on the quality of its ser­ began in 2019. This is to be applied in 2020. vices or its mandate to provide postal services. Another energy audit was carried out for the entire  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 106 Group in 2019. The identified savings potential will be imple­ mented over the next few years. This includes, for example, Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 61 converting to district heat and installing efficient heating Resource Efficiency and warm water systems. GRI 103-2 Climate-friendly and Viable for the As transport service increases, so does the chal­ Future: Renewable Energies lenge of making optimum use of the resources required in Österreichische Post AG exclusively procures order to save energy and reduce environmental pollution. electricity from renewable energy sources in Austria. This However, the materials required to provide postal services applies for both company-owned buildings and leased are also an important issue. In order to enhance resource buildings for which it can impact the supply of electricity. efficiency, Austrian Post strongly focuses on the prudent Energy consumption includes a small proportion of elec­ use of materials and the environmental awareness of tricity from unknown sources. This occurs at postal part­ external and internal stakeholders for the conscious use ner locations and at rented properties where the power of these resources in addition to comprehensive analyses supply is unknown. and measures in this area. However, Österreichische Post AG not only pro­ cures electricity from renewable energy sources but Conscious Use of Materials also produces such electricity itself. Since autumn 2013, ­Austrian Post has been operating one of the largest roof­ GRI 306-2, SDG 12 top photovoltaic plants in Austria on the Vienna-­Inzers­ Austrian Post invests considerable effort in dorf Letter Mail Centre, boasting an output of 882 kilowatt deciding which materials and resources are used in the peak (kWp). Another photovoltaic plant with an output company. These include above all energy (thermal and of 496 kWp has been generating solar power on the roof electrical) but also input materials for routine office of the Allhaming Logistics Centre in Upper Austria since tasks (such as paper), resources required for logistics 2014. A third photovoltaic plant with 24 kWp on an office services (diesel, electricity for electric vehicles) and building in Vienna was put into operation at the beginning waste or recyclable materials generated by operations. of 2018. The new logistics centre in Hagenbrunn is also To manage the conscious use and handling of equipped with a photovoltaic plant with 499 kWp. The new these materials, Austrian Post has established environ­ location in Kalsdorf will also be equipped with a photo­ mental management systems in accordance with ISO voltaic plant with 499 kWp. Additional photovoltaic plants 14001 at six logistics sites. With respect to resource with an output of around 1,500 kWp are being planned efficiency, particular attention is paid to recycling man­ and will be built in the coming years. And this is paying off: agement and the use of energy. Since the behaviour of the energy currently being produced, amounting to about employees has a significant influence here, employees 1.3 MWh, can almost provide the entire e-vehicle fleet at these locations are trained in how to use resources of Österreichische Post AG with electricity from its own responsibly and separate recyclable materials. clean solar energy every year. Responsible management of waste and recyclables In addition, the roofs of Austrian Post buildings plays an important role in the efficient use of resources provide a natural habitat for various animal species: for throughout the Group. As is typical for logistics compa­ example, the green roof of the Vienna Letter Mail Centre nies, waste at Austrian Post mainly takes the form of used has become a breeding place for the rare crested lark, paper, plastic, waste wood (pallets) and residual waste. and swarms of wild bees have settled there. This waste is disposed of in an environmentally friendly Furthermore, eight bee colonies were settled on manner. the green areas of the logistics centre at Vienna Inzersdorf The fact that Austrian Post takes care to reduce in the spring of 2019. A pilot project led to a cooperation its own waste as much as possible is demonstrated by the between the urban beekeepers association and Austrian example of working clothes. While revising the new corpo­ Post. The urban beekeepers provide expertise by having rate design, employees in the branch network and delivery trained beekeepers take care of the bee colonies, and Aus­ staff were equipped with working clothes. This meant the trian Post provides the location where they can settle. The old uniforms were no longer needed. Instead of disposing first Austrian Post organic bee honey was harvested in the of the clothes, Austrian Post launched the “RE:Post” work­ autumn of 2019. ing clothes recycling project: new items are created from the discarded garments. In February and March 2020 an idea generator is taking place where students, accom­ panied by professors, will work out ideas for the use of the garments. This will be followed by a presentation before a Environment _____ 62 Österreichische Post AG procures renewable electricity exclusively from Austria. jury. The aim is to turn the best ideas into reality – ideally Environmental Awareness as the Basis with social institutions. for Enhanced Resource Efficiency However, Austrian Post’s influence on the waste With their motivation and commitment, the volumes generated is very limited outside its own sphere employees contribute significantly to the implementation of activity, i.e. along the value chain, as this is largely of the environmental protection and efficiency meas­ determined by customers or their subcontractors. Aus­ ures. Austrian Post therefore works continuously to raise trian Post strives to keep waste to a minimum wherever awareness of environmental issues and internal activ­ possible and takes appropriate measures in the interest ities among its employees: media such as internal info of sustainable business management. screens, the intranet and the employee magazine provide In 2020, for example, a life-cycle assessment in regular information about the CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY accordance with ISO 14040 will be compiled for KUVERT initiative and other CSR-related measures. The more in order to identify environmentally harmful process steps sustainable use of resources requires awareness among and to then be able to manage these in a systematic man­ employees to handle materials prudently. A survey on the ner. Since this project covers the entire production chain topic of sustainability was also conducted in 2019 for all in a further step, measures along this value-adding area employees with e-mail access. This demonstrated that are also being considered. the topic is very important for the employees. In addition, Austrian Post is also addressing the Environmental protection and sustainability con­ issue of ecological packaging in parcel delivery in coop­ tinue to gain in importance at the sites with an environ­ eration with interested customers and logistics partners. mental management system certified in accordance with In addition to analysing the current situation and existing ISO 14001, as these are embedded within the organisation innovation trends, new solutions will be generated in via a regulated management process. The main focus is on 2020. Among other things, sustainable packaging solu­ increasing employee awareness of environmental protec­ tions should focus on aspects like the type of material, tion, decreasing energy consumption and reducing the packaging size and quantity, and reusability or return­ volume of residual waste. The environmental management able and reusable packaging. system in accordance with ISO 14001 has been in use at Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 63 Austrian Post since 2016. Since then, the Vienna Inzers­ with environmental and social standards from all suppli­ dorf Logistics Centre, the Wernberg Logistics Centre, the ers. These requirements are set out in the Code of Con­ Hagenbrunn Logistics Centre and the entire subsidiary duct for Suppliers. ­Medien.Zustell GmbH have been certified in accordance The vendor integrity check (VIC) is an instrument with ISO 14001. Improvement of the environmental manage­ for monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct ment system is achieved through annual validation by a for Suppliers. Starting with an annual net purchasing certified auditor of TÜV Austria. Certification of the corpo­ volume of at least EUR 1m, or EUR 50,000 for high-risk rate headquarters “Post am Rochus” is planned for 2020. ­categories. Suppliers are subject to a vendor integrity In addition, an energy audit is carried out every check. In addition to compliance-related aspects, this four years. The combination of the expansion of envi­ evaluation also encompasses sustainability criteria such ronmental management systems at the major corporate as human rights and labour laws, health and safety, sus­ sites with a recurring energy audit at Group level leads tainability and environmental protection as well as ethics to increased resource efficiency in building management and corporate responsibility. with regard to energy consumption and recycling manage­ The corporate and local procurement policies ment. further stipulate that all business relationships must Since the autumn of 2019, all major events – be oriented to ethical principles and correspond to the including the kick-off of the new year, the Christmas requirements of fairness. All purchases which exceed party, the Brochure Award and the Annual General Meet­ a value of EUR 100,000 are subject to the Corporate ing – have been carried out at Austrian Post in accord­ Procurement Policy. The Local Procurement Policy adds ance with Green Events criteria and are also certified guidelines to the Corporate Procurement Policy for pur­ with the eco-label accordingly. In addition, all smaller chases under EUR 100,000 in value. events at the corporate headquarters “Post am Rochus” The policies also take sustainability into account: and “Donaustadt” are to be conducted as sustainable a further principle stipulates environmentally and socially events, based on Green Events criteria. An internal com­ responsible organisation of procurement and relation­ pany event manual has been developed for this purpose. ships with suppliers in alignment with the sustainability On a general level, Austrian Post’s sustainabil­ strategy. The rules in the procurement policy relating to ity strategy will be revised in 2020 in the form of an procurement excellence (quality standards, reporting and integrative change process based on the structure of the supplier evaluation) and compliance apply to the entire ­Gender Balance project of the past two years to empha­ Group Procurement. Added to this are the portion of pro­ sise the importance of the topic to employees. curements which are handled decentrally by the operating division. The compliance rules also apply for cases on the exceptions list which are subject to special rules in line Responsible Procurement with the procurement policy of Austrian Post. For more information on Responsible P ­ rocurement, GRI 103-2, 204-1 refer to the Non-financial Report. Austrian Post strives first of all to minimise the refer to the Annual Report 2019, p. 47, 58 environmental impacts of its business operations within post.at/Code-of-Conduct the context of its high sustainability standards. In addi­ tion, a shared understanding with respect to environ­ mental protection and responsibility is also important in the selection of business partners. Group Procure­ ment is responsible for an annual order volume of about EUR 0.6bn. Accordingly, Österreichische Post AG thus ranks among the leading contracting entities in the Republic of Austria. The company relies on regional structures in its procurement policy: 97% of the approx. 5,000 suppliers are located in Austria. This means that Austrian suppliers account for more than 92% of the total purchasing volume. Austrian Post is aware of its role in the supply chain and the associated consequences of its purchasing decisions. It therefore demands consistent compliance Environment _____ Just for me. Austrian Post EMPLOYEES STRO NGCOOPERATION All Employees Work Together on the Austrian Post Experience. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 65 3 Questions for Head of Human Resources Franz Nigl What is behind the “Say it with pride!” ­campaign we have seen a lot on TV, in print media as well as online advertising and social media? Franz Nigl (FN): We are the leading logistics and postal services company in terms of both volume and quality, and we employ a workforce of about 20,300 people in Austria and eight other countries. The diversity of their careers in the core business of transporting letters, direct mail, print media and parcels, as well as in a range of logistics solutions, innovative online and banking services, is best demonstrated by our employees themselves. That’s why Franz Nigl, Head of we let almost 20 employees speak for themselves in Human Resources the commercials and portrait videos included in our latest employer campaign. We wanted to illustrate the diversity and attractiveness of jobs at Austrian Post and to show what else we have to offer as an empIN ITS POSITIONING as an employer, loyer: a job you can rely upon. Austrian Post sees its primary tasks as providing a good working environment, attractive career opportunities, occupational safety and health promotion. Based on Appreciation Around 20,300 employees work for Austrian Post. POST@INSIGHT The “Say it with pride!” campaign motivates employees. Elena Rosa, Digital Product Management Moments of Happiness _____ 66 Austrian Post offers a wide range of career opportunities in many areas Working at Austrian Post means: flexible forms Robert Coric, Digital Advertising Services of work and comprehensive additional programmes What does that include? FN: A lot! Just to mention the highlights: a Lisa-Maria Kepplinger, Content wealth of additional employee benefits and ameniManagement & Social Media ties, tailored social benefits that go far beyond the legal requirements, comprehensive further education and professional development programmes for employees, flexible forms of working to help employees balance their work and family lives, a safe working environment with a wide range of health-promoting measures, a corporate culture and values that ensure good teamwork, and diversity practiced in mixed teams. These teams have a lot to cope with in terms of changing customer requirements – how is Austrian Post implementing its many innovative services and how does this affect the work of the employees? FN: Seizing new topics and remaining flexible is also a top priority in teamwork. That is also to be taken quite literally: For example, we emphasise the Customer needs principle of agile working, in which employees coopehave top priority at Austrian Post. rate flexibly across departments. With this modern form of project management, we increase transparency regarding the interdependencies between individual process steps and encourage agile project planning. The priorities in the individual project phases are selected on a democratic basis by the best experts: the staff members involved in the project. POST@INSIGHT Austrian Post emphasises diversity and good cooperation. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 67 GO FOR “Expedition Elly” Gender Balance Programme Austrian Post is working to achieve a balanced gender ratio in all areas and in executive positions. Currently, two thirds of Austrian Post employees are men. With “Expedition Elly”, Austrian Post is using targeted measures to facilitate the needed cultural and structural change within the company. Since 2018, for example, Austrian Post ELLY has been reaching out to women in the labour market even more intensively and further encouraging the development of women in executive positions. In 2018, Austrian Post was the first company in Austria to begin using the Women’s Career Index as an important management and benchmarking tool. Using this independent measuring instrument which has already been established in Germany, the company is studying how women at various levels of management can advance in their Parent-child rooms in careers. Women and men should have equal opportunities for entry the company headquarters Mixed teams are and advancement in all areas of work and at all levels of the hierarchy at Austrian Post. In the current Women’s Career Index, Austrian Post more creative – was able to achieve an increase last year from 62 to 75 out of a possible 100 points thanks to the initiatives of “Expedition Elly” and the clear positioning of gender balance targets in all specialist areas. and more resilient “Our commitment to genuine cultural change is also reflected in the Women’s Career Index. A central success factor is the agreement on – when dealing objectives. In dialogue with executives, we agree each year on ambitious but realistic targets for the gender ratio. These measurable tarwith challenges. gets make our achievements transparent. We have actually exceeded Verena Knott-Birklbauer, Head of Group Accounting, Treasury and the “Expedition Elly” gender balance initiative the target values for Austrian Post for 2019”, said Verena Knott-Birklbauer, Head of Group Accounting, Treasury and the “Expedition Elly” gender balance initiative. These positive developments are not least due to the involvement of what are now more than 160 employees from all hierarchical levels in further developing the measures. In the year under review, a number of cultureand structure-changing measures were already embedded. These include the design of gender-equitable employer branding campaigns and recruiting processes, the establishment of parent-child rooms in the company headquaters with child care on schoolMore Women at free days, the development of a parental leave manual Austrian Post as part of active parental leave management, and the design of staff development measures aimed at achieving gender balance. Currently, women make up about one third of Austrian Post’s workKey factors for the sustainable success of the gender force. In the higher management balance programme are the gradual incorporation of levels, the proportion of women the measures developed into the standard processes is significantly lower than that of of Austrian Post and the associated change to the organisational culture, in which women and men have equal men. Austrian Post is therefore access and opportunities to advance. working systematically to successively achieve a balanced gender ratio at all hierarchical levels over the next few years. Moments of Happiness _____ 68 BASED ON STRO Our apprentices for the Austrian Post of the future From left to right: Ilayda Güven, Deniz Alkin, Sebastian Balogh, Victoria Rabel, Melih Demirov. Apprentices at Austrian Post NG APPRECIATION POST@INSIGHT Austrian Post is “fit for the future”. Successful Apprenticeship Campaign With 134 apprentices in six promising apprenticeship professions, Austrian Post doubled the number of apprenticeships in the year under review. In addition to retail sales staff with a focus on telecommunications, administrative staff and e-commerce apprentices, the company has also post.sozial been training young people since 2019 in IT systems technology and application development coding as well as local and distribution logistics. “With The non-profit association this commitment, we are meeting the increasing demand for skilled workers post.sozial, founded in 2005, in all areas while also offering motivated young people solid training as a reflects the social responsibility basis for their career at Austrian Post”, explained Verena Abu-Dayeh, Head of ­Austrian Post towards its of Human Resources Development. employees by providing additional Young Austrian Post employees once again successfully demonstrated their social benefits which significantly skills this year between July and September at three apprentice branches: exceed legal requirements. These Bruck an der Mur, Lienz and Vienna. For one week, 40 apprentices at each include financial support in the site took over management tasks and gained experience as well as confievent of extraordinary expenses dence in their own abilities. as well as discounted entrance tickets and holiday programmes, food vouchers, child care during school vacations and health pro20 grammes and leisure activities. post.sozial – for all employees running events are supported by Austrian Post each year. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 850 69 Healthy and Safe Sitting, repetitive arm and hand movements, lifting and health consultations were carried out. moving loads – according to a recent Europe-wide study by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, the list of risk factors at work is as long as it is wide-ranging. Austrian Post continued to focus primarily on prevention during 2019 with numerous measures. “We believe modern employee protection means identifying and elimiWe believe nating risks in advance. Our employees should be protected from risks and hazards as they carry out their duties. In this context, executives modern em­ployee are pivotal as role models and supervisory authorities”, explains Ursula Bachmair, Head of Health Management. “We continued during 2019 to protection means work intensively on raising employee awareness of potential risks as well as working with our executives to identify new findings and hazards identifying and and to determine appropriate measures.” eliminating risks Austrian Post has also developed and implemented specific steps to improve employee health. During the year under review, these included: in advance. 850 health consultations and seven Health Days Ursula Bachmair, Participating in the Fit2Work initiative and projects supporting Head of Health Management occupational health promotion contribute to keeping employees healthy and able to work Supporting the sporting activities of employees by paying the registration fee for 20 running events nationwide and by giving Austrian Post is the first company them Austrian Post-branded running apparel in Austria to become involved as the organiser of “Austria Goes Biking” – a campaign not least meant to encourage its own employees to do more exercise. AUSTRIA GOES BIKING Georg Pölzl, Georg Pölzl, CEO of Austrian Post, and Elisabeth Köstinger, Federal Minister for Agriculture, Regions and Tourism. Moments of Happiness _____ 70 With a Strong Identity 6,713 employees took part in seminars * of employees are women 17,205 * 3.83 staff * worth of food coupons thanks to post.sozial EUR m * Österreichische Post AG Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 71 Employees  As a service company, the workforce is a decisive ­factor at Austrian Post. Its success as a company is funda­ mentally linked to the skills, motivation and commitment of its employees. Désirée Steiger, Portal Management executive development and in further education and pro­ fessional development. At the same time, the needs of employees are also changing. The attractiveness of the employer is becoming increasingly important. In particular, additional benefits such as further education and professional development opportunities that enable employees to enhance their pro­ fessional and personal skill sets and working time models enabling them to harmonise their work and private lives As one of the largest employers in the country, Austrian are playing an increasingly important role. Post has a special responsibility to its employees. The main trends and challenges facing Austrian Post in the focus area of employees can be summarised as follows: DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE – MAINTAINING EMPLOYABILITY Trends and Challenges  Working into old age requires training and health­ care programmes tailored to the target group. GRI 102-15, 103-2 Austrian Post and thus also its employees are INCREASING COMPLEXITY AT WORK – RANGE OF operating in an environment of continuous change. Dig­ PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT MEASURES italisation, demographic change and increasing mobil­ Employees can only manage increasingly complex ity and flexibility are changing the needs of customers. tasks if they are continuously trained. These developments place new demands on the employ­ ees of Austrian Post. To meet the changing service and PRESSURE TO BE EFFICIENT – SOCIAL quality requirements, Austrian Post needs qualified COMPATIBILITY OF ADJUSTMENTS employees who can actively shape the company and new, Economic pressure has to be counteracted by ade­ innovative services. quate measures to increase efficiency and flexibility. Digitalisation is also changing processes and work flows. This requires continuous development of employ­ ees as well as new mindsets and competencies. Austrian Post must adapt to new requirements with respect to Employees _____ 72 AUTOMATION – MINIMISATION OF ACCIDENT The services rendered by Austrian Post for RISKS AND PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES employees are aligned to the material topics identified in The advance of technology in the postal business the dialogues with stakeholders. They are as follows: imposes high demands on occupational safety and health protection. Corporate culture and working environments Occupational safety and health protection WORK LIFE BALANCE – ENHANCING MOTIVATION Further education and professional develop­ AND EMPLOYEE RETENTION ment Employees are more motivated and productive if Customer proximity (refer to Service and there is a proper balance between work and free time. Customer Orientation on p. 44f) For more information on the material topics for Management Approach employees and their relation to the Sustainable Develop­ of Austrian Post ment Goals (SDGs), see pages 27–31. GRI 103-1, 103-2 Satisfied and healthy employees who feel com­ Achievements in 2019 and fortable at their workplaces are more motivated and are able to give their best for the benefit of the company. Targets for 2020 With its measures, Austrian Post’s human resources GRI 103-3 management contributes to the company’s success and Austrian Post fulfils its responsibility towards its future viability. In this regard, a good working environ­ employees in a targeted manner. It is therefore committed ment, attractive career opportunities, workplace safety to actively fostering the corporate and leadership culture and occupational healthcare also play a significant role. in order to facilitate goal-oriented and sustainable action. Visions and values that are shared by both In addition, priority is given to the health and develop­ employees and executives are important in an environ­ ment of the workforce and their safety in the workplace. ment so strongly influenced by change and transition. Austrian Post manages and monitors its services and They form a set of values according to which everyone improvements with respect to employees on the basis of acts in a target-oriented and sustainable manner. The the defined main targets and the measures derived from mission statement of Austrian Post is the foundation for them. its collective business operations and the basis for its The figures in the infoboxes marked in yellow corporate culture characterised by respect, openness, refer to Österreichische Post AG. All indicators relating trust and appreciation. The human resources work of to employees can be found starting on page 99. Austrian Post promotes the corporate and leadership culture and actively supports it with numerous measures. Overview of Employee Targets T 14 Main Target → Promote a Corporate and Leadership Culture  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 4, 5, 8, 10 Development, communication and introduction of Expansion of development programmes with Development, communication and introduction a new competency model for executives as part regard to leadership guidelines and leader­ of a new competency model for executives of the process to relaunch 360-degree feedback ship competencies; additional comprehensive communication and roll-out of e-learning as a competency model Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 73 Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 5, 10 Relaunch of the 360-degree feedback process Implementation of 360-degree Feedback 2020 Relaunch of the 360-degree for Österreichische Post AG with the involvement feedback process of executives; implementation of 360-degree feedback for executives; strong focus on individ­ ual support and development through targeted Executive Academy programmes, individual coaching dialogues and team debriefings SDG 4, 5, 8, 10 New concept for the Executive Academy with Roll-out of the NEW Executive Academy including Executive Academy strategic link between the professional develop­ new formats such as the keynote lecture series, ment programmes and the leadership guide­ Leadership COMPACT as a two-day course for all lines; individual development based on executive executives new to the role feedback (360-degree); compulsory and optional modules for different target groups SDG 4, 5, 8, 10 Training and seminars for executives amounting Carrying out training and seminars for executives Training for executives: implementation of at to 1,750 person-days were carried out amounting to at least 1,000 person-days least 1,000 person-days of training and seminars for executives SDG 8, 11 264 executives took part in the Participation of at least 250 executives in the “A Day Visiting Customers”: participation of at “A Day Visiting Customers” programme programme “A Day Visiting Customers” least 250 executives in the programme SDG 5, 8, 10 Measures planned as part of the re-audit were Continue the planned measures or implement “Career and family” audit: continuation of the continued or implemented on an ongoing them on an ongoing basis re-audit and ongoing implementation of the basis and included in the Annual Report as the planned measures targeted goals SDG 5, 8, 10 Concept for an onboarding process for new em­ Onboarding process for corporate headquarters ployees at corporate headquarters including an accompanying e-learning module T 15 Main Target → Attention to Health and Safety  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 3 About 850 health consultations and 7 Health Carrying out 950 health consultations and 1,000 health consultations and 15 Health Days Days have been held 12 Health Days SDG 3 The training initiative was implemented by the Measures focusing on lifting and carrying, Production of a brochure and posters on proper occupational physicians and the posters were such as a brochure exercise including a training initiative created for the Delivery and Distribution depart­ ments. The videos were uploaded to a separate channel online to make them more usable. The corresponding brochure is to be produced in 2020 SDG 3 The “Fit2Work” project was launched. Following Implementation of measures as part of the Implementation of the “Fit2Work” project at the an employee survey, measures were defined “Fit2Work” project at the Vienna Letter Mail Vienna Letter Mail Centre which are to be implemented starting in 2020 Centre SDG 3, 5, 8, 10 The evaluation at corporate headquarters was Completion of the evaluation of psychological Evaluation of psychological stress at corporate prepared and planned, and launched in Q4 2019 stress at corporate headquarters and in Austrian headquarters Post customer service SDG 3 Implementation of traffic safety training for Visibility of employee protection at all major Development of measures to deal with the most moped drivers in selected delivery bases sites; development of measures to deal with the frequent causes of accidents in 2018, creation most frequent causes of accidents in 2019, of posters on the issue of falling and measures creation of posters on the subject of falling focusing on traffic safety SDG 3 Development of checklists for individual areas Continuation of the training initiative for Development of checklists for individual areas for easy use and implementation of employee executives for easy use and implementation of employee protection measures. Training and instruction protection measures. Training and instruction initiative for executives campaign for executives SDG 3 The measures implemented so far have been Implementation of heart rate variability analyses Heart rate variability analyses: evaluation of evaluated and will be continued in 2020 and health workshops at five sites or more implemented measures Employees _____ 74 Corporate Culture and improved the quality of feedback and additional develop­ Working Environments ment programmes for executives. Reverse Mentoring Programme – Österreichische More than anything else, economic success means Post AG launched a reverse mentoring programme in 2019 one thing: companies and employees have to constantly on the topic of digital transformation. In this programme, evolve and adjust to new circumstances. To achieve this, it experienced executives have the opportunity to exchange is important to design the corporate culture and work­ ideas with young digital natives. In this role reversal, older ing environment in a way that motivates employees to be employees learn from younger ones. The result is new impe­ ­creative and innovative and supports implementation of tus and opportunities for both sides – and ultimately, for new ideas. Austrian Post is therefore working on an open Austrian Post. and modern corporate and leadership culture. Fostering the Welcome Culture through the The mission statement published in 2010 laid the Onboarding Process – the new onboarding process at foundation for a cultural transformation in order to be corporate headquarters helps with the professional, well positioned for the future. The three value categories organisational and cultural integration of new employees. of customer orientation, profitability and sustainability as A strong welcome culture promotes rapid attachment well as communication and appreciation and one central to the company and supports satisfaction and the corpo­ principle for each provide clarity and guidance as to which rate culture in a positive way. values should characterise the way every employee acts each day and which values serve as the basis for the cor­ A Strong Corporate Culture Based porate strategy. on Appreciation and an Exchange of Executives perform a special role as navigators Views in this process. Their task is to create performance-­ enhancing working conditions and a good working atmos­ GRI 102-43 phere in which employees can optimally unfold their skills. A Day Visiting Customers – in 2019, more than It is also their job to recognise potential and to foster it 260 executives once again had the opportunity to gain individually. insight into the work of colleagues with direct customer Since 2012, executives have been regularly trained contact during the annual “A Day Visiting Customers”. at Austrian Post’s own Executive Academy. The long-term They took part in the daily work routine and learned professional development programme supports execu­ how to better assess the challenges they each face. “A tives and key employees in implementing the leadership Day Visiting Customers” also facilitates the exchange guidelines in their daily work routines. of views between employees and executives as well as mutual understanding, and thus supports the Austrian Further Development of the Leadership Post mission statement. Culture – Leadership Guidelines and Dialogue with the Workforce – Austrian Post Competency Model maintains an open dialogue with its employees. This is The Austrian Post leadership guidelines form the based on respect, appreciation, honesty and trust. This framework for the new leadership competency model. In a also entails Österreichische Post AG informing employ­ participatory process, the role model concept for execu­ ees in a timely and regular manner about major devel­ tives was redefined and adapted to future challenges. In opments and changes in the company, for example by addition to topics like innovation and diversity, clear com­ means of department and team meetings as well as onemunication of targets, entrepreneurial mindset and the on-one discussions. recognition and fostering of employee potential also play an important role. Additional Employee Benefits Measuring Leadership Quality with 360-degree Feedback – the new competency model forms the basis GRI 401-2 for measuring the leadership qualities of Österreichische Austrian Post places great importance not only Post AG. In a joint process with invited executives, the on consistent leadership guidelines and an open commu­ 360-degree feedback identified process optimisation and nication culture, it believes that motivating and perfor­ mance-enhancing working conditions also include offering a variety of additional services to employees, regardless of their age, gender and occupation type. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 75 20 is the number of running events supported by Austrian Post in 2019. Markus Herzl, bank99 Employee Profit Sharing – Austrian Post is one of the few companies in Austria that has enabled its employees to participate in the success of the company for more than ten years. Österreichische Post AG volun­ tarily pays full-time employees an annual EBIT bonus. Part-time employees receive a pro rata share. post.sozial – through the post.sozial ­association, Overnight stays Austrian Post offers all fulland part-time employees through fair.reisen 52,475 ­tailor-made social services that go beyond the legal requirements. The non-profit association was established in 2005 with the objective of providing social support to active employees of Austrian Post and its Group compa­ nies as well as to retired employees, family members and surviving relatives of employees. post.sozial: helfens.wert: total material food coupons worth resources EUR m EUR m post.sozial 2019  6.04 3.83 sehens.wert: helfens.wert: sehens.wert: discounted entrance fees paid support events held contributions EUR t 22,899 635 204 Employees _____ 76 Diversity and discrimination, bullying or sexual harassment. Equal Opportunity  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 102 GRI 103-1, 103-2 Charter of Diversity Austrian Post believes in the potential of diversity in Österreichische Post AG attaches great importance the workforce, as it is a success factor and promotes inno­ to diversity, fairness and tolerance, which is why it signed vation and creativity in companies. Within the context of its the Charter of Diversity in 2013. The company has clearly diversity management, Austrian Post promotes social diver­ committed to creating and fostering a working environment sity and constructively seeks to benefit from it. Diversity which is free of prejudice and discrimination. helps to open up international markets and strengthens the company’s attractiveness as an employer. Respect and Gender Balance: Expedition Elly equal opportunities are the basis for living diversity within Austrian Post seeks to foster and make the company. intelligent use of diversity – especially gender Equal treatment at work and equal treatment of diversity. For this reason, Austrian Post developed a employees regardless of their gender and age are a matter strategy to ensure gender balance in the company in of course for Österreichische Post AG and its Group com­ 2018 with its flagship project “Expedition Elly,” named panies. The recruiting process strictly adheres to the princi­ after aviation pioneer Elly Beinhorn. Motivated teams ple of equal treatment of women and men. from different areas and hierarchies formulated the Austrian Post wants to highlight the individual dif­ strategy as well as targets and measures. In this way, ferences among employees to create a productive over­ Austrian Post wants to achieve gender balance and make all atmosphere in the company. In order to ensure equal Austrian Post even more attractive as an employer for opportunity at work, it resolutely opposes any kind of women. In 2019, the Women’s Career Index (FKI) was also Julia Seidler, Campaignmanagement and Hans Adrian Dorfmeister-Pölzer, Content Management Werbepost Cover Equal opportunity in the workplace and the equal treatment of employees are a matter of course for Austrian Post. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 77 Diversity 2019  24.6 of executives % 31.1 of employees % are women are women conducted again. An increase of 13 points was achieved Austrian Post to ensure that people with disabilities can thanks to the initiatives of “Expedition Elly” and a clearer take part in professional life on equal terms. Austrian Post positioning of targets. has therefore fulfilled its obligations above and beyond the legally stipulated conditions in the past years. In 2019, Compatibility of Family and Career 1,161 employees with disabilities were employed by Öster­ Austrian Post takes its role as a family-friendly reichische Post AG. company seriously, and facilitates the compatibility of Contact Points for Employees – Austrian Post work and family life through a variety of measures and offers a variety of programmes and initiatives designed to programmes. In 2019, Österreichische Post AG was once foster and support employees and to contribute to a pos­ again given the “Career and Family” (“berufundfamilie”) itive working atmosphere. Nevertheless, personal issues quality seal by the Federal Ministry of Families and Youth. and concerns can impact the motivation of employees The existing measures will be continued and implemented and their ability to perform well on behalf of the company. for a further three years and further targets will be set on Since 2014, all employees have been able to confiden­ the basis of agreements. This includes, for example, the tially contact an internal ombudsperson when they require integration of employees on parental leave into the inter­ assistance in dealing with personal problems in their work­ nal information network or a comprehensive information ing environment or concerning compliance with the values platform on topics such as parental leave and parental of Austrian Post as defined in the mission statement. protection. In addition, the Austrian Post programme to pro­ mote the career advancement of women was overhauled in Occupational Safety and 2017. The underlying objective of the plan is to ensure equal opportunities for women and men in the company on the Health Protection basis of the Federal Equal Treatment Act (B-GIBG) and to GRI 103-1, 103-2 increase the proportion of women in areas in which they are Healthy and motivated employees are able to per­ underrepresented. To achieve this goal, the annual Equality form at their best, actively contribute to the further devel­ Check 2019 was also carried out again, among other things. opment of the company and are more satisfied with their This instrument is used to evaluate implementation of the workplace. For this reason, Austrian Post attaches great programme to promote the career advancement of women importance to offering employees a working environment at Österreichische Post AG and its Group companies. in which they are protected from risks and hazards when carrying out their tasks. Moreover, Austrian Post aims Equal Treatment to preserve and promote the health and well-being of its The principle of equal treatment implies that no employees. person should be discriminated or put at a disadvantage All underlying conditions for occupational because of their gender, age, ethnic origin, religion or safety are regulated in the directive “Safety and Health ideology, sexual orientation or disability. It is important for at Work – Employee Protection”. In particular, the Employees _____ 78 Health Management GRI 403-6 To maintain and promote the health and working Health Management capacity of all employees, Austrian Post offers preventive 2019  measures at various sites in Austria as part of its health­ care management programme. These include vaccinations, 7 850 anti-smoking initiatives and eye examinations. In addition, health consultations and Health Days are regularly held. “A Healthy Heart and You” Campaign – the focus in 2019 was again on further development of the project “A Healthy Heart and You” to prevent heart disease. Occupa­ tional physicians at Austrian Post offered health counsel­ Health Days health consultations were held were carried out ling sessions to employees to discuss their individual risk profile for cardiovascular diseases and explain preventive 6,158 measures. On request, the employees also received an additional flu vaccination. Health Days – Austrian Post’s Health Days were also offered at various locations in 2019. Employees had the opportunity to test their lung capacity as well as to determine their fat and muscle mass and body’s water employees took part in content by means of the “Body Composition Analyser”. 20 sports-promotion running events Information was also provided on healthy diets and relax­ throughout Austria in 2019 ation. Evaluation of Psychological Stress – Österreichis­ che Post AG also continued its evaluation of psychologi­ cal stress at the workplace in 2019. In addition to further monitoring of the implementation of the measures, eval­ responsibility for and monitoring of employee protection uations were initiated at corporate headquarters and at and a step-by-step system of mandatory inspections Austrian Post customer service. Representative employee relating to the individual workplaces are defined here. The groups were formed for various areas of activity in order inspection and control obligations of every single exec­ to survey the specific stress levels for each group through utive are precisely defined. Checklists have been drawn job evaluation scale (ABS) workshops and interviews. up in conjunction with the relevant specialist department Promotion of Sporting Activities – running keeps to provide the best possible support to executives in you fit and is a good way to balance out your desk work, ensuring regular compliance checks. The training initia­ especially for office staff. This is why Austrian Post actively tive for executives was continued in 2019 with the aim of supports runners: Austrian Post and post.sozial pay the raising awareness of their responsibilities and role model registration fee for various running events and provide function. special Post running apparel. In 2019, 6,158 employees took  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 103 part in the 20 running events throughout Austria. Cycling campaigns were also initiated in 2019 for the first time. 200 employees diligently clocked up kilometres during the “Austrian Post Goes Biking” initiative (“Die Post radelt”). Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 79 Occupational Safety prevention provide support in implementation and carry out random checks. GRI 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5 All employees have the option to report hazards Due to its crucial importance, occupational safety to the head of healthcare management or to an ombuds­ is firmly embedded in the organisation at Austrian Post. person. These reports are generalised and treated con­ Safety is addressed in formal occupational safety com­ fidentially, so that it is not possible to identify individual mittees in which safety experts, occupational physi­ persons. cians, safety officers, employee representatives and the Regular inspections and evaluations are carried employer are represented. out to gather new findings and identify new hazards. If In 2019, 23 regional occupational safety committee necessary, specialists in prevention and executives jointly meetings were held at Österreichische Post AG for sites draw up an action sheet and a risk assessment with the with more than 100 employees or sites exposed to certain hazards relevant to employee protection. Next, persons dangers. responsible for the implementation of the measures and Guidelines are contained in Sections 88 and 88a deadlines are defined. If the measures are not imple­ of the Worker Protection Act (ASchG). Improvement sug­ mented, a control system takes effect and the manager gestions are developed on individual safety and health on the next level of the hierarchy as well as the head of issues and the implementation of appropriate measures is healthcare management are informed. In addition, a quar­ discussed. terly report is submitted to the Austrian Post employee Moreover, counselling on occupational safety is protection officer. carried out by the appropriate employee protection bodies at all company sites in line with legal requirements. In this Sick Leave and Accident Statistics way, the entire workforce of Austrian Post is supported by employee protection – both safety experts and occupa­ GRI 403-2, 403-4, 403-7, SDG 3, 8 tional physicians. A total of 784 occupational accidents were In addition to legal requirements for occupational reported in 2019 for Österreichische Post AG. Falls, traffic safety and accident prevention, there are also internal accidents and operating work equipment are the main organisational rules and instructions as well as leaflets. In causes of accidents and are meanwhile also largely the order to minimise work-related stress, posters for various risks of serious accidents. Weather-related road condi­ work processes that involve lifting and carrying were pro­ tions, kerbstones and steps frequently lead to falls and duced alongside training courses and ongoing instruction. traffic accidents. Handling roller containers plays a major The trade union and the Works Council of Austrian Post role in the “operating work equipment” cause of accidents. are involved in all important matters relating to safety at After an accident, the causes are identified, hazards work and accident prevention and are also represented in are re-evaluated and appropriate countermeasures are the above-mentioned occupational safety committees. defined. The person involved in the accident receives instruction and, in the case of more serious accidents, RISK MINIMISATION AND OCCUPATIONAL all potentially affected employees also receive instruc­ SAFETY TRAINING tion. Executives receive information on the number and Austrian Post focuses on raising awareness of the most frequent causes of accidents on a quarterly employees for potential hazards at work. Instruction and basis. Departments where certain causes of accidents training are provided before the start of work as well as frequently occur or increase are given targeted pre­ annually to inform and raise awareness among employ­ ventive measures. In 2019, for example, due to accident ees of safety risks and potential hazards. They should be analyses and the seasonal weather conditions on site, able to prevent accidents by acting correctly and inde­ traffic safety training courses for moped drivers were pendently, thus protecting themselves and their colleagues. conducted at selected delivery bases. The employees Instruction is provided by executives or compliance and were instructed in the vehicles and routing used. They implementation officers. They have verifiably been trained also trained braking sequences and cornering behaviour on the content of Directive 06 / 2018 “Safety and Health on slippery surfaces and with various loads. Responsibil­ at Work” and received a simplified summary in the form of ities and reporting processes for accidents are regulated a brochure. In addition, standardised training criteria are in detail by the Directive 06 / 2018 “Safety and Health currently being developed. The pilot project “Postdeutsch” at Work”. 39 accidents occurred at work in 2019 involving together with supporting posters, video films, information temporary workers. signs and pictograms reduce obstacles such as language  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 103 barriers and clearly communicate the content. Experts in Employees _____ 80 Further Education and Professional Development  1,142 GRI 103-1, 103-2, 404-2, SDG 8 The social and industry-specific changes present new challenges to the company and the workforce every day. This requires flexibility and a willingness to learn. Well-trained employees contribute decisively to ensur­ ing that the company remains successful. Austrian Post seminars were attended therefore offers its employees options for both personal by 6,713 employees. and professional development. In addition to the Exec­ 39% of the participants were women, 61% were men utive Academy, the target groupand competency-ori­ ented further education and professional development of employees was continued in 2019. These measures comprise an important focal point of Austrian Post’s human resources management. They include specialised instruction, further education courses, coaching and training. Austrian Post also offers a wide range of train­ ing opportunities and thus the opportunity for a variety of career paths within the company.  refer to Facts & Figures, p. 104 apprenticeships offered so far, Austrian Post has expanded its apprenticeship programme to include three further Individual Development Planning apprenticeships. Since September 2019, 23 apprentices Austrian Post attaches particular importance to have been trained in the area as local and distribution the individual development of its employees and their spe­ logistics specialists. Training in IT has been expanded at cific skills and potential. In regular performance reviews corporate headquarters. Three apprentices will be trained between employees and their superiors, personal work as IT systems technicians and one apprentice as an appli­ priorities and targets can be defined and measures in the cation developer. form of further education and professional development In addition, there were 107 apprentices through­ can be agreed. The performance reviews are held at least out Austria in 2019, training as retail salespeople with a once a year. focus on telecommunications and at corporate head­ quarters as office assistants and e-commerce assistants. Work@Post Project, Trainee Programme The aim of this initiative is to train our own junior staff and Apprenticeship Training and to retain young, dynamic trainees in the company. The Work@Post project identifies and continuously That pays off. In 2019 Österreichische Post AG implements improvement potential in the fields of employer was awarded the Hermes Transport Logistics prize in the branding, recruiting, onboarding, junior staff/talents, “Education” category for the development and intro­ executives, compensation, IT success factors and feed­ duction of the apprenticeship for “local and distribution back within the context of working groups. Due to the many logistics expert”. This award shows that the innovative and measures implemented, the objective of reducing dropproactive way of working in the education field practiced out rates was achieved. The existing measures are being by Österreichische Post AG not only affects the company continued and subjected to ongoing monitoring in order to but the entire sector. identify and exploit further potential for improvement. Twelve new trainees commenced their programme Cooperation with Universities, at Austrian Post in September 2019. They spent time Ex­perienced Hires & Internship familiarising themselves in detail with the work of dif­ Programme ferent departments at Austrian Post for the purpose of Österreichische Post AG offers college graduates comprehensive training. from various disciplines exciting areas of activity and In addition, Österreichische Post AG has been diverse professional development opportunities. In partner­ offering young people an “Apprenticeship with a Second­ ship with the Centre of Excellence of the Vienna University ary School Diploma” for nine years. An apprenticeship of Economics and Business, Österreichische Post AG offers campaign was launched in 2019. In addition to the three a two-year support programme to prospective graduates Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 81 8.2 135,340 hours on average were spent by female employees on further education hours of employee training programmes and 6.7 hours were provided by by male employees respectively Österreichische Post AG with an outstanding academic record. Furthermore, Öster­ new job within or outside the company by means of per­ reichische Post AG supports a high-quality supplementary sonal counselling interviews. The post.qualified training training programme from the Delta Academy of Montan initiative offers employees who have lost their jobs the University Leoben, which is offered to selected students. opportunity to upgrade their IT skills to a certified level or Since 2018, Österreichische Post AG has been to attend English courses, for example. The platform also offering experienced specialists “Experienced Hires” train­ sees itself as an internal human resources consultancy ing with internationally recognised lecturers and network and temporary employment for shortand medium-term events in order to create attractive job entry opportunities. temporary assignments. Austrian Post has developed its This is complemented by meetings with the highest man­ own rules for this purpose. These are intended to ensure agement level as well as coaching sessions. that the pay for temporary Austrian Post employees is in The internship programme gives ten university and line with the market, i.e. in accordance with the applicable college students the opportunity to complete an internship industry collective agreement. at Austrian Post. The interaction with the younger gener­ One successful model for a responsible and socially ation not only helps in recruiting potential employees but compatible way to deal with excess staffing capacities is also generates valuable innovation contributions for the the initiative “Austrian Post employees to the federal public company. service”: as of the end of 2019, 700 former civil servants of Austrian Post were employed by federal agencies. This fig­ Austrian Post Labour Market ure shows that the competencies of Austrian Post employ­ ees are very much in demand at the ministries. GRI 404-2, SDG 8 Due to increasing competition and constant changes in the market, the personnel structure must be continuously adapted too. Österreichische Post AG ­considers its responsibility and attaches great impor­ tance to ensuring the resulting changes are implemented in a socially responsible manner and are actively sup­ ported. If employees are affected by restructuring meas­ ures, Austrian Post offers them opportunities to repo­ sition themselves on the job market. The “Austrian Post Labour Market” platform, for example, offers career guidance and counselling designed to help people find a Employees _____ 82 The Neighbourhood Bank  The new bank of Austrian Post will be launched in April 2020. In cooperation with the GRAWE ­Banking Group, which is responsible for significant parts of the processing of the banking business, the company will then offer basic financial services for checking accounts and payment transactions in all of its approximately 1,800 postal service points. CEO of bank99 Martin Thomas answers the most important questions: There are already quite a few banks in Austria – how do you plan to win over customers? Martin Thomas, Martin Thomas (MT): First and foremost: Austria cerCEO bank99 tainly doesn’t need another full-service bank. There are already enough of those. We are concentrating on our strengths. In a country like Austria, where almost half of the population lives in rural areas, our nationwide branch network is our big plus. We AUSTRIAN POST TAKES its can offer our customers top service right in their neighbourhood and benefit in terms of costs from major synergies with social responsibility seriously Austrian Post, which allow us to offer our customers simple and and fulfils it through its practical, basic financial services at attractive prices. So our bank will not be a full-service bank in the traditional sense. We ongoing commitment to are focusing on the range of products and services relating to na­tionwide postal services checking accounts and payment transactions, offering customers a good and consistent experience at all times through all and security as well as access channels – either in person at the branch or digitally. through its efforts for the environment and social projects. Assuming Responsibility and Ensuring Supply Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 83 Just for me. Austrian Post SOCIETY Austrian Post is Rooted in Austria. CONNECTED TO HOME Moments of Happiness _____ 84 Are there special products from your portfolio that stand out? MT: We have designed our bank according to the principle “as small as possible, as large as necessary”. Everything that goes beyond the basic services in the product portfolio, we offer through partner companies. The initial focus is on selecting suitable partners for consumer and housing finance and insurance. In these areas, we will make life insurance and property insurance products available to our customers step by step. But I also want to emphasise that we are successively building up and expanding our range of partner products. For the market launch, we are initially concentrating on basic financial services and on ensuring that the customer has a positive experience when initiating the business relationship – because “first impressions count”. Of course, it is also part of our strategy to combine financial services with other infrastructure services. Take e-commerce, for example, where the product, payment and delivery or collection of returns would be a practical package for customers. Do you already have a team in place to run the bank? MT: The core banking team in Vienna currently consists of about 50 employees. In sales, around 150 specialists provide support for customers and the sales staff responsible for banking matters in the branch offices and at the postal partners. A total of about 5,000 employees will offer banking services at our postal service points. We have largely outsourced back office services to the experienced team from the GRAWE Banking Group. I would also like to emphasise here that the added value remains in Austria. As always, this remains our home market as well as our only market. We are concentrating on those areas where we deliver significant added value for our customers and where we have a clear differentiation from full-­service banks. And our focus is wholly on Austria. The Austrian What do employees and customers think of the new idea? Post brand is a MT: We have involved both groups very closely in the development of our bank: in defining the core values, the brand promise of bank99 and the perfect match concept of the new bank. Everything has been developed in a very comprehensive dialogue with employees, customers and partner companies. We for financial serhave also communicated very intensively with postal banks in other European countries. There are some very interesting models here that have vices because given us practical ideas and also confidence. The feedback we received from employees was very positive at the kick-off of the new year of ­Austrian it is trustworthy Post in January 2020, where we also prepared all post branch office managers and all bank employees for the go-live on 1 April 2020, and we look and has a long forward to convincing Austrians of our market promise. tradition. Martin Thomas PRACTICAL HONEST LONGSTANDING COMPREHENSIBLE INCLUSIVE Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 1,800 85 Round about postal service points ensure supply throughout Austria. Convenient and uncomplicated – customers can Always Close By collect their own post 24 / 7 Operating a cost-efficient, nationwide postal service is a constant challenge in a country with the topography of Austria, with comparatively few large cities and long distances for sometimes small orders. As a leading logistics and postal service provider with one of the largest private customer networks in the country, Austrian Post believes it has a public responsibility to provide its services reliably to all citizens and businesses. “We make an important contribution to the infrastructure of this country. This responsibility has continued to shape our decisions in 2019 – from the establishment of our new nationwide range of financial services and the expansion of our Hofer cooperation to the comprehensive package for the future that we have put together along with the postal partners advisory board”, said Harald Kunczier, Head of the Branch Offices business area at Austrian Post. The core of the package includes a new commission model, improvements in IT equipment and process optimisation in daily operations aimed at reducing the total time required to process acceptance and posting of By the end of 2019, Austrian Post had already mail items. completed 33 of the CONNEC approximately 150 new The postal partner concept is, as an addition to the postal stations at Hofer locations that are over 400 company-operated branches, a central planned for by the com­ ponent of Austrian Post’s nationwide network. TED TO end of 2022. The majority of the 1,355 postal partners are grocery HO stores, petrol stations or pharmacies, which ensure the availability of postal services to customers even if there is no branch office in the immediate vicinity. The tight network is complemented by 24/7 self-­service zones in which over 13 million transactions have already been carried out. ME POST@INSIGHT We deliver parcels to any address. Moments of Happiness _____ 86 Voluntarily equipping the entire fleet of trucks with turning assistants Greater Road Safety  In October 2019, Austrian Post took an im­portant step towards improving safety on Austrian roads by deciding to equip its entire fleet of trucks with Robert Katzer, Managing Director of MAN GmbH, Toni Faber, turning assistants during the current 2020 finanPriest and Peter Umundum, Member of the Management cial year. Retrofitting the current 140-vehicle fleet Board Parcels & Logistics of Österreichische Post AG is especially aimed at protecting vulnerable road users such as cyclists and pedestrians. Austrian Post Outstanding Commitment is currently testing both sensor-based and optical-­ sensor systems on trucks. As Europe’s first non-profit IT company, AfB, which employs people with disabilities, has been collecting discarded IT hardware from corporations and public institutions since 2004. AfB refurbishes the hardware and then resells it. The company reclaims spare parts from defective equipment. People with and without disabilities work at AfB, and profitable and environmentally friendly activity is at the core of the corporate philosophy. In the year under review, Austrian Post launched a pilot project with AfB as part of its sustainability activities, and provided the company with more than 200 discarded surfaces for professional processing and remarketing. Thanks to the number and quality of the devices, Austrian Post was not only able to sponsor the employment of people with disabilities but also contributed importantly to conserving resources: according to the measuring methods of TU Berlin (University of Technology in Berlin), the donation saved 11,820 kg of iron equiDuring the Austrian Post CSR Stakeholder Roundtable 2019 valent, 43,505 kWh of energy and 16,611 kg of carbon dioxide. in October, Birgit Sikora, Head of Sales at AfB Austria, presented the Group IT team with the AfB CSR certificate for its commitment to ecological and social issues. 200 11,820 + SAVED: kilograms of iron equivalent discarded surfaces for professional processing and remarketing. 43,505 SAVED: kilowatt hours of energy 16,611 SAVED: kilograms of carbon dioxide Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 87 © Hitradio Ö3 Roman Pfeiffer Help for Children Austrians sent more than 9,500 parcels directly to #TeamChristkind prior to Christmas 2019: in the seventh year of the campaign, initiated by Austrian Post and the Workers’ Samaritan Federation (Samariterbund), the public was once again able to hand in gifts for needy children at a branch office using the address #TeamChristkind. Austrian Post then delivered the gift parcels throughout Austria to the collection points of the Workers’ Samaritan Federation, from which they were distributed to the families. Robert Kratky, Radio Presenter, Georg Pölzl, CEO of Austrian Post, Michael Landau, Austrian Post is involved in various social projects for the welfare President of Caritas Austria and Sandra König, of children that go far beyond the boundaries of the company. To Radio Presenter make meaningful use of its capabilities, Austrian Post attaches great importance to ensuring that its social activities relate to its core business. In addition to the “Die Post macht Schule” (“Austrian Post at With the “Ö3-Wundertüte”, unused mobile phones become School”) programme, in which the company sends around 3,000 school donations for a good cause. boxes with teaching materials to primary schools every year, the “Ö3 Wundertüte” bags also demonstrate this mission. Austrian Post delivered these bags to all Austrian households for the 15th time between November 2019 and January 2020. Consumers can return their used mobile phones in the bags free of charge. The net proceeds of EUR 600,000 from recycling the equipment was donated to families facing difficult life situations through the “Licht ins Dunkel” (“Light in the Darkness”) emergency aid fund and Caritas. Between November 2019 and January 2020, Austrian Post set up containers at the corporate headquarters to collect second-hand clothing in good condition for SOS Children’s Villages. The SOS Children’s Village organisation sells the clothes collected through its second-hand online shop babaem.at, and mails them with Austrian Post. Austrian Post is a reliable partner – for deliveries as well as for the people in Austria – and is inte­grated into society: fully engaged in life. Moments of Happiness _____ 88 Austrian Post for Austria 1,770 postal service points in total 9,070 delivery staff 14,815 letterboxes 415 company-operated branch offices 1,355 postal partners throughout Austria Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 89 Society  Austrian Post delivers 4.6bn mail items each year to households throughout Austria. It thus reliably ensures the nationwide provision of basic postal services – and at the highest level of quality – to the people of Austria. Trends and Challenges  to be able to ensure the long-term supply of postal ser­ vices to the Austrian population at a high level. GRI 102-15, 103-2 The universal service obligation is directly linked The postal business is subject to major changes. to the core business. For this reason, challenges relat­ The perception and design of the public service obligation ing to society are closely related to economic factors. of Österreichische Post AG are impacted by various social The challenges mainly result from social trends which developments. The target group is becoming increasingly influence consumer behaviour. Austrian Post is monitor­ complex and the customers are demanding more services. ing these developments closely in order to address them Meeting this responsibility is a daily challenge. The chang­ with a suitable management concept and is aligning its ing societal environment requires continuous customer-­ services accordingly. focused adjustments on the part of Austrian Post in order In the social sphere, Austrian Post is influenced by the following trends: DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGE Whether people are old or young, Austrian Post has to fulfil all customer requirements in a manner suited to the target group. DIFFERENTIATED LIFESTYLES Austrian Post has to constantly offer innovative services, online and personal, around the clock and on time. SUSTAINABILITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS Society is changing and Austrian Post has to live up to its role as a pioneer with its commitment to society. 95.2 of all parcels are delivered % Austrian Post provides its services throughout Austria. to the recipient on the next working day. Society _____ 90 Management Approach The issue of data protection and data security is of Austrian Post dealt with in the Sustainable Corporate Governance sec­ tion as well as in the Non-financial Report. GRI 103-1, 103-2 Österreichische Post AG is meeting the current The top priority for Österreichische Post AG is trend towards greater sustainability and environmental to ensure the nationwide provision of first-class postal awareness with its CO2 NEUTRAL DELIVERY initiative services throughout Austria. In this way, Austrian Post is described in detail in the Environment section. making a decisive contribution to the nation’s communi­ Furthermore, it is committed to society beyond cations infrastructure. To best meet the societal trends the company’s boundaries, supporting a range of and challenges described above, the company has tai­ business-­related social projects and activities. In this lored its services to the material topics arising from the regard, Austrian Post attaches great importance to ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, which include: ensuring that its social commitment is linked to its core business and that it can meaningfully contribute its core Regional infrastructure and reliability of supply expertise to support socially disadvantaged people. Social commitment Data protection and data security Achievements in 2019 and For more information on the material topics regarding society and how they relate to the Sustainable Targets for 2020 Development Goals (SDGs), see page 28. GRI 103-3 Austrian Post has defined the goal of ensuring the As a universal services provider in Austria, Öster­ security of supply and safeguarding the corresponding reichische Post AG is subject to legal requirements with framework conditions. In addition, it intends to continue respect to the reliability of supply and delivery speed fostering social commitment. Austrian Post has defined which do not apply to the company’s Group companies. targets and measures which are revised on an annual Accordingly, the topic “Regional infrastructure and basis in order to measure its success and progress in its reliability of supply” is only relevant for Österreichische focus area of society. This enables its efforts on impor­ Post AG. Most of this section therefore refers to Öster­ tant issues to be documented and managed. reichische Post AG. Overview of Societal Targets T 16 Main Target → Ensure a Reliable Supply and Shape Framework Conditions  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 11, 16 95.4% of letters were successfully delivered Ensuring reliable delivery at all times and ex­ Ensuring reliable delivery at all times and ex­ by Österreichische Post AG on the first working ceeding legal requirements by Österreichische ceeding legal requirements by Österreichische day after letters were posted Post AG Post AG SDG 11, 16 Österreichische Post AG exceeds the targets: Ensuring a nationwide network of postal service Ensuring a nationwide network of postal service the network of postal service points comprised points that exceeds legal requirements points that exceeds legal requirements by Öster­ a total of 1,770 locations at the end of 2019 reichische Post AG Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 91 T 17 Main Target → Promote Social Commitment  Targets in 2019 Achieved in 2019 Planned for 2020 and beyond SDG 11, 16 412,000 mobile phones collected for the Continuation of support for social projects Continuation of support for social projects “Ö3-Wundertüte” campaign. 9,500 children on the basis of Austrian Post’s logistics on the basis of Austrian Post’s logistics received gift parcels from #TeamChristkind competence competence and 3,200 school boxes were sent all over the country by Österreichische Post AG Regional Infrastructure and Reliability of Supply GRI 103-1, 103-2, 203-1, 102-7 As a supplier of universal postal services, Öster­ reichische Post AG is responsible for the reliable, nation­ wide supply of postal services as well as maintaining and safeguarding the country’s communications infra­ structure. To ensure that these benefits continue, the company continually upgrades its nationwide network of postal service points. Österreichische Post AG offers its services throughout the country based on a delivery staff of 9,070 people along with 415 company-operated branch offices and 1,355 postal partners and is thus a reliable partner to its customers. Thanks to an extensive offering of online and offline services the company meets cus­ tomer needs and offers practical, everyday solutions. Responding to Demographic Change and Different Lifestyles Within the context of ensuring a reliable supply of postal services, the two societal trends of “demographic change” and “differentiated lifestyles” play an important role for Austrian Post. Demographic change is accom­ panied by changing customer needs. Österreichische Post AG intends to continue serving these target groups in the future. Increasing digitalisation leads to changing lifestyles, requiring Österreichische Post AG to meet these changing requirements. Customers want to be able to have access to postal services everywhere and at any time and take care of their postal business as comfortably as possi­ ble but in a secure manner. Customer needs are changing – tailored, flexible delivery is becoming increasingly important. Society _____ 92 For this reason, Österreichische Post AG offers Exceeding the Requirements of the up-to-date products and services that are tailored pre­ Universal Service Obligation cisely to the needs of various customer groups and that Österreichische Post AG is responsible for pro­ link the physical and digital worlds of communication. viding fast, secure and reliable service to its customers. The company works continually on innovative products It fulfils its mandate in outstanding quality with six letter and services to fulfil current customer requirements as mail distribution centres and nine parcel distribution effectively as possible in response to changing lifestyles. centres as well as 247 letter and 30 parcel delivery bases. Today’s customers want to take care of their postal busi­ In 2019, 95.4% of all letters were delivered on the next ness in a flexible manner from anywhere and at differ­ working day, and 96.1% of parcels within two working ent times. This is precisely what Österreichische Post AG days. Both levels are higher than what is legally stipulated facilitates with its 24 / 7 concepts, online as well as offline. within the context of the universal service obligation. The “feel-good” branches also help meet customer needs. As in the previous year, Österreichische Post AG The aim is to make time spent in the branches as pleasant achieved good ratings with respect to the first-time deliv­ as possible for the customers and also to foster human ery success rate for parcels, a very important factor in interaction. In addition to the convenience and efficiency determining customer satisfaction. In 2019, 91.3% of par­ of services offered, the actual experience, the feeling of cels were successfully delivered on the first attempt. well-being and the overall atmosphere of a place also play a major role. A total of 39 branch offices have already GRI 102-7 been adapted in line with the “feel-good” branch office To ensure the optimal supply of postal services concept. These measures help combine a modern, custom­ to customers, the universal service obligation also er-oriented regional infrastructure for postal services and requires Austrian Post to operate a nationwide network the fundamental need for supply reliability. with at least 1,650 postal service points. Österreichis­ che Post AG clearly exceeds the statutory requirements in this respect as well. The company is represented throughout the country with 1,770 postal service points, of which 415 are company-operated branch offices and 1,355 are postal partners. The postal service point net­ work is one of the largest private customer networks in Austria and thus offers customers excellent accessibility. Triple-win Situation: the Postal Partner Concept Austrian Post reliably supplies the entire country. 412,000 The postal partner concept plays a decisive role in this: Austrian Post’s postal partners complement the network of postal service points and ensure the availability of postal services for customers when no branch office is nearby. They ensure more service, shorter distances and customer-friendly opening hours. mobile phones were collected for the At the same time, the postal partner concept “Ö3-Wundertüte” campaign. strengthens the sustainable supply of postal services to the population as well as existing economic structures in rural areas. This is because a majority of partners are local businesses such as grocery stores, petrol stations or pharmacies, which offer Austrian Post’s products and services in addition to their own products and services. The postal partner concept therefore offers advantages for all three parties: for customers, for the partners and for Österreichische Post AG itself. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 93 Social Commitment 2019  15 9,500 3,200 girls visited Austrian Post on Vienna children received school boxes were distributed Daughters’ Day parcels for Christmas throughout the country every year The company also cooperates with postal part­ Committed to Helping the Socially ners from the social sector, such as charitable organi­ Disadvantaged sations. These partnerships are particularly successful Österreichische Post AG has been committed to because they have a two-fold social effect. While they helping socially disadvantaged people for many years. make a contribution towards ensuring the supply of One example of this is the “Ö3-Wundertüte”, a paper bag postal services, they also help employees of these organ­ delivered directly to every household in the country to isations to be reintegrated into the job market. collect discarded mobile phones. Consumers could thus To contribute to inclusion in Austria, Austrian donate their old devices and send them back free of Post encourages future partners to consider the need charge. The net proceeds from recycling these devices for barrier-free design early in the process when making were donated in equal parts to the emergency aid funds structural changes to their businesses. For example, of “Licht ins Dunkel” (“Light in the Darkness”) and also Austrian Post’s postal partner management unit in the to Caritas. The campaign generated total donations of eastern region made an information leaflet on barri­ EUR 600,000, thus providing support to people in the er-free construction available to companies interested in most difficult life situations. becoming postal partners. Together with the Workers Samaritan F­ederation (Samariterbund), Austrian Post’s 2019 “#TeamChrist­ kind” campaign once again ensured that no needy child in ­Austria had to go without a gift for Christmas. ­Parcels Social Commitment marked as #TeamChristkind could be sent for free in advance filled with gifts to collection points of the Workers GRI 103-1, 103-2 Samaritan Federation. Full-time and voluntary Samaritans Austrian Post is one of the leading companies in personally gave the parcels to children in social ­welfare Austria and has deep roots in society. It believes it has the institutions and families in need. About 9,500 such parcels social responsibility to support people who are disadvan­ were sent all over Austria in 2019. taged and require special support. Austrian Post takes this responsibility very seriously and links this commit­ ment intelligently to its core business by utilising its nationwide delivery of mail items and Austrian distribu­ tion network for social purposes. Society _____ 94 Commitment to the Next Generation Österreichische Post AG is also involved in fos­ tering the well-being of children within the context of its social activities. For this purpose, it has launched various projects and supports existing initiatives with its core competence. On Vienna Daughters’ Day, for example, girls aged eleven to sixteen can get an initial impression of various professions. The aim is to motivate girls to select training pathways which are either new or in some cases unusual for them before making their career choice. 15 participants spent the 12th Vienna Daughters’ Day at the end of April 2019 in the letter mail centre, the parcel centre and the freight transport department in Inzersdorf, thus gaining an insight into the daily work routine at Austrian Post. Under the title “Austrian Post at School”, Austrian Post sends about 3,000 school boxes to primary schools throughout Austria each year. The boxes contain attrac­ tively designed teaching materials that encourage reading and writing while also introducing students to the postal system. Commitment to Culture Austrian Post also sponsors seven post bands and two post choirs with about 400 members, known as the “Post Cultural Associations”. Many of the members are employees of Austrian Post but other music enthu­ siasts can also join in. Playing music together makes a great atmosphere and strengthens the sense of commu­ nity – and not only among colleagues. In collaboration with the “post.sozial” association, Austrian Post supports Austrian Post Cultural the Post cultural associations financially, for example in purchasing instruments and uniforms. Associations Austrian Post creates a strong sense of community for everyone in Austria. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 95 Further Information  FURTHER INFORMATION 97 About this Report 99 Facts & Figures 111 GRI Index 122 Independent Assurance Report 124 Contact and Legal Notice Society _____ 96 Please refer to page 99 for information on the development of the indicators over a three-year period Please refer to page 111 for all reported GRI Standard information and SDG references Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 97 About this Report  GRI 102-46 The Sustainability Report showcases how Austrian Post takes responsibility for the environment, employees and society and integrates these efforts into its core business without losing sight of economic factors. GRI 102-50, 102-52, 102-54 GRI 102-48 Austrian Post’s Sustainability Report is published The data collection system was expanded to include annually. This Report covers the 2019 financial year, and fully consolidated Group companies when the scope of thus is a seamless continuation of the 2018 Sustaina­ reporting was broadened. The measurement ­methods bility Report, which was published in 2019. This Report used were selected in a similar fashion to the prior Sus­ was prepared according to the “Core” option of the GRI tainability Report. Individual deviations are indicated Standards. where they occur in the report. Upon entry into force of the Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (NaDiVeG), Austrian Post GRI 102-56 expanded its financial reporting in 2017 to include dis­ The published disclosures were reviewed by an closures on key non-financial aspects of its business independent third party. The corresponding confirmation operations for the first time. These relate to respecting on the part of KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungshuman rights, combatting corruption and bribery as well und Steuerberatungsgesellschaft can be found in the as addressing environmental, social and labour issues. Independent Assurance Report at the end of this Sustain­ This reporting now encompasses the entire Austrian Post ability Report. Group. The 2019 Non-financial Report required by law can be found in the Annual Report 2019. Reporting Boundaries, Calculation Methods, Conversion Methods and GRI 102-45, 102-49 Conversion Factors Relating to This Sustainability Report provides information Greenhouse Gas Emissions Generated on the entire Austrian Post Group and covers the same scope as the Non-financial Report. However, due to the GRI 302-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 fact that the parent company Österreichische Post AG Reporting encompasses the parent company generates most of the Austrian Post Group’s revenue Österreichische Post AG as well as its consolidated (88%) and has the largest number of employees (85%), Group companies. A list of all the Group companies the impact of Group companies is considered to be included in this Report is provided in the Non-financial immaterial in comparison. The pool of data on the Group Report in the 2019 Annual Report. No regional break­ companies is continuously being expanded and its quality down is required for reporting in accordance with GRI improved. Standards due to the fact that Austrian Post’s main market is Austria. Austrian Post’s reporting with respect to green­ house gas emissions is limited to CO2 equivalents since these are relevant in the context of its business About this Report _____ 98 operations as a logistics services provider. Austrian Post The carbon emissions factors for natural gas, reports emissions caused by internal company activities heating oil, district heating, electricity, diesel and petrol (Scope 1) and from the energy supply (Scope 2) as well for Österreichische Post AG and the national Group com­ as emissions arising as a result of outsourced transport panies are derived from the Environment Agency Austria services such as freight transport and delivery services database. In line with contracts with energy suppliers, (Scope 3). Accordingly, Austrian Post reports its emis­ the electricity used is green electricity from Austria. The sions throughout the entire value chain as CO2 equivalents. 2019 Austria mix from the Environment Agency Austria There are no air mail delivery services within database is used to calculate the carbon emissions for ­Austria. Emissions from domestic rail traffic are re-eval­ the remainder of the electricity from unknown sources. uated each year. However, these dropped to zero in 2019 All emission factors are expressed as CO2 equivalents. due to the discontinuation of rail transport. Calculation Other greenhouse gases are thus taken into account in of the carbon emissions of Österreichische Post AG and addition to carbon dioxide. It is important to mention here its Group companies feibra, Post Systemlogistik and that the term “CO2” (carbon dioxide) is to be equated with Post Wertlogistik, ACL, Brüll Kallmus, EMD, E-Commerce, CO2 equivalents throughout the report. Exceptions are the Scanpoint and sendhybrid from road transport is the emissions from the district heating in Vienna, Graz and responsibility of the Group Vehicle Management organisa­ Hall. For Fernwärme Wien, the emission factor from the tional unit in conjunction with the CSR and Environmental 2005 Environment Agency Austria report on Fernwärme Management department. The base data for calculating Wien is used. Information provided by the operators is emissions is derived from an SAP production system, used in determining the emission factors for district heat­ which includes vehicle data (type of vehicle and engine, ing in Graz and Hall. CO2 equivalents are not used in these etc.) and performance data (kilometres driven and fuel three exceptional cases. consumption). The base data, or kilometres driven by Emission factors from the Environment Agency “external shipping companies for letter mail”, comes from Austria database are also used for natural gas, heating oil, databases which distinguish between distribution and diesel and petrol used by the international Group compa­ transport logistics. The data for “external shipping compa­ nies. Country-specific emission factors (location-based nies for parcels” is determined by calculating ratios. The method) are used only for electricity. These are derived parcel ­delivery volume of the external companies is com­ from the ecoinvent database. All carbon emissions factors pared to the parcel delivery volume of Austrian Post to are reviewed and updated on an annual basis. calculate mileage. This results in a figure for total mileage, which is multiplied by the average actual fuel consumption of the Austrian Post vehicles, taking into account the par­ ticular vehicle category. The result is the fuel consumption of the shipping companies. The Group Real Estate organisational unit is responsible for determining the Österreichische Post AG carbon emissions from buildings. The data collected includes all of Österreichische Post AG’s properties and usable space in buildings (owned, leased space or space let to others). Generally speaking, a black box view is taken, enabling significant energy flows (electrical energy, room heating) to be identified. The environmental indicators for international Group companies are based on data directly obtained from the respective Group companies. Environmental indicators for the national Group companies are determined in coop­ eration with the Group companies and the CSR and Envi­ ronmental Management department with the assistance of Group Real Estate. Subsequent plausibility testing and consolidation of the indicators supplied by all Group com­ panies is completed by the CSR and Environmental Man­ agement department. In the case of implausible or missing indicators, the figures are extrapolated on the basis of average Österreichische Post AG figures. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 99 Facts & Figures  Performance indicators create transparency and indicate areas where improvement is possible. This enables ­ Austrian Post to manage measures being taken and monitor target achievement. The performance of the key indicators is depicted over a three-year period. The situation for Austrian Post in 2019 is charac­ The data compilation in the scope of c­ onsolidation terised by a decrease in mail (–3%) and an increase in the of the Group was expanded in 2019. A direct c­ omparison of parcels business (+18%). The analyses of the financial and non-financial indicators at Group level with the pre­vious non-financial indicators clearly reflect this. It was possible year is thus not possible. Work is being done to harmonise to keep the impact of these developments on the financial this in order to facilitate improved comparability of the indicators (revenues and earnings) stable as forecasted. indicators at Group level in the future. Changes are thus However, the changes in service provision (rise in parcel explained for Österreichische Post AG. volumes and thus kilometres driven as well as tailored delivery services in terms of time and location in the pri­ vate customer area) affected the non-financial indicators for employees, society and the environment. Employee Indicators Employees  GRI 102-8, 102-41, SDG 8 Österreichische Post AG employed an average With the exception of the temporary workers pur­ of 17,205 persons in 2019 (annual average; full-time suant to the Austrian Civil code (1%), all employees (99%) equivalents). Of these 5,410 were civil servants, 11,628 are governed by an Austrian collective agreement. The were salaried employees and 168 were temporary work­ temporary workers are governed by the provisions of ers pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code (ABGB) in the the Austrian Civil Code pursuant to the Postal Services reporting year. Structure Act (Section 19(5) PTSG). Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 TOTAL EMPLOYEES (FTE 2 ) 17,225 17,406 17,205 19,956 20,545 20,338 thereof women 5,027 5,264 5,347 5,996 6,481 6,517 thereof women (FTE in %) 29.2 30.2 31.1 30.0 31.5 32.0 thereof men 12,198 12,142 11,859 13,960 14,064 13,821 thereof men (FTE in %) 70.8 69.8 68.9 70.0 68.5 68.0 Facts & Figures _____ 100 Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 CIVIL SERVANTS (FTE) 2 7,056 6,315 5,410 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 1,037 921 760 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 6,019 5,394 4,650 n/a n/a n/a SALARIED EMPLOYEES (FTE) 4 9,991 10,914 11,628 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 3,913 4,265 4,517 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 6,078 6,649 7,111 n/a n/a n/a EMPLOYEES PURSUANT TO THE AUSTRIAN CIVIL CODE (ABGB, FTE) 3, 4 179 178 168 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 77 78 70 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 102 99 98 n/a n/a n/a FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES (HEADCOUNT) 15,256 15,324 15,139 n/a 18,228 18,029 thereof women 3,589 3,753 3,861 n/a n/a n/a thereof women (in %) 23.5 24.5 25.5 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 11,668 11,571 11,278 n/a n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 76.5 75.5 74.5 n/a n/a n/a PART-TIME EMPLOYEES (HEADCOUNT) 3,474 3,600 3,615 n/a 3,951 3,934 thereof women 2,585 2,652 2,626 n/a n/a n/a thereof women (in %) 74.4 73.7 72.6 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 889 948 989 n/a n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 25.6 26.3 27.4 n/a n/a n/a AVERAGE TENURE OF CIVIL SERVANTS (YEARS) 33 34 34 n/a n/a n/a AVERAGE TENURE OF SALARIED EMPLOYEES (YEARS) 10 10 9 n/a n/a n/a Temporary staff (FTE) 5 326 389 575 n/a n/a n/a 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Because of this, the indicator “Total employees (FTE)” does not correspond to the total number of employees (FTE) included in the Annual Report p. 45. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 FTE = Full-time equivalents 3 All civil servants are employed for an unlimited period of time. Salaried employees are also employed for an unlimited period of time for the most part. 241 of these FTE were employed for fixed periods of time in 2019 (includes employees in their probationary period and thereafter transferring to an unlimited contract of employment). Employees pursuant to the Austrian Civil Code are principally employed for fixed periods of time. 4 Not governed by the collective agreement due to a provision in the Postal Services Structure Act (Section19(5) PTSG). 5 The number of temporary staff increased from 389 full-time equivalents (FTE) in 2018 to 575 FTE in 2019 in particular due to the increase in the volume of parcels (also in connection with Austrian Post’s cooperation with the Deutsche Post DHL Group.) Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 101 Employee Turnover   GRI 401-1 Employee turnover at Österreichische Post AG on the other. The structural change – steady departure was 15.5% in 2019. The rising trend reflects the situation of civil servants and hiring of employees under the new on the labour market on the one hand, but also has to collective agreement – causes increased turnover. do with the specific employee structure at Austrian Post Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 EMPLOYEE ATTRITION (TOTAL STAFF DEPARTURES) 2 2,309 2,548 2,910 n/a 3,280 3,652 thereof women 885 918 1,081 n/a 1,211 1,320 thereof men 1,424 1,630 1,829 n/a 2,069 2,332 By age group under 30 651 735 855 n/a 969 1,123 30 – 50 years 764 789 922 n/a 1,130 1,317 over 51 894 1,024 1,133 n/a 1,181 1,212 EMPLOYEE ATTRITION (STAFF DEPARTURES IN %) 2, 3 12.3 13.6 15.5 n/a 14.8 16.6 thereof women 38.3 36.0 37.1 n/a 36.9 36.1 thereof men 61.7 64.0 62.9 n/a 63.1 63.9 By age group under 30 28.2 28.8 29.4 n/a 29.5 30.8 30 – 50 years 33.1 31.0 31.7 n/a 34.5 36.1 over 51 38.7 40.2 38.9 n/a 36.0 33.2 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES (TOTAL) 2 2,442 2,698 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 1,050 1,199 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 1,392 1,499 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a By age group under 30 1,346 1,468 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a 30 – 50 years 1,017 1,140 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a over 51 79 90 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES (IN %) 2, 3 13.2 14.4 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 43.0 44.4 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 57.0 55.6 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a By age group under 30 55.1 54.4 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a 30 – 50 years 41.6 42.3 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a over 51 3.2 3.3 n/a 4 n/a n/a n/a 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 Persons leaving or hired for the permanent staff who have been employed by the company for at least six months. All forms of staff departures are taken into account. 3 Departures / hires in relation to the employee average for the period (persons). 4 New permanent staff employed for at least six months. New employee hires cannot be reported for the period under review due to this internal Austrian Post definition, as this Sustainability Report was already published in March. New employee hires for this reporting year will be included in the Sustainability Report in the subsequent year. Facts & Figures _____ 102 Diversity  GRI 405-1 The “Women in executive positions” indicator Elly initiative helps to focus even more on diversity in reports a slight increase in the proportion of women the company with the aim of successively achieving once again in the reporting year. Numerous measures a balanced gender ratio on all hierarchical l­evels in the were created to promote harmonising working and ­family coming years. life and suitable career opportunities. The Expedition Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 Employees with special needs (total as of December 31st) 1,243 1,207 1,161 n/a n/a n/a EMPLOYEES (FTE 2 ) BY AGE GROUP 17,225 17,406 17,205 19,956 20,545 20,338 under 30 2,317 2,731 2,956 2,799 3,396 3,667 30 – 50 years 7,690 7,535 7,437 9,325 9,377 9,247 over 51 7,218 7,139 6,813 7,832 7,772 7,424 EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP IN % under 30 13.5 15.7 17.2 14.0 16.5 18.0 30 – 50 years 44.6 43.3 43.2 46.7 45.6 45.5 over 51 41.9 41.0 39.6 39.2 37.8 36.5 EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS (FTE) 3 887 778 725 993 972 916 thereof women 202 186 178 224 245 234 thereof men 685 591 546 769 727 682 By age group under 30 14 19 20 n/a 24 33 30 – 50 years 438 363 341 n/a 513 490 over 51 435 395 364 n/a 435 393 EMPLOYEES IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS IN % 3 5.1 4.5 4.2 5.0 4.7 4.5 thereof women 22.8 24.0 24.6 22.6 25.2 25.6 thereof men 77.2 76.0 75.4 77.4 74.8 74.4 By age group under 30 1.6 2.5 2.7 n/a 2.5 3.5 30 – 50 years 49.3 46.7 47.1 n/a 52.8 53.5 over 51 49.0 50.9 50.2 n/a 44.8 42.9 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 FTE = Full-time equivalents 3 Management Board members, management team (directly reporting to the Management Board), expanded management team (directly reporting to the management team or key executives) and leadership conference (employees on reporting level two to five responsible for at least three employees) as well as all other executives responsible for at least three employees. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 103 Sick Leave and Accidents  GRI 403-9, SDG 3, 8 Despite an increase in the number of parcels 2019. A total of 784 occupational accidents were reported ­handled, sick leave numbers have fallen as has the num­ in 2019 for Österreichische Post AG. Falls, traffic acci­ ber of working days lost per occurrence of sick leave. dents and the operation of equipment are the main causes The number of occupational accidents rose from 2018 to of accidents. Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 EMPLOYEES ON SICK LEAVE (FTE 2 IN %) 10.1 10.6 9.0 n/a 9.7 8.5 thereof women (in %) 26.6 27.3 30.2 n/a n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 73.4 72.7 69.8 n/a n/a n/a DAYS LOST PER SICK LEAVE (WORKING DAYS) 11.3 11.6 9.7 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 8.8 9.0 8.0 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 12.9 13.2 10.7 n/a n/a n/a NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS 3 617 718 784 676 809 851 thereof women 236 292 310 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 381 426 474 n/a n/a n/a thereof serious accidents 4 11 8 14 n/a n/a n/a thereof women 1 2 2 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 10 6 12 n/a n/a n/a thereof fatal accidents 0 0 0 0 3 0 thereof women 0 0 0 n/a n/a n/a thereof men 0 0 0 n/a n/a n/a ACCIDENT FREQUENCY 3, 5, 6 22 26 28 n/a n/a n/a ACCIDENT FREQUENCY FOR SERIOUS ACCIDENTS 3, 4, 5 0.4 0.3 0.5 n/a n/a n/a 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 FTE = Full-time equivalents 3 Accidents beginning with one working day lost incl. subsequent sick leave (incl. commuting accidents during work). 4 Accidents with six months or more working days lost. Only actual absence from work is reported, whereas expected times of absence are not taken into account. 5 Number of occupational accidents (starting with one working day lost) in relation to the hours worked, referring to one million working hours. The calculation is analogous for the accident rate for serious accidents. 6 Accident frequency was adapted retroactively for 2018 due to a change in the way it is calculated. Facts & Figures _____ 104 Further Education and Professional Development  GRI 404-1, SDG 4, 5 Well-trained employees contribute decisively to and relies on target-group and skills-oriented training ensuring that the company remains successful. For this and further education measures. The number of seminars, reason, Austrian Post offers its employees the opportunity seminar participants and the number of person hours to develop themselves professionally but also personally, increased compared to the previous year. Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 NUMBER OF SEMINARS 2 1,066 1,062 1,142 1,133 1,259 1,296 NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS 6,092 6,473 6,713 6,326 6,868 7,379 thereof women (in %) 34.3 39.2 39.2 n/a n/a n/a thereof men (in %) 65.7 60.8 60.8 n/a n/a n/a PERSON HOURS 131,894 118,415 135,340 n/a 123,496 142,708 AVERAGE ANNUAL NUMBER OF PERSON HOURS FOR WOMEN 8.6 7.7 8.2 n/a n/a n/a AVERAGE ANNUAL NUMBER OF PERSON HOURS FOR MEN 6.3 5.5 6.7 n/a n/a n/a 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH,  Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 E-learning not included. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 105 Environmental Indicators Fundamentally speaking, all indicators are based Furthermore, data compilation in the scope of on both actual data and extrapolations. These extrapo­ consolidation of the Group was expanded compared to lations are necessary due to the fact that the availability the previous year. The entire Group is now included. of actual data is limited at the time of data collection. A direct comparison at Group level with the previous year The approach used in making extrapolations is continu­ is thus not possible. ally evaluated and improved. Moreover, trends in the respective indicators are The strong growth in the parcel business has only explained for Österreichische Post AG. resulted in increases in most indicators compared to the previous year. Energy Overview  GRI 302-1, SDG 7, 12, 13 Total energy consumption for Österreichische Post DHL Group parcels to private individuals in Austria Post AG properties and vehicle fleet increased year-onto its own existing logistics network in August 2019. This year by 6% to some 376m kWh. Energy consumption in ­integration and increase in volume required extended the properties area rose by 1% to about 122m kWh. In the capacity in the logistics centres as well as in transport vehicle fleet area, energy consumption grew by 9% to and vehicles. On the whole, the discontinuation of DHL’s approximately 254m kWh. The main driver in both cases own ­delivery network effects an increase in efficiency in is the strong growth in parcel volumes (+18%) brought delivery throughout Austria and thus an improvement in about by Austrian Post’s partnership with Deutsche Post the energy and environmental balance. DHL Group. Austrian Post added the delivery of Deutsche Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 Unit 2017 2 2018 2 2017 2 2018 2 2019 2019 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BUILDINGS AND VEHICLE FLEET m kWh 344.1 354.0 375.9 421.8 433.1 486.3 Energy consumption buildings (total) 3 m kWh 125.5 121.6 122.3 144.4 139.8 145.5 Energy consumption vehicle fleet (total) 4 m kWh 218.6 232.4 253.6 277.4 293.3 340.8 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 The 2017 and 2018 indicators for the vehicle fleet and property and buildings were revised downwards in the course of the audit, as the original calculation was corrected. 3 The 2019 energy indicators for property and buildings include all Austrian Post space (offices, delivery bases, logistics centres, branch offices). The Österreichische Post AG indicators are based on actual data available up to the 14 January 2020 deadline. The remaining indicators are based on extrapolations. Indicators for the subsidiaries are based on data provided up to the 24 January 2020 deadline. Extrapolations were made in some cases. 4 The 2019 energy indicators for the vehicle fleet include all motorised vehicles of Austrian Post. The indicators for Österreichische Post AG are actual data. The indicators for the subsidiaries are based on actual data provided up to the 24 January 2020 deadline. Extrapolations were made in some cases. Facts & Figures _____ 106 Energy – Property and Buildings  GRI 302-1, 302-4, SDG 7, 8, 12, 13 Österreichische Post AG manages over 1 million m² Viewing specific carbon emissions in tonnes per square of building space. The total area in square metres rose by metre, there was a 2.6% reduction compared to the pre­ 5% compared to 2018. Total energy consumption in the vious year. property and buildings area increased by just 1% to about 122m KWh. ­ Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 Unit 2017 2018 2017 2 2018 2 2019 2019 BUILDING SPACE (m 2 ) m2 1,048,295 1,055,669 1,112,936 1,185,294 1,209,874 1,319,093 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION BUILDING 3 m kWh 125.5 121.6 122.3 144.4 139.8 145.5 Natural gas m kWh 32.3 32.7 32.0 38.9 38.9 41.3 Heating oil m kWh 3.1 2.0 2.4 3.3 2.1 2.5 District heat m kWh 34.5 30.3 31.1 36.9 33.0 33.0 Electricity (total) m kWh 55.6 56.6 56.8 65.3 65.8 68.7 t hereof electricity from renewable energy sources m kWh 52.4 55.4 55.4 55.4 59.0 59.2 t hereof electricity from own photovoltaic plants m kWh 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.5 1.6 1.3 thereof grey electricity m kWh 3.1 1.2 1.4 9.9 6.8 9.4 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BUILDINGS PER m 2 kWh/ m² 120 115 110 122 116 110 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 The 2017 and 2018 indicators for the vehicle fleet and property and buildings were revised downwards and one value (building space) revised upwards in the course of the audit, as the original calculation was corrected. 3 The 2019 energy indicators for property and buildings include all Austrian Post space (offices, delivery bases, logistics centres, branch offices). The Österreichische Post AG indicators are based on actual data available up to the 14 January 2020 deadline. The remaining indicators are based on extrapolations. Indicators for the subsidiaries are based on data provided by them up to the 24 January 2020 deadline. Extrapolations were made in some cases. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 107 Energy – Vehicle Fleet  GRI 302-1, SDG 7, 12, 13 In 2019 Österreichische Post AG drove a total of This integration and the increase in volume required 185 million km to render its services. The number of kilo­ expansion of transport and vehicle capacity. On the metres driven rose by 9% compared to the previous year whole, the discontinuation of DHL’s own delivery network due to the increase in volumes in the parcel business. effects an increase in efficiency in delivery throughout The main driver is the strong volume growth in the parcel Austria and thus an improvement in the energy and envi­ business (+18%) supported by Austrian Post’s partner­ ronmental balance. ship with Deutsche Post DHL Group. Fuel consumption Österreichische Post AG relies on many measures thus increased by 9% to 254m kWh. Specifically speaking in its own vehicle fleet for continued improvement of (per km), fuel consumption fell by 0.4%. its environmental performance (expansion of e-mobility, Austrian Post added the delivery of Deutsche modern and energy-efficient vehicle fleet). It is not possi­ Post DHL Group parcels to private individuals in ­Austria ble to directly influence the energy consumption of the to its own existing logistics network in August 2019. external vehicle fleet. Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 Unit 2017 2 2018 2 2017 2 2018 2 2019 2019 KILOMETRES DRIVEN 3 m km 162.2 170.1 185.8 218.5 229.4 266.8 TOTAL FUEL CONSUMPTION VEHICLE FLEET 3 m kWh 218.6 232.4 253.6 277.4 293.3 340.8 thereof own vehicle fleet m kWh 141.6 146.5 151.0 169.6 178.6 207.0 t hereof electricity consumption e-mobility m kWh 1.1 1.2 1.5 1.1 1.2 1.5 thereof external vehicle fleet m kWh 77.0 85.9 102.6 107.8 114.7 133.8 ENERGY CONSUMPTION VEHICLE FLEET PER KM kWh/100 km 134.8 136.6 136.5 127.0 127.9 127.7 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 The 2017 and 2018 indicators for the vehicle fleet were revised downwards in the course of the audit, as the original calculation was corrected. 3 The 2019 indicators for the vehicle fleet include all motorised vehicles of Austrian Post. The indicators for Österreichische Post AG are actual data. The indicators for the Group companies are based on data provided by them up to the 24 January 2020 deadline. Extrapolations were made in some cases. Facts & Figures _____ 108 Emissions  GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, SDG 3, 12, 13 Österreichische Post AG’s carbon emissions Austrian Post added the delivery of Deutsche (Scope 1–3) rose by 8% to 76,946 tonnes compared to Post DHL Group parcels to private individuals in Aus­ the previous year. Carbon emissions for the Österreichi­ tria to its own existing logistics network in August 2019. sche Post AG property and buildings area (Scope 1 and This integration and the increase in volume required Scope 2) increased by 3% to 12,701 tonnes. The rise in car­ expansion of capacity in the logistics centres as well as bon emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 3) for the vehicle fleet in transport and vehicles. On the whole, the discontinu­ is 9% (to 64,245 tonnes). ation of DHL’s own delivery network effects an increase The main driver in both cases is the strong volume in efficiency in delivery throughout Austria and thus an growth in the parcel business (+18%) supported by ­Austrian improvement in the energy and environmental balance. Post’s partnership with Deutsche Post DHL Group. Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 Unit 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 TOTAL CO2e EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 – 3) 2 ACCORDING TO THE GREENHOUSE GAS PROTOCOL t CO2e 68,982 71,389 76,946 88,886 92,361 105,553 CO 2 e EMISSIONS BUILDINGS t CO2e 13,649 12,365 12,701 18,661 17,575 19,155 CO2e Scope 1 – buildings t CO2e 7,312 7,078 7,238 9,063 8,819 9,122 Natural gas t CO2e 6,462 6,541 6,400 8,175 8,251 8,265 Liquid gas t CO2e 0 0 179 0 0 179 Heating oil t CO2e 850 537 659 888 567 678 CO2e Scope 2 – buildings 3 t CO2e 6,337 5,287 5,462 9,598 8,756 10,033 District heat t CO2e 5,401 4,991 5,105 5,858 5,543 5,500 Electricity t CO2e 936 296 358 3,740 3,213 4,533 CO 2 e EMISSIONS VEHICLE FLEET t CO2e 55,333 59,024 64,245 70,225 74,786 86,391 CO2e Scope 1 – own vehicle fleet t CO2e 35,713 37,065 38,063 42,804 45,213 52,285 CO2e Scope 3 – partner companies t CO2e 19,620 21,959 26,182 27,421 29,573 34,106 TOTAL CO 2 e EMISSIONS t CO2e/ PER KM m km 425.3 419.7 414.1 406.8 402.6 395.6 1  Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. 2 All gases named by GRI are taken into account when calculating Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. In order to fulfil GRI requirements, Österreichische Post AG’s carbon emissions for the base year 2013 are listed as follows: CO2e Scope 1 – road transport (own transport): 35,199t; CO2e Scope 1 – buildings: 8,887t; CO2e Scope 2 – buildings: 6.346t; CO2e Scope 3 – partner companies: 19,951t. These figures refer exclusively to Österreichische Post AG. The difference to previously published carbon emissions for the year 2013 arises from not taking account of Post Wertlogistik GmbH. 3 The calculation of Scope 2 emissions (electricity and district heat) for Österreichische Post AG is carried out in line with the market-based method. This means supplier-specific emission factors are used if possible. When Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the location-based method (no supplier-specific emission factors, no green electricity), carbon emissions for the year 2019 are at 20,625. tonnes. This demonstrates the impact of procuring renewable energy. The calculation of Scope 2 emissions (electricity, district heat) for the national subsidiaries is carried out in line with the market-based method. This means supplier-specific emission factors are used if available. The calculation of Scope 2 emissions (electricity) of the international subsidiaries is carried out in line with the location-based method. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 109 Relative Emissions  GRI 302-1, SDG 7, 12, 13 Due to the changes in volume in the mail and parcel for the vehicle fleet decreased by 0.4% to 345.7 tonnes per business, it makes sense to list the relative carbon emis­ million km compared to the previous year. In relation to sions for different reference values. Total carbon emissions revenue, the relative carbon emissions increased by 4.6% to relating to total kilometres driven and to revenue are dis­ 41.4 tonnes per EUR million compared to the previous year. closed for the first time. In relation to the total number of driven kilometres, the The relative carbon emissions for property and relative carbon emissions fell by 1.3% to 414.1 tonnes per buildings fell by 2.6% to 11.4 tonnes per thousand m² com­ million km compared to the previous year. pared to the previous year. The relative carbon emissions Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 Relative Indicators Unit 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 CO 2 e EMISSIONS TO REVENUE t CO2e / m EUR 38.7 39.6 41.4 45.8 47.2 52.2 TOTAL CO 2 e EMISSIONS PER KM t CO2e / m km 425.3 419.7 414.1 406.8 402.6 395.6 CO 2 e EMISSIONS BUILDINGS PER m 2 t t CO2e / 1,000 m2 13.0 11.7 11.4 15.7 14.5 14.5 CO 2 e EMISSIONS VEHICLE FLEET PER KM t CO2e / m km 341.1 347.0 345.7 321.5 326.0 323.8 1  ustrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, A Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Facts & Figures _____ 110 Vehicles  The number of e-vehicles in the Österreichische Post AG fleet in 2019 was up by 10% to 1,750. The total ­number of vehicles increased by 3% to 9,510 compared to the previous year. Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 TOTAL VEHICLES 8,680 9,257 9,510 9,952 10,473 11,239 Bicycles 714 719 734 715 758 773 thereof electric bicycles 613 620 649 613 621 650 Mopeds 809 921 977 944 970 1,025 thereof electric mopeds 369 416 428 370 417 428 Vehicles up to 3.5 t 6,996 7,467 7,636 8,066 8,529 9,168 thereof natural gas-driven vehicles up to 3.5 t 0 0 0 0 2 684 thereof e-vehicles up to 3.5 t 441 556 673 443 560 1 Vehicles over 3.5 t 161 150 163 227 216 273 1 A  ustrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH, Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Paper  GRI 301-1, SDG 8, 12 Paper consumption fell by 424 tonnes due to various measures (printer settings, awareness initiatives, etc.). The share of paper from sustainable resources ­ (FSC and PEFC) is around 85%. Österreichische Post AG Austrian Post Group 1 Unit 2017 2018 2017 2018 2019 2019 TOTAL PAPER CONSUMPTION t 5,539 5,469 5,045 5,755 5,697 5,374 t hereof sustainably produced paper (PEFC and FSC paper) t 5,372 5,195 4,324 5,415 5,243 4,384 1 Austrian Post Group 2017: this includes Österreichische Post AG and the subsidiaries Medien.Zustell GmbH, feibra GmbH, Post Wertlogistik GmbH, Post Systemlogistik GmbH,  Slovak Parcel Service s.r.o., IN TIME s.r.o., City Express d.o.o., City Express Montenegro d.o.o., Weber Escal d.o.o., M&BM Express OOD, Overseas Trade Co Ltd d.o.o. and Express One d.o.o. Sarajevo. Austrian Post Group 2018: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Austrian Post Group 2019: the indicators apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 111 GRI Index  GRI 102-55 In the following GRI Index, the standard disclosures made by Austrian Post, material topics and at least one related indicator are listed in line with the “Core” option selected by Austrian Post. If a GRI indicator contributes to an SDG, this is specified in the appropriate place. Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments UNIVERSAL STANDARDS GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Österreichische Post AG GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization (Austrian Post) Activities, brands, p. 14f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-2 products, and services Annual Report 2019: p. 04f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters Rochusplatz 1, A-1030 Wien p. 15 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-4 Location of operations Annual Report 2019: p. 04f Ownership and legal p. 14 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-5 form Annual Report 2019: p. 79ff p. 15 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-6 Markets served Annual Report 2019: p. 05 p. 14f, 91f Annual Report 2019: GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 04f, 79ff, 210f Information on employ­ SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-8 ees and other workers and Economic Growth p. 99 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives p. 18f Membership of GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-13 associations post.at/memberships SUSTAINABLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE p. 21f Precautionary Principle Annual Report 2019: GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-11 or approach p. 48, 51, 55, 59, 68, 73, 99ff Statement from senior GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-14 ­decision-maker p. 10ff p. 39, 53f, 71f, 89 Key impacts, risks, Annual Report 2019: GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-15 and ­opportunities p. 44, 48, 51, 55, 59, 66, 71 GRI Index _____ 112 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments Values, principles, standards, and norms SDG 16: Peace, Justice p. 20 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-16 of behavior and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 49ff Mechanisms for advice and concerns about SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-17 ethics and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 49ff GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report 2019: p. 22ff GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority Annual Report 2019: p. 22ff Executive-level respon­ sibility for economic, environmental, and p. 20f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-20 social topics Annual Report 2019: p. 42 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environ­ SDG 16: Peace, Justice p. 24f GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-21 mental, and social topics and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 43 Composition of the high­ est governance body SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-22 and its committees and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 23f Chair of the highest SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-23 ­governance body and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 23f Nominating and select­ SDG 5: Gender Equality ing the highest govern­ SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-24 ance body and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 23f Reporting on this dis­ closure is voluntary and SDG 16: Peace, Justice therefore only certain GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 26f information is provided. GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2019: p. 29ff Collective bargaining SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-41 ­agreements and Economic Growth p. 99f STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT List of stakeholder GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-40 groups p. 25 Identifying and selecting GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-42 stakeholders p. 24 Approach to stakeholder GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-43 engagement p. 24f, 45, 74 Key topics and concerns GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-44 raised p. 24, 45 REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the p. 14, 97 consolidated financial Annual Report 2019: GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-45 statements p. 124, 210f Defining report content GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-46 and topic Boundaries p. 14, 28ff, 97f Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 113 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics p. 28ff Restatements of GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-48 information p. 97 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 97 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period p. 97 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 13 March 2019 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 97 Contact point for questions regarding GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-53 the report p. 124 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-54 GRI Standards p. 97 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index p. 111 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance p. 97, 122 MATERIAL TOPIC: GROWTH AND VALUE CREATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 40 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 40 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 40f GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 SDG 2: Zero Hunger SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Direct economic SDG 9: Industry, Not applicable: further value generated and Innovation and p. 41ff information on this GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-1 distributed Infrastructure Annual Report 2019: p. 55 disclosure is not applicable. Limitations due to confi­ Financial implications dentiality: costs and finan­ and other risks and cial risks or opportunities opportunities due to are not disclosed for rea­ GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-2 climate change SDG 13: Climate Action p. 43, 54 sons of confidentiality. GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 SDG 2: Zero Hunger SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Infrastructure invest­ SDG 11: Sustainable Indirect Economic ments and services Cities and Commu­ These investments are GRI 203 Impacts 203-1 supported nities p. 43f, 91f commercial in nature. GRI Index _____ 114 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments MATERIAL TOPIC: CORPORATE CULTURE AND WORLDS OF WORK GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the p. 28ff, 72, 76 material topic and its Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 46ff, 49ff The management p. 71f, 76 approach and its com­ Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ponents p. 46ff, 49ff p. 72f Evaluation of the man­ Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 agement approach p. 46ff, 49ff GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 Operations assessed for risks related to cor­ SDG 16: Peace, Justice Annual Report 2019: p. 49ff GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 ruption and Strong Institutions The precise number of staff trained could not be Communication and determined because of training about anti-cor­ internal restructuring in ruption policies and SDG 16: Peace, Justice Annual Report 2019: p. 49ff 2019. This figure will be GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-2 procedures and Strong Institutions reported again in 2020. Confirmed incidents of There were no cases of corruption and actions SDG 16: Peace, Justice Annual Report 2019: p. 49ff corruption during the GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-3 taken and Strong Institutions reporting period. GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR 2016 A petition was submitted to the Cartel Court in June 2019 requesting that it make a determination of and remedy the alleged abuse of market domi­ nance by Austrian Post. The In 2019 no lawsuits were allegations relate primarily filed against Austrian Post to presumed discrimina­ and no sanctions or fines tion against the petitioner were imposed upon the by way of unfavourable company for anti-com­ pricing, impeding the ability petitive behaviour, or for to compete, illegality of the formation of cartels or the contractually agreed monopolies, based on the non-disclosure clauses and Legal actions for anti-­ Federal Act Against Unfair improper application of VAT competitive behavior, Competition (UMG) and/ regulations. The proceed­ Anti-competitive anti-trust, and SDG 16: Peace, Justice or the Austrian Cartel Act ings are still pending in the GRI 206 Behavior 206-1 monopoly practices and Strong Institutions (KartG). court of first instance. GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 Not applicable: in line with Austrian Post’s internal definition, the annual av­ erage is used to calculate New employee hires new employee hires and GRI 401 Employment 401-1 and employee turnover p. 101 employee turnover. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time GRI 401 Employment 401-2 employees p. 74 Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 115 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 402: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 Generally speaking, the rules relating to participa­ tion by employee repre­ sentatives in organisational changes are regulated by the Austrian Labour Rela­ tions Act (ArbVG). Moreover, Austrian Post is obliged to comply with the stipulations contained in the Federal Act on the Postal Service Works Constitution (PBVG). Ac­ cording to Section 72(3) no. 7 PBVG, Austrian Post is required to inform em­ ployee representatives in a timely manner before organisational changes take place and to extensively negotiate with them. Based on these regulations, organ­ isational changes are coor­ dinated with the employee Minimum notice periods representatives on average Labor/Management regarding operational SDG 8: Decent Work more than two months be­ GRI 402 Relations 402-1 changes and Economic Growth fore they are implemented. GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 SDG 5: Gender Equality Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance SDG 8: Decent Work p. 102 GRI 405 Opportunity 405-1 bodies and employees and Economic Growth Annual Report 2019: p. 25f GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2016 In 2019 no lawsuits were A petition was submitted filed against Austrian Post to the Cartel Court in June and no sanctions or fines 2019 requesting that it were imposed upon the make a determination of company for anti-com­ and remedy the alleged petitive behaviour, or for abuse of market domi­ the formation of cartels or nance by Austrian Post. The monopolies, based on the allegations relate primarily Federal Act Against Unfair to presumed discrimina­ Competition (UMG) and/ tion against the petitioner or the Austrian Cartel Act by way of unfavourable (KartG). pricing, impeding the ability to compete, illegality of Austrian Post was not the contractually agreed the subject of any major non-disclosure clauses and Non-compliance with lawsuits, sanctions or fines improper application of VAT laws and regulations imposed for violations of regulations. The proceed­ Socioeconomic in the social and eco­ SDG 16: Peace, Justice social welfare laws or reg­ ings are still pending in the GRI 419 Compliance 419-1 nomic area and Strong Institutions ulations in 2019. court of first instance. GRI Index _____ 116 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments MATERIAL TOPIC: RESOURCE EFFICIENCY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 54 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 54, 61 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 54ff GRI 301: MATERIALS 2016 SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 12: Responsible Materials used by Consumption and GRI 301 Materials 301-1 weight or volume Production p. 110 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 Information not available: waste at Austrian Post is generated from deliver­ ies made to customers and primarily consists of cardboard, plastic film and waste wood. Operation­ al waste management is the responsibility of the respective site. Waste is handed over only to au­ thorised waste manage­ ment service providers, which subsequently recycle or dispose of these ma­ terials. Austrian Post is working intensively on cen­ tralising and consolidating SDG 3: Good Health its strategic and opera­ and Well-being tional waste management SDG 12: Responsible activities. A database is to Waste by type and Consumption and be created in the coming GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306-2 disposal method Production p. 61 years to enable reporting. MATERIAL TOPIC: CLIMATE PROTECTION AND ENERGY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 54 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 54, 56 Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 54ff GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Energy consumption Production GRI 302 Energy 302-1 within the organization SDG 13: Climate Action p. 97f, 105ff, 109 Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 117 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Reduction of energy Production GRI 302 Energy 302-4 consumption SDG 13: Climate Action p. 60f, 106ff GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Direct (Scope 1) Production GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 GHG emissions SDG 13: Climate Action p. 97f, 108 SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being SDG 12: Responsible Energy indirect Consumption and (Scope 2) Production GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 GHG emissions SDG 13: Climate Action p. 97f, 108 SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being SDG 12: Responsible Other indirect Consumption and (Scope 3) Production GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 GHG emissions SDG 13: Climate Action p. 97f, 108 MATERIAL TOPIC: RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the p. 28ff, 54 material topic and its Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 46ff The management p. 54, 63 approach and its Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 46ff Evaluation of the Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 46ff GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-9 Supply chain and Economic Growth Annual Report 2019: p. 46ff Significant changes to the organization and p. 14 GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-10 its supply chain Annual Report 2019: p. 46ff GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 SDG 12: Responsible The term “local suppliers” Proportion of spending Consumption and refers to suppliers from GRI 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 on local suppliers Production p. 63 Austria. GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 Negative environmental Supplier Environmental impacts in the supply GRI 308 Assessment 308-2 chain and actions taken Annual Report 2019: p. 46ff GRI Index _____ 118 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 8: Decent Work Negative social impacts and Economic Growth Supplier Social in the supply chain and SDG 16: Peace, Justice GRI 414 Assessment 414-2 actions taken and Strong Institutions Annual Report 2019: p. 46ff MATERIAL TOPIC: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH PROTECTION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2018 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 77 The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 77ff Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 72f GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 Occupational health Occupational Health and safety management SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 403 and Safety 403-1 system and Economic Growth p. 28ff, 79f SDG 3: Good Health Hazard identification, and Well-being Occupational Health risk assessment, and SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 403 and Safety 403-2 incident investigation and Economic Growth p. 79f Occupational Health Occupational health SDG 3: Good Health GRI 403 and Safety 403-3 services and Well-being p. 79 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on Occupational Health occupational health and SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 403 and Safety 403-4 safety and Economic Growth p. 79f SDG 3: Good Health Worker training on and Well-being Occupational Health occupational health and SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 403 and Safety 403-5 safety and Economic Growth p. 79 Occupational Health Promotion of worker SDG 3: Good Health GRI 403 and Safety 403-6 health and Well-being p. 78 Prevention and miti­ gation of occupational SDG 3: Good Health health and safety im­ and Well-being Occupational Health pacts directly linked by SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 403 and Safety 403-7 business relationships and Economic Growth p. 79f Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 119 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments Productive hours are not disclosed for reasons of confidentiality. In 2019, an evaluation was made to determine whether the accident frequency for temporary staff can be presented. Currently, this cannot be reported, as the number of productive hours of temporary staff is not available. SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being Information not available: Occupational Health SDG 8: Decent Work presentation of temporary GRI 403 and Safety 403-9 Work-related injuries and Economic Growth p. 103 workers by gender MATERIAL TOPIC: TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 80f The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 80f Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 72f GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 Information not available: an analysis by manage­ ment level or other function based on the personal data stored in the training and Average hours of SDG 4: Quality professional development Training training per year per Education database is not possible (no GRI 404 and Education 404-1 employee SDG 5: Gender Equality p. 104 system interfaces). Programs for upgrading employee Training skills and transition as­ SDG 8: Decent Work GRI 404 and Education 404-2 sistance programs and Economic Growth p. 80f MATERIAL TOPIC: DATA PROTECTION AND DATA SECURITY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Annual Report 2019: GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 69ff The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components Annual Report 2019: p. 69ff Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach Annual Report 2019: p. 69ff GRI Index _____ 120 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 In 2019, there was one ex officio investigation, three individual complaints pro­ cedures and an adminis­ trative prosecution relating to the extrapolation of “party allegiances” among others, which were decided by the Data Protection Au­ thority, but are not legally binding. There was also an examination with respect to offline retargeting, which was withdrawn by the authorities. Further­ more, the Data Protection Authority decided against Austrian Post in a case in which it had lodged a complaint about a post bag being left behind. Although not directly involved, Aus­ trian Post was fined EUR Substantiated com­ 600 for failing to provide plaints concerning the authority with infor­ breaches of customer mation about post, quoting privacy and losses of SDG 16: Peace, Justice postal secrecy. Austrian GRI 418 Customer Privacy 418-1 customer data and Strong Institutions Post paid this fine. OTHER MATERIAL TOPICS WITHOUT AN EQUIVALENT GRI STANDARD MATERIAL TOPIC: INNOVATION AND FUTURE TECHNOLOGIES GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 43f The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 43f Internal performance Evaluation of the indicator is currently being GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 40f evaluated. MATERIAL TOPIC: SERVICE AND CUSTOMER ORIENTATION GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 44f The management approach and its Internal performance GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 44f indicators are derived from Evaluation of the the customer satisfaction GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 40f analysis (CSI). Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 121 Disclosure Title GRI GRI DiscloIndividual disclosure Standard Standard sure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) Information on Disclosure Reasons for the Omission/ Number Title Number are not listed here SDGs or Reference Comments MATERIAL TOPIC: SOCIAL COMMITMENT GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 93f The management approach and its Internal performance GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 ­components p. 93f indicator: total expenEvaluation of the di­ture for sponsorships GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 90f and donations MATERIAL TOPIC: CUSTOMER PROXIMITY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 44f The management approach and its Internal performance GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 44f indicators are derived from Evaluation of the the customer satisfaction GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 40f analysis (CSI). MATERIAL TOPIC: REGIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND RELIABILITY OF SUPPLY GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-1 Boundary p. 28ff, 91ff The management approach and its GRI 103 Management Approach 103-2 components p. 91ff Evaluation of the GRI 103 Management Approach 103-3 management approach p. 90 Vienna, 21 February 2020 The Management Board GEORG PÖLZL WALTER OBLIN PETER UMUNDUM CEO Deputy CEO Member of the Chairman of the Mail & Finance Management Board ­Management Board Parcel & Logistics GRI Index _____ 122 Independent Assurance Report on the Non-financial Reporting  GRI 102-56 To the Board of Directors of Österreichische Post AG. We have performed an independent limited assurance ­engagement on the disclosures and indicators concerning the sustainability performance for the financial year 2019 published in the Sustainability Report 2019 (“the Sustainability Report”) Österreichische Post AG, Vienna, (“the Company”). Management’s Responsibility The engagement scope included the S­ ustainability The Company's management is responsible for the Report regarding the GRI Standards listed in the GRI proper preparation of the Sustainability Report in accord­ Index. References to other formats of reporting stated in ance with the reporting criteria. The Company applies the the GRI Index were assessed for GRI conformity. sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Report­ Our engagement was conducted in conformity ing Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) as reporting with the International Standard on Assurance Engage­ criteria. ments (ISAE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These The responsibility of the legal representatives of standards require us to comply with our professional the company includes the selection and application of requirements including independence requirements, and reasonable methods for sustainability reporting (espe­ to plan and perform the engagement to enable us to cially the selection of material topics) as well as the use express a conclusion with limited assurance, taking into of assumptions and estimates for individual non-financial account materiality. disclosures that are reasonable under the circumstances. An independent assurance engagement with the Furthermore, the responsibility includes the design, purpose of expressing a conclusion with limited assur­ implementation and maintenance of systems, processes ance is substantially less in scope than an independent and internal controls relevant for the preparation of the assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing sustainability reporting in a way that is free of – intended a conclusion with reasonable assurance, thus providing or unintended – material misstatements. reduced assurance. In spite of conscientious planning and execution of the engagement it cannot be ruled out that material mistakes, unlawful acts or irregularities within Auditors' Responsibility and Scope the non-financial reporting will remain undetected. of the Engagement The procedures selected depend on the auditor's Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our judgment and included the following procedures in par­ procedures performed, anything has come to our attention ticular: that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report of the Company is not in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all material respects. Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post 123 Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, who are This assurance report is issued based on the responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to assurance agreement concluded with the Company. Our gain an understanding of the processes for determining responsibility and liability towards the Company and any material sustainability topics and respective reporting third party is subject to paragraph 7 of the General Con­ boundaries of the Company; ditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. A risk assessment, including a media analysis on rele­ The respective latest version of the AAB is vant information concerning the sustainability perfor­ accessible at kpmg.at/aab. mance of the Company in the reporting period; Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing Conclusion and control of the disclosures and indicators concern­ Based on the procedures performed, nothing has ing the sustainability performance in scope of this come to our attention that causes us to believe that the assurance agreement, including the consolidation of Sustainability Report of the Company is not in accordance the data; with the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Inquiries of personnel on corporate level r­ esponsible Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all for providing and consolidating and for carrying material respects. out internal control procedures concerning the disclo­ sures; Inspection of internal and external documents in order Vienna, 28 February 2020 to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner; Inquiry of employees as part of a virtual site visit of an international subsidiary (City Express d.o.o.) to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data; Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explana­ tions of quantitative disclosures, submitted by all sites KPMG Austria GmbH for consolidation at corporate level; Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Assessment of the overall presentation of the disclo­ sures by critical reading of the so-called magazine text Peter Ertl m. p. sections; Certified Public Accountant Evaluation of the consistency of the for the Company applicable requirements of the GRI Standards (Option “Core”) with disclosures and indicators in the Sus­ tainability Report. The procedures that we performed do not consti­ tute an audit or a review in accordance with Austrian ­professional guidelines, International Standards on Audit­ ing (ISA) or International Standards on Review Engage­ ments (ISRE). Our engagement did not focus on revealing and clarifying illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our engagement to review future-related disclosures, figures from previous periods, statements from external information sources and expert opinions and references to additional external reporting sources of the Company. Disclosures which were audited within the scope of the Annual Financial Statements were assessed for correct presentation (no substantial testing). Independent Assurance Report _____ 124 Contact and Legal Notice  Media Owner and Publisher Österreichische Post AG Rochusplatz 1, 1030 Vienna, Austria T: +43 577 67 0 E: info@post.at FN: 180219d, Commercial Court of Vienna Concept and Design Berichtsmanufaktur GmbH, Hamburg, Germany Project Management, Editing, Organisation/Coordination Austrian Post CSR and Environmental Management Investor Relations; Berichtsmanufaktur GmbH, Hamburg, Germany Photography Ian Ehm, Vienna Österreichische Post AG Print Print Alliance HAV Produktions GmbH, Bad Vöslau We have prepared this report and checked the figures This report also contains forward-looking assumptions Information on data protection can be found at post.at/ with the greatest possible care. Nevertheless, rounding, and statements based on the information currently data protection. typographical and printing errors cannot be excluded. available to us. These are usually indicated by expressions The aggregation of rounded amounts and percentages such as “expect”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan” or “calcuThis Sustainability Report is also available in German. In may result in rounding differences due to the use of late”. We wish to note that a wide variety of factors could case of doubt, the German version takes precedence. automated computational aids. cause actual circumstances – and hence actual results – to deviate from the forecasts contained in this report. Editorial deadline: 11 March 2020 Sustainability Report _____ 2019 Austrian Post Austrian Post is a reliable partner – in delivery as well as for the people in Austria – and is integrated into society. Austrian Post – Your Reliable for me. Austrian Post post.at/ir
