| Communication on Progress 1 e-Zest Solutions Ltd. Communication on Progress From January 2019 to January 2020 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Date: 13th March 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that e-Zest Solutions Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Devendra Deshmukh CEO and Founder Confidential Confidential 1 | Communication on Progress 1 Description of Actions 1.1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest Solutions Ltd completely supports protection of Principles of Human Rights duly promoted by UN Global Compact. We are aware of our responsibility to society and are committed to support and follow the principles. • e-Zest is dedicated to creating a stimulating work environment where team members are comfortable and content at work. • We treat all team members fairly and equally. We do not discriminate on grounds of age, gender, colour, race, ethnicity, language, caste, creed, economic or social status or disability. • We abide by model standing orders prescribed by Government of India, which ensure adherence to the basic Principles of Natural Justice during the process of handing Indiscipline. • We abide by all Laws of Land and we have not been exposed to any legal action for non-conformity of any legal provisions. • Considering the nature of our business we believe the potential to become complicit in human rights abuse is limited. • We consider safety and well-being of our team members as one of our topmost priorities. We ensure that all our facilities have the requisite safety equipment and that sanitation is maintained all around. • e-Zest has always valued human rights and focused on developing a healthy work environment. Our foundations are strongly imbibed with the philosophy that a satisfied team member will deliver 110% while a dissatisfied team member will do no good to him/herself as well as the organization. To ensure the protection of the Confidential Confidential 2 | Communication on Progress human rights of our team members e-Zest has set up a code of conduct to be followed by all. Implementation • Our team members are well informed and have the necessary tools to respond to workplace emergencies; first-aid kits and fire extinguishers are readily available; and escape exits are clearly marked and free from obstruction. We regularly conduct firedrills to evaluate our emergency preparedness. • The company conducts security risk assessments and ensures that company security arrangements are in good shape. • e-Zest does not discriminate against any candidate based on Caste, Creed, Religion and Gender during process of selection or in career progression. • We believe in meritocracy and our decisions are based only on the principles of Merit. • We strongly support women empowerment and strictly follow the gender equality policy. • We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities. • We have complied all guidelines and provision of Laws in respect of Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanisms to deal with any case of violation in this respect. CSR Initiatives • e-Zest team members regularly participate in CSR activities and do their bit in helping the needy. We sensitively work with Impact related organizations to deliver maximum benefit to the community. Neurosynaptic Communication is a sister’s concern company of e-Zest. Together we have undertaken an initiative to provide quality healthcare to populations below the poverty line with the help of telemedicine technology & expert doctors. • We extend support to the Digital Pune Mission with our digital empowerment bus initiative. This initiative has been launched under the aegis of the Digital Pune Confidential Confidential 3 | Communication on Progress Mission with an objective to empower at least one person per low-income household in Pune with basic digital literacy skills. This bus, which functions as a mobile digital empowerment center, will run as part of a city-wide public private partnership wherein Pune Municipal Corporation provides fully equipped buses, that can be run with the support of corporates as part of their CSR activities. Each bus comes equipped by PMC with 12 computers in a classroom-like environment. • The project named ‘e-Zest Saath’ is aimed at supporting the rural population with limited access to healthcare facilities. As a part of this initiative, we have set up a telemedicine centre at a village in Pune Maharashtra, India. We look after core technology, operations and doctor consultation costs involved. We strive to continue our services through our technology expertise which could benefit thousands of underprivileged lives. Confidential Confidential 4 | Communication on Progress Confidential Confidential 5 | Communication on Progress Women Power at e-Zest e-Zest strongly believes in empowering women and eliminating gender inequality. To support this cause, we have designed organizational policies which allow women to perform in a flexible work environment and achieve their highest potential. We have a strong policy in creating a stimulating work environment where women team members are comfortable and content at work. Some of our initiatives for Women at e-Zest Following are few of the ways in which we strive to support our women through organizational policies • All members have a flexible dress code policy • We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities including flexible working hours which they are free to decide individually based on their workload • e-Zest team members enjoy Work from Home facility in case of certain emergencies or genuine reasons. Proper due diligence is done to take care of data security in such Confidential Confidential 6 | Communication on Progress cases • The growth and career path for each women team member is designed keeping in view her personal commitments • We provide the additional benefit to our women team members going on onsite assignments of providing a travel visa to their spouse/family as well • Apart from being entitled to the 26-week paid Maternity Leave as per the Maternity Benefit Act, our women team members enjoy extended leaves or the option to Work from Home as per their comfort and convenience for a mutually agreed time period Round-the-year Programs for our Women Team members • We conduct Women Wellness initiatives to support and encourage them • We organize special programs for women throughout the year like Women’s Day Celebrations, Cultural Competitions, Pinkathon – A Marathon specially for women, and Health Awareness Programs • We encourage our women team members to follow interests that go beyond just professional work, in various fields of interests and sectors, to support and help them strike a balance between their professional and personal interests. Confidential Confidential 7 | Communication on Progress Safety of our Women Team members • We give utmost importance to the safety of our women team members and have taken all necessary steps to ensure 100% safety. • We discourage our team members from working late nights and allocate day shifts to women team members. In exceptional cases if we have a woman team member working late nights we ensure that appropriate arrangement has been for her commute back home. We also ensure that she is escorted by a male colleague/team member till she safely reaches home. Confidential Confidential 8 | Communication on Progress Provisions for protection against Sexual Harassment • We have complied with all guidelines and provision of Laws with respect to the Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanisms to deal with any case of violation • We have an Internal Complaint Committee to address Sexual Harassment related issues • We conduct sensitization workshops for all our Team Members on the provisions of the Sexual Harassment Act • We have frequent formal and informal interactions with women team members to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any Confidential Confidential 9 | Communication on Progress Testimonials from e-Zest Leaders “My association with e-Zest is 8 years long and during this time, e-Zest has helped me grow both professionally and personally. I was given a great opportunity at an early phase to manage United Nations Client portfolio and was given on-job training to perform my role better. I received the required grooming and learning to grow with the Dalia Datta organization and be a part of the Senior Manager team. Currently I am Key Account Manager managing a UN Account which contributes nearly 20% to the (United Nations) organizational revenue and is one of biggest accounts at e-Zest. e-Zest strongly promotes and practices a gender-neutral environment at work and has a flexible and inclusive work cultures, enabling us to strike a work life balance. It fills me with pride to be a part of this family and it’s growth journey.” “I have been a part of the e-Zest team for over a year now and the association feels a lot longer. The organisation has a balanced view to the team irrespective of gender which has been a refreshing change for me personally. It has been encouraging to see how the focus is to ensure each individual talent is given utmost importance and precedence. We Janki Sampat are an employee first organisation. Our teams have a fair balance of Head of Marketing ability and gender at all levels. Instilled at the core of the organisation and Industry our open culture and accessible leadership have been the corner stones Relations for all our success.” I am glad and honoured to head the Data Science and AI practice at eZest. Throughout my tenure, e-Zest has encouraged me to participate in various business conferences as well as academic conferences like Women in Data Science (WiDS, endorsed by Stanford University), Technology Senate, Microsoft Azure Bootcamp etc. This role at e-Zest has given me exposure to client projects in various geographies and Rutuja Udyawar Head of Data Science domains. Various training programs like ‘Leadership Development and AI Program’ and ‘Advance Management Program’ and the always supportive colleagues at e-Zest have helped support me in my role.” Confidential Confidential 10 | Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes • We have educated our Team Leaders about Human Rights and we are all committed to ensure compliance of the same in word and spirit • We have formed an Internal Complaint Committee and also have a Whistle Blower Policy. All issues of any violation are handled efficiently and up to its logical conclusion • As a result of our policies we have not had any legal cases, fines, rulings etc. or other relevant events to report • We have not had any incidents occur that posed a threat to safety We have not been exposed to any case involving violation of Human Rights. Confidential Confidential 11 | Communication on Progress 1.2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest strongly agrees and abides by the principles related to Labour under the UN global Compact. We uphold the rights of all the team members to freedom of association. We adhere to the provisions of Labour Laws, which prohibits engagement of Bonded Labour and Child Labour. Implementation • e-Zest team members enjoy flexible working hours • Compensation to team members is as per industry standards. Team members are given increments based on their annual performance • We ensure balanced pays for all team members, based purely on capabilities and performance. • The deductions from the Salary are strictly as per the provisions of the Law and we do not deduct any unauthorized amounts from the salary of Team Members • We have an established Internal Complaint Committee • We conduct sensitization workshops for all our Team Members on the provisions of the Sexual Harassment Act • We abide by all provisions under Government-stated Labour Laws • We have frequent formal and informal interactions with team members to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any • Regular town hall meetings are held which gives teams an opportunity to interact with the leadership and give ideas and opinions on business growth • We, as responsible Corporate Citizens, abide by all the provisions of Labour Laws of Government of India and through various Internal Audits, ensure full compliance with Confidential Confidential 12 | Communication on Progress the same. Measurement of Outcomes • We abide with all Labour Laws and we have never been involved in any legal action for violation of any provisions of Labour Laws. Confidential Confidential 13 | Communication on Progress 1.3 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals e-Zest realizes the environmental challenges the world is facing today and is dedicated to making a difference within the business and its surroundings. Implementation • We have limited our use of printers to save paper and have already implemented digital office initiative within the organization as well as with our partners and affiliates • Electronic waste is properly recycled and disposed • Our team is highly participative in environment-related activities and often participates in tree plantation drives around the city. • Team Members are encouraged to car-pool and use Public Transport • Being an environment-friendly organization, our teams have taken extra care to ensure good ventilation and natural lighting on the business floors thereby substantially reducing the use of power for lighting and air-conditioning Confidential Confidential 14 | Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes • Our green initiatives are showing good results, one example being the reduction in consumption of electricity • More and more team members are participating in the tree plantation drives • More than 60% of the workforce is using carpool and public transport on a regular basis • Collaborative efforts of the organization and the team members to contribute towards social causes enable us to make a difference to the society. Confidential Confidential 15 | Communication on Progress 1.4 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals • e-Zest Solutions is compliant with the provisions of the Government of India to prevent Bribery and Corruption • Neither do we participate, nor do we support any unethical practices like Corruption or Bribery • e-Zest is extremely focused on keeping malpractices away, within as well as outside the organization. • We have never indulged in any corrupt practices and have a policy to report any such incidence to the management immediately Implementation We have implemented the Whistle Blower Policy which encourages Team Members to share information about any unethical work practices like Corruption and Bribery. The identities of the whistle-blower are kept completely confidential. All matters received through the Whistle Blower Policy are handled confidentially and efficiently till the logical conclusion. Measurement of outcomes Till date, we have not had a single incident of corruption or bribery. This shows our strict adherence to ethical practices and efficiency of control mechanisms in place. Confidential Confidential 16
