Enabling sustainability UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Goodpoint 2020 INTRODUCTION About Goodpoint Goodpoint is an advisory consultancy firm for sustaina­ sourcing. Goodpoint has been a signatory, and advo­ ble growth and development. We have been a supplier cate, of Global Compact since May 2012. As managing of services and consultancy within the whole area of director of Goodpoint AB I am pleased to confirm our sustainable development since our founding in 1981. Our continuous commitment to the UN Global Compact and mission is to share our knowledge to enable sustainable its ten principles, as well as our commitment to continu­ change at our client organizations, and our consulting ally encourage and support our clients to do so as well. business include a broad span of sustainability issues. Goodpoint integrates the Global Compact principles into For example, services on how to phase out toxins and our code of conduct, our organizational culture and bu­ chemicals in products, tools on how to integrate sustai­ siness strategy. The following report describes our direct nability into businesses through strategies and mana­ and indirect impact on human rights, labour, environ­ gement systems, sustainability reporting to be transpa­ ment and anti-corruption during the reporting year June rent about progress, and models to drive responsible 2019–May 2020. Stockholm, 3 September 2020 Magnus Boman CEO and owner Goodpoint AB 2 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 INTRODUCTION Goals and principles Goodpoint supports and respects the ten principles (SDGs) are useful tools in setting the business sustaina­ of the Global Compact. We actively integrate respect bility agenda. Through our work at client organizations, for human rights, labour and the environment into our Goodpoint contributes to all 17 Sustainable Development business operations and take an absolute stand against Goals. However, our core knowledge and our greatest corruption and unethical business conduct. It is through impact is within Goal 8 – Decent work and economic our work with our clients that we have the greatest growth; Goal 10 – Reduced inequalities; Goal 12 – Re­ impact on the ten principles. Together with our clients, sponsible consumption and production; Goal 13 – Clima­ and by using the principles as a solid foundation, we te action and Goal 15 – Life on land. We support clients work to pursue an agenda of sustainability that stretches in their work to align their organization with Agenda beyond the ten principles. The Global Compact princip­ 2030 and in communicating progress towards the goals. les together with the Sustainable Development Goals The sustainable development goals During the past year we have helped clients with training, mapping and integrating the SDG:s into the companies’ strategies. During the reporting period Goodpoint has performed: 1500 120 14 124 Environmental Safety data sheets. Sustainability Audits (on-site assessments of buil­ reports (entire or and desktop). ding products. parts of ). 3 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Our vision: Goodpoint shares knowledge for a Our mission: Core values better world Goodpoint supports clients to act sustainably Goodpoint is a values-driven company where our values as individuals are fundamental in delivering value to our clients. In 2017 a project was initiated to make sure that the organizational values balance the personal values of the employees. The project resulted in an update of the company’s values, which were launched in August of 2018, and have since been fully integrated in the company. We share knowledge We make a difference We are committed to sharing knowledge with our By contributing to our clients becoming more sustai­ clients to enable real change within their organizations. nable, facilitating and streamlining their sustainability By sharing our broad and deep knowledge, we ensure efforts and utilizing organizations' potential we can that our clients can stand on their own two feet. achieve the greatest difference and create value. Developing our own knowledge and expertise is essen­ Through our clients, we contribute to a sustainable tial for our business. By educating ourselves, we can society and a better world, and we always consider better aid our clients in their ventures. sustainability aspects in our choices. Creativity Commitment By combining our experiences, knowledge and new fin­­d­­ We are interested and curious about the clients’ ings we seek solutions to our clients’ needs in a creative business and want each client to develop. Our goal is and innovative manner. We are flexible and solutionfor the customer to share our commitment to sustaina­ oriented. We continuously develop and try new methods bility and become curious about the possibilities and in our work with clients and within our own organization. make sustainable choices. The heart is always present. Strong governance through our management system to the new version of the ISO:9001 and ISO:14001 stan­ enables us to deliver on our commitments and help our dards released in 2015. Our first management system clients to manage their business in a more sustainable was implemented in 1998. Goodpoint is managed by a way. Our management system includes inter alia, policy managing director/owner who reports to the board. The document, actions to address risk and opportunities as board has an advisory function only. Employees have well as procedures for non-conformity reporting and the opportunity to raise issues or concerns regarding follow-up. All employees have access to, and know their work situation in weekly group meetings as well how to use, the system. Internal and external audits are as monthly meetings with all staff and the managing conducted on an annual basis and followed up through director. Goodpoint’s code of conduct provides support bi-annual management reviews. Goodpoint was one of on internal human rights related issues and labour law, the first companies in Sweden to be certified according including discrimination and the right to privacy. Employees Client projects Clients Revenue 247 Above 200k SEK: 26 141 Above 200k SEK: 22 22,6 Millions (SEK) Women Men Below 200k SEK: 221 Below 200k SEK: 119 4 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Protecting human and labour rights Management approach Human rights are the fundamental rights and freedoms that belong to all hu­ mans, regardless of where you are from, what you believe in or how you choose PRINCIPLE 1 to live your life. We often take our human rights for granted, and risk to overlook Businesses should support and abuses or risks of abuses within, or associated with, our businesses. Goodpoint respect the protection of interna­ takes a strong stand for the universal human rights, work to respect those rights tionally proclaimed human rights. as well as mitigating abuses within our organization and throughout our clients’ value chains. Goodpoint complies with Swedish law and respects labour standards set by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Our Code of Conduct provides support in the field of labour rights. Goodpoint has procedures for dialogue on labour PRINCIPLE 2 related issues between management and the local independent trade union re­ Make sure that they are not presentatives. Our Code of Conduct provides a foundation for our work together complicit in human right abuses. with our organizational values. Goodpoint strives for equality and diversity in the workplace and we do not accept any forms of discrimination, harassment or other types of abuse. All employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement under Swedish law. PRINCIPLE 3 Our Impact Business should uphold the Goodpoint’s most contribution to the implementation of the human rights and freedom of association and the labour rights principles is through helping our clients implement work methods effective recognition of the right within their own organizations, which in turns contributes to a more efficient to collective bargaining. management of sustainability. Goodpoint also offers seminars within areas such as human rights and sustainable procurement. The seminars are often free as a way of sharing knowledge to a wider audience, in line with the core values of the company. • Responsible sourcing practices; guidance in authoring Code of Conducts and supplier Code of Conducts. • How to conduct supplier audits with audit criteria on human, social and labour rights (follow-ups on site and desktop audits). • Sustainability trainings and organising workshops and events in order to share knowledge in the field of sustainability. • How to conduct risk assessments and identify gaps in handling such risks related to human, social and workers’ rights. • Communicating their work in sustainability reports. • Adhering to the new Annual accounts act regarding non-financial reporting (Nya Årsredovisningslagen in Swedish), which includes human and labour rights. 5 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 HUMAN & LABOUR RIGHTS Our operations Goodpoint welcomes an open dialogue within its own organization. Regular individual performance reviews take place with all employees, which provide an opportunity to PRINCIPLE 4 bring forward opinions and encourage discussion. Employees are given the opportunity The elimination of all forms to influence their work situation through anonymous employee surveys that are condu­ of forced and compulsory cted at least once a year. In these anonymous surveys, employees can openly comment labour. on their job satisfaction and work environment. Salary negotiations are held annually between management and labour union representatives. Employees are also invited to an individual salary negotiation with management. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, Goodpoint chose to utilize the support grant concer­ ning short-term work that the Swedish state offered. As a result, 5 employees were put PRINCIPLE 5 on a limited furlough where 2 of the employees decreased their working hours to 60% The effective abolition of their ordinary working hours and 3 employees decreased it to 40%. The furlough was of child labour. planned to run for a maximum of six months and the employees could return to their ordinary working hours at any time, depending on the number of available projects. This measure was implemented as a way of avoiding termination due a decrease in projects and work tasks. The local trade union has taken part throughout the process with the changes in employment. Goodpoint is pleased to state that no employee needed to be let go as a result of Covid-19. In addition, Goodpoint follows the recommendations of the PRINCIPLE 6 Public Health Agency of Sweden and decided to encourage their employees to work The elimination of discrimination from home. As consultants, working from home is quite possible and Goodpoint the­ in respect of employment refore decided to implement this recommendation as a way of contributing to the fight and occupation. against the pandemic. During the reporting period 3 employees have been recruited and 5 employees have left Goodpoint. Recruitment of new employees were halted for several months due to the on­ going Covid-19 pandemic. All permanent employees are covered by a health insurance. Materiality analysis analysis ensures that internal and external opinions are Materiality analysis is an effective instrument for an orga­ taken into consideration and that the result will paint an nization’s sustainability work. It can aid in identifying and accurate and just representation of the organization’s prioritizing the most essential sustainability questions most material sustainability questions. After a completed and topics that the organization in question ought to materiality analysis, the organization is given a set num­ develop structured governance for. Goodpoint conducts ber of sustainability questions that have been identified, materiality analysis as a separate service and in connec­ prioritized and validated as the most material. By utilizing tion with other sustainability services, e.g. strategy efforts these questions, the organization can subsequently and sustainability reports. When conducting materia­ manage their sustainability efforts more efficiently – e.g. lity analysis, Goodpoint utilizes the Global Reporting by developing sustainability strategies and goals that Initiative’s (GRI) model that operates in four stages; (1) will reduce their negative environmental impact while identification, (2) stakeholder dialogue, (3) prioritization strengthening their positive impact. During the reporting and (4) validation. By using this model, the materiality period, Goodpoint have conducted 9 materiality analysis. Social audits • Environment Social audits are a fundamental tool to control compli­ • Anti-corruption ance with social responsibility guidelines, like the ILO • Freedom of association core conventions and working conditions in production • Supply chain management of goods and services. The audits are often performed by a third-party auditor with a Code of Conduct or Audits are performed in various contexts, e.g. factories, social requirements as audit criteria. The auditor collects farms, wholesalers and construction projects. The audit observations by interviewing management and workers, results in an audit report, and a corrective action plan to reviewing documents and inspecting production set actions and time frames for improvements. It is im­ facilities to evaluate the performance of a company. portant to identify the root causes of non-compliances to Important features are to check time reports, wage find long-term solutions. Often, companies cooperate to payments and to interview workers to understand the share audit results and methodology, in initiatives like the implementation of social standards. The scope of the amfori BSCI, RBA or FWF. Results from audits are also a audit may comprise of: means of identifying common challenges and cooperate • Legal compliance long-term in capacity building, worker empowerment • Health and safety and awareness. • Working conditions and renumeration • Child and forced labour • Discrimination 6 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 ENVIRONMENT Reducing environmental impact Management approach A lion share of our work specializes in environment, chemicals and climate. We contri­ bute to the Swedish Environmental Objectives, the overarching generation goal as well PRINCIPLE 7 as specific goals through our main competence areas and our vision. Goodpoint contri­ Business should support butes to objective 1 and 15, Reduced Climate Impact and A Good Built Environment, a precautionary approach to through our advisory and environmental management teams, and objective 4, environmental challenges. A Non-Toxic Environment, through our expert team of chemists and toxicologists. Our impact Our greatest environmental impact is indirect through helping our clients reduce their environ-mental footprint. The majority of Goodpoint´s work covers environmental aspects. Some examples of projects we helped our clients with during the reporting PRINCIPLE 8 period are: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environClimate calculations and climate emission screenings mental responsibility. We have assisted several clients to calculate how much climate emissions their operations generate. The total climate emissions that we calculate then become the basis for how they compensate for the climate. Thus, we have contributed to clients working to reduce and compensate for their climate emissions (within all three scopes of the GHG protocol1). For instance, we have performed a greenhouse gas emissions mapping for a large region of Sweden during the reporting period. Environmental management systems During the period we have helped several clients in setting up new as well as developing existing environmental systems in accordance with ISO 14001:2015. An environmental management system enables an organization to set up, imple­ ment, follow up and improve the work on reducing negative environmental impact. Environmental Impact Assessments We continuously conduct environmental impact assessments (EIA) for our clients. 1 The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard classifies a company’s GHG emissions into three ‘scopes’. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. www.ghgprotocol.org 7 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 ENVIRONMENT Other areas we have advised and assisted our clients in are: PRINCIPLE 9 • Assessment of products from a life-cycle perspective. Encourage the development • Investigation on hazardous substances in product groups for private and diffusion of environmen­ actors and public authorities. tally friendly technologies. • Toxicological calculations on medicine. • Safety assessment reports on cosmetic products. • Advisory services regarding chemical legislation and requirements for clients’ products. • Assist clients to set up systems for legislative compliance. • REACH-registrations for clients. • Biocide-registrations for clients. • Assist several clients apply, analyse and follow up environmental requirements on suppliers. • Assist suppliers to analyse and adhere to imposed environmental requirements from customers. • Climate analysis and calculations for sustainability reporting and materiality analysis. • Sustainability strategies and policies for companies to reduce environmental impact. • Several environmental trainings, ISO 14001-training and how to apply environ­mental requirements in public procurement. • Help clients implement and use chemical management systems. • Audits on environmental adherence and compliance with ISO 14001. Our operations Goodpoint is committed to conducting our business responsibly, including our own environmental work. Due to the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic, Goodpoint have ceased the majority of our business travels and have performed audits, trainings and various workshops over digital tools instead. During the past year we reduced our CO₂ emissions from travels (air and rail) by 71%, from 2,7 to 0,8 tonnes CO₂. This significant decrease in emissions is mainly due to the reduction of business travels by air. Besides actively reducing our carbon footprint, we compensate for all emissions from our travels, as well as applying environmental requirements on procured goods and services. 2018 142 kg CO² / employee 2,7 t Total CO² emissions (t), and emissions per average employee (kg), from travels by airplane and train. 2019 42,1 kg CO² / employee 0,8 t 8 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 ANTI-CORRUPTION Working against corruption Management approach Goodpoint follows and respects the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption and complies with Swedish law, including anti-corruption and competition laws. PRINCIPLE 10 Goodpoint’s code of conduct covers these areas and stipulates that we have zero-to­ Business should work against lerance for all forms of corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has also developed guideli­ corruption in all its forms, nes on the giving and receiving of gifts and other benefits. The guidelines are meant including extortion and bribery. to help Goodpoint’s employees to act ethically and avoid doubtful situations. Good­ point has procedures for reporting any cases of corruption or bribery directly to the Managing director. Any law violations will be reported to the appropriate authorities. Our impact Goodpoint has robust expertise in anti-corruption work. We help our clients to increase their knowledge about anti-corruption legislation and manage corruption related risks through qualified advice, risk analyses, training sessions, workshops and development of policy documents on corruption and bribes. Goodpoint has assisted clients in developing e-learning modules on anti-corruption and business ethics as well as organized several anti-corruption trainings and workshops. Anti-corruption is also a frequent topic during projects concerning materiality analyses, sustainability reports and various projects with developing policy documents for our clients. Our operations Goodpoint’s code of conduct and internal guidelines are communicated with all new employees and is available through our management system. No cases of violation of the principles, suspected corruption or bribery has occurred or been suspected within Goodpoint’s operations during the reporting period. 9 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020 Thank you! Our vision is to enable sustainable change at our client organizations. The realization of our vision requires continuous work to both minimize negative, unsustainable impacts as well as to maximize the positive deve­ lopment and contributions to a sustainable society. Our mission is there­ fore to help companies understand and manage the impacts and opportu­ nities, and to adapt and innovate for their own sustainable development. If you’re interested in finding out more about our work, please contact us: Stockholm: Goodpoint AB, Norrtullsgatan 6, 113 29 Stockholm Lund: Goodpoint AB, Karl XI gata 19, 222 20 Lund Nässjö: Goodpoint AB, Storgatan 27, 571 31 Nässjö info@goodpoint.se 0046 8 789 04 00 GOODPOINT — COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS — 2020
