ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION This is Mekonomen Group 2 The year in brief 4 CEO’s comments 6 Investment case 9 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION 4 Net sales increased Market and trends 10 by 52 per cent to Business model 12 SEK 11,842 M (7,779), Profitable growth, goals and goal fulfilment 14 of which 2 percentage points was organic Risks and risk management 18 growth. Operations 22 Sustainability 24 The share and shareholder information 34 REPORTS The primary driving forces for the aftermarket for cars is the number of Administration report 36 cars on the roads and their mileage. 10 Proposed appropriation of profit 41 The market is mainly impacted by the Corporate Governance Report 42 number of cars older than four to five years. That is when the wear on the car Board of Directors 46 parts begins and needs to be repaired Group Management Team 47 or replaced. Financial statements 51 Consolidated income statement 51 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 51 Consolidated balance sheet 52 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 53 Consolidated cash-flow statement 54 Income statement for the Parent Company 55 Statement of comprehensive income 24 Sustainability is an for the Parent Company 55 ­integrated part of our Balance sheet for the Parent Company 56 business operations and generate value Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the company and for the Parent Company 57 our stakeholders. Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company 57 Notes 58 Signatures 86 Auditor’s report 87 Five-year summary 90 Quarterly overview 93 Sustainability information 94 Auditor’s statement 97 GRI index 98 Glossary, definitions and alternative performance measures 100 Mekonomen Group’s formal Annual Report comprises pages 36–89. Only the original version of the formal Annual Report has been reviewed by the company’s auditors. Regarding the sustainability report, the auditors made a statement that the report had been prepared correctly, see page 97. The Annual Report is published in Swedish and English. The Swedish version represents the original version, and has been translated into English. Please visit our website at www.mekonomen.com. “ 2019 WAS A GOOD YEAR FOR MEKONOMEN GROUP, WITH AN INCREASE IN BOTH SALES AND EARNINGS” Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO, see page 6–8. THIS IS MEKONOMEN GROUP Mekonomen Group consists of the leading spare parts VISION distributors in Northern Europe with a proprietary wholesale operation, more than 460 stores and over 3,600 affiliated workshops. We make car life simpler through a broad and accessible range of affordable and We are the car owner’s first choice and strive innovative solutions and products for car owners and for an easier and more affordable car life. companies. BUSINESS We mainly make sales to affiliated workshops and other companies. At the same time, it is strategically important for us to develop attractive concepts under strong brands to attract car owners to our affiliated workshops. ­CONCEPT We offer consumers and companies solutions for an easier and more affordable car life by using clear and innovative concepts, high quality and an ­efficient logistics chain. NET SALES NUMBER OF AFFILIRESPONSIBLE SEK M ATED WORKSHOPS ­PURCHASING 1) 11,842 3,603 71.5% OPERATING PROFIT SEK M NUMBER OF STORES DIGITAL ORDERS 705 469 >80% 1. 71.5% of our suppliers of direct materials (products) to our central warehouses (regional or central warehouses) have signed contracts that include a clause on the Global Compact. 2 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NET SALES BY #1 POSITION ON #1 POSITION ON ­COUNTRY, % THE MARKET THE MARKET DENMARK NORWAY Net sales 3,371 Net sales 2,822 Number of stores 51 Number of stores 131 Number of affiliated workshops 982 Number of affiliated workshops 983 Number of employees 1,178 Number of employees 1,174 Sweden, 29% Poland 18% Denmark, 28% Finland 1% #4 #1 POSITION ON Norway, 24% POSITION ON THE MARKET THE MARKET POLAND SWEDEN FINLAND Net sales 2,155 Net sales 3,404 Net sales 60 Number of stores 82 Number of stores 195 Number of stores 10 Number of affiliated workshops 603 Number of affiliated workshops 1,002 Number of affiliated workshops 33 Number of employees 1,435 Number of employees 1,815 Number of employees 35 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 3 THE YEAR IN BRIEF FIRST QUARTER • FTZ launched AutoMester E+ in Denmark, a workshop • Net sales amounted to SEK 11,842 M (7,779). Net concept with an increased focus on sustainability. sales increased by 52 per cent, of which 2 percentage • An overall cost-savings programme was initiated to streampoints was organic growth. line and adjust the cost structure in the entire Group. • Adjusted EBIT amounted to SEK 874 M (599) and • The merger of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s central wareadjusted EBIT margin amounted to 7 per cent (8). houses in Strängnäs – the ramp-up of the newly built fully • EBIT increased to SEK 705 M (407) and the EBIT automatic warehouse area and the conversion of the rest margin increased to 6 per cent (5). EBIT was negaof the warehouse area was finished to support tively impacted by items affecting comparability of Mekonomen’s volumes. SEK 11 M (89). • MECA implemented electric car certification for MECA Car Service workshops in Norway. • Earnings per share before and after dilution • The Group completed the acquisition of Nordic Forum increased to SEK 7.34 (6.56). Holding, the holding company for FTZ and Inter-Team. • Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 1,142 M (331). • Net debt amounted to SEK 3,709 M (4,098). SECOND QUARTER • MECA’s and Mekonomen’s fleet operations are steadily • The Board proposes no dividend (0.00). growing and, during the quarter, agreements were signed with a large number of companies, including Leaseplan As of 2019, leasing are reported in accordance with and Uber. the new IFRS 16 standard; comparative figures are • BilXtra, a new store concept in Sweden, was opened to not restated. Impact is mainly on cash flow in the attract new workshop customers. ­ongoing operations. • A training programme was begun in cooperation with the Swedish Public Employment Service and the vocational training provider Yrkesakademin in Sweden to train adults to become automotive technicians. 4 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NET SALES AND EBIT THIRD QUARTER 12,000 SEK M 1,200 SEK M • Mekonomen was named Sweden’s strongest brand 10,000 1,000 in the Car parts and auto workshops category for the fifth consecutive year, according to Evimetrix. 8,000 800 • Mekonomen Group’s training centre ProMeister 6,000 600 ­Academy was the first in Norway to start a preparatory training programme for second degree self-driving 4,000 400 vehicles, the most advanced level that is in regular 2,000 200 ­traffic today. 0 0 • Merger of MECA´s and Mekonomen’s central ware2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 house in Strängnäs – pilot test were conducted where Net sales EBIT the product ­supply for a handful of MECA branches was moved to the central warehouse in Strängnäs. FOURTH QUARTER • FTZ named the Supplier of the Year during the WORKING CAPITAL Auto Awards 2019 in Denmark. 3,000 SEK M 60% • Inter-Team opened a regional warehouse in the 2,500 50 Krakow area in Poland. • Mekonomen Group was ranked 7th among consumer 2,000 40 product companies, in the business daily Dagens 1,500 30 ­Industri’s Sustainability Ranking 2019. 1,000 20 • The Group’s first adult ­education in cooperation with the Swedish Public Employment S­ ervice was concluded, 500 10 where 85 per cent of the students found employment after graduation. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 Working capital % of net sales FINANCIAL SUMMARY Key figures 2019 2018 2017 Net sales, SEK M 11,842 7,779 5,850 Adjusted EBIT, SEK M 874 599 599 EBIT, SEK M 705 407 522 Profit for the year, SEK M 421 268 368 Earnings per share, SEK 7.34 6.56 10.05 Adjusted EBIT margin, % 7 8 10 EBIT margin, % 6 5 9 Cash flow per share, SEK1) 20.3 8.3 13.8 Dividend per share, SEK2) – – 4.46 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 10 10 16 Equity/assets ratio, %3) 34 35 43 Net debt/EBITDA, multiple 3.68 6.44 2.03 1. From operating activities. 2. T  he Board’s proposal for 2019. The dividend for 2017 is restated with the number of shares outstanding as at 31 December 2019, 56,323,372. Actual paid dividend in 2017 was SEK 7.00 per 35,901,487 shares. 3. The equity/assets ratio has changed materially as a result of IFRS 16, Equity/assets ratio excl. IFRS 16 amounts to 39.3 per cent for 2019. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 5 CEO’S COMMENTS INCREASE IN BOTH SALES AND EARNINGS 2019 was a good year for Mekonomen Group. We have successfully integrated Danish FTZ and Polish Inter-Team, which was acquired in 2018, and reduced our leverage. We grew organically and delivered according to plan in our strategic projects to reduce costs and realise synergies. Going forward, we will continue to focus on profitable growth in all operations, while we in the short term are now putting all our efforts into dealing with the effects of the corona virus’s rapid spread and its impact on the Mekonomen Group. The customer in focus The areas that were most appreciated include our About 90 per cent of our total sales is within the B2B development of services and concepts, our central segment and are primarily related to concept-affiliated ­marketing, the support in attracting new customers workshops and other corporate customers. In 2019, to the workshops and the contact with the local store. we conducted a major customer survey, in which more The brand, fast deliveries and a wide range of spare than 1,500 concept-affiliated workshops participated. parts were identified as the main reasons for joining Our workshop concepts generally received high ratings one of our concepts. from the customers. 6 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 It is pleasing that the areas that our customers by allowing stores with an established customer base a­ ppreciate most align well with our strengths. In addithat we cannot reach today becoming affiliates or being tion to this, the survey also provides the basis for how acquired. we should prioritize in our work to develope the In addition, we also made changes in the organisation ­customer offering. during the year, partly in the form of a smaller Group Management Team and partly through the establishment Synergies and strategic projects of four business areas. The target is to create a manage­ During the year, we focused on realising purchasing ment of the Group that is closer to the customer with synergies following the acquisitions of FTZ and Intera clearly decentralised responsibility to the respective Team. The work is proceeding according to plan and is business area. Strategic focus We continue to focus on profitable growth, business development and creating value for our customers. We will grow profitably by gaining market shares and “ CONTINUED FOCUS ON increasing sales, while maintaining good cost control and taking advantage of synergies and best practice ­PROFITABLE GROWTH, between our business areas in the Group. By investing in the development of our concepts and ­BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT adding new business, we ensure the Group’s long-term business and future competitiveness. Digitization and AND CREATING VALUE FOR the development of new services have a central role in the business development of the Group. We see today OUR CUSTOMERS” that our digital solutions are appreciated, partly through a rapidly increasing proportion of digital workshop bookings, and partly through a growing e-commerce to affilliated workshops and directly to the car owner. The car owners appreciate the services of our affiliated workshops, which was confirmed through a survey by expected to have full results effect of SEK 100 M from the car owner association Vi Bilägare. This showed that 2021. In 2019, we also established collaboration between car owners in Sweden who turn to brand-independent our business areas within training and technical support, general car workshops affiliated with one of the major where the idea is to find and disseminate best practice car workshop chains are more satisfied than those who within the Group. choose purely branded workshops. It is a very gratifying The cost savings programme initiated in the first quarmessage and a carrot for us to continue to develop our ter of 2019, together with greater focus on efficiency workshop concepts. improvement and review of unprofitable operations, We create value for our affiliated workshops by offerhas contributed with a profit increase of SEK 65 M on ing services and solutions that increase their profitability a full-year basis from the end of the 2019 fiscal year. and ensure quality and competence, in line with car manThe merger of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s central ufacturers’ technological development. We also attract warehouses in Strängnäs also proceeds according to car owners to the workshops through large customer plan. In order to minimise risk and ensure a continuagreements, digital booking flows and not least through ously high level of service, we cautiously initiated pilot our strong brands. For the fifth time in six years, deliveries to MECA’s customers during the second half Mekonomen was named Sweden’s strongest brand of the year. Deliveries were then gradually scaled up in the category of car parts and workshops by the and, we are now expecting to complete the merger Swedish Brand Awards. and achieve savings of SEK 50 M annually from 2021. We also opened a regional warehouse near Krakow Sustainability permeates our business to increase our availability and competitiveness in As a leading player in the industry, we must develop southern Poland. The merger of the central warehouse our business in a sustainable way so that we contribute structure in Sweden and the regional warehouse in to the global sustainability goals and comply with Poland resulted in a temporary stock accumulation the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we towards the end of 2019, which is expected to dissolve signed in 2013. We have chosen to especially focus in 2020. on three of the UN’s global sustainable development During the year, the BilXtra concept was launched goals: Affordable and clean energy (7), Decent work in the Swedish market. With BilXtra we see that we and economic growth (8) and Responsible consumpcan increase our market shares in an efficient way, tion and production (12). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 7 CEO’S COMMENTS “ OUR STRONG CONCEPTS AND forms of ownership. These are changes that have a ­relatively limited direct impact on our core business. CONTINUOUS CONCEPT DEVELOPWe are well prepared and see change as an opportunity rather than a threat. Through our size and our well-established concepts, MENT WILL CREATE CONTINUED together with efficient logistics and training academies on the forefront, we have historically been able to OPPORTUNITIES TO GAIN ­benefit from changes in the industry. Not least when it comes to the technical development of the cars, which ­MARKET SHARE AND FURTHER today is far more complex than 10 years ago. In 2019, the strong euro together with a weak market STRENGHTEN OUR POSITION.” put pressure on our gross margin, but with the support of our strategic initiatives, we sum up the fiscal year with improved profitability. However, we are not satisfied and see continued room for improvement. We have a fundamentally stable business to build on by continuing to focus on improvement in profitability in all our operations going forward. This will give us the conditions for improved cash flow and a lower leverage over time. Our strong concepts, together with our well-functioning wholesale and logistics operations, will create continued opportunities to gain market share Mekonomen Group was ranked number seven within and further strengthen our position. the segment of consumer goods in the business daily As a result of the rapid spread of the coronavirus Dagens Industri’s sustainability ranking and we will consince the end of February and its impact in markets tinue to work in order for sustainability to be an intewhere Mekonomen Group has a significant presence grated part of our business model. A part of this is in and the currencies the company is exposed to, we the training and skills development of mechanics, whose believe that the risk of adverse effects has increased sigimportance increases as the cars change and the technificantly. We are working diligently to manage the situanical complexity of the car are becoming ever larger. tion, with the highest priority being the health and safety A challenge in the industry is to ensure the supply of employees and customers. We are also working to of skilled vehicle technicians. Therefore it is pleasing to safeguard profitability and therefore responsibly rightsize note that we will be graduating the first students from the cost structure to meet temporarily declined demand. our own upper-secondary programme, ProMeister During March, we have seen a significantly lower market Vehicles, in Lund and Stockholm in the spring of 2020. activity and demand for workshop services and products. In the autumn semester of 2020, we will be extend the The effects are likely to have a significant impact on programme through the establishment in Örebro. Mekonomen Group’s sales, earnings and cash flow Our training efforts do not apply only in Sweden. for 2020. In addition to skills development of mechanics in our With that, I would like to thank everyone in affiliated workshops, Inter-Team in Poland has had a Mekonomen Group for the commitment and hard cooperation with the oldest upper-secondary vehicle work done in 2019. I am looking forward to continued training programme in Warsaw since 2017. In Norway, shared successes in 2020. ProMeister Solutions’ training programmes for vehicle inspection inspectors has certified around 2,500 mechanics to-date. In addition, ProMeister’s skills portal is used by more than 6,000 workshops in four different countries and will be launched in another 15 countries in 2020. Strong position in a changing industry The auto industry is changing and in the future we will see more electric cars and connected vehicles on our roads and probably also a broader range of alternative Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO 8 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 MEKONOMEN GROUP AS AN INVESTMENT MARKET-LEADING SPARE PARTS ­DISTRIBUTOR IN NORTHERN EUROPE Well positioned to generate value Size advantage and purchasing power Mekonomen Group is a leading spare parts distributor in Northern The Group has a major competitive advantage from being one of the Europe – number 1 in the market in Denmark, Norway and Sweden, largest actors in the aftermarket for car parts and workshop services and number 4 in the Polish market with export business to Germany, in Northern Europe. At the same time that our business areas are the Czech Republic and the Baltics, among others. Mekonomen also has mainly run as independent operations, we utilise economies of scale a smaller business in Finland. More than 90 per cent of our sales are made and create common platforms in the areas where we can gain synergies. to companies, mainly to our affiliated workshops or other workshops out­ We have economies of scale through our large purchasing volumes, side our concepts. At the same time, the close dialogue with car owners which gives us room for competitive offers to our customers, we differgives us a good understanding of their needs, which gives us a major entiate ourselves through our broad portfolio of our own brands and competitive advantage to continue leading the development in the industry. our size enables us to invest in and be on the forefront of the customer offerings, logistics and support systems of the future. Broad competitive offers to our business customers and e ­ fficient logistics functions A sustainable business for the future Through our size, we have a greater opportunity to develop our affiliated The Group is participating in the transformation from fossil-powered workshops to give service and repair the new generation of cars. We petrol and diesel cars to a more fossil-independent car fleet by also ensure that the workshops have access to the right equipment and spare offering service, repairs and products for electric cars, for example. parts and that they have the expertise to take care of all kinds of cars. We seek to be the car owner’s first choice regardless of model and Order management and sales platforms are mainly digital and through fuel. Our goal is therefore to achieve the same market share for cars our efficient logistics chain, we can offer workshops and other business that are fully or partly powered by electricity as the market shares we customers high availability, a broad product range and fast deliveries of have for cars with traditional combustion engines. car parts. Through our own training academies, we ensure that employees in Strong local workshop concepts and brands our affiliated workshops have relevant expertise to handle all kinds of The Group’s workshop concepts and brands have strong awareness among cars. We are training the next generation of automotive technicians in car owners. Our more than 3,600 affiliated workshops are mainly operated our own upper-secondary schools in Sweden. Through Preqas, our as franchises under our brands. Affiliated workshops are our largest and ­company that sells and serves workshop equipment, we ensure that most strategically important customer group. We only own a small numthe workshops have updated and modern equipment. With the right ber of workshops ourselves. Our strong concepts and brands attract car service intervals and continuous maintenance, the vehicle can be driven owners to our affiliated workshops, which benefits the affiliated workshops as fuel efficiently as possible during its lifespan. This also contributes to by them gaining more customers and the Group through greater sales of increasing traffic safety on the road. car parts. The digitalisation of booking procedures and payment solutions creates simplicity and efficiency for both workshops and car owners. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 9 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION STABLE AFTERMARKET FOR CARS AND LIGHT TRUCKS The primary driving forces in the aftermarket for cars and light trucks is the number of cars on the roads and their mileage. The Nordic region is a mature and consolidated market with an annual growth of 1–2 per cent, Medarbetare Leverantörer Sammhälle Investerare while the Polish market is fragmented and grows by about 4 per cent per year. The market is mainly impacted by the number of cars older than five years. That is when the wear on the car parts begins and needs to be Grossist Inköp Verkstad Butik repaired or replaced. Medarbetare Leverantörer Sammhälle Investerare Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning Grossist Inköp Verkstad Butik GLOBAL TRENDS THAT PROVIDE NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning Förändrade Positionering Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 kundförväntningar Changed customer expectations Next generation of vehicles – new possibilities create added value – requires new expertise Like other industries, the aftermarket for In the automotive industry, Förändrade kundförväntningar carsPositionering and light trucks is affected Inköp 2 by strongFörsäljning 2 Nästa generation Förskjutning i is underway development av fordon konkurrenskraft global trends, where a new generation of car owners is to make smarter vehicles, including growing forth with increased expectations on digitalization, electri­fication and self-driving vehicles. sustainability and availability, among other aspects. For us, However, it will take time before cars It is important to have a strong understanding of how the developed today get effect on the market and our customers’ Nästa generation Förskjutning i needs change and how we are aftermarket, since it is after about affected av fordon by it. By making use of these driving forces, we konkurrenskraft five years that the car parts start to create long-term and sustainable growth. wear out and need to be repaired or replaced. There is considerable poten• Digitalisation – Online bookings and online stores tial for actors that are monitoring the ­provide increased transparency and simplicity for workdevelopment and gradually preparing shops and car owners. At the same time, digitalisation to take in the cars of the future. provides major opportunities for more efficient logistics through the shortening of value chains and optimisation • Electric cars include fewer moving of logistics flows. parts and require new expertise in • Big Data and analysis provide better understanding the industry of the needs of workshops and car owners and enable • Self driving cars – requires new ­tailored customer offerings to the car owners. technical expertise around autono• Future car fleets – Carpools and other kinds of car mous functions. ownership are creating new customer needs and new • Connected cars – simplifies planbusiness opportunities. One example is when tenant ning and preparations for mainteowner associations or other groups of private individuals nance and repairs of the car. own a number of cars together and need that a number of people must be able to use the cars together and that they are maintained. 10 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 MEKONOMEN GROUP’S Denmark Norway Poland Sweden POSITION IN THE Population (millions) 5.8 5.4 38.4 10.3 MAIN MARKETS GDP growth (%) 2.3 2.3 4.1 1.2 Number of cars (millions) 2.7 2.8 23.4 4.9 Growth in number of cars (%) 2.2 1.8 4.0 0.4 Denmark Kilometres driven (10 billions) 4.0 3.6 21.3 6.8 In the Danish market, Mekonomen Cars >3 years (%) 70 83 93 75 Group works through FTZ and is the edarbetare Leverantörer Sammhälle Investerare market leader. Denmark is the most Purely electric cars (%) 0.6 9.7 <0.1 0.6 consolidated market in which the Market structure High consolidation High consolidation Fragmented High consolidation Group is active. Expected long-term growth (%) 1–2 1–2 4–5 1–2 Competing independent actors: Mekonomen Group’s 100 ~85 100 ~85 CAC Carl Christensen, Auto-G B2B share of total sales (%) and AD Danmark, and the car Grossist Inköp Verkstad Butik Mekonomen Group’s 28 25 4 15 ­manufacturers’ network of workmarket share (%) shops, the latter represent a large share of the market. Source: Eurostat, OFV, PZPM, Statistics Sweden, Statistics Norway, Statistics Denmark and Statistics Poland, besides market size and market share that is based on the company’s own calculations and assumptions. Norway Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning The Norwegian market is consolidated and consists of a few major actors. Through MECA/Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen, who operates the concept BilXtra, Mekonomen Group is the market leader. The Förändrade Positionering Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 Norwegian market has the fastest ndförväntningar development in the world in terms of the transition of the car fleet from fossil-­powered to electricity. Competing independent actors: Shift in competitiveness NDS, Romnes and KG Knutson, – possibility of broadening the customer offering and the car manufacturers’ network ta generation Förskjutning Leverantöreri of workshops, the latter represent Medarbetare av fordon New technology andSammhälle konkurrenskraft changed needs Investerare among car owners are causing a shift in the competia large share of the market. tiveness. Greater demand for simplicity and availability for car owners and workshops pave the way for new services in the market, such as price comparison services and comprehensive solutions. This provides an opportunity for existing actors to broaden and Poland integrate their offers or for new actors to enter the market. One trend in the European In the Polish market, Mekonomen Grossist Inköp Verkstad Butik aftermarket is to reach economies of scale by acquisition other actors. Partly in order to Group conducts business through take advantage of synergies and partly to have a greater possibility of investing in future Inter-Team. The Polish market is fragmented and consists of one large ­customer offers. The Group’s acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018 is a successful actor and a number of actors of the example of this. Different countries have achieved differing levels of consolidation and the same size as Inter-Team. The market Nordic market has progressed considerably while the Polish market is still fragmented. is characterised by a high price comKunder Mål Startegi Försäljning petition. Competing actors: Inter-Cars, Moto-Profil, Auto Partner, Gordon and ELIT (owned by Mekonomen Mekonomen Group well positioned Group’s largest shareholder, LKQ to benefit from the market trends Corporation), and the car manu­ Förändrade Positionering mainly We are Inköp 2 a distributor of spare parts to workshops and other compaFörsäljning 2 facturers’ network of workshops, ndförväntningar nies, but for us, it is strategically important that we have a strong insight into the needs of the latter represent a large share the end customer – the car owners – to be able to be on the forefront of development of the market. in the industry. Through our investments in business development, we are well positioned to benefit from the prevailing trends. The core of our business is a broad range of spare Sweden parts, efficient logistics and distribution, together with attractive workshop concepts. The Through MECA and Mekonomen, sta generation core business Förskjutning i is highly digitalised, around 80 per cent of our sales are already made through Mekonomen Group is the market av fordon konkurrenskraft ­digital channels. We also see a large increase in digital bookings. In 2019, we extended the leader in the consolidated Swedish use of our modern and automated central warehouse in Strängnäs, Sweden, opened a new aftermarket. Largest competing actors: Auto­ regional warehouse in Krakow, Poland, provided further training to automotive technicians experten, AD Bildelar and BDS, in all of our markets and expanded our offerings of service, parts and accessories for electric and the car manufacturers’ ­network cars. We see major opportunities for consolidation in the Polish market in the next few of workshops, the latter represent years, which would benefit us based on our long experience of market consolidation. a large share of the market. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 11 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL The Group’s core business encompasses purchasing, warehousing and sales of spare parts to workshops and car owners. Distribution takes place through a broad network of stores and local warehouses. In addition to this, we develop and provide concepts with services and solutions to professional workshops, such as technical support, skills development, quality and management systems, recruitment support and business systems. MEKONOMEN GROUP MEKONOMEN GROUP MEKONOMEN GROUP PURCHASING AND DISTRIBUTION, STORES WORKSHOP CONCEPTS ­WHOLESALE OPERATIONS AND LOCAL WAREHOUSES We offer workshop concepts We distribute spare parts and car with services and solutions to Through the Group’s size, our cenaccessories from our central and our affiliated workshops in all of tral purchasing function and our regional warehouses to our our main markets. In addition to central and regional warehouses, we nationwide networks of branches a broad and available affordable create economies of scale that allow and local warehouses. From here, product range, the workshops us to purchase and stock an afford­ sales are made to consumers and gain access to technical support, able and broad range of spare parts companies. The local presence of skills development, quality and and accessories. We buy parts from branches and local warehouses management systems, recruitment the same suppliers that supply car are what our affiliated workshops ­support and business systems. makers and we set requirements on value most and are also most satThrough strong brands, central the quality of the parts in accordance isfied with according to an extenlarge customer agreements and with the car makers’ specifications sive customer survey that was digital booking flows, the workin order to guarantee that the parts conducted in 2019. shops also gain a steady flow of match original part quality. car owners to their workshops. 12 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 MEKONOMEN GROUP Medarbetare Leverantörer Samhälle Investerare Grossist Inköp Verkstad MEKONOMEN GROUP’S VALUE CREATION We create value for our ­customers and shareholders Butik Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning byInköp 2 offering high2 affordable,Försäljning quality products and services. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT OF SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS Our industry is changing at a rapid technicians is an important part of Distribution of pace. Through a strong business our DNA and an area in which we financial value1) development function and alliances are on the forefront in all of our With our business, Mekonomen with strategic partners, we ensure main markets. At the same time, Group creates financial value we make use of the new business we must continuously streamline that is distributed out to our opportunities offered by new techand improve our core business, stakeholders. nology and new trends. Technical which generates value for us, our Suppliers get value in the skills development of automotive owners and our customers today. form of payment of goods and services that we purchase. Our employees get back value in the form of wages, pensions and other benefits. The Board has the aim that the equivalent of at least 50 per cent of AFFILIATED WORKSHOPS & STORES Mekonomen Group’s profit after tax be distributed to the MORE THAN 3,600 shareholders in the form of a dividend. Our lenders get finan­AFFILIATED WORKSHOPS cial value mainly in the form AND 460 BRANCHES of interest. We generate value to society by paying taxes and ­AVAILABLE TO CAR OWNERS social security contributions. Car owners meet us through our ­workshop and branch concepts. It is therefore important that we develop our concepts with extensive insight of the end customers and ensure the customer experience all the way. The end customer are both private and com­mercial vehicle owners, where the ­latter group often owns several cares and has a so-called fleet agreement 11,191 SEK M with the Group for workshop services. Suppliers, spare parts & accessories, 58% Suppliers, other products & services, 12% Employees, 20% Lenders, financial partners, 1% Society, 4% Kept in the operations, 3% 1. Revenue less depreciation, amortisation and impairment, totalling SEK 11,191 M. INTER data service Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 13 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION THE PATH TO PROFITABLE GROWTH We create long-term profitable growth by taking advantage of economies of scale and constantly adapting our business based on customer needs, society’s development and future trends. Committed employees and leaders and differentiated brands and concepts are our main assets. The Group’s size and operating breadth makes it possible In Denmark and Poland, focus is on strengthen the for us to influence and drive development in the entire relationship with car owners with the aim of driving the value chain in the automotive aftermarket. We are focuscustomer group to our affiliated workshops. Among ing our resources and activities on developing The car other things, by continuing to develop services, such as owner’s customer experience and strong workshop service agreements, digital booking and mobility solutions. concepts as well as leading product ranges and distribution methods. We are in addition benefiting from the Workshop concepts synergies from operating as a Group. With this, together We seek to offer attractive and differentiated workshop with our affiliated work­shops, we c­ reate a strong offerconcepts to our affiliated workshops. The concepts are ing to private and commercial vehicle owners in the end intended to contribute to business benefit for the workcustomer stage. shops with a focus on quality and increased profitability. Focus on profitable growth, business development and In addition to an available and broad range of spare parts creating value for our customers is permeating everything and car accessories, workshops are offered a number we do. of services and solutions that simplify everyday life and improve the customer experience for the car owners in The car owner’s customer experience the end customer stage. This includes business systems, We seek to create a seamless customer experience and training, technical support, recruitment support and simplicity for the car owners. By car owners, we mean profit­ability optimisation. The concept also contributes private and commercial vehicle owners that own one or to the workshops acquiring more customers, through more vehicles. Even though sales directly to the car owners among other things large customer agreements, bookings only constitutes around 10 per cent of the Group’s total through a central customer service and digital booking sales, car owners are a strategic target group that extenflows and, not least, strong brands that guarantee quality sively guides concept and business development in the and the degree of service. Continuing to develop services Group. Creating services and solutions that attract car and the offering to our workshops is strategically important owners to the Group’s ­concept workshops contributes for all of the business areas. extensively to workshops affiliating themselves with our In Sweden and Norway, focus remains on differentiating concepts. At the same time, the flow of car owners to and creating unique positions for the respective workshop the workshops contributes to increasing the Group’s concepts. In Sweden and Norway, the focus is to support sales of spare parts to a­ ffiliated workshops. the workshops in streamlining through digital flows and In Sweden and Norway, we have come the farthest in solutions. One successful example is the payment and terms of the relationship with the end customer group communication solution that has been i­ntegrated into of car owners. Here, we are on the forefront in Europe the business system that simplifies administration for the where we seek to continue developing digital booking workshops and creates a clearer overview and flexible flows and developing services that make car life easier payment possibilities for the car owners. In Sweden we for car owners. E-commerce for products and services also help our workshops to get certified according to is growing strongly where we seek to take market shares the new industry standards Godkänd Bilverkstad. at the same time that we develop and modernise the Sørensen og Balchen is the business area in the Group assortment and concepts in our physical stores. that is mainly impacted by a generally weak retail market 14 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 erantörer Sammhälle ASSETSInvesterare FOCUS AREAS PRIORITIES nköp Verkstad Committed Butik THE CAR OWNER’S ­managers and CUSTOMER employees Medarbetare Leverantörer Samhälle ­EXPERIENCE Investerare Grossist Inköp Verkstad Medarbetare Leverantörer Samhälle Investerare Grossist Inköp Verkstad Mål Startegi Försäljning Strong brands WORKSHOP • Customer insights GROWING and concepts • Attractive offers Butik Kunder Mål CONCEPTS Startegi Försäljning Inköp 2 excellence • Operational Försäljning 2 WITH GOOD Butik Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning • Group synergies Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 PROFITABILITY sitionering Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 • Sustainability • Business development See goals on pages 16–17 Shared core ­values • Respect PRODUCT RANGE skjutning i Gemensamm • Commitment & DISTRIBUTION urrenskraft värdegrund • Customer in focus given their strong market share in car accessory sales to meet the customers’ expectations of frequent and directly to consumers. on-time deliveries. In Denmark, FTZ focuses on differentiating the workIn Denmark, deliveries take place from the central shop concepts, in part by developing the largest concept, warehouse to regional warehouses on to local wareAutoMester, with service agreements and an environhouses before they reach the customer. The regional mental positioning through AutoMester E+. Within the warehouses and the local warehouses create availability concept Din Bilpartner, workshop services are combined and the possibility of meeting the need for up to ten with sales of used cars. deliveries daily, which constitutes one of FTZ’s largest The focus for Polish Inter-Team is to continue to attract competitive advantages in the very competitive Danish more affiliated workshops to the concepts, as well as the market. With the dominant market share in the market, quality assurance of affiliated workshops and development there are good possibilities for efficiency improvement of more services and solutions that contribute to efficiency while retaining competitiveness. and profitability for the workshops. Inter-Team established a regional warehouse in southern Poland in 2019 to better meet the demand for availability Product range and distribution in an area where the company is growing strongly and In our core business, we will offer an available and comtaking market shares. Poland’s large geographic area and plete assortment of spare parts and car accessories to tough competition in the market create the need for local professional workshops and car owners. We have strong availability to a broad assortment. partnerships with leading suppliers and offer assortment under our own brands. The assets for driving profitable growth Backwards in the value chain, through our central purOur foremost assets for delivering on our strategy are chasing function, we set high demands on our suppliers committed managers and employees, differentiated to ensure quality in our product range. ­operations, brands and concepts. With these assets we The suppliers must also relate to requirements on susensure that we cover all parts of the market dynamics tainability and offer competitive purchasing prices to the whilst we derive the synergies from operating as one Group. In our own wholesale and distribution operations, Group in not only purchasing benefits, but also in other we control efficiency and availability. strategically chosen areas. The business models in the respective business area Sustainability is integrated in everything we do. In addilook slightly different, adapted based on the customers’ tion, the operations are built from strong individual culneeds, the competition in the market and the developtures and values, which is a strength that we safeguard ment phase in the companies. and will retain. Common to the Group is that we as a In Sweden, the merger of MECA’s and Mekonomen’s company and our employees act based on respect, comcentral warehouses is under way, involving new automamitment and having the customer in focus. In an increastion and a shared organisation, and entailing significant ingly changing world, it is important for us to be sensitive synergies for the MECA/Mekonomen business area in and continuously develop and adapt our business structures both Sweden and Norway. In Norway we will continue and business flows to remain competitive. to have additional local warehousing and distribution Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 15 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION GOALS AND GOAL FULFILMENT Mekonomen Group’s overall goal is to develop with high profitability and thereby generate value growth for the shareholders. Our sustainability work is an important component for achieving the overall goals and to ensure that the Group conducts long-term operations. >5% SALES GROWTH >10% OPERATING MARGIN >40% EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO The target is to achieve an annual The target is to annually achieve an The target is that the equity/assets sales growth of at least 5 per cent, EBIT margin in excess of 10 per cent. ratio shall not in the long term as a ­combination of organic and be less than 40 per cent. acquired growth. OUTCOME 2019 OUTCOME 2019 OUTCOME 2019 In 2019, net sales increased by 52 per cent The operating margin increased to 6 per cent (5) The equity/assets ratio amounted to (33), positively impacted by the acquired for 2019. The margin was positively impacted by 34 per cent at 31 December 2019 compared ­businesses FTZ and Inter-Team in September lower negative items affecting comparability, cost with 35 per cent at 31 December 2018. 2018. Organic growth was 2 per cent as a savings and measures in unprofitable operations. ­Calculated without IFRS 16, the equity/assets result of stable sales in the Nordic region and Higher purchasing prices due to a strong EUR ratio was 39 per cent (35)1). a number of minor acquisitions in Sweden and generally lower margins in the acquired and Norway. ­Inter-Team than the Group as a whole had a negative effect on the margin. SALES GROWTH EBIT MARGIN EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO 60 % 20 % 50 % 50 40 15 40 30 30 10 20 20 5 10 10 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191) Goal Outcome Goal Outcome Goal Outcome 1. The equity/assets ratio has materially changed as a result of the introduction of IFRS 16 in 2019. The equity/assets ratio for 2019 excluding IFRS 16 was 39%. 16 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 <2.0 NET DEBT/EBITDA >50% DIVIDEND RATIO >95% RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING The target is that net debt/EBITDA The Board’s intention is that the Group will pay diviThe goal is for main suppliers of products that shall not in the long term exceed 2.0. dends corresponding to not less than 50 per cent of account for 95 per cent of the Group’s purchasing profit after tax. When deciding on proposed dividends, ­volumes to have signed the agreement clause on consideration is primarily taken to investment needs, but ­compliance with the UN Global Compact by 2020. also to other factors deemed significant by the Board. OUTCOME 2019 OUTCOME 2019 OUTCOME 2019 Net debt/EBITDA was 3.68 (6.44) for The Board proposes no dividend for 2019 (0.00). 71.5% of our suppliers of direct materials 2019 1). The high ratio is mainly due to a Consideration has been taken to how to best (products) to our central warehouses (regional continued high net debt in 2019, SEK 3,709 ­prioritise between the company’s goals to reduce or central warehouses) have signed contracts M (4,098), due to the acquisition of FTZ debt and pay dividends. The Board continues to that include a clause on the Global Compact. and Inter-Team in 2018. The ambition is to support the long-term goal of that at least 50 per reduce net debt/EBITDA to the same level cent of profit after tax should be paid as a dividend. as before the acquisition by the end of 2021. NET DEBT/EBITDA DIVIDEND RATIO RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING2) 8% 80 % 100 % 80 6 60 60 4 40 40 2 20 20 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Goal Outcome Goal Outcome Goal Outcome 1. N ew goal as of 2016. Net debt/EBITDA excluding IFRS 16 2. T  he strong decrease from earlier years is due to the acquisitions of (net debt/EBITDA for 2019 including IFRS 16 was 3.59). Inter-Team and FTZ. Work is under way to increase the proportion in the acquired companies. The goal may be revised in 2020. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 17 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s operations are, like all business operations, associated with risks that can affect the Group and our stakeholders to varying degrees. A well-balanced risk management can add value and business benefit, at the same time that risks that are not managed can effectively lead to damage and losses. Mekonomen Group continuously maps the Group’s risks where the Board of Directors bears the utmost responsibility for the Group’s risk management. Risk-management process s­ ituation to the Board of Directors through the Audit In order to ensure a good overview and suitable ­Committee. The risk analysis is annually reviewed more manage­ment of the risks the business is exposed to, thoroughly in all forums; see figure below. the Group works in a structured manner to identify, analyse and manage risks in accordance with a process Risk function’s responsibility and collaboration initiated in 2019. The ambition is for this work to be Group Risk Management coordinates the Group’s risk fully implemented in 2020. The risk analysis is based on work and follows up compliance and occurred incidents the Group’s strategy and business planning work, is a and supports the subsidiaries with external monitoring, natural part of the operating activities and is also a part guidelines and training. Regular checks are done between of major change or investment projects. Each large legal the risk function, internal control responsible´s and interunits in the Group must establish a risk register where nal audit in order to share information on shortcomings its material risks, mitigation measures and the people identified in self-evaluations or audits done. The effective­ responsible are identified. The Group’s sustainability ness of the activities conducted are thereby improved to work is taken into account in risk management and the increase risk awareness in identified risk areas. For more Group’s Code of Conduct is a basis for the analysis. information on the work on internal control in financial reporting, refer to page 49 of the Corporate Governance Governance model for risk management Report. In addition, Group Risk Management manages the During the year, an overall risk management committee Group’s common insurance plan, which was renegotiated was established for the Group. The cases are presented in a tender round during the year, where complete risk by the Head of Group Risk Management and the Presianalyses, among other efforts, were done for the central dent and CEO chairs the committee. The committee is warehouses. During the year, the Group’s crisis manageresponsible for providing guidance to the organisation ment and business continuity plans were updated. The and governing the process of ensuring an overview of whistle-blower procedure was also upgraded to a thirdthe Group’s risks, as well as following up the effectiveparty solution. ness of the risk management work. Continuous reportA selection of the risk areas identified in the scope of ing from the respective business area on risk analyses Mekonomen Group’s risk-management process and the and mitigation measures is made to the committee, steps taken to manage the risks are presented on the which in turn reports material changes in the risk ­following pages. Audit Committee Board of Directors Risk Management Group Management Business Area Manager, ­Committee Team Subsidiary MD Group Risk Risk Management Function Area Management ­Coordinator Head 18 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 MARKET AND COMPETITOR RISKS Description Handling Overall market The aftermarket for cars and light trucks is primarily dependent on the number Mekonomen Group works continuously to ensure the strength of the concepts of cars in the fleet and the mileage on the cars. In recent years, there has been and maintain a high rate of innovation to keep or increase our sales even in a a stable increase in the number of cars and their mileage in our main markets. declining market. The geographic expansion in 2018 through the acquisitions of A decrease in the number of cars and mileage could negatively impact the FTZ and I­nter-Team made Mekonomen Group less sensitive to how the market Mekonomen Group’s operations. The fact that the spare parts’ quality and develops in a single country. lifespan are increasing over time is compensated by the parts becoming more expensive and the lifespan of the cars increasing. During the year: A Group-wide Best Practice effort was initiated in important ­s trategic areas, such as digital services, concepts and logistics. Projects that build on clear business cases are driven at several levels, from experience exchange to jointly working across the Group. Car fleet Sweden and above all Norway are two countries where the transformation from To future-proof our affiliated workshops to be the first choice of electric car owners, conventional vehicles to electric vehicles and electric hybrids has come the furthest. for the past several years, we have gradually adapted the workshops, especially in The proportion of purely electric vehicles accounted for 2.8 per cent of the total Norway, to be able to accept rechargeable cars. For example, vehicle technicians car fleet at the end of 2019. A combined percentage on all of our main markets are trained in electric and hybrid vehicles through our own training centres. DevelDenmark, Norway, Poland and Sweden is still low at 0.7 per cent. The transition opment is proceeding at varying rates in our main markets and the vehicle technicians to electric means that the industry needs to gradually adapt to meet customer are trained at a pace to match the growing demand. We are also increasing our demand. assortment with spare parts and accessories for electric vehicles in pace with the growing demand. During the year: Launch of certified electric car workshops in MECA Norway. The certification gives the customers security in the knowledge that the workshop has provided its technicians with adequate training and is properly equipped. ­C areful monitoring of the number of electric vehicles in the respective make is done to ensure the supply of spare parts. Active work to create industry-wide standards for the handling of electric cars in the markets with the strongest growth, i.e. ­N orway and Sweden. Competition The competition regarding car part sales to workshops is extensive. The assortment The operations in Mekonomen Group have a strong customer focus and of the largest players in the brand-independent trade, including Mekonomen Group, ­continuously revise and ensure a competitive customer offering both to workshop covers most car makes. In addition, a number of smaller actors, digital actors and customers and car owners. As the majority of Mekonomen Group’s sales take brand-dependent actors also compete in the market. In terms of accessories, place digitally, investments in our e-commerce offer are of major importance. Mekonomen Group competes with a large number of players, including the retail trade, petrol stations, the convenience-goods trade and online actors. A significantly During the year: Development and continued roll-out of the digital spare parts increased competition from one or more actors may entail a risk of reduced ­c atalogue have continued in Mekonomen Norway. Investment in an upgraded ­market shares for Mekonomen Group. booking service that simplifies the booking process for both car owners and workshops was carried out and launched in Mekonomen Sweden. Launch in more parts of the Group will take place continuously in 2020. We offer our customers qualified technical support through an FAQ portal and over the phone, which builds loyalty among workshops and gives the car owners faster and more advanced help. Product offering and services Mekonomen Group’s long-term success is dependent, among other things, on Mekonomen Group’s ambition is to lead the industry’s development of future the ability to adapt to the customers’ needs and changed industry requirements product and service offerings. We are investing in central and local resources and to introduce attractive new products and services, at the same time that it to foresee and understand future trends. To continue to offer our customers maintains competitive pricing and builds loyalty. To maintain its competitiveness, a competitive and affordable customer experience, we continuously adapt our Mekonomen Group must foresee the customers’ needs and purchase and develop product and service offering and our internal processes. We secure our product products and services that are accepted by these customers. Mekonomen Group liability through purchasing agreements with suppliers in the automotive industry is also subject to product liability if the products do not work as expected or are and through careful quality c­ ontrols of our own brands, supplemented with defective. a Group-wide insurance protection. During the year: Continuous development of the Group’s own business systems for workshops in order to more clearly than before help the workshops to follow standards, work efficiently and engage customers. A new training portal and support portal were launched with a plan to launch in all business areas as it creates synergies and broadens the knowledge database. An analysis of service agreements was carried out with the goal of offering easier and foreseeable car ownership and generating customers for the workshops to build profitability and loyalty. Focus on developing the fleet business for more efficient administration and better service to corporate customers. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 19 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION MARKET AND COMPETITOR RISKS, CONT. Description Handling Automotive technicians There is a shortage of vehicle technicians in the market, which affects Mekonomen With strong brands and concepts, our training centre and our own upper-secondary Group’s affiliated and proprietary workshops. The shortage of vehicle technicians school programme ProMeister Vehicles in Sweden, we are working continuously to with relevant training and experience can in the long term constitute a factor that attract people to the vehicle technician profession. At the same time, we contribute limits the possibilities of continued growth in our industry or reduce profitability to increasing the level of expertise among existing and new vehicle technicians. through higher personnel costs. There is a shortage in every market, but the We also offer our affiliated workshops staffing and recruitment services. shortage is the worst in the Swedish market. During the year: We actively worked with PR and information campaigns to attract people to the industry. We started a training programme in cooperation with the Swedish Public Employment Service to introduce new adults to the automotive profession where 85% found employment at concept-affiliated workshops and stores after completing training. The decision was also made to start ProMeister Automotive in a new city in 2020. We see a continued increase in the percentage of women applying for automotive programmes. OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Handling Employees Mekonomen Group’s success depends on attracting, keeping and developing The work of identifying, analysing and minimising work environment risks in the ­committed managers and employees. We work for diversity, gender equality and ­operations is done at every level of the Group. Our Code of Conduct, whistle-­ inclusion. With different competencies and experiences among the employees, blower system, work environment policy, together with employee appraisals, we will reflect the diversity of our customer groups and thereby develop our employee ­surveys and continuous dialogue, identify irregularities, improprieties ­customer offering. A good physical and psychosocial work environment and good and other risk areas. Also refer to pages 28–29 and page 32. social conditions are fundamental for our employees. If Mekonomen Group does not attract relevant expertise or if there are bad conditions at the workplace, During the year: The Group’s Code of Conduct was updated and adapted to it can affect the Group’s operations and earnings negatively. the new larger Group. Implementation among all employees in the Group will continue during 2020. An employee survey was conducted in the FTZ, MECA & Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen business areas, as well as among central functions. IT There is extensive awareness that a coordinated IT structure within certain parts An outage in the systems for order and stock management would negatively impact ­provides the Group major benefits. At the same time, this entails greater risks as the deliveries to our customers. Threats and risks are regularly analysed to identify ­disruptions or outages in the Group’s common systems affect several subsidiaries and ensure that we have adequate robustness to be able to manage disruptions and where special systems for orders and inventory management are critical. outages, such as by there being redundancy for critical systems and communication channels. During the year: Efforts to strengthen and develop the IT environment’s resilience to disruptions and outages were carried out. Processes, roles, responsibilities and technical solutions were reviewed with the aim of ensuring robustness over time. Cyber crime Like every company, we are subjected to cyber crime, such as attempted fraud, To combat attempts at trespassing or sabotage to our IT environments, external ­trespassing or sabotage. monitoring is done within the area, as well as a continuous assessment of whether our protection needs to be changed or expanded. We continuously develop our procedures, processes and technical solutions in the area and have preparedness if we were nonetheless attacked. During the year: A Group-wide cyber insurance was taken out to ensure external support and financial compensation in the event of a major incident. Procedures and technical protection against denial-of-service (DOS) attacks were also reviewed. Damage to central warehouse or regional warehouses Any damage, such as fire or technical disruption, at any of the Group’s central Fire safety and protection from technical disruptions are a prioritised area at all of or regional warehouses would entail significant negative consequences for the our facilities and extensive emphasis is assigned to prevention efforts. The Group ­company’s sales and delivery possibilities to our customers, which can in turn has consequential-loss insurance if a fire were to occur or other damage were to harm the Group’s reputation. arise that disrupts the operations at our facilities. During the year: All insurance figures were updated per facility during the year in connection with the tender process of a new insurance solution for the Group. There was also a review of continuity plans for the larger central warehouses. 20 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Losses and value handling risks The Group’s operations include sales and stock-keeping of a large number of At Mekonomen Group, work is continuously in progress to reduce losses and to ­products, of which many are considered theft-prone. The Group’s operations also define what is scrapping, internal consumption and actual theft. This work is based include cash management, which entails A risk of theft, both in stores and during on it being important to focus on all types of losses, for example, by reviewing the transportation of cash from the store to the bank. order procedures, delivery checks and unpacking of goods. In terms of value ­handling risks, Mekonomen Group strives to provide the same level of solutions for security services, security systems and cash management for all companies within the Group. During the year: System solutions with better functionality were introduced in ­Swedish Mekonomen stores, which provided better conditions for stable ­procedures. Merger of central warehouses Merger of the Group’s two central warehouses in Sweden is under way and investWe evaluate the risks continuously throughout the course of the project. A project ments have been made in Mekonomen’s central warehouse in Strängnäs with an organisation is responsible for minimising risks and delays, and makes rapid responses expansion of a fully automated part. We see major strategic gains coming from to potential problems possible. Through expanded work on master data and product the merger at the same time that the project is business critical and associated with harmonisation, we ensure that we have the right assortment in the new warehouse. risks. Problems can arise during the transfer of MECA’s operations that lead to Risks in the merger are minimised through an action plan for ­various scenarios that operating outages or to the project not resulting in the expected positive effects. may arise upon unforeseen events. During the year: The project proceeded according to plan. In 2019, preparations and pilots were conducted for the supply of MECA’s department warehouse from Strängnäs instead of Eskilstuna. The transfer of all of MECA’s department warehouses will continue during 2020. Environment Mekonomen Group’s impact on the environment and climate mainly occurs through Our operations work with the environment systematically. MECA Sweden, MECA energy use in premises, transports and waste and chemicals management. If our Norway and Mekonomen Sweden have certified management system in accordance stakeholders do not have confidence in our environmental efforts, our operations with ISO 14001 (environment). can be negatively impacted. Possible violations of rules would have a legal impact and harm our brands. Good environmental and sustainability work is also becoming During the year: During 2019, Mekonomen Group analysed the Group’s carbon an increasingly important factor for young people when they choose an employer. dioxide emissions. A more detailed description of our environmental efforts is on pages 30–31. Suppliers A large number of products and suppliers at a company is usually associated with To facilitate control of the supplier level and the supply chain, all major purchasing higher risks in the form of, for example, quality and delivery time, as well as sustainagreements are controlled by the Group’s joint purchasing organisation. Purchasing ability risks. Mekonomen Group warehouses more than 100,000 article numbers takes place mainly from European suppliers, which also deliver to the car makers. in various warehouses in the Group and has access to more than one million articles The suppliers sign our clause on compliance to the UN Global Compact or have for order. This makes control and follow-up of quality of spare parts and product shown an equivalent policy of their own. content as well as checks of suppliers in relation to corruption or human rights ­violations an extensive effort for us. During the year: During the year, a Supplier Code of Conduct was developed, which describes in more detail Mekonomen Group’s expectations of its suppliers. Corruption risks Although the risk is considered higher in certain markets and certain industries, Mekonomen Group applies zero tolerance to corruption. The Group’s anticorrupcorruption is not geographically limited. In general, purchasers and sellers are tion policy is included in the Code of Conduct. In addition to this, there are special employee groups that run a greater risk of being involved in corruption. guidelines regarding anticorruption with rules on gifts and representation. Today, we make purchases from some markets where corruption is a well-known problem, which requires that we actively distance ourselves from these practices During the year: Procedures regarding whistle blowing were clarified in 2019 with (also see above under supplier risks). a web-based system. The system is accessible to employees and external stakeholders, such as suppliers. The whistle-blower procedure can be used anonymously. A web-based course in the Code of Conduct will be launched in 2020. FINANCIAL RISKS Description Mekonomen Group’s financial risks mainly comprise currency, credit, interest-­ rate and liquidity risks. See Note 36 for a description of the financial risks. In the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49–50, there is a description of the internal ­control and risk assessment that aim to prevent misstatements in the financial statements. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 21 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION OPERATIONS We are convinced that the combination of differentiated and strong concepts out in the market and a strong centralised purchasing function will enable us to meet our customers’ needs with an attractive offering. Together with our efforts in technical support, training academies and digitalisation, we are creating good conditions for profitable growth. The Group has developed a strategic position when it comes to technical skills development for automotive technicians in all of the Group’s main markets. The business areas have developed respective training academies FTZ with differentiated focuses where a best-practice project was initiated in the Group to make use of the success­ful FTZ is the leading car part distributor in the Danish market examples and implement them broadly in the Group. with B2B sales of spare parts, consumables and tools to One clear example is the well-developed courses and such customer groups as workshops, car dealers and other certifications in electric and hybrid automotive technolwholesalers. ogies in MECA and Mekonomen in N ­ orway, which will In 2019, FTZ launched service agreements, where car be able to be quickly implemented in the rest of the owners are offered a fixed price for service for cars up to markets as demand grows in the respective markets. ten years old. For cars up to three years old, allocations to As one of the first aftermarket actors, the Group a repair fund are included in the service subscription that is launched a training programme for level 2 autonomous used by the car owner when a repair need arises. vehicle technology in 2019. Autonomous vehicles are FTZ was rewarded as the Supplier of the Year in Denmark graded from level 1 to level 5, where level 2 is the most during the Auto Awards 2019. FTZ also won two more advanced level in a vehicle driven in regular traffic today. awards through its workshop concept AutoMester: WorkConcept and business development with differentiated shop Chain of the Year and Venture of the Year. In total, focus in our business areas is a strength that means that awards were given in 24 categories. we can effectively drive a large number of development areas in parallel in the Group and then implement ­finished solutions in other markets. By working centrally in areas such as business development and purchasing and also applying best practices between our business areas, we make use of economies of scale in the Group. At the same time, it is strategically important for us that our brands and concepts have their own unique positions in the market. 22 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 MECA & MEKONOMEN MECA is a leading actor in the Swedish and Norwegian after­ market for spare parts, tools and workshop equipment. Sales are primarily made to B2B customers. This includes the own workshop concept MECA Car Service, the cooperating workshop chain Bosch Car Service, and the store and petrol chain OKQ8. Mekonomen’s leading position an strong brand is well-established in the Swedish and Norwegian markets. Through stores, e-commerce and the workshop concepts Mekonomen Bilverkstad and Meko­ Partner, affordable comprehensive solutions are offered for both car owners and companies. The workshop concepts MECA and Mekonomen in Sweden and Norway offer the affiliated workshops a proprietary business system that is integrated with a mobile communication and payment solution for a close dialogue between the workshop and the car owner, as well as flexible payment options for the car owner. MECA Norway is a general agent for the digital key storage cabinet Sharebox. Another solution that has been integrated with the business system to create flexibility for the car owner at drop-off and pick-up of the car. SØRENSEN OG BALCHEN Sørensen og Balchen sells spare parts and car accessories and operates the store and workshop concept BilXtra in the Norwegian market. The car part wholesaler is the leader in car accessories for consumers through stores and e-commerce. Sørensen og Balchen has a strong focus INTER-TEAM on and is the market leader in car accessories to consumers in Norway. The company Inter-Team is a well-established car part distributor in the Polish autostands for the largest share of car accessory motive aftermarket with sales of spare parts, consumables and tools sales among the Group’s companies, includto workshops, car dealers, retailers and other wholesalers. Inter-Team ing the Group’s own range of accessories, conducts export business to Germany, the Czech Republic and the Carwise. Through the BilXtra Service offerBaltics, among others. ing, BilXtra has taken over the role of the Since 2017, Inter-Team has had cooperation with the oldest autopetrol stations in terms of assisting car motive upper-secondary school in Warsaw, Poland. The objective of owners who need fast help with their car. the project is to give prospective young automotive technicians curThe stores serve as pit stops for car ownrent and practical knowledge in automotive diagnostics and repair. ers who get help in replacing windscreen The students participate in specialised training that is organised and wipers, replacing light bulbs, installing car conducted by Inter-Team’s technical staff in parallel with the school boxes, installing child car seats or washing programme. The students receive an opportunity for placement at the car. Inter-Team’s workshop concept OK Serwis. Since the beginning, 24 courses have been organised and 94 students have received training. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 23 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION │ sustainability SUSTAINABILITY IS AN INTEGRATED PART OF OUR BUSINESS Transports of people and goods are necessary for a well-functioning society and here our operations play an important role, today and in the future. The transport sector is transitioning from fossil fuels to biofuels and electricity, and to greater automation. We are keeping up with the development and train automotive technicians in electric and hybrid electric ­technology and are increasing our product range with spare parts and accessories for electric cars as demand grows. As the industry leader, we have a particular responelectric cars, but a large number of cars are still sibility for sustainability. Sustainability must be an sold that are only run on petrol or diesel. This integrated part of our business operations and genmeans that petrol and diesel cars will drive our erate value for the company and our stakeholders. roads for a long time to come. The sustainability work is an important component Car owners need to be able to service and for achieving the Group’s overall goals and for being repair their vehicles regardless of how they are a company with sustainable operations in the future powered. With proper service, maintenance and as well. repairs, the vehicle can be driven as fuel efficiently One of the largest challenges in the environmental Mekonomen Group has as possible during its lifespan. We train automotive efforts globally, is to reduce the negative impact on signed the UN Global Comtechnicians in electric and hybrid electric vehicles pact’s principles in the areas the climate and the environment from transportation. of human rights, working through our training centres and we are increasing Many new cars sold today are electric or hybrid conditions, the environ­ment our product range with spare parts for electric and anti-corruption. CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MECA Sweden and MECA Norway have certified management are an important part in the improvement work. In the Swedish systems in accordance with the environmental standard ISO 14001. industry initiative, Godkänd Bilverkstad (Approved Workshop), Mekonomen Sweden’s stores and several workshops have certified requirements are also set on systematic quality, environment and management systems according to the standards for environ­ment work environment efforts, which are checked by an external party. (ISO 14001), quality (ISO 9001) and work environment (OHSAS The Group is at the forefront of the introduction of Godkänd 18001). Preqas in Sweden has a certified quality management ­B ilverkstad in the Swedish workshops, where a large number of ­s ystem (ISO 9001). Certification of the management systems MECA and Mekonomen workshops have been certified according entails regular internal evaluations and external audits, which to the standard. 24 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 cars as demand grows. The proper maintenance and service of cars means that traffic safety increases on our roads, which is also an important sustainability VISION aspect. Besides our products and services generating value, we also create jobs for employees and suppliers and UNTIL 2020 1) pay taxes. We purchase spare parts and accessories from suppliers mainly in Europe, but also in Asia. 1. Enable recruitment of 500 automotive technicians. ­Consequently, the sustainability work in the supply 2.  Committed employees (EI) 82 and leadership (LSI) 85. chain is of central importance to us. As employers, we are present in Sweden, Norway, 3. 35 per cent women in management positions. Denmark, Finland and Poland and Hong Kong. In a 4.  95 per cent of the Group’s automotive technicians changing world, the right expertise is important for us. ­annually participate in ProMeister Academy courses. This is about maintaining and developing the expertise 5. All employees have undergone training in the Group’s of existing employees. We also need to ensure that Code of Conduct, the whistle-blowing procedure and opportunities exist for competence development for Anti-corruption policy. staff in the workshops. We also promote the development of future expertise in the workshop area. 6. Main suppliers of products that account for 95 per cent We work to reduce our own operations’ impact of the Group’s purchasing volumes have signed the UN on the environment and climate, mainly in the areas Global Compact. of chemicals, waste and energy and fuel consumption. Read more about our material sustainability areas under the respective section. 1. Work is in progress to develop new goals within the sustainability area. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 25 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION │ sustainability WE CONTRIBUTE TO FULFILLING THE GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The member countries of the United Nations have adopted 17 global sustainable development goals that are to be achieved by 2030. Among other things, the goals are to contribute to ending extreme poverty, reducing inequality and injustice in the world, promoting peace and ­justice and combat climate change. Mekonomen Group’s operations contribute to and affect many goals and targets either directly or indirectly in the supply chain, for example. In 2018, an analysis was done of which goals are most relevant to the Group. This analysis supplements the earlier materiality analysis and forms a platform for the Group’s further development of the sustainability work. Read more about the materiality analysis on page 94. AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPCLEAN ENERGY ­ECONOMIC GROWTH TION AND PRODUCTION Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Ensure sustainable consumption and ­sustainable and modern energy for all. economic growth, full and productive ­production patterns. We make it possible for car owners to employment and decent work for all. A properly maintained vehicle contributes ­service and repair their vehicles regardless Our overall goal is to develop with high to traffic safety and that the vehicle has as of whether they run on fossil fuels, biofuels ­profitability and thereby generate value small an environmental impact as possible or electricity. Proper maintenance and growth for the shareholders. during its lifespan. ­service makes the vehicles as fuel efficient Good profitability means that we can conOur operations entail the handling of as possible. tinue to work and create jobs and contribute chemicals. We take responsibility for the By developing our products and services to society through e.g. the payment of taxes. right marking and handling according to for the growing share of vehicles run on As employers, we have a responsibility with current legislation. The waste that arises alternative fuels, such as biofuels and elecregard to the terms of employment, working in our value chain is sorted and recycled. tricity, we contribute to a transformation environment, gender equality, diversity and We report to the authorities according to in society. inclusion. Our operations are developing and set requirements. Internally, we work to reduce our energy it is therefore of central important that our We influence our supply chain through, use in premises and lower fuel consumption, employees develop to be able to meet the for example, proper payment and requirewhich also means that we reduce our impact customers’ needs and the expectations of ments with regard to human rights, terms on the environment and climate. our surroundings. We invest resources in of employment and environmental impact the training of future vehicle technicians to in the manufacturing process. In this respect, increase the supply of trained labour. there is also a connection to Goal 8. 26 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 COLLABORATION WITH OUR ­STAKEHOLDERS CREATES VALUE Our customers, which are mainly comprised of workshops other service to the workshops. To maintain confidence and car owners, are our most important stakeholder and develop the company, the dialogue with our stakegroups. With our concepts, we want to attract car owners holders is key. We conduct continuous dialogues with to affiliated workshops as well as our own workshops. We customers, employees, owners and investors, suppliers have to be sensitive to what the car owner demands and and society. must be on the forefront in terms of offering training and Stakeholder Dialogue and follow-up Issues in focus in 2019 Customer Affiliated and other workshops • Continuous dialogue in the customer • Fast deliveries, contact with the We sell spare parts to workshops. Orders interaction and in contact with local store, central marketing, range for spare parts from the workshops are ­customer service. of spare parts, made almost exclusively digitally through the • Customer survey. • Affordability and training. antörer Samhälle Investerare Grossist Inköp Verkstad spare parts catalogue. We also offer courses, • Godkänd Bilverkstad (Approved business systems, and other services to the Workshop) (Sweden). workshops. Our affiliated workshops offer ­s­­ervice and repairs of vehicles to car owners, both companies and private individuals. er Mål Startegi Försäljning Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 Car owners • Dialogue over the web, newsletters Offering, quality of services and With our concepts, we want to attract car and in social media. products, affordability and compe­owners, both private and commercial, to our • Consumer surveys and customer tence. affiliated workshops. Several of our stores ­s atisfaction surveys are carried out. also address consumers, both as physical stores and as delivery locations for e-commerce ­purchases. Employees The employees’ commitment and performance Annual employee talks and continuous Physical and psychosocial work enviare crucial to obtaining satisfied customers, dialogue during the year, employee surronment, commitment, leadership good financial results and a pleasant workveys, workplace meetings, intranets, and development, terms of employplace. We seek to offer a safe and developing newsletters, and dialogue with union ment, possibility to influence the local Medarbetare workplace. Samhälle Leverantörer Investerare Grossist organisations. Inköp Verkstad workplace. Medarbetare Owners and Leverantörer Samhälle share is listed on The Group’s Investerare Nasdaq Grossist Inköp Annual General Meeting, annual and Verkstad A long-term financially sustainable analysts ­Stockholm. The company’s overall goal is to sustainability report, interim reports, development, growth opportunities, Butik Kunderdevelop with high Mål profitability and thereby Försäljning Startegi capital Inköpmarket2 days, Försäljning road shows 2 and governance and transparency. generate value growth for the shareholders. individual meetings with investors and ­B usiness ethics, environmental analysts. and climate impact. Butik Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 Suppliers We mainly purchase spare parts and accessoContinuous meetings, follow-up during Product quality and safety, signatures ries from the large European suppliers in the the contract period and audits. and compliance with the UN Global automotive industry. We also have suppliers in Compact’s principles. Medarbetare Leverantörer Asia. In addition, Samhälle we have suppliers Investerare Grossist of indirect Inköp Verkstad materials and services. Society and Our business impacts the environment both • Dialogue with supervisory authorities • Fulfilment of legislation in e.g. Butik authorities Kunder Målin terms of the operations and Startegi products. The Försäljning Inköp 2 regarding Försäljning 2 permits and inspections ­environment, work environment, work environment is affected by, for example, (including those in the environment, chemicals and fire safety. heavy lifts and the handling of chemicals. These working environment, chemicals • Climate impact. areas are regulated by authorities, which is ­handling and fire safety). • Enabling more automotive why an open and transparent dialogue is • Meetings and cooperation with ­technicians in the labour market. etare Leverantörer Samhälle Investerare important. Grossist Inköp Verkstad authorities, municipalities and industry • Training and competence. To increase the supply of labour with the right organisations expertise, the Group has cooperation with • Collaboration with NGOs and upper-secondary schools. schools. Kunder Mål Startegi Försäljning Inköp 2 Försäljning 2 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 27 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION │ sustainability Our operations are built up from ­individual cultures and values, which is a strength that is important to us. Common for the Group is that we act based on respect, commitment and a customer focus. WE HAVE COMMITTED AND COMPETENT EMPLOYEES An attractive employer with committed managers a some extra effort for the company to become more and employees successful. In addition, the employees believe that the Strong commitment among our managers and cooperation in their own team works well and that the ­employees is necessary to obtain satisfied customers, team has good leadership. good financial results and a pleasant workplace. Good leadership is a factor that influences commitment posiA good and safe work environment tively. Good leadership, stimulating work and developThe Group’s work environment efforts aim to create a ment are factors that mean that we are perceived as physically, psychologically and socially sound and develan attractive employer, that our employees want to oping workplace for all employees, where risks of occustay with us and that we can recruit new colleagues. pational injuries and work-related illness are prevented. During the year, the business areas FTZ, MECA/ The operations work systematically on the work environ­ Mekonomen, Sørensen og Balchen and central funcment, which among other things means that risks are tions conducted employee surveys. The response evaluated, procedures are in place to manage the risks ­frequency was high at 86 per cent, which shows that and that incidents and accidents are reported. the Group’s employees want to contribute to improvIn our warehouses, stores and workshops, there are ing the company, their workplace and their own work some risks regarding the physical work environment situation. that must be managed. The largest work environment The surveys show that commitment is high. For risks in the warehouses are heavy lifting, loading and example, the majority of the employees say that they unloading, and forklift operation. In stores, it concerns to a high or very high degree are prepared to make for example heavy lifting, but also traffic safety as many 28 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 OUR FIRST UPPER-SECONDARY PUPILS ARE GRADUATING In June 2020, the first pupils in the autumn 2017, Mekonomen Group therefore ProMeister Automotive programme will took an initial step towards modernising the graduate. After completing and graduating image of the automotive technician profeswith their upper-secondary diploma, the sion by starting its own upper-secondary students are guaranteed a six-month probaeducation, ProMeister Automotive. The protionary employment in one of Mekonomen gramme is being conducted in cooperation Group’s workshop chains. with the school actor Lärande i Sverige. The In Sweden alone, there is an urgent need programme has around 40 students per year in a three year period for 6,000 automotive group. The programme is currently available technicians with the right expertise. In the in Stockholm and Lund. In autumn 2020, the Swedish upper-secondary schools, too few upper-secondary programme will also be vehicle technicians are graduating. This is started in Örebro. due both to a lack of interest in the profesIn order to increase interest in the autosion as such and the fact that traditional motive technician profession, the Group also automotive programmes do not maintain an cooperates with other external organisations, adequate level of quality in the training. In such as the Swedish Public Employment Service, trade associations and municipalities. store employees drive delivery vehicles. For the work17 per cent (17). The number of women in senior posishops, the risks mainly consist of heavy lifting, chemical tions 1) is 12 per cent (10). We strive to identify both hazards in the work environment and noise. male and female final candidates when filling positions. In 2019, more than 11,000 training Risks in the psychosocial work environment concern days were held for example stress and bullying or victimisation (psychoOur managers and employees get the for automotive ­technicians. logical violence, social exclusion, sexual harassment or ­development necessary other forms of harassment). No employee shall be subOur operations are continuously developed to meet jected to this and we have procedures for how we work the customers’ and surrounding world’s requirements with these issues. As a part of the prevention work and expectations. Competence development takes during the year, we clarified the Group’s view of bullying place continuously – in daily work, through meetings and victimisation through our policy for gender equality, and through courses. diversity and inclusion being in the Group’s Code of We also offer courses to ensure the correct expertise Conduct. We also communicated the possibility of using at our own and affiliated workshops. The technology in the Group’s system for whistle blowing in these issues. the vehicles is developing quickly and we see a higher Read more on page 32. degree of digitalisation, alternative fuels and electric power. We offer training in e.g. technology, customer service and Diversity, gender equality and inclusion areas such as handling AC systems, electric and hybrid For us, diversity is about the recognising the value of electric cars, and gas vehicles. In Norway, a course for differences among our employees when it comes to self-driving vehicles was launched in the autumn (training gender, ethnic background, faith, disability, sexual orienin the assistance systems of self-driving vehicles). tation, age, education and experience. We strive for our ProMeister Solutions in Norway also has a training workplaces to reflect the diversity of our customer programme for vehicle inspection inspectors where groups and society in general. around 2,500 mechanics have been certified to-date. A major challenge for us is to create an even gender During the year, more than 11,000 training days were distribution in a traditionally male industry. The proheld for automotive technicians, of which 75 per cent portion of women in the Group is currently about were held by workshops affiliated with our concepts. 1) Senior positions mean those with personnel and budget responsibility. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 29 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION │ sustainability WE TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE CLIMATE The Group’s operations work systematically with Chemicals management environ­mental issues and have rules and procedures Mekonomen Group puts a large number of chemical to manage their environmental impact. Parts of our products on the market. This entails a responsibility to ­operations have certified environmental management check labelling, ensure that the right information exists systems (read more on page 24). in the form of labelling and safety data sheets, ensuring During the year, the Group’s emissions of greenthat certain kinds of chemicals are only sold to profeshouse gases that arise in our own operations were sionals and that storage is correct in warehouses, stores analyzed. The emissions mainly originate from transand workshops. An e-learning on handling chemicals was ports and energy consumption in our premises. prepared in 2019 for stores in Sweden with the aim of strengthening the competence regarding these issues. Transports Proper handling and the right protective equipment Our operations require transports both with our own in the use of chemicals are of central importance to vehicles and through subcontractors. Products and our workshops. goods are transported from our large warehouses to Mekonomen Group has a systematic control of the Group’s stores and e-commerce customers. From chemicals. If incorrectly labelled products were to the stores, transports are made with our own delivery come out on the market, we act as soon as we become vehicles and with subcontractors to our own and affiliaware of it. The products are then stopped centrally ated workshops. To reduce the environmental impact for further sales and a recall is made when necessary. from the transports, consideration is taken to fuel consumption in the purchase of vehicles. Waste management In the Group’s new automated central warehouse in In our operations, waste and hazardous waste arise. Sweden, the packing machine senses the fill level of the In the workshops, hazardous waste arises in the form boxes with goods that are sent out. Based on the conof e.g. oils, batteries and chemicals. The waste is sorted tents, the machine automatically creates an optimal box and handled according to legislation and collected by a size. This way, the transport of air from the warehouse waste contractor with a permit to transport waste and to customers is minimised. hazardous waste. Energy consumption in premises We have warehouses, stores, workshops and offices that require energy in the form of heating and electricity. Energy surveys have been conducted according to the requirements set in the respective countries regarding the EU Energy Performance Directive. The most ­common means of heating are district heating and ­electricity. Utsläpp av växthusgaser Mekonomen Group’s largest DISTRIBUTION OF GREENHOUSE environmental impact is in GAS EMISSIONS Utsläpp av växthusgaser the areas of transports, energy use in premises and Own transports, 24% chemicals and waste Heat and electricity, 40% Transports subcontractors, 26% ­management. Business travel, 10% Own transports, 24% Heat and electricity, 40% Transports subcontractors, 26% Business travel, 10% 30 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 WE CONTRIBUTE TO THE TRANSFORMATION TO A FOSSIL-­INDEPENDENT VEHICLE FLEET The transport sector is transitioning from The automotive technicians are trained in using fossil fuels to biofuels and electricity. electric and hybrid electric technology and As a major actor in the industry, we play a the workshops will invest in electric and role in contributing to this transformation. hybrid electric technology to be able to Car owners need to be able to service and offer the car owner such a car to borrow repair their vehicles regardless of how they when their car is turned into the workshop. are powered. This means that we train For the car owners who have conventional automotive technicians in electric and hybrid petrol or diesel cars, the workshop provides electric technology through our training advice on how the car owner should drive centres. We are increasing our assortment as fuel efficiently as possible. This means, for with spare parts and accessories for electric example, having the right tyre pressure, vehicles in pace with the growing demand. advice on fuel efficient driving and cleaning FTZ’s workshop chain AutoMester in of the engine. The E+ workshops also have Denmark launched a new workshop concollaboration with the organisation “Plant et cept, AutoMester E+, during the year. The Træ” (Plant a Tree). For every booking made concept includes several components and online, a tree is planted. In the middle of has a focus on the cars of the future and 2020, the planting of the first 3,000 trees is reducing emissions in diesel and petrol cars. planned. The Plant et Træ organisation has By setting up charging stations at Auto­ been around for more than 30 years and Mester E+ workshops, we contribute to to-date has planted around 1.5 million trees the local charging infrastructure in Denmark. in Denmark. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 31 STRATEGIC VALUE CREATION │ sustainability WE HAVE A BUSINESS ETHICS APPROACH Anti-corruption e­ nvironmental and financial responsibility. To make it Although the risk is considered higher in certain m ­ arkets easier for employees and stakeholders, a number of and certain industries, corruption is not geographically policies are also included in the Code of ­Conduct. The limited. We have zero tolerance to corruption. The Code of Conduct is available in every Scandinavian lanGroup’s view of corruption is presented in the Group’s guage, P ­ olish and English. As a part of the implementaCode of Conduct which includes the ­Anti­corruption tion of the updated Code, a course will be prepared ­Policy. In addition to the Anticorruption ­Policy, there that all employees will take. are special guidelines regarding anti­corruption with rules on gifts and representation. Whistle-blower system The guidelines apply to all employees and build on The Group’s whistle-blower system gives everyone a parts of the Swedish Code of Business Conduct that possibility to provide information on a suspicion of a is managed by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute serious impropriety. It is important to safeguard good (IMM). corporate governance and preserve the customers’, the Today, we make purchases from some markets where suppliers’ and the public’s confidence in us. Procedures corruption is a well-known problem, which requires that regarding whistle blowing were clarified in 2019 with a we actively distance ourselves from these practices. web-based system. Through a central purchasing organisation that secures The whistle-blower service can be used in the cases all major purchasing agreements for our Group compathe circumstances mean that it is not appropriate to nies, we have better control over suppliers and the flow report according to the usual reporting channels, such of products. Our supplier agreements contain clauses as to the immediate manager. The service can be used that refer to the United Nations Global Compact. In to submit information on a fear that something is not in 2019, a Supplier Code of Conduct was also prepared, line with the law, the Code of Conduct or other ethical which includes specific texts on anticorruption. Impleprinciples, that can seriously impact our organisation or mentation of the Supplier Code is under way (read human life or health. more about the Supplier Code of Conduct on page 33). In 2019, there were no reported cases of corruption Information security and data protection in Mekonomen Group. We process information in many different ways in the Group. This processing is generally governed by our Code of Conduct information security policy, which is included in the The Group’s Code of Conduct was approved by the Group’s Code of Conduct. Each business area also Board of Directors and a major update was done in has its own guidelines for clarifying how, for example, 2019. The Code of Conduct clarifies what is expected IT systems and personal data shall be handled. of the company. It also clarifies what behaviour is Potential incidents are handled according to set expected of everyone that works under any of the ­procedures and reported to concerned authorities Group’s brands. The Code states how the company when necessary according to the respective country’s and our employees shall act with regard to social, legislation. THE GROUP’S WHISTLE-­ BLOWER SYSTEM CODE OF CONDUCT The system is available on The Code of Conduct includes www.mekonomen.com and is Mekonomen Group’s Policy regarding accessible to employees and Gender equality, Diversity and Inclu­external stakeholders, such as sion, the Work Environment Policy, ­suppliers. The whistle-blower the Traffic Safety Policy, the Environ­procedure can be used anonymental Policy, the Quality Policy, mously. the Information Security Policy and the Anti-corruption Policy. 32 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 WE HAVE REQUIREMENTS AND ­EXPECTATIONS ON OUR SUPPLIERS Spare parts constitute the majority of the Group’s developed that is published on the Group’s website, ­purchases and sales and account for a large part of the which in more detail describes our expectations on Group’s sales. Purchases mainly take place from the suppliers. same suppliers that supply the car makers. Nearly all In connection with the acquisitions of FTZ and suppliers have their base in Europe, while the produc­Inter-Team, new suppliers have been added to the tion of products takes place in both Europe and the Group and also additional own brand products (OBP). rest of the world. The following OBP are now in the Group – ProMeister, Through the acquisitions of the companies FTZ in Carwise, Kraft Automotive, Sakura, Vehcare and Denmark and Inter-Team in Poland in the third quarter Forumline. The largest quality and sustainability risk is of 2018, they became a part of Mekonomen Group. deemed to be comprised of the OBP suppliers. The The acquisitions entail possibilities of coordination Group therefore conducts internal audits of all new effects with regard to suppliers. The large Group-wide spare parts suppliers. All Asian suppliers of spare parts suppliers are handled by the Group purchasing, which to the Polish and Danish own brand products were works with Group-wide agreements and terms. ­visited during the year and new contracts with the UN During the year, a large number of the Group’s most Global Compact’s rules were signed, or are in the final important supplier agreements were revised to also phase of being signed. include the newly acquired companies. This means that The audits take place through factory visits and tests agreement dependence to earlier parent companies of of products based on checklists that encompass the FTZ and Inter-Team was discontinued. In addition, as review of product quality, environmental and social of 1 January 2020, FTZ and Inter-Team joined the purrequirements. The product range is quality audited chasing association, ATR, which the rest of Mekonomen through independent actors and in our test laboratory Group belongs to, in order to harmonise terms within InterMeko in Poland. The test laboratory is jointly the Group. owned with the Polish car part company InterCars. Agreements that are not Group-wide are managed Through the acquisitions of the companies FTZ in by the respective purchasing function within FTZ, InterDenmark and Inter-Team in Poland, the purchase Team, MECA/Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen. ­volumes were doubled and the supplier base was The 100 largest suppliers account for more than expanded. Work is under way to further develop and 80 per cent of the product supply. implement processes regarding sustainable supplier chains in the whole of the new Group. This work will Sustainable supply chain continue in 2020. The Group will continue to work on Since 2013, the Group’s supplier agreements have had a common agreement base, both for local and Groupa clause on compliance to the UN Global Compact’s wide suppliers, and thereby ensure continued compliprinciples. In 2019, a Supplier Code of ­Conduct was ance with the UN Global Compact. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 33 the share THE SHARE Mekonomen’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, in the Mid Cap segment and is traded under the MEKO ticker. At 31 December 2019, the total market value of the Analyst coverage company was SEK 5.2 billion. The share’s highest price At present, there are five analysts who follow and in 2019 was quoted at SEK 96.00 on 8 and 9 January. ­analyse Mekonomen Group and provide recommendaThe lowest price was quoted on 15 August at SEK tions on the share. 60.80. The number of shareholders on 31 December 2019 was 12,259 (12,310). As per 31 December 2019, Communication to the capital market Mekonomen’s share capital amounted to SEK 141 M Mekonomen Group’s communication to the capital (141) and comprised 56,416,622 shares (56,416,622) market aims to provide the market reliable, accurate at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). Each and current information regarding the company’s posishare carries one vote at the Annual General Meeting tion, operations and development. The information and all shares carry equal entitlement to a share in the should increase the knowledge about and interest in company’s profits and assets. Each shareholder is entithe company. In 2019, in addition to quarterly reporting tled to vote for all their shares with no restrictions and and phone conferences, Mekonomen Group particithe shares are not included in any transfer restrictions. pated in a number of investor conferences in the ­Nordic region and held meetings with investors and Buyback of own shares analysts in Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen. Some In July, Mekonomen AB carried out a buyback of of the topics of particular interest to investors and 30,000 own shares to cover the company's commit­analysts in 2019 were potential synergies from the ment under the LTIP 2019 approved by the Annual acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team, the competition General Meeting on 2 May 2019. The company holds ­situation, the effect of the strong euro on the purchase 93,250 treasury shares at 31 December 2019. Treasury prices, and the effect of a larger percentage of electric shares do not entitle the holder to dividends or votes. cars on our roads. For more information, see page 41. Dividends In the light of the uncertainty about the market development, as a result of the rapid spread of the corona More information on the share virus and in order to further strengthen the company’s The following information and more is on financial position, Mekonomen Group’s Board of Direcwww.mekonomen.com/sv/investerare tors proposes no dividend for 2019 (0.00). With this • Share trend recommendation, the Board has balanced the compa• Ownership structure ny’s cash flow between the company’s goal of both • Share history reducing the debt and pay dividend. The Board contin• Insider trading • Analyst coverage ues to support the long-term goal of paying at least 50 per cent of the earnings as dividends. 34 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Share history The 15 largest shareholders, 31 December 20191) Nominal Share capital, Number Votes and Year Transaction value, SEK Shares, total total, SEK Name of shares ­capital 1990 Formation of company 100.00 1,000 100,000.00 LKQ Corporation 15,001,046 26.6 1998 Bonus issue 100.00 400,000 40,000,000.00 Didner & Gerge Fonder 4,992,616 8.9 1998 Split 10:1 10.00 4,000,000 40,000,000.00 Fjärde AP-fonden 4,617,503 8.4 1999 New share issue 10.00 5,434,444 54,344,440.00 Swedbank Robur Fonder 2,497,754 4.0 2000 New share issue 10.00 7,252,626 72,526,260.00 Eva Fraim Påhlman 2,009,176 3.4 Redemption of Catella Fonder 1,193,852 3.1 2001 ­convertible bonds 10.00 7,286,626 72,866,260.00 Vanguard 1,082,541 2.6 Redemption of Ing-Marie Fraim 1,000,000 2.4 2002 ­convertible bonds 10.00 7,385,226 73,852,260.00 Kempen Capital Management 973,485 2.1 Redemption of Dimensional Fund Advisors 959,120 2.0 2003 ­convertible bonds 10.00 7,397,326 73,973,260.00 Avanza Pension 764,628 1.9 2003 Split 2:1 5.00 14,794,652 73,973,260.00 Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring 718,267 1.8 Redemption of Försäkringsbolaget PRI 600,864 1.6 2003 ­convertible bonds 5.00 14,869,150 74,345,750.00 Norges Bank 516,911 1.6 Redemption of 2004 ­convertible bonds 5.00 15,304,618 76,523,090.00 BlackRock 460,421 1.1 2004 New share issue 5.00 15,434,411 77,172,055.00 Total 15 largest shareholders 37,388,184 71.6 2005 Split 2:1 2.50 30,868,822 77,172,055.00 Other 19,028,438 28.4 2011 New share issue 2.50 32,814,605 82,036,512.50 2012 New share issue 2.50 35,901,487 89,753,717.50 2018 New share issue 2.50 56,416,622 141,041,055.00 Holding per size class, 31 December 20191) 1. Source: Modular Finance. 2. The Board’s proposal for 2019. 3. No dilution is applicable. Number of known Number Votes and Size class shareholders Owner (%) of shares capital, % 1–100 5,443 44.4% 193,461 0.3% Holding per ownership category1) 101–200 1,679 13.7% 269,292 0.5% 201–500 2,024 16.5% 719,496 1.3% 501–1,000 1,452 11.8% 1,105,207 2.0% 1,001–2,000 761 6.2% 1,148,959 2.0% 2,001–5,000 539 4.4% 1,765,404 3.1% 5,001–10,000 168 1.4% 1,243,092 2.2% 10,001–20,000 86 0.7% 1,289,471 2.3% 20,001–50,000 53 0.4% 1,708,789 3.0% 50,001–100,000 14 0.1% 996,050 1.8% Swedish fund managers, 17.4% Swedish private individuals, 22.0% 100,001–200,000 15 0.1% 1,965,736 3.5% Swedish pension and insurance companies, 13.4% 200,001–500,000 9 0.1% 2,935,219 5.2% Other Swedish owners, 4.8% 500,001–1,000,000 5 0.0% 4,002,219 7.1% Foreign owners, 42.5% 1,000,001–2,000,000 11 0.1% 36,973,679 65.5% Anonymous o ­ wnership 100,548 0.1% Total 12,259 100.0% 56,416,622 100.0% Data per share2) Amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Profit 7.34 6.56 10.05 9.32 11.77 Cash flow 20.3 8.3 13.8 15.1 12.2 Shareholders’ equity 76.4 67.9 65.8 64.4 59.7 Dividends3) – – 4.46 4.46 4.46 Share of profit paid, % – – 70 75 59 Share price at year-end 93.1 91.5 149.3 171.5 173.0 Share price, highest for the year 96.0 166.2 191.0 207.0 234.5 Share price, lowest for the year 60.8 88.4 139.8 150.5 170.0 Direct yield, % – – 4.7 4.1 4.0 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 12.7 14.0 14.9 18.4 14.7 Average number of shares after dilution effects4) 56,338,824 39,718,604 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shares at end of period5) 56,416,622 56,416,622 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shareholders at year-end 12,259 12,310 10,707 9,484 9,373 1. Source: Modular Finance 2. For information on financial definitions, refer to page 100. 3. T  he Board’s proposal for 2019. The dividend for 2015–2017 is restated with the number of shares outstanding as at 31 December 2019, 56,323,372. The actual dividend paid was SEK 7 per 35,901,487 shares for 2015–2017. 4. No dilution is applicable. 5. The total number of shares amounts to 56,416,622, of which 93,250 are treasury shares at the end of the financial year. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 35 administration report ADMINISTRATION REPORT General At the beginning of the financial year, a cost-cutting program was The Board of Directors and CEO of Mekonomen AB (publ.) corpoinitiated, which will result in cost reductions of SEK 65 M on an rate identity number 556392-1971, hereby submit the Annual Report annual basis, which will take full effect from the end of the fourth and consolidated financial statements for the 2019 financial year. quarter of 2019. At the same time, work commenced on dealing The Group consists of the leading car service chains in northern with unprofitable operations, which will need to deliver good Europe divided across the four business areas: FTZ (Denmark), ­profitability within a reasonable time frame in order to remain Inter-team (Poland), MECA/Mekonomen (Sweden and Norway) part of the Group. and Sørensen og Balchen (Norway). Our business areas have Work to realise purchasing synergies worth SEK 100 M, which unique concepts and solutions to meet the customers’ needs. At will take full effect in 2021, are proceeding according to schedule the same time, we benefit from our e­ conomy of scale through a and as at the end of the financial year approximately SEK 60 M of centralised purchasing organisation and structured work with best gains have been realised, including volume effects. practice in the areas such as logistics and product flows, technical The project to merge our central warehouses in Sweden is still expertise and concept development. proceeding according to plan and is expected to generate annual The Group buys and distributes car-related products through its cost savings of SEK 50 M, and should take full effect from the end own central warehouses, regional warehouses and a broad network of 2020. of stores and local warehouses in the main markets of Denmark, Net sales increased by 52 per cent to SEK 11,842 M (7,779), of Poland, Sweden and Norway. All of the warehouses and the majorwhich 2 percentage points were organic growth. The number of ity of the stores are wholly owned by the Group, a smaller number weekdays was unchanged in Sweden, Norway and Finland, while of stores is run through part-ownership or franchise cooperation. there was one additional day in Denmark and Poland compared We mainly make B2B sales to affiliated workshops and other with the corresponding periods in the previous year. ­corporate customers. At the same time, it is strategically important The gross margin fell to 44.8 per cent (49.9), with FTZ and for us to develop attractive concepts under strong brands to ­Inter-Team achieving lower gross margins than the other business attract car owners to our affiliated workshops. Our companies areas and thus having a negative impact on the headline figure. The Mekonomen in Sweden and Norway and Sørensen og Balchen, gross margin has also been negatively affected during the year by which operates the concept BilXtra in Norway, in addition to the a changing customer/product mix and increased purchasing costs B2B focus, have a clear positioning towards the consumer market as a result of the strong Euro against the company’s main currencies. – with complete solutions and assortment offers adapted to the As a result of the strong Euro, prices in Norway, Poland and Sweden target groups. were adjusted to take exchange rates into account at the end of the The Group’s workshop concept is operated in the Group’s four financial year. business areas under the brands: AutoMester, AlltiBil, BilXtra, Adjusted EBIT amounted to SEK 874 M (599) and adjusted EBIT CarPeople, Din Bilpartner, Hella Servicepartner, Inter Data Service, margin amounted to 7 per cent (8). EBIT amounted to SEK 705 M MECA Car Service, Mekonomen Bilverkstad, MekoPartner, (407) and the EBIT margin amounted to 6 per cent (5). EBIT was O.K. Serwis and Speedy. negatively impacted by items affecting comparability totalling Through the workshop concept, the affiliated workshops are SEK 11 M (89), regarding integration costs and a positive reversal offered a broad, accessible and affordable assortment of spare parts, of DAB products. Adjusted EBIT and EBIT were positively impacted workshop equipment, diagnostic and other tools and services, such by SEK 20 M as a result of IFRS 16. Currency effects on the balance as technical support, skills development for automotive technicians, sheet negatively impacted adjusted EBIT and EBIT by SEK 2 M (–3). customer service and digital booking flows. The Group owns and The total number of stores in the chains at the end of the year operates only a small number of workshops under its own direcwas 469 (467), of which 397 (396) were proprietary stores. The tion. number of affiliated workshops totalled 3,603 (3,416), of which The Parent Company has its registered office in Stockholm. 82 (75) were proprietary workshops. The address of the head office is Box 19542, SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden. Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 11th floor. The Parent Revenue Company’s share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap segment. Net sales rose to SEK 11,842 M (7,779). Net sales increased by The three largest owners in the Parent Company as per 31 Dec­ 52 per cent, of which 2 percentage points was organic growth. ember 2019 are LKQ Corporation with 26.6 per cent, Didner & There were the same number of weekdays in the full year as in Gerge Fonder with 8.9 per cent, and Fjärde AP-Fonden with the previous year in Sweden, Norway and Finland. There was 8.4 per cent. one more weekday in Denmark and Poland during the period of ­September to December compared with the year-before period Financial year after the acquisition of the businesses. The 2019 financial year was a year of transformation and great focus Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, on profitability measures. Inter-Team and FTZ, acquired in Septemmarketing subsidies and exchange-rate gains. ber 2018, have been successfully integrated and efforts to reduce our debt leverage ratio have intensified during the year. The market Operating profit, EBIT has been weak at times, with the warm summer and unusually mild EBIT amounted to SEK 705 M (407) and the EBIT margin amounted beginning of winter, as well as the long Christmas break, all contribto 6 per cent (5). Profit was negatively impacted by items affecting uting to weak demand for car parts and workshop services in most comparability of SEK 11 M (negative 89), regarding integration costs of our markets for periods during the year. of SEK 14 M and a positive reversal of DAB products of SEK 3 M. 36 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 EBIT was positively impacted by SEK 20 M as a result of IFRS 16. Net sales amounted to SEK 3,371 M (1,088). EBIT amounted to Currency effects on the balance sheet negatively impacted EBIT SEK 299 M (49) and the EBIT margin was 9 per cent (5), including by SEK 2 M (negative: 3). items affecting comparability totalling SEK –9 M (negative: 18). The number of stores amounted to 51 (51), of which 51 (51) were Adjusted operating profit EBIT proprietary. There were a total of 982 affiliated workshops (921). Adjusted EBIT amounted to SEK 874 M (599) and adjusted EBIT margin amounted to 7 per cent (8). Adjusted EBIT was positively Inter-Team business area impacted by SEK 20 M as a result of IFRS 16. Currency effects on The Inter-Team business area primarily includes wholesaling and the balance sheet negatively impacted adjusted EBIT in the period store operations in Poland and export operations. The business by SEK 2 M (negative: 3). was acquired on 3 September 2018. Inter-Team generally has lower gross and EBIT margins than Mekonomen Group as a whole. SEK M 2019 2018 Inter-Team showed strong sales growth in 2019 compared to 2018, Operating profit (EBIT) 705 407 which was driven by good growth both in the domestic market and Impairment of stock of DAB products 3 –20 in export operations. The operating profit includes items affecting comparability of SEK 0 M (negative 7) 18regarding costs related to Divestment Marinshopen – –6 the integration work. Acquisition costs FTZ and Inter-Team – –23 Net sales amounted to SEK 2,155 M (638). EBIT amounted to Handling of reconditioned spare parts – –15 SEK 43 M (negative: 1) and the EBIT margin was 2 per cent (0), Costs related to integration of FTZ and Inter-Team –14 –25 including items affecting comparability totalling SEK 0 M (negative: 7). Items affecting comparability, total –11 –89 The number of stores amounted to 82 (82), of which 79 (79) were Other items1) –157 –103 proprietary. There were a total of 603 affiliated workshops (465). Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) 874 599 MECA/Mekonomen business area 1. O  ther items include material acquisition-related items. Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets relating to the acquisitions of The MECA/Mekonomen business area primarily includes wholesale, FTZ, Inter-Team, MECA and Sørensen og Balchen. store, workshop and fleet operations in Sweden, Norway and ­Finland. The business area consists of the previously reported Profit after financial items ­segments MECA and Mekonomen, and of smaller operations that Profit after financial items increased to SEK 555 M (477), negatively were previously reported in “other segments”: Heavy vehicles, impacted by IFRS 16 in an amount of SEK 23 M. Net interest ­Preqas, Meko Service Nordic, Speedy, AlltiBil and Mekster. expense amounted to SEK 139 M (47) and other financial items The business area had a stable sales trend in 2019, despite a weak amounted to an expense of SEK 11 M (income: 117). The large aftermarket for car parts and workshop services in Sweden and ­difference in other financial items compared with the previous year Norway. Net sales were positively affected by a number of minor is due to positive exchange-rate effects on long-term loans in the acquisitions, while mild conditions during the early part of winter third quarter of 2018. had a dampening effect. The operating profit was negatively affected by high purchasing costs as a result of the stronger Euro against the Profit for the year Swedish and Norwegian krones, while continued price pressure Profit after tax amounted to SEK 421 M (268) and was negatively and changes in the customer and product mix also had an impact. impacted by SEK 18 M as a result of IFRS 16. The tax expense in Net sales amounted to SEK 5,527 M (5,301), of which sales in the the comparative period was negatively impacted in an amount of Swedish operations were SEK 3,404 M (3,240), sales in the NorweSEK 93 M by the impairment of deferred tax assets for Group deducgian operations were SEK 2,063 M (2,015) and sales in the Finnish tions for earlier deficits in Denmark due to the acquisition of FTZ. operations were SEK 60 M (46). Currency effects had a positive Earnings per share before and after dilution amounted to impact on net sales totalling SEK 12 million. There were the same SEK 7.34 (6.56). number of weekdays as in the previous year in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Organic growth amounted to 2 per cent. EBIT amounted Seasonal effects to SEK 438 M (428) and the EBIT margin was 8 per cent (8), includThe Group has no actual seasonal effects in its operations. However, ing items affecting comparability totalling SEK –2 M (negative: 34). the number of workdays affects both sales and profit. Additionally, The number of stores amounted to 271 (270), of which 230 extreme summer or winter weather can affect sales. (230) were proprietary. There were a total of 1,760 affiliated ­workshops (1,772). FTZ business area The FTZ business area primarily includes wholesale and store Sørensen og Balchen business area operations in Denmark. The business was acquired on 3 September The Sørensen og Balchen business area primarily includes whole2018. FTZ generally has lower grow margins than Mekonomen sale and store operations in Norway. Sørensen og Balchen is the Group as a whole, which is compensated by generally lower business area in the Group that has the largest share of sales ­operating expenses. directly to the consumer and is thereby more exposed to the In 2019, FTZ reported sales on a par with those for 2018. Sales higher competition in retailing than the rest of the Group. to affiliated workshops and major customers have developed posiNet sales at Sørensen og Balchen were relatively stable comtively, while continued price competition and a weak aftermarket pared to 2018, with acquisitions at the beginning of the financial for car parts and workshop services in Denmark during the second year compensating for weak development in the aftermarket for half of the year had a negative impact on sales. car parts and workshop services. The operating profit improved Operating profit was negatively impacted by items affecting compared with the previous year as the result of continued good ­comparability of SEK 9 M (negative 18) 18regarding costs related cost control measures and less impact as a result of items affecting to the integration work. comparability. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 37 administration report Net sales amounted to SEK 759 M (739). Currency effects had on the distribution between lines of cash flow. We refer to Note 1 a positive impact on net sales totalling SEK 4 million. There were Accounting and measurement policies and Note 15 Leases for a more the same number of weekdays as in the previous year in Norway. detailed description of the effects in the Group in 2019. The comOrganic growth amounted to –6 per cent. EBIT amounted to parative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the SEK 121 M (106) and the EBIT margin was 16 per cent (14), includmodified retrospective approach in the implementation of IFRS 16 ing items affecting comparability totalling SEK 2 M (negative: 7). Leases. The number of stores amounted to 65 (64), of which 37 (36) were proprietary. There were a total of 258 affiliated workshops Employees (258). The number of employees at the end of the year was 5,641 (5,569) and the average number of employees during the year was 4,953 Acquisitions and start-ups (3,181). The Group has well-developed HRM (Human Resource During the year, the Group acquired four stores in Sweden and Management) work that includes equal opportunities plans, action one store in Norway, as well as three workshops in Sweden and programmes against discrimination in the workplace, clear goals and two workshops in Norway. Through FTZ as a part of the acquisigoal follow-ups, reporting and explicit segregation of responsibilities. tion of Inter-Team and FTZ, the Group acquired Nordic Forum Holding, which at the time of the acquisition did not have any operManagers and employees ations. This was only as a part of fulfilling the earlier acquisition of Committed managers and employees are a prerequisite for success­ FTZ and Inter-Team. The acquisitions’ effect on consolidated sales ful growth and development of our operations. We believe that a and earnings was only marginal. clear direction for the Group and clear missions for our managers and employees are important conditions for this commitment. Investments Skills development takes place in daily work, through meetings Investments in fixed assets amounted to SEK 457 M (221) during and courses A fundamental approach at the Group is to capitalise the year, including leases of SEK 326 M. Depreciation and impairment on the skills available in the Group and develop them through of tangible fixed assets amounted to SEK 611 M (84). Investment in ­further training and opportunities for new challenges within the construction in progress for the central warehouse in Strängnäs Group. Internal recruitment takes place within and between Group was made in an amount of SEK 6 M (104). The investments in the companies. central warehouse now total SEK 200 M. Company and business combinations amounted to SEK 73 M Diversity and gender equality (4,406), of which SEK 8 M (3) relates to the estimated supplemenMekonomen Group’s workplaces should reflect the diversity among tary purchase considerations. During 2019, supplementary purchase our customer groups and society at large. Diversity is also important considerations were also paid in an amount of SEK 13 M (5). Acquired in order to create renewal and change in a traditional industry. By assets totalled SEK 40 M (2,850) and assumed liabilities SEK 20 M having employees and managers with varying experience and exper(1,385). In addition to goodwill, which amounted to SEK 35 M (1,865), tise, we improve the possibility of meeting the customers’ needs. surplus values on intangible fixed assets of SEK 17 M (829) were identified with regard to customer relations. Deferred tax liabilities Employee surveys attributable to acquired intangible fixed assets amounted to The Group’s employee surveys include questions about job satisSEK 1 M (300). faction and working conditions, and whether individual employees Acquired non-controlling interests amounted to SEK 6 M (1). are able to influence their work situation. The employee survey Divested non-controlling interests amounted to SEK 1 M (1). captures opinions from all employees. The results are reviewed Divested operations amounted to SEK – M (6). Group-wide and within the respective companies with the aim of implementing improvements in the operations from an overall perFinancial position and cash flow spective to one’s own group/unit. Employee surveys are currently Cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 1,142 M (331). conducted in all business areas except Inter-Team, and it is intended Tax paid amounted to SEK 226 M (199). Cash and cash equivalents that this area is included in future. amounted to SEK 355 M (205). The equity/assets ratio was 34 per cent (35). Calculated without IFRS 16, the equity/assets ratio was Competence of the workshop technicians 39 per cent. Long-term interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK The Group’s skills and development initiatives are intended not only 4,655 M (3,232) including long-term lease liabilities of SEK 1,323 M. to meet today’s needs but also to anticipate the future challenges of Current interest-bearing liabilities amounted to SEK 1,204 M (1,081) tomorrow’s society: a fossil-independent car fleet, greater digitalisaincluding current lease liabilities of SEK 457 M. Net debt amounted tion, a service society, urbanisation and a shared economy. Through to SEK 3,709 M (4,098), which is a decrease of SEK 389 M. The reducour own training efforts that ensure quality and competence of our tion in net debt is primarily an effect of positive cash flow from vehicle technicians in the Group’s workshop chains, skills developoperating activities, investments, repayments and exchange-rate ment is offered in e.g. new technology, customer service and changes. In 2019, loans were repaid in an amount of SEK 1,445 M ­professionalism. (1,997) including repayment of lease liabilities according to IFRS 16 in an amount of SEK 507 M. At 31 December 2019, net debt/ Remuneration of senior executives EBITDA excluding IFRS 16 amounted to 3.68 (6.44). Net debt Remuneration of senior executives is presented in Note 5. The including IFRS 16/EBITDA amounted to 3.59. Board of Directors will propose the following guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to the 2020 Annual General Meeting. Amended accounting policies 2019 The Board considers it very important to ensure that there is a The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases as of January 1, 2019 has clear link between remuneration and the Group’s values and financial had an effect on most of the Group’s profit and loss measures and goals in both the short and the long term. The Board’s proposals on individual lines in the income statement, the balance sheet and for guidelines for remuneration entail that the company is to offer 38 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 market-based remuneration that allows the Group to recruit and LTIP 2019. As the total number of shares in Mekonomen amounts retain the right executives, and entail that the criteria for determining to 56,416,622, this corresponds to 0.17 per cent. remuneration is to be based on the significance of work duties and Other benefits refer primarily to company car benefits. Pension employees’ competencies, experience and performance. Remunerpremiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP plan or ation is to comprise: a corresponding system for employees outside Sweden. For the • fixed basic salary, President and CEO, pension provisions according to the employ• variable remuneration, ment agreement are paid in an amount corresponding to 30 per • pension benefits, cent of basic salary. Pensionable salary comprises basic salary. The • other benefits and severance pay. period of notice for the President and CEO is 12 months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated The guidelines encompass Group Management, which currently by the President and CEO. The period of notice for other members comprises six individuals including the President and CEO. of the Group Management Team is a maximum of 12 months if Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Remuneration employment is terminated by the company, and six months if ­Committee. However, remuneration of the President and CEO ­terminated by the employee. In addition, severance pay of a maxiis determined by the Board in its entirety. mum of 12 months salary may be paid in the event of termination The company is to offer an attractive basic salary in the market, of employment by the company. in the form of a fixed cash monthly salary. This comprises remuneration for dedicated work performance at a high professional level Sensitivity analysis that creates added value for the Group’s customers, owners and Mekonomen Group’s earnings are affected by a number of factors, employees. such as sales volume, currency fluctuations on imported goods and In addition to basic salary, short-term and long-term variable sales to foreign subsidiaries, margins on purchased products, and cash remuneration is to be offered, both of which are based on salary changes. Imports mainly take place from Europe, mainly in ­fulfilment of Mekonomen Group’s goals for: the currencies EUR, DKK, SEK and NOK. Purchases in EUR com• the Group’s earnings, and prised approximately 47 per cent of the purchased volumes. The • individual qualitative parameters. table below shows the currency effects on the net flow for each currency. NOK impacted internal sales from Bileko Car Parts AB The distribution between basic salary and variable remuneration is and from MECA CarParts AB to each country and profit for the to be proportionate to the senior executive’s responsibilities and year in Norway. Refer to Note 36 for more detailed information authorities. on how the Group manages currency risk. The short-term variable remuneration is maximised to a certain percentage of fixed annual salary. The percentage is linked to the Factors pertaining to profit before tax position of each individual and varies between 33 and 60 percentage points for members of the Group Management Team. Change, % Impact, SEK M1) During the year, the Group established the long-term share-based Sales volumes +1 53 (39) incentive programme LTIP 2019 in accordance with the Annual Exchange-rate fluctuations General Meeting resolution on 2 May 2019. The primary motives NOK +10 73 (83) for establishing LTIP 2019 are to link together the shareholders’ EUR +10 –196 (–143) and company management’s and other key individuals’ interests to DKK +10 24 (6) ensure maximal long-term value creation and to encourage personal USD +10 –15 (–7) shareholding in the Group.The programme is targeted at Group Gross margin +1 – unit 118 (78) Management Team and some other key individuals in the Group. To participate in LTIP 2019, some personal shareholding in the Personnel costs +1 –27 (–20) Group is required. After the establish vesting period, which extended Interest rate2) +1 –21 (–36) to 31 March 2022, the participants will be allocated shares in 1. All things being equal, profit before tax for the 2019 financial year. Mekonomen free of charge on condition that certain conditions are 2. The effect is based on the Group’s net debt of SEK 3,709 M as per 31 December met. These conditions are linked to continued employment in the 2019 adjusted for the interest-rate swap of SEK 1,609 M. Group, personal shareholding in Mekonomen and the development of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and Earnings per Share (EPS). The Group’s currency exposure in the translation of assets and The cost for the year amounts to SEK 0.8 M, including social ­liabilities in foreign currencies (excluding translation of foreign ­security contributions. For more detailed information, see Note 5 ­subsidiaries and net investments in foreign operations) was mainly Average number of employees, salaries, other remuneration and against EUR and NOK. The effects on earnings in the translation social security contributions. of financial assets and liabilities that existed at 31 December 2019 The maximum number of shares in Mekonomen that can be alloare presented below: cated according to LTIP 2019 is limited to 105,000 (including any dividend compensation) according to the General Meeting resolu• If EUR had strengthened by 10 per cent, keeping all other variables tion on 2 May. The actual number of participants is 17 and the constant, profit before tax would have been negatively impacted number of shares needed to cover the company’s commitment by SEK 64 M (negative: 43), largely as a result of losses in the according to LTIP is 93,250 shares. To ensure delivery of shares translation of accounts payable. according to LTIP 2019, the company bought back 30,000 shares • If NOK had strengthened by 10 per cent, keeping all other during the period 3 July–10 July 2019. The company already has ­variables constant, profit before tax would have been positively 63,250 treasury shares intended for LTIP 2018, which is now being impacted by SEK 3 M (positive: 3), largely as a result of gains in replaced by LTIP 2019. The company thereby has a total of 93,250 the translation of accounts receivable. treasury shares at the end of 2019 to ensure delivery of shares for Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 39 administration report The above estimated effect as of 31 December 2019 vary from c­ ertain amounts and types of chemicals and flammable products month to month, depending on the size of the balance-sheet items are handled by the respective company and locally. at the closing date. Mekonomen Group’s largest environmental impact is in the areas of transports, energy use and chemicals and waste management. Risks and uncertainties The operations have rules and procedures to manage their environ­ Mekonomen Group’s operations are, like all business operations, mental impact. For further information on the Group’s environassociated with risks that can affect the Group and our stakeholders mental efforts, refer to pages 30–31. to varying degrees. A well-balanced risk management can add value and business benefit, at the same time that risks that are not manEvents after the end of the year aged can effectively lead to damage and losses. Mekonomen Group From 7 February 2020, Petra Bendelin, Director of Business continuously maps the Group’s risks where the Board of Directors Develop­ment and Strategy, is a member of the Group Management bears the utmost responsibility for the Group’s risk management. Team for Mekonomen AB. As of 7 February 2020, the Group Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is a natural and inte­Management Team comprises the following people: grated part of the operations to thereby be able to control, limit • Pehr Oscarson, President and CEO and handle prioritised risks in a proactive manner. For a more • Åsa Källenius, CFO detailed description of the Group’s prioritised risks and risk • Petra Bendelin, Director of Business Development and Strategy manage­ment, see pages 18–21 and Note 36 Financial risks. • Tobias Narvinger, Director for Purchasing • Gabriella Granholm, Director for Communication & Marketing Parent Company, Central functions and Other items • Robert Hård, Director for Legal Affairs & Sustainability The Parent Company’s operations mainly comprise Group Management and functions that support the work of the entire Group, During the winter of 2020, COVID 19 pandemic is ongoing, which such as Group finance/controlling, internal audit, sustainability, legal also affects Mekonomen Group’s market conditions and operations. affairs and central purchasing. The Parent Company’s loss after net At the submission of this annual report, the viral epidemic is still on­ financial items amounted SEK 117 M (profit: 54), excluding dividends going and the total impact of this cannot be estimated. See note 34. of SEK 332 M (612) from subsidiaries. The average number of In the end of March 2020, the business area MECA/Mekonomen employees was 5 (5). Mekonomen AB sold products and services was exposed to data breaches. It is not possible to predict the to Group companies totalling SEK 33 M (30). duration of the breaches and therefore the company cannot predict Central functions include Group-wide functions, as well as the full potential financial impact. However, the company’s cyber Mekonomen AB and the operations in ProMeister Solutions. The insurance will limit the potential financial damage. See note 34. units reported in Central functions do not achieve quantitative No other significant events occurred after the end of the ­limits to be reported separately and the benefit is deemed to ­financial year. be limited for the users of the financial statements for them to be reported as segments. Future development Several units that were previously reported in Other segments: At the beginning of 2020, Mekonomen Group has a solid business, Heavy Vehicles, Preqas, Meko Service Nordic, Speedy, Allt i Bil both operationally and financially, and a strong position in the and Mekster are included in the MECA/Mekonomen Business Area Group’s respective markets. anuary and February have developed as of 1 January 2019. Comparative figures have been recalculated. in line with the corresponding period last year. EBIT for “Central functions” amounted to a loss of SEK 39 M (73). As a result of the rapid spread of the coronavirus and its impact “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to in markets where Mekonomen Group has a significant presence Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions. Current acquisition-related and the currencies the company is exposed to, the company items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of MECA, Sørensen og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team believes that the risk of adverse effects has increased significantly. in an amount of SEK –157 M (–103) for the full year. From beginning of March we noticed a significantly lower market activity and demand for workshop services and products. The difSustainability reporting and the Sustainability Report ference in activity among our markets is considerable, with Norway The Group reports its sustainability work annually using the Global standing out as very weak. The supply chain is working well in the Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards core. The 2019 Sustainability current situation and the company’s branches and warehouses Report also constitutes the Group’s Communication on Progress operate at normal levels. The effects of the coronavirus situation to the UN Global Compact. The Group’s 2019 Sustainability will affect Mekonomen Group’s sales, earnings and cash flow for Report was prepared in observance of the requirements in the the first quarter and for some portion of the rest of the year. Annual Accounts Act. The Sustainability Report’s scope is Mekonomen Group is working diligently to manage the effects of ­presented on page 96. the coronavirus situation, the highest priority being the health and safety of employees and customers. All activities in the company are Environment being carefully evaluated from a cost and risk perspective in order Mekonomen Group complies with current environmental legislation, to mitigate the negative financial effects associated with the virus. which also means that we apply the precautionary approach Management and the Board continuously monitor the development about taking necessary steps to reduce our negative impact on of COVID 19 and its impact on the company’s operations and conthe environ­ment. duct ongoing activities and measures to reduce the effects of this. The Group does not conduct any operations that require permits Due to the rapidly changing situation, it is not possible to predict according to the respective national legislation. Operations requiring the duration or scope of the impact on the company thereof and permits in the form of car washes are conducted within the Group. therefore the company cannot predict the full potential financial The permits required by the respective authority for handling impact. 40 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 As a consequence of the uncertainty regarding the market develGroup’s Board of Directors proposes no dividend for 2019. No opment, the Board of Directors of Mekonomen Group has decided, dividends were paid in the previous year. With this recommendation, in order to further strengthen the company’s financial position, to the Board has balanced the company’s cash flow between the withdraw the previous dividend proposal for 2019 to the Annual ­company’s goal of both reducing the debt and pay dividend. General Meeting of SEK 0.50 per share. The Group continues to maintain a focus on increasing profitabilBoard of Directors’ work 2019 ity, reducing its debts and generating good cash flows. Furthermore, The Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2019 resolved that the the Group intends to continue its work on the continuous developBoard was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy ment and adaptation of the business in the form of developing sermembers. In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s vices and ranges targeting major customer segments with affiliated ­proposal, the Annual General Meeting resolved to re-elect workshops, as well as other workshop customers. John S. Quinn (also re-elected as the Chairman), Helena Skåntorp The Group’s gross margin will also in the future be lower than (Executive Vice Chairman), Eivor Andersson, Kenny Bräck, previous years due to FTZ and Inter-Team, which is in line with Joseph M. Holsten and Magnus Håkansson to the Board and to our calculations prior to the acquisition. elect Arja Taaveniku as a new Board member. The ongoing projects and activities, in order to reduce costs and During 2019, the Board held 10 meetings (32), of which one was genrate synergies, proceeds according to plan. independent. The Board meetings during the year addressed the fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as business situation, finanThe share cial reporting and investments. Other issues discussed in the Board Share capital and ownership structure during the year were market development, risk analysis, f­ormal work As per 31 December 2019, the share capital of Mekonomen AB plans and policies. In addition, selected Board meetings discussed (publ) amounted to SEK 141 M (141) and comprised 56,416,622 issues relating to annual accounts, interim reports and budget. shares (56,416,622) at a quotient value of SEK 2.50 per share (2.50). The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an Each share (excluding treasury shares) carries one vote at the Audit Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preAnnual General Meeting and all shares carry equal entitlement paring issues and providing consultation, although the Board can to a share in the company’s profits and assets. Each shareholder delegate authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members is entitled to vote for all their shares with no restrictions and the and Chairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory shares are not included in any transfer restrictions. Board meeting held directly after the election of Board members. In July, Mekonomen AB also carried out a buyback of 30,000 own For more information, refer to page 44–46. shares in accordance with the Annual General Meeting resolution. Mekonomen AB thereby has 93,250 treasury shares. Treasury shares Auditors do not entitle the holder to dividends or votes. LKQ Corporation The auditors of the company are elected annually at the Annual represents 26.6 per cent of the number of votes. General Meeting. According to a resolution of the Annual General For information about the 15 largest shareholders as per Meeting, auditors’ fees are paid according to approved invoices. The 31 December 2019, refer to the table on page 35. Group’s auditors report to the Board as required, but at least once a year. The Group’s external auditors also participate at the meetAuthorisation ings of the Audit Committee. The Annual General Meeting in May 2019 resolved to authorise At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers the Board, for the period until the next Annual General Meeting, AB (PwC) was re-elected as the auditing firm until the 2020 on one or more occasions, with or without preferential rights for Annual General Meeting. The Auditor-in-Charge is Authorised shareholders, to make decisions on new share issues of not more Public Accountant Linda Corneliusson. than 5,641,662 shares. At the end of the financial year, no new shares were issued under this authorisation. Proposed appropriation of profit Parent Company Dividend policy It is the Board’s intention that Mekonomen AB will pay dividends The following profit is at the disposal of the corresponding to not less than 50 per cent of profit after tax. Annual General Meeting, SEK 000s: When determining future dividends, consideration is primarily given Profit brought forward 4,618,681 to investment needs, but other factors deemed significant by the Profit for the year 401,393 Board are also considered. Total 5,020,074 Shareholder agreements The Board of Directors proposes that profits be As far as the Board of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, no appropriated as follows: SEK 000s: ­shareholder agreements exist or other agreements between To be carried forward 5,020,074 Mekonomen’s shareholders for joint influence over the company. Total 5,020,074 As far as the Board of Mekonomen AB (publ) is aware, there are no agreements or similar that may result in a change in the ­control of the company. For further information regarding the company’s and the Group’s Share dividends earnings and financial position, refer to the following income stateIn the light of the uncertainty about the market development, as ment, balance sheet, cash-flow statements and accompanying a result of the rapid spread of the corona virus and in order to notes. ­further strengthen the company’s financial position, Mekonomen Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 41 Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Mekonomen Group comprises approximately 200 companies that conduct business operations primarily in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland and Sweden. The Parent Company of the Group is the Swedish public limited liability company Mekonomen AB, whose shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. Principles for corporate governance Application of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code The Group’s corporate governance concerns how the operations The Group applied the Swedish Corporate Governance Code are governed, managed and controlled in order to create value (“the Code”) with the following deviation in 2019: for the company’s shareholders and other stakeholders. The aim of c­ orporate governance is to create the conditions for active and responsible company bodies, to clarify roles and segregation of Deviation from the Code (rule 2:4): responsibilities and to ensure true and fair reporting and information. According to the Code, a Board member shall not be the Nomination Committee’s chairman. Both internal and external regulations are used as a foundation for the governance of the Group. Explanation: Chairman of the Board John S. Quinn is also the chairman External regulations Internal regulations of the Nomination Committee as it is a natural choice Swedish Companies Act Articles of Association ­considering the ownership structure of Mekonomen. Annual Accounts Act Board’s and committees’ rules of procedure Other relevant laws Board’s instruction for the Shareholders President The Mekonomen share has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, Nasdaq Stockholm AB’s Code of Conduct and Mid Cap segment since 29 May 2000. Share capital amounted to Rule book for issuers Core Values SEK 141 M on 31 December 2019, represented by 56,416,622 Swedish Corporate Governance Code Policies, guidelines shares. At year-end, Mekonomen AB had 93,250 treasury shares. (the Code) and instructions Treasury shares do not entitle the holder to dividends or votes. EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) The total market value for the company on 31 December 2019 amounted to SEK 5,2 billion, based on the closing price of SEK 93,05. All shares (excluding treasury shares) provide the same voting rights and equal rights to the company’s profit and capital. The company’s Articles of Association do not include any restrictions on how many votes each shareholder can cast at a General Meeting. Overall Corporate Governance Model Shareholders and the General Meeting Nomination Committee External auditor Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Committee President & Management Team Internal audit FTZ Inter-Team MECA/Mekonomen SØrensen og Balchen Central functions 42 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 The number of shareholders on 31 December 2019 was 12 259 Audit Committee, SEK 45,000 to the Chairman of the Remuner(12,310). On the same date, the ten largest shareholders controlled ation Committee and SEK 25,000 to each of the other members 63,6 per cent (60.8) of the capital and voting rights and the particiof the Remuneration Committee. Total Board fees also includes pation of foreign owners accounted for 42,5 per cent (37.8) of the a one-time fee of SEK 600,000 to Helena Skåntorp, for the special capital and voting rights. work effort during 2018 in connection with the Company’s Shareholders which directly or indirectly represent at least oneacquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team.s in 2019. tenth of the voting rights for all shares in Mekonomen are LKQ • to re-elect John S. Quinn as the Chairman of the Board. Corporation and subsidiaries, whose shareholding on 31 December • to re-elect Board members John S. Quinn, Helena Skåntorp, 2019 amounted to 26.6 per cent (26.6). For further information on Eivor Andersson, Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. Holsten and Magnus Mekonomen’s shares and shareholders, see pages 34–35. Håkansson and to elect Arja Taaveniku as a new Board member. • to re-elect the auditing firm of Pricewaterhouse-Coopers AB General Meeting as the company’s auditor for the period until the 2020 Annual The General Meeting is the company’s highest governing body, General Meeting. at which every shareholder is entitled to participate. The Annual • to adopt the Board’s proposals for guidelines regarding remuner­General Meeting is to be held within six months of the close of the ation of senior executives. financial year. The Annual General Meeting approves the income • to adopt the Board’s proposal to establish a long-term incentive statement and balance sheet, the appropriation of the company’s programme (LTIP 2019) and in conjunction with this to authorise earnings, decides on discharge from liability, elects the Board of the Board to decide on acquisition of own shares and transfer of Directors and auditors, and approves fees, addresses other statuown shares. tory matters as well as making decisions pertaining to proposals • to adopt the Board’s proposals concerning employees’ acquisition from the Board and shareholders. The company announces the of shares in subsidiaries. date and location of the General Meeting as soon as the Board • to adopt authorisation for the Board, for the period until the has made its decision, but not later than in connection with the next Annual General Meeting, on one or more occasions, with third-quarter report. Information pertaining to the location and or without preferential rights for shareholders, to make decisions time is available on the company’s website. Shareholders that are on new share issues of not more than 5,641,662 shares. registered in Euroclear’s shareholders register on the record date and have registered participation in adequate time are entitled to Nomination Committee participate in the Annual General Meeting and vote according to In accordance with the guidelines established at the Annual General their shareholdings. All information concerning the company’s Meeting on 2 May 2019, Mekonomen Group has established a meetings, such as registration, entitlement for items to be entered Nomination Committee comprising four members. The largest in the agenda in the notification, minutes, etc., is available on the shareholders of the company were contacted by the company’s company’s website. With regard to participation in the Annual Board based on the list of registered shareholders on 31 August General Meeting, the Board has deemed it is currently not finan2019 as provided by Euroclear Sweden AB. cially justifiable to allow shareholders to participate in the Annual The Nomination Committee for the 2020 Annual General MeetGeneral Meeting through any means other than physical presence. ing is comprised of John Quinn, LKQ Corporation, Kristian Åkesson, It is the company’s aim that the General Meeting be a consummate Didner & Gerge, Arne Lööw, Fourth Swedish National Pension and body for shareholders, in accordance with the intentions of the Caroline Sjösten, Swedbank Robur Fonder. In accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, which is why the objective is that the guidelines, John Quinn has been appointed the Chairman of the Board in its entirety, the representative of the Nomination ComNomination Committee. Mekonomen’s Board member, Helena mittee, the President and CEO, auditors and other members of the Skåntorp, was co-opted to the Nomination Committee. Fees are Group Management Team must always be present at the Meeting. not paid to members of the Nomination Committee. In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, General Meeting 2019 the Nomination Committee is to have at least three members, The Annual General Meeting was held in Stockholm on 2 May one of whom is to be appointed Chairman. The majority of these 2019. The complete minutes of the Annual General Meeting are members are to be independent in relation to the company and available on the company’s website at mekonomen.com. In brief, company management and at least one of the Nomination Comthe Annual General Meeting resolved: mittee members is to be independent in relation to the company’s • to adopt the income statement and balance sheet, the consolilargest shareholders in terms of the number of votes. Mekonomen dated income statement and the consolidated balance sheet. Group’s Nomination Committee comprises four members, all of • to pay a dividend of SEK 0 per share to shareholders. whom are deemed to be independent in relation to the company • to discharge the members of the Board and the President and and company management. Mekonomen Group’s Nomination CEO from liability. Committee also meets other independence requirements. • that the number of members of the Board elected by the Annual The Nomination Committee’s task is to present proposals to the General Meeting be seven with no deputy members. Annual General Meeting concerning: • to pay total Board fees of SEK 3,435,000, of which SEK 620,000 • election of Chairman of the Meeting, relates to fees to the Chairman of the Board, SEK 400,000 • number of Board members and deputy Board members, relates to the Executive Vice Chairman, and also SEK 300,000 • the election of the Chairman of the Board and other members relates to fees to each of the other Board members elected of the company’s Board of Directors, by the Annual General Meeting who are not employed by the • Board fees and any remuneration for committee work, Group. Total board fees also include fees for Committee work, • the election and remuneration of auditors, and to be paid as follows: SEK 120,000 to the Chairman of the Audit • any changes to the instructions for the Nomination Committee Committee, SEK 50,000 to each of the other members of the Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 43 Corporate Governance Report In conjunction with its task, the Nominating Committee is to perautomotive industry, corporate governance, compliance to rules and form the duties incumbent on nomination committees in accordregulations, financing and financial analysis as well as remuneration ance with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, and at the issues. Earlier Board experience is another important competency. request of the Nomination Committee, the company is to provide The Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2019 resolved that the human resources, such as a secretary function for the Committee, Board was to comprise seven ordinary members with no deputy to facilitate its work. If necessary, the company is also to pay reamembers. In accordance with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, sonable costs for external consultants deemed necessary by the the Annual General Meeting resolved to re-elect John S. Quinn (also Nomination Committee for it to perform its duties. re-elected as the Chairman), Helena Skåntorp (Executive Vice Mekonomen Group has not established any specific age limit for Chairman), Eivor Andersson, Kenny Bräck, Joseph M. Holsten and Board members or time limits pertaining to the length of time Magnus Håkansson to the Board and to elect Arja Taaveniku as Board members may sit on the Board. Auditors are elected annua new Board member. ally when the matter is submitted to the Annual General Meeting. All ordinary members are independent in relation to the company and its management in accordance with the definition in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Five of the Board members are Annual General Meeting 2020 independent also in relation to major shareholders. The President The Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 May 2020 and CEO is not a member of the Board and neither is any other at 11:00 a.m. at Norra Latin (Pelarsalen) Barnhusgatan 7B, member of the Group Management Team. A more detailed pres111 23 Stockholm, Sweden entation of the Board members and their participation in Board meetings is provided on page 46. The Board of Directors Board members Size and composition In the opinion of the Nomination Committee, the Board has a suitAccording to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is able composition considering the company’s operations, financial to comprise three to seven members and not more than three position, stage of development and circumstances otherwise. An deputy members. The company’s Articles of Association have no important starting point for the proposal of Board members was specific provisions relating to the appointment and discharge of that the Board’s composition should reflect and provide space for Board members or amendments to the Articles of Association. the different knowledge and experience that the company’s strategic The Board of Directors is to be elected annually at the Annual development and governance may demand. The company has a General Meeting. The Board of Directors shall consist of a well diversity policy for the Group that includes the company’s Board overall mix of the competencies that are important to govern the and management. The company’s diversity policy, which was precompany’s strategic work in a responsible and successful manner. pared in accordance with the Code’s rule 4.1, aims to achieve an Examples of such competencies include knowledge of retailing, the even distribution of people in the company in terms of age, gender, Overview of all points on the Board’s agenda in 2019 (Ordinary Board meetings 2019) 17 December 13 February • Budget • Q4, year-end report • Updating policies • Dividends • Succession planning • External auditors’ report • Evaluation of the Board’s work Q • Q4 Risk Analysis Q4 1 Dec Jan 7 November ov F • Q3 2019 quarterly report N eb 25 March Oct BOARD OF Mar • Approval of the annual report ­DIRECTORS’ • Proposals to the Annual General Meeting 26 September ANNUAL • Site visit Strängnäs Sep CYCLE 2019 Apr • Strategy follow-up 2 May ug A ay (Board meeting and M Statutory Board meeting) Jul Ju n • Q1 2019 quarterly report Q 3 • Board’s rules of procedure and instructions Q 2 for the President 22 August • Committees’ rules of procedure • Election of Vice Chairman • Q2 2019 quarterly report • Election of committee members • Company signatories At each ordinary Board meeting, the Group’s position and performance 4 and 27 June and the outlook for the upcoming quarter were discussed. • Strategy • Buyback of own shares 44 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 education and professional background. The diversity policy forms Board Committees the basis of the Nomination Committee’s proposal to the Board at The Board has established a Remuneration Committee and an the 2020 Annual General Meeting. Audit Committee. The Committees’ work mainly comprises preparing issues and providing consultation, although the Board can Chairman delegate authority to make decisions in specific cases. The members The Chairman of the Board, John S. Quinn, is not employed by the and Chairmen of the Committees are appointed at the statutory company and does not have any assignments with the company Board meeting held directly after the election of Board members. beyond his chairmanship. It is the opinion of the Board that John S. Quinn ensures that the Board conducts its assignments efficiently Audit Committee and also fulfils its duties in accordance with applicable laws and The Audit Committee’s tasks are documented in the rules of pro­regulations. cedure for the Audit Committee, which are annually approved by the Board of Directors. The Board’s working procedures • The Audit Committee monitors the financial reporting and ensures The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and its reliability. They monitor the internal and external audit process, manage­ment and is to also make decisions pertaining to strategic as well as the external auditor’s impartiality and independence issues. In 2019, the Board held 10 meetings (32) of which 1 was towards the company, including the extent to which the auditor an independent board meeting. The minutes of the meetings were provides the company services other than auditing. recorded by the Board’s secretary, who is the Group’s CFO. As • The Audit Committee’s tasks include a risk review regarding the in previous years, independent board meeting were held for issues Group’s risks related to the market and competitors, operational that might involve conflicts of interest, in which the board members risks and financial risks. representing LKQ Corporation did not participate, and separate • The Audit Committee annually evaluates its own work, as well as confidential minute was written. the work of the external and internal auditors. In addition, the Relevant meeting documentation was sent to all members prior Audit Committee recommends proposals on external auditors to each meeting, which were then held in accordance with the and the remuneration of the auditors for the upcoming year to approved agenda. On occasions, other senior executives particithe Nomination Committee. pated in Board Meetings in a reporting capacity, as necessary. No dissenting opinions to be recorded in the minutes were expressed Until the end of the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Audit Comat any of the meetings during the year. The Board meetings during mittee consisted of Helena Skåntorp (Chair), Magnus Håkansson and the year addressed the fixed items of each meeting agenda, such as John S. Quinn. As of 2 May 2019, the Audit Committee consists of the year-end financial statement including establishment of dividends, Board members Helena Skåntorp (Chair), Joseph M. Holsten and interim reports, budgets, strategies, business situation, financial Magnus Håkansson. In 2019, the Audit Committee held five meetings. reporting and investments. In addition to this, at selected Board The respective member’s participation is presented in the table on meetings, issues concerning market development, risk analysis, rules page 46. The Group’s external auditors, the CFO, the Head of Risk of procedure, internal control and policies were addressed. Management and Internal Audit as well as the Head of Accounting participated at the meetings. The Head of Accounting was the The Board of Director´s assignments Committee´s secretary. In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board’s aim was to devote particular attention to establishing overall goals for Remuneration Committee the operations and decide on strategies by which to achieve these The task of the Remuneration Committee is to discuss, decide on goals and to continuously evaluate the operating management, with and present recommendations on the salaries, other employment the aim of ensuring the company’s governance, management and terms and incentive programmes for company management. control. The Board is responsible for ensuring that suitable systems ­However, the Board in its entirety determines the remuneration are in place for the monitoring and control of the company’s operand other employment terms for the President and CEO. The work ations and the risks to the company associated with its operations, of the Remuneration Committee is based on resolutions by the that control is implemented of compliance with laws, internal guideAnnual General Meeting pertaining to guidelines for remuneration lines and other regulations and that the provision of external inforof senior executives. mation is open, objective and relevant. The tasks of the Board also Until the end of the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the Remuinclude establishing necessary guidelines for the company’s conduct in neration Committee consisted of Malin Persson (Chair), John S. Quinn, society with the aim of securing its long-term value-creating ability. Joseph M. Holsten and Eivor Andersson. As of 2 May 2019, the There are written instructions that regulate the internal rules of Remuneration Committee consists of Board members Eivor procedure in the Board and the distribution of assignments Andersson (Chair), John S. Quinn and Arja Taaveniku. between the Board and the President and CEO, and for the The Remuneration Committee held five meetings in 2019, of which reporting process. The instructions are reviewed annually and are two were before 2 May and three after 2 May. The respective memprimarily: the rules of procedure for the Board’s work, instructions ber’s participation is presented in the table on page 46. The comfor the President and authorisation regulations. pany’s president and CEO, Pehr Oscarson, was also present at five The Board evaluates its work every year and it is the duty of the of these meetings. The Group’s CFO was the Committee’s secretary Chairman of the Board to ensure that evaluation is performed. In for four meetings. The Group’s former HR Director was the 2019, the Chairman organised a written questionnaire for all Board ­Committee’s secretary during the Remuneration Committee’s first members. The collective opinion based on the 2019 evaluation is meeting in 2019. that the Board’s work functioned well and that the Board fulfilled the Code’s requirements regarding assignment of the Board. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 45 Corporate Governance Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS John S. Quinn Helena Skåntorp Eivor Andersson Kenny Bräck Joseph M. Holsten Magnus Håkansson Arja Taaveniku Chairman of the Board. Executive Vice Chairman Board member. Board member. Board member. Board member. Board member. Member of of the Board. Chairman ­Chairman of Member of Member of Member of Mekonomen’s Remunerof Mekonomen’s Audit Mekonomen’s RemunerMekonomen’s Audit Mekonomen’s Audit Mekonomen’s Remuation Committee. Committee. ation Committee. Committee. Committee. neration Committee. Education MBA Bachelor of Graduate in Business Economics, Upper secondary M.B.A., Bachelor of Arts Graduate in Business Executive MBA, ­B usiness Administration Administration, IHM Business School, school education. and certified public Administration, Stock­Stockholm School and certified public ­Stockholm University. Stockholm. accountant. holm School of Economof Economics. accountant. ics, and holds a Master of Science in Management, MIT Sloan School. Elected in 2017 2004 2018 2007 2017 2017 2019 Born 1958 1960 1961 1966 1952 1963 1968 Position and Board assignments Executive Strategic Self-employed. Chairman of the Board Chief Test and Chairman of the Board Chairman of the Boards Board member of ­Advisor, LKQ CorporaCo-founder and of SkiStar Aktiebolag ­Development Driver for of LKQ Corporation. of Department & Stores Handels­banken, and tion, Member of ­Chairman of the board (publ) and Svanudden McLaren Automotive. Member of the Board AB, Tenant & Partner nominated to the ­Super­visory Board of Nielstorp AB. Board AB. Board member of Minority owner and of Covanta Holding Group AB, GS1 Sweden Nobia AB’s board. ATR I­nternational. member of ByggPartner AB Svenska Spel, Board member of ­Corporation. AB and Impande Founi Dalarna Holding AB ­Unlimited Travel Group Motor­sport ­Auctions dation Sweden. (publ). Chairman of the UTG AB (publ) and Ltd. Board and President United Camping AB. of Skåntorp & Co AB. Board member of ­Cellink AB (publ). Work experience Managing Director and President and CEO of President and CEO of Former professional President and CEO of CEO of RNB Retail and Chief Offer & Supply CEO, LKQ Europe, Lernia AB, President TUI Nordic. CEO of race car driver. LKQ Corporation. Brands AB (publ), Chain Officer and mem­E xecutive Vice President and CEO of SBC Coop Marknad AB and Active for 17 years in ­M anaging Director of ber of the Management and CFO of LKQ Corpo­Sveriges Bostadsrätts-­ CEO of Ving Sverige AB/ the U.S. and internaExpert Sverige AB, of Kingfisher Plc (UK), ration. Senior Vice PresiCentrum AB, President Thomas Cook Sweden, tional operations of CFO of KF Group and CEO of Ikano Group in dent, CFO and Treasurer and CEO of Jarowskij, as well as many years Waste Management, consultant at McKinsey Luxembourg and leading of Casella Waste SysCFO of Arla and of experience from Inc., most recently as & Co. Chairman of the positions within IKEA tems, Inc, Senior Vice authorised public board work in Swedish Executive Vice President Board in RNB Retail Group internationally. President of Finance at accountant at companies. and COO. Prior to that, and Brands AB (publ) Allied Waste Industries, Öhrlings/PwC. auditor at a public 2010–2011. Inc, and held several accounting firm. financial and ­operating roles at Waste ­M anagement, Inc. Total remuneration, SEK 645,000 1,120,000 345,000 300,000 350,000 350,000 325,000 Attendance at Board meetings 9/9 9/9 8/9 7/9 9/9 9/9 6/9 Attendanc at independent board meetings – 1/1 1/1 1/1 – 1/1 1/1 Attendance at Audit Committee meetings 3/5 5/5 – – 2/5 5/5 – Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings 5/5 – 5/5 – 2/5 – 3/5 Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties None 3,142 None 1,571 None None None Independent of the company/company management Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Independent of major shareholders No, dependent in Yes Yes Yes No, dependent in Yes Yes ­relation to major share­relation to major shareholders of the company. holders of the company. 46 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM Pehr Oscarsson Gabriella Granholm Robert Hård Åsa Källenius Tobias Narvinger Petra Bendelin President and CEO Director of Communication Director of Legal Affairs CFO Director of Purchasing Director of Business & Marketing & Sustainability ­D evelopment & Strategy Born 1963 1982 1966 1967 1974 1978 Education Technical upper-secondary Jurisprudence – civil law, Master of Laws, Graduate in Business Master of Science in Master Psychology/Behavioral school, supplemented Luleå University of Lund U­ niversity. ­Administration, ­Engineering Physics, Chalmers Science, Luleå University of with short economics and ­Technology, PR and Stockholm University. University of Technology. Technology ­m anagement courses. ­Communication, Berghs MBA – Master’s Course School of Communication. in International Business ­Administration, Chalmers University of T ­ echnology. Employed 2001 2010 2003 2017 2011–2016, 2017– 2010 Work experience President of MECA Director of CommunicaDirector of Legal Affairs, CFO of Tele2 Sweden, Various positions in Managing Director ProMeister ­S candinavia and before tions, Mekonomen Group, HR and Environment, CFO Inflight Service. ­development, sales and Solutions. Various positions that held s­ enior positions ­Information Manager, MECA Group. Attorney-atFinancial Manager ­purchasing Scania CV AB within business development in MECA since 2001, IMA Sport. law, Advokatfirman Vinge. Spendrups Bryggerier. in Södertälje. in MECA, Sigma, Tectura and President of ­Swecar AB. Clerk of Helsingborg as self-employed. District Court. Board appointments Deputy Chairman of Associ– – Green Landscaping, Källenius – Member of the Boeard of ation of Swedish Whole­ Invest AB, KAAX Investment Swedspot, Telge Tillväxt, salers of Automotive Parts AB, KAAX Fastigheter AB. Lasingoo ­Sweden and and Accessories (SBF). ­Forthright ­M ember of the Board of Oscarson Invest ­A ktie­bolag. Own shareholdings and shareholdings of related parties 170,457 1,317 1,625 16,582 5,000 1,745 Changes in the Board Changes in Group Management Malin Persson withdrew from the Board in connection with the 2019 AGM. In 2019, the Group Management Team consisted of the President and CEO, Malin Persson participated in 3 out of 3 Board meetings before the 2019 the CFO, the Director of Purchasing, the Director for Commu­nication & AGM. She was a member of the Remuneration Committee until the 2019 Marketing and the Director of Legal Affairs & Sustainability. In addition to AGM and participated in 2 out of 2 meetings. the aforementioned functions, the former HR Director, Managing Director Helena Skåntorp’s total remuneration includes a one-time fee of Sørensen og Balchen, Managing Director MECA Sweden, Managing Director SEK 600,000 for the special work effort during 2018 in connection with MECA Norway, Managing Director Mekonomen Sweden, Managing Director the Company’s acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team. Mekonomen Norway and Manager for the Group’s Venture Company were At the 2019 Annual General Meeting on 7 May, Arja Taaveniku was members of the Group Management Team until 14 February 2019. elected to the Board. Arja participated in all Board and Remuneration As of 7 February, 2020, Petra Bendelin, Director Business Development Committee meetings thereafter during the year. In total 7 of 10 Board and Strategy, is included in the Group Management. meetings and 3 of 5 Remuneration Committee meetings in 2019. In connection with the Annual General Meeting on May 2, 2019, the composition of the Board’s two committees changed, which affects the attendance record for John S. Quinn and Joseph M. Holsten. Both have full attendance at the respective committee meetings for the time they were members of the committee. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 47 Corporate Governance Report President and CEO and Group Management Team e­ xecutive’s responsibilities and authorities. The short-term variable President and CEO remuneration for other senior executives is based on the Group’s The President and CEO is appointed and may be discharged by the earnings and on individual qualitative parameters and can amount to Board and his work is regularly evaluated by the Board, which occurs a maximum of a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. The ­without the presence of the Group Management Team. percentage is linked to the position of each individual and varies Pehr Oscarson has been the President and CEO of Mekonomen between 33 and 60 percentage points for members of the Group AB since 1 March 2017. Prior to that, he served as the acting PresiManagement Team. Other benefits refer primarily to company cars. dent and CEO of Mekonomen AB since 6 October 2016. In addiPension premiums are paid in an amount that is based on the ITP tion to his assignment for Mekonomen AB, Pehr is the Deputy plan or a corres­ponding system for employees o ­ utside Sweden. PenChairman of Association of Swedish Wholesalers of Automotive sionable salary comprises basic salary. Parts and Accessories (SBF). Member of the Board of Oscarson The company applies a period of notice of no more than 12 Invest Aktiebolag. Pehr has no shareholdings or partial ownership months. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months in companies that Mekonomen AB or the company’s subsidiaries ­salary may be paid in the event of termination of employment by have significant business ties with. the company. Upon resignation, a six-month period of notice applies. The 2019 Annual General Meeting also resolved to establish a Group Management Team long-term incentive programme (LTIP 2019), in accordance with the In 2019, the Group Management Team consisted of the President Board’s proposal. LTIP 2019 comprises a maximum of 19 employees and CEO, the CFO, the Director for Communication & Marketing, consisting of the Group Management Team of Mekonomen Group the Director of Legal Affairs & Sustainability and the Director of and some other key individuals in the Group. For information on Purchasing. A more detailed presentation of the current Group the complete proposal, refer to the minutes of the 2019 Annual Management Team is found on page 47. General Meeting on the company’s website and Note 5 of the 2019 Annual Report. Remuneration of senior executives There are no other ongoing share-based incentive programmes. It is considered very important to ensure that there is a clear link between remuneration and the Group’s distinct values and financial External auditors goals in both the short and the long term. The guidelines for The auditors are appointed at the Annual General Meeting and ­remuneration of senior executives approved by the 2019 Annual are charged with reviewing the company’s financial reporting and General Meeting entail that the company is to offer market-based the Board’s and President and CEO’s management of the company. remuneration that allows the Group to recruit and retain the right At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB executives, and entail that the criteria for determining remuneration (PwC) was re-elected as the auditing firm until the 2020 Annual is to be based on the significance of work duties and employees’ General Meeting. The Auditor-in-Charge is Authorised Public competencies, experience and performance. Accountant Linda Corneliusson. PwC has an organisation com­ prising broad and specialised competency that is well-suited to Remuneration is to comprise: Mekonomen AB’s operations and has been the company’s auditing • fixed basic salary, firm since 2014. • short-term variable remuneration • long-term share-based incentive programme (LTIP) Fees to auditors, SEK M • pension benefits, 2019 2018 • other benefits and • severance pay. PwC Fees for audit assignments 10 8 The guidelines encompass the Group Management Team, including Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 1 1 the President and CEO. Remuneration is determined by the Board’s Tax consultancy 0 0 Remuneration Committee. However, remuneration of the President Other services 0 6 and CEO is determined by the Board in its entirety. Long-term Total PwC 11 15 share-­based incentive programmes are decided by the Annual ­General Meeting, however. Other auditing firms1) The President and CEO Pehr Oscarson has a fixed cash basic Fees for audit assignments 0 1 salary per month and a short-term cash variable salary portion, Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 0 0 which is based on the company’s earnings and individual qualitative Tax consultancy 0 0 parameters and that can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of Other services 0 1 the basic annual salary. The President and CEO is included in LTIP Total other 0 1 2019, which was approved at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. Total fees to auditors 12 16 The President and CEO receives a pension benefit amounting to a maximum of 30 percentage points of the base salary. Other 1) O ther auditors primarily refers to KPMG in Inter-Team (Poland) and EY in FTZ (Denmark). ­benefits primarily consist of a company car. The period of notice for the President and CEO is 12 months if employment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the PresiPwC submits an auditor’s report for Mekonomen AB (publ.) and dent and CEO. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 for the company’s subsidiaries, excluding a few smaller subsidiaries. months salary may be paid in the event of termination of employThe auditors also perform a review of the third-quarter interim ment by the company. The distribution between basic salary report. The audit is conducted in accordance with International and variable remuneration is to be proportionate to the senior Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards 48 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 in Sweden. The audit of annual report documents for legal entities OBJECTIVES outside Sweden is conducted in accordance with statutory requireOperations ments and other applicable rules in each country. RISK Internal audit • Strategic • Financial • Operational • Reporting For a number of years, Mekonomen Group has hired the auditing • Compliance firm Deloitte to conduct the internal audit in the Group. In 2019, their focus was to work together with Mekonomen Group to POLICIES strengthen the internal control framework for stock management at the central warehouses through interviews and self-rating by the INTERNAL CONTROL units. To strengthen focus on risk management, the internal control Design environment and internal audit, a manager for risk management and internal audit was hired at the end of 2018, reporting to the Audit Committee and the Group Management Team. Compliance with rules Reliable reporting Suitable operations and laws The internal audit functions as an independent and objective assurance and advisory function, which creates value and increases Financial Non-financial certainty in internal control. This is done by evaluating and proposing improvement in such areas as risk management, compliance with policies and efficiency in the internal control over the financial INTERNAL CONTROL Follow-up (effectiveness) reporting. The function works throughout the Group. Reporting is done to the Audit Committee, the President and CEO and the CFO and information is provided to management in each business MEASURES/IMPROVEMENT/FOCUS NEXT YEAR area and other units on the results of the audits performed. The illustration shows how different components (grey Internal control financial reporting boxes) interact within internal governance and control. The Board of Directors is responsible for Mekonomen Group’s internal control, whose overall purpose is to protect the owners’ investment and the company’s assets. The figure below shows the process for the Group’s internal control work, which is based on a external auditors also participate at the meetings of the Audit risk assessment on conducted operations and its objectives, which ­Committee. The Audit Committee reports back to the Board after causes mitigating measures based primarily on policies or other every meeting. All Audit Committee meetings are minuted and the form of guidance for the organization. Internal control frameworks minutes are available for all Board members and the auditors. are designed and implemented continuously, the follow-up and its effectiveness is reported to the Board annually. Internal control framework regarding financial reporting The Board supervises the quality of the financial reporting through Internal control for financial reporting is included as a part of the instructions to the President and CEO. It is the President and overall internal governance and control and constitutes a central CEO’s duty, jointly with the Group’s CFO, to review and quality-aspart of the Group’s corporate governance. According to generally sure all external financial reporting including financial statements, accepted frameworks established for this purpose, internal control interim reports, annual reports and press releases with financial is usually described from five different aspects described below. content, as well as presentation material in connection with meetings with the media, shareholders and financial institutions. Control environment The rules of procedure decided annually by the Board include The control environment constitutes the basis for internal governinstructions on, for example, the financial reports and the type of ance and control. An important part of the control environment is financial information to be submitted to the Board. In addition to that decision paths, authorities and responsibilities, as well as comfinancial statements, interim reports and annual reports, the Board petence requirements must be clearly defined and communicated examines and evaluates comprehensive financial information that between various levels in the organisation and that the control docpertains to the Group as a whole and to the various units included uments are available in the form of internal policies, handbooks, in the Group. guidelines and manuals, are adapted to operational changes and are The Board also examines, primarily through the Board’s Audit updated regularly. Part of the responsibility structure includes an Committee, the most significant accounting policies applied to the obligation for the Board to evaluate the operation’s performance financial reporting by the Group, and significant changes to policies and earnings on a regular basis, through appropriate report packin the reporting. This also includes ensuring that capacity exists to ages containing income statements, balance sheets, analyses of implement extensive changes, such as IFRS 16 in 2019 and the important key figures and comments pertaining to the business European Single Electronic Format (ESEF) from 2020. The Audit ­status of each operation. The Board has established an Audit Committee’s duties also include examining internal and external ­Committee to assist the Board specifically in the financial reporting. audit reports regarding internal control and the processes for To help strengthen the internal control, Mekonomen Group has ­financial reporting. prepared a financial handbook that provides an overall view of The Group’s external auditors report to the Board as required, existing policies, rules and regulations and procedures within the but at least once a year. At least one of these meetings, the Presifinancial area. During the year, a substantial update was done of the dent and CEO and the CFO leave after presenting their formal financial handbook to fully be adapted to the new operational reports to enable Board members to conduct discussions with structure, considering the large subsidiaries acquired in Denmark auditors without the participation of senior executives. The Group’s and Poland in 2018. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 49 Corporate Governance Report In addition, work is underway to produce a comprehensive govOperations. Group finance function also cooperates closely with ernance document that will provide mainly new employed, but also the Group company finance managers and controllers of Group current managers a collective overview of the requirements placed companies on matters pertaining to accounting and reporting. on managers and ensuring good internal control and management The follow-up and feedback concerning possible deviations arising of their units. This document will clarifie organisation and decision in the internal controls are a key part of the internal control work, pathways, goals, values and overall strategies, formal governance since this is an efficient manner for the company to ensure that errors tools and all of the Group policies. are corrected and that the control is further strengthened. During the year, a special review was done of each business area Risk assessment of their self-rating of the level by significant legal unit of their interRisk assessment and risk management mean that the management nal control framework for financial reporting, including the CFO, is aware of and has itself assessed risks and threats in the business. Head of Accounting and the Head of Internal Audit for the Group Mekonomen Group conducts regularly surveys of the Group’s risks and the CFO for the respective business area. and in these surveys, a number of items are identified in the financial statements and administrative flows and processes where there is an Sustainability governance elevated risk of error. The company works continuously to reduce The sustainability work is an integrated part of the operations as a these risks by strengthening controls. part of the ongoing business activities. In order to identify and priorDuring the year, a special forum was established on a Group level, itize the Group’s most important sustainability issues, stakeholder the Risk and Compliance Committee, which operationally handles dialogues and materiality analysis are conducted. Our most signifiidentified risks for further reporting to the Audit Committee and cant sustainability risks can be found in the risk management section the Board of Directors. For a more detailed description of risks, on pages 18–21, mainly under the headings Employees, Environment, and the committees’ work, see section Risks and risk management Suppliers and Corruption risks. in the Administration Report and in Note 35 Financial risks in the The Group’s Code of Conduct was approved by the Board of 2019 Annual Report regarding the Group’s risk work. Directors and was last updated in 2019. The Code of Conduct contains several Group-wide policies and serves as a starting point Control activities for all of the Group’s other policies and rules. Control activities are the measures and procedures that the manThe Group’s requirements on suppliers regarding sustainability agement has structured to keep errors from arising and to discover are clarified in a special supplier code. and resolve errors. Risks of errors in the financial reporting are The Group has signed the UN Global Compact’s principles in the reduced through a high level of internal control over the financial areas of human rights, working conditions, the environment and reporting, with specific focus on significant areas defined by manageanti-corruption, which is a part of the Groups ESG commitments. ment and the Board. Within the Group, there are specific control This means that the Group commits to the UN Global Compact’s activities that are intended to ensure the timely discovery or preventen principles. These principles are included in the Group’s Code of tion of the risks of errors in the reporting. Conduct. A clause regarding fulfilment of the UN Global Compact During the year, the work of strengthening the Group’s internal is also included in all new and renewed supplier agreements. control framework with key controls continued, where the frameGovernance for the strategic sustainability work, including targets work to “close the books” was further formalised and implemented and follow-up, rests with the Group Management Team, where the and the framework for “inventory management” at central wareDirector of Legal Affairs and Sustainability has the overall responsihouses was reviewed and aligned to be fully implemented in 2020. bility. The sustainability work is led and coordinated by the Group’s sustainability manager, who reports to the Director of Legal Affairs Information and communications and Sustainability. The responsibility for the strategic focus on specific In order for individual task to be able to be done in a satisfactory sustainability issues in the Group rests with the manager of the manner, the employees in an organisation must have access to relerespective area. The Board of Directors follows up the work in the vant and current information. Policies and guidelines are particularly Group Management Team’s reporting. important for accurate accounting, reporting and dissemination of information. Guidelines on the financial process are updated as neces­sary at Mekonomen Group. Such updates mainly take place in each Group function for the various operations through e-mails, but also at regular CFO meetings in which representatives from the Group finance function participate. A review of policies is done More information is available on mekonomen.com once a year or in the event of significant changes. For communication • Articles of Association with internal and external parties, a communications policy is in place • Code of Conduct that states guidelines for conducting communication. • Information from previous General Meetings, from 2006 • Information about the Nomination Committee Follow-up and evaluation • Information about principles of remuneration of senior The final component in the framework pertains to follow-up of the executives structure and effectiveness of internal governance and control. The Board evaluates the information submitted by the Group Manage• The Board’s evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of ment Team and auditors. In conjunction with this, the Audit Comprogrammes for variable remuneration mittee was responsible for the preparation of the Board’s work to • Corporate Governance Reports from 2006 quality assure the Group’s financial reporting. The President and • Information about the 2020 Annual General Meeting CFO hold monthly reviews of financial position with each Head of 50 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net sales 3 11,842 7,779 Other operating revenue 174 172 Total revenue 12,017 7,951 Operating expenses Goods for resale 18 –6,535 –3,901 Other external costs1) 4 –1,375 –1,581 Personnel costs 5 –2,576 –1,832 Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets (EBITDA) 1,531 637 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of tangible fixed assets and right-of-use assets1) 6 –611 –84 Operating profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets (EBITA) 920 553 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets 6 –215 –146 Operating profit (EBIT) 9 705 407 Financial income and expenses Interest income 12 6 Interest expenses1) –151 –53 Other financial items 9 –11 117 Profit after financial items 555 477 Tax on profit for the year 10 –134 –209 Profit for the year 421 268 Profit for the year attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 413 260 Non-controlling interests 8 8 Total profit for the year 421 268 Earnings per share attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders Earnings per share, SEK2) 7.34 6.56 Average number of shares, pcs2) 56,338,824 39,718,604 1. A s a result of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases for 2019, other external expenses have been positively impacted by SEK 523 M, depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets were negatively impacted by SEK 503 M and interest expenses were negatively impacted by SEK 43 M. Total impact on EBIT is positive by SEK 20 M and the total impact on profit after tax is negative by SEK 18 M. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the future-oriented method in the implementation of IFRS 16. For further information on the implementation of IFRS 16, see Note 1, the section Amended and new accounting policies for 2019. 2. No dilution is applicable. For further information on data per share, refer to pages 34–35. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 421 268 Other comprehensive income: Components that will not be reclassified to profit for the year: – Actuarial gains and losses –4 –2 Components that may later be reclassified to profit for the year: – Exchange-rate differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries, net after tax3) 106 –129 – Hedging of net investment, net after tax1)3) –27 4 – Cash flow hedges, net after tax2)3) –3 1 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax3) 71 –125 Comprehensive income for the year 492 143 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 484 135 Non-controlling interests 8 8 Comprehensive income for the year 492 143 1. L oans raised in EUR in connection with an acquisition in Denmark in 2018 hedge the currency risk in the net investments in Denmark and loans converted to NOK in 2019 hedge the net investment in Norway. The currency translation of these loans is presented in accordance with IFRS 9. 2. Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 defined in IFRS 13. 3. For information about tax recognised directly against items in other comprehensive income, refer to Note 16 and Note 28. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 51 Financial statements Consolidated balance sheet SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Assets Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 12 Goodwill 3,770 3,688 Brands 866 855 Franchise contracts 6 10 Customer relations 901 1,046 Capitalised expenditure for IT systems 155 146 Total intangible fixed assets 5,697 5,745 Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings 14 47 55 Improvement costs, third-party property 13 30 33 Equipment and transport 14 388 402 Total tangible fixed assets 465 490 Right-of-use assets1) 15 1,818 – Financial fixed assets Investments accounted for using the equity method 23 22 Other financial fixed assets 11, 17 78 54 Total financial fixed assets 101 77 Total fixed assets 8,081 6,312 Current assets Goods for resale 18 2,854 2,816 Current receivables 11, 19, 20 1,580 1,530 Cash and cash equivalents 11, 21 355 205 Total current assets 4,789 4,551 Total assets 12,870 10,863 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity 28 Share capital 141 141 Other capital contributions 2,993 2,993 Reserves –232 –307 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 1,401 1,001 Total shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 4,303 3,828 Non-controlling interests 32 25 Total shareholders’ equity 4,335 3,853 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 22 3,326 3,227 Lease liabilities1) 15 1,323 1 Deferred tax liabilities 16 428 474 Provisions 23 27 24 Total long-term liabilities 5,104 3,726 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions, interest-bearing 11, 22 748 1,079 Lease liabilities1) 15 457 2 Tax liabilities 75 86 Other current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 11, 24, 25 2,130 2,088 Provisions 23 21 29 Total current liabilities 3,431 3,284 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 12,870 10,863 1. A  s an effect of the introduction of IFRS 16 Leases from 1 January 2019, the consolidated balance sheet for 2019 was impacted compared with the previous year. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the future-oriented method in the implementation of IFRS 16. For further information on effects of implementation of IFRS 16, see Note 1, the section Amended and new accounting policies for 2019. 52 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share Other ­capital Reserves Profit Total attributable Minority Total SEK M ­capital contributions brought to Parent Comshare equity ­forward pany ­shareholders Opening balance on 1 January 2018 90 1,456 –182 1,000 2,363 16 2,379 Profit for the year 260 260 8 268 Other comprehensive income: –124 –2 –125 0 –125 Comprehensive income for the year – – –124 258 135 8 143 Transactions with shareholders New share issue 51 1,570 1,621 1,621 New share issue costs, net after tax1) –33 –33 –33 Buyback of own shares –6 –6 –6 Dividends –251 –251 –9 –260 Shareholders’ contribution from minority – 3 3 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling ­interests 0 0 6 6 Total transactions with shareholders 51 1,537 – –257 1,331 0 1,331 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 141 2,993 –307 1,001 3,828 25 3,853 Opening balance on 1 January 2019 141 2,993 –307 1,001 3,828 25 3,853 Profit for the year 413 413 8 421 Other comprehensive income: 75 –4 71 0 71 Comprehensive income for the year – – 75 409 484 8 492 Transactions with shareholders Buyback of own shares –2 –2 –2 Share-savings programme 1 1 1 Dividends – – –9 –9 Shareholders’ contribution from minority – 7 7 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling ­interests –6 –6 1 –6 Total transactions with shareholders – – – –8 –8 –1 –10 Closing balance on 31 December 2019 141 2,993 –232 1,401 4,303 32 4,335 1. For information about tax recognised directly against equity, refer to Note 16 and Note 28. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 53 Financial statements Consolidated cash-flow statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit after financial items 555 477 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 30 861 175 1,416 652 Tax paid –226 –199 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital1) 1,190 453 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (-) in inventories 6 –336 Decrease (+) / increase (-) in receivables –53 78 Decrease (-) / increase (+) in liabilities –2 135 Increase (-) / decrease (+) in working capital –48 –123 Cash flow from operating activities1) 1,142 331 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries and operations 31 –64 –4,196 Divestment of subsidiaries and operations – 6 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 13, 14 –88 –178 Divestment of tangible fixed assets 5 1 Acquisition of intangible fixed assets 12 –43 –43 Purchase of financial fixed assets – 0 Increase (-) / Decrease (+) of long-term receivables –9 4 Cash flow from investing activities –199 –4,407 Financing activities 30 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 31 –6 –1 Divestment of non-controlling interests 31 1 1 Received shareholders’ contributions from minority 7 3 New share issue 28 – 1,580 Buyback of own shares 28 –2 –6 Change in overdraft facilities 129 161 Loans raised 22 529 4,564 Amortisation of loans –1,445 –1,997 Dividends paid –9 –260 Cash flow from financing activities1) –798 4,044 Cash flow for the year 146 –32 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 205 254 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 5 –18 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 21 355 205 1. In 2019, classification of items and thereby the presentation in the cash flow was impacted by the introduction of IFRS 16 Leases. Cash flow from operating activities has increased by SEK 507 M and cash flow from financing activities has decreased by SEK 507 M. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the ­modified retrospective method in the implementation of IFRS 16. Changed classification has not entailed any impact on the total cash flow. For further information, refer to Notes 1, 15 and 30. Interest received amounted to SEK 12 M (6) and interest paid amounted to SEK 151 M (53). 54 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Income statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net sales 3, 32 34 30 Other operating revenue 36 51 Total revenue 69 81 Operating expenses Goods for resale –1 –2 Other external costs 4 –72 –92 Personnel costs 5 –28 –26 Depreciation/amortisation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 6 0 0 EBIT –32 –39 Financial income and expenses Result from participations in Group companies 7 332 612 Interest income 58 37 Interest expenses –114 –56 Other financial items 9 –28 111 Profit after financial items 215 666 Appropriations 8 206 73 Profit before tax 421 738 Tax on profit for the year 10 –20 –122 Profit for the year 401 617 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 401 617 Other comprehensive income, net after tax – – Comprehensive income for the year 401 617 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 55 Financial statements Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Assets Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Improvement costs, third-party property 13 – 0 Equipment and transport 0 0 Total tangible fixed assets 0 0 Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies 27 7,837 7,363 Receivables from Group companies 1,189 688 Deferred tax assets 16 11 4 Total financial fixed assets 9,037 8,055 Total fixed assets 9,037 8,055 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 2 5 Receivables from Group companies 239 1,338 Other receivables 7 14 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 20 5 9 Total current receivables 252 1,365 Cash and cash equivalents 21 235 79 Total current assets 487 1,444 Total assets 9,524 9,499 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity 28 Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 141 141 Statutory reserve 3 3 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 144 144 Non-restricted shareholders’ equity Share premium reserve – 1,537 Profit brought forward 4,619 2,467 Profit for the year 401 617 Total non-restricted shareholders’ equity 5,020 4,620 Total shareholders’ equity 5,164 4,765 Untaxed reserves 211 247 Provisions 23 3 3 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 22 3,314 3,224 Total long-term liabilities 3,314 3,224 Current liabilities Overdraft facilities 22 407 278 Other liabilities to credit institutions 22 341 800 Accounts payable 2 35 Liabilities to Group companies 70 123 Current tax liabilities – 2 Other liabilities 1 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 25 12 21 Total current liabilities 832 1,260 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 9,524 9,499 56 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the Parent Company Restricted Non-restricted shareholders’ equity shareholders’ equity Statutory Share ­premium Profit brought SEK M Share capital reserve reserve ­forward Total equity Opening balance on 1 January 2018 90 3 – 2,724 2,817 Profit for the year 617 617 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 617 617 Transactions with shareholders New share issue 51 1,570 1,621 New share issue costs, net after tax1) –33 –33 Buyback of own shares –6 –6 Dividends –251 –251 Total transactions with shareholders 51 1,537 –257 1,331 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 141 3 1,537 3,084 4,765 Opening balance on 1 January 2019 141 3 1,537 3,084 4,765 Profit for the year 401 401 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 401 401 Reversal according to appropriation of profit –1,537 1,537 0 Transactions with shareholders Buyback of own shares –2 –2 Share-savings programme 1 1 Total transactions with shareholders – – –1 –1 Closing balance on 31 December 2019 141 3 – 5,020 5,164 1. F or information about tax recognised directly against equity, refer to Note 28. The number of shares as at 31 December 2019 amounted to 56,416,622 (56,416,622) with a quotient value of SEK 2.50 (2.50) per share. Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit after financial items 215 666 Adjustments for items not affecting liquidity 30 0 –124 216 542 Tax paid –29 –23 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 187 519 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+) / increase (–) in receivables 1,419 321 Decrease (–) / increase (+) of liabilities –213 –64 Increase (–) / decrease (+) in working capital 1,206 257 Cash flow from operating activities 1,393 777 Investments Acquisition of subsidiaries 27 – –4,305 Capital contributions paid 27 –392 –28 Increase (–) / decrease (+) of long-term receivables –563 –568 Cash flow from investing activities –955 –4,901 Financing activities New share issue 28 – 1,580 Buyback of own shares 28 –2 –6 Change in overdraft facilities 129 161 Loans raised 22 526 4,564 Amortisation of loans –934 –1,996 Dividends paid – –251 Cash flow from financing activities –281 4,051 Cash flow for the year 156 –73 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 79 152 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 21 235 79 Profit after financial items includes dividends received from subsidiaries of SEK 332 M (612). Interest received amounted to SEK 44 M (37) and interest paid amounted to SEK 114 M (56). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 57 Notes NOTES NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting and measurement policies The Group has chosen to apply the majority of the exemption rules available in The most important accounting policies that were applied to the preparation of these connection with the transition to IFRS 16 of which the most significant pertain to consolidated financial statements are stated below. These policies were consistently excluding leases that at the transition date have an outstanding term of no more than applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 12 months. In addition to the exemption rules in connection with the transition, the The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Group continuously applies the practical exemptions that mean that leases with a Annual Accounts Act, International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as approved lease term of no more than 12 months and leases where the underlying asset has a by the EU and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee that apply low value are excluded from the calculation of the lease liability and right-of-use asset. for financial years beginning on 1 January 2019. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial These are instead expensed on a straight-line basis in the income statement. The simReporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Regulations for plifed approach for the definition of a lease was applied, which means that all compoGroups was applied. nents of an agreement have been considered to be leasing component. In addition, The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is Mekonomen Group chose to not apply IFRS 16 for intangible assets as this choice also the Group’s presentation currency. All amounts are stated in SEK M, unless otherexists according to the standard. wise stated. The items in the Annual Report are measured at cost, with the exception of certain Disclosures on the transition financial instruments, which are measured at fair value. The Parent Company’s financial statements were prepared in accordance with the Commitments for operating leases at 31 December 2018 1,737 Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. Finance lease liabilities at 31 December 2018 3 Preparing financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain Leases with a short duration (deducted when expensed) –15 key estimates for accounting purposes. Furthermore, management is required to make Leases of a minor value (deducted when expensed) –56 certain assessments in the application of the consolidated accounting policies. The areas Effects of extension options 484 that include a high degree of complicated assessments or areas where assumptions and estimates are of material significance to the consolidated financial statements are Discounting effect –142 stated in Note 2. Lease liabilities recognised on 1 January 2019 2,010 Amended and new accounting policies for 2019 Amended accounting policies 2020 and later The Group applies a number of new standards and interpretations as of 1 January A number of new standards and amendments of interpretations and existing standards 2019, which primarily concerns IFRS 16 Leases. None of the other new standards come into effect for financial years beginning on 1 January 2019. and interpretations applied by Mekonomen Group as of 1 January 2019 has had any Mekonomen has chosen early application of the change of IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. – “reference interest reform” – which was published in September 2019 and which was adopted by the EU in January 2020 with a possibility of early application. In IFRS 16 Leases accordance with what comes forth of the change, the relief was applied to both existing From 1 January 2019, Mekonomen Group applies IFRS 16 Leases, which replaced the hedging relationships at the beginning of the reporting period and those entered into earlier standard IAS 17. According to IAS 17, the lessee classified its leases as either during the year, as well as the amounts found in other comprehensive income at this finance and operating leases. The agreements classified as operating leases were not period. In summary, the relief means that the hedging relationships must not be disrecognised as an asset and liability in the balance sheet. According to the new standard continued due to the uncertainty that the reforms entail even if this would have been IFRS 16, the lessee does not differentiate between operating and finance leases and the case under normal application of IFRS 9. However, possible inefficiency must still essentially recognises all leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in the balance be recognised in profit and loss if it were to arise. The Group carefully monitors develsheet. Leases are recognised in the balance sheet, the date the leased asset is available opments in the IBOR reforms and manages the effects of them according to the regufor use by the Group. Amortisation of the asset is recognised in operating profit and latory frameworks that exist. The Group’s assessment is that there is an uncertainty interest on the lease liability in net financial items. The new standard thereby has some regarding both EURIBOR and NIBOR, which are the reference interest rates that are positive impact on operating profit as part of the leasing expenses are recog­nised as included in Mekonomen’s cash-flow hedges. The total nominal amount for the interinterest expense in net financial items. Reported EBITDA increases substantially as est-rate swaps with EURIBOR and NIBOR branches used in the hedging relationships recog­nised rental expenses decrease at the same time that amortisation of right-of-use is presented by Note 36 on page 85. assets increases. The lease charge is recognised partly as payment of interest, partly as Other new standards and interpretations are not expected to have a material effect repayment of the lease liability. Cash flows for the repayment of the lease l­iability are on Mekonomen Group’s financial statements. included in financing activities. Payment for the interest component is ­presented as other interest payments in operating activities. The Group will mainly be affected by Consolidated financial statements the leases that pertain to rent of premises and leasing of vehicles. The new accounting Subsidiaries policies are recognised in Note 1 under the heading Leasing and in Note 15 Leases. The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and all companies The Group chose the modified retrospective approach and in accordance with the (including structured companies) over which the Parent Company has a controlling standard is not restating the comparison year. The lease liability was the sum of the influence. The Group controls a company when the Group is exposed to, or has rights present value of all future lease charges and the right-of-use asset corresponds to the to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect lease liability adjusted for prepaid and accrued lease charges. The calculation of the those returns through its power over a company. Subsidiaries are included in the conpresent value is based on a marginal borrowing interest rate as per 1 January 2019. solidated financial statements from the point in time at which controlling influence is The weighted average marginal borrowing interest rate applied amounts to 2.23 per achieved and excluded from the consolidated financial statements from the point in cent. The Group has chosen to recognise lease liabilities and right-of-use assets on time at which the controlling influence ceases. their own lines in the balance sheet from 2019 and thereby reclassified assets and The purchase method was used for recognising the Group’s business combinations. ­liabilities regarding finance leases in accordance with the previous IAS 17 to the new The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary is measured at fair value balance-sheet items. Equity has not been affected by the transition. on transferred assets, liabilities arising in the Group from previous owners of the Right-of-use assets of SEK 2,065 M were recognised in the 2019 opening balance. acquired company and the shares issued by the Group. The purchase consideration Of the recognised right-of-use assets, SEK 3 M was recognised in the balance sheet also includes the fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from an agreement on as finance leases as per 31 December 2018. Lease liabilities of SEK 2,010 M were contingent consideration. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities in a business ­recognised in the opening balance of which SEK 3 M previously as at 31 December combination are initially measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. For each 2018 were recognised as finance lease. The difference between liability and asset acquisition – meaning, acquisition by acquisition – the Group decides whether the non-­ ­consists in advance payments. controlling interests in the acquired company are measured at fair value or proportionate to the holding’s share of the carrying amount of the acquired company’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. 58 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT. If the business combination is a step acquisition, the earlier equity shares in the were transferred and recognised as part of capital gains or capital losses in cases acquired company are re-measured to its fair value on the date of acquisition. Any gains where foreign operations were divested. Goodwill and adjustments to fair values or losses arising are recognised in profit or loss. attributable to acquisitions of operations using functional currencies other than SEK Each contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is measured at fair are treated as assets and liabilities in the acquired operations’ currencies and translated value on the date of acquisition. The subsequent changes in fair value of contingent conat the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. sideration are recognised in profit or loss. Contingent consideration classified as shareholders’ equity is not re-measured and the subsequent adjustment is recognised in Segment reporting shareholders’ equity. Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase considerto the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the ation and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable ­function responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than the operating segments. In the Group, this function has been identified as the company’s fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in President and CEO. profit or loss. Where necessary, subsidiaries’ accounting is adjusted to comply with the same Revenue recognition policies applied by the other Group companies. Transactions between Group com­ Revenue from external customers derives primarily from the sale of goods, representpanies take place on commercial grounds and thereby at market prices. All internal ing approximately 97 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derive from transactions between Group companies and Group intermediaries are eliminated workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated stores and workshops. when preparing the consolidated financial statements. Some agreements include several different services, such as sales of goods and workTransactions with non-controlling interests that will not result in a loss of control are shop services. The goods and workshop services are recognised as separate perforrecognised as shareholders’ equity transactions – meaning, transactions with shareholders mance commitments. If the agreements contain several performance commitments, in their roles as owners. In acquisitions from non-controlling interests, the difference the transaction price is distributed to each separate performance commitment based between the fair value of purchase consideration paid and the actual acquired portion on their standalone selling prices. of the carrying amount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised in shareholders’ equity. Profits or losses from divestments to non-controlling interests are also recogSale of goods nised in shareholders’ equity. Mekonomen Group’s business model comprises the entire chain from purchasing and When the Group no longer has controlling influence, each remaining holding is warehousing of spare parts and accessories to the sale of our affiliated workshops and measured at fair value on the date controlling influence ceases. The change in the carry­ to other B2B customers, partner stores and car owners; also see Note 3 for the distriing amount is recognised in profit or loss. The fair value is used as the initial carrying bution of revenue. amount and is the basis for continued recognition of the remaining holding in associated The sale of goods is recognised as revenue when control of the goods is transferred, companies, joint ventures or financial assets. All amounts pertaining to the divested which normally occurs when the goods are delivered to the customer. Sales are recogunit previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised as if the nised net after deduction of discounts, returns and value-added tax. Group had directly divested the assets or liabilities in question. This may result in the No financing component is deemed to exist at the time of sale as the credit period amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income being reclassified to normally does not exceed 30 days. profit or loss. A receivable is recognised when the goods have been delivered as this is the time the compensation becomes unconditional (i.e. only the passing of time is required for Associated companies payment to be made). Associated companies are all companies over which the Group has significant influence The terms of sale usually include a right to return goods ordered incorrectly by but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20 per cent and the customer. Therefore, a repayment liability (which is included in the item current 50 per cent of the voting rights. Investments in associated companies are recognised provisions) and an asset for the right to receive back the product from the customer using the equity method. Mekonomen Group has only one associated company with (included in goods for resale) are recognised for goods the Group expects to receive a marginal impact on the Group. in return. Historical data is used to assess the size of the returns at the portfolio level at the time of sale (method that uses the anticipated value). As the scope of the returns Joint arrangements have been stable in recent years, it is very probable that a material reversal of the Under IFRS 11, holdings in a joint arrangement are to be classified as either a joint recog­nised revenues will not occur. The validity of the assumption and the estimated operation or a joint venture depending on each investor’s contractual rights and obliamount of returns are revalues at each balance sheet date. gations. Mekonomen Group has only one joint arrangement with a marginal impact on The right of regress for product sales usually exists towards the supplier, whereby the Group and has determined that it is a joint venture. Joint ventures are recognised the Group’s costs for warranty commitments normally only constitute small amounts in accordance with the equity method. for the Group. Where applicable, the Group’s commitments for warranties are recognised as a provision; see Note 23. Translation of transactions in foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Swedish Kronor (SEK) based on Revenue – other the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary items (assets and liabilities) Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognised in the period in which the in foreign currencies are translated into SEK according to the exchange rate on the service took place. Revenue is recognised based on the degree of completion on the balance-­sheet date. Exchange-rate gains and losses that arise in connection with such balance-sheet date (percentage of completion). translations are recognised in profit or loss as Other operating revenue and/or Other Revenue from licensing agreements is allocated over the term of the agreement. operating expenses. Exchange-rate differences that arise in foreign long-term loans Other operating revenue mainly comprises of rental income, marketing subsidies and liabilities, and in the translation of bank accounts in currencies other than the and exchange-rate gains. accounting currency, are recognised in financial income and expenses. Exchange rate Interest income is recognised over the term by applying the effective interest differences on loans that are classified as hedging instruments in a hedge of a net method. investment in foreign operation are recognised insofar as they constitute an effective hedge in other comprehensive income. Remuneration of employees The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. A defined-­ Translation of foreign subsidiaries benefit pension plan is a pension plan whereby the Group guarantees an amount, which When the consolidated financial statements were prepared, the Group’s foreign operthe employee receives as pension benefits upon retirement, normally based on several ations’ balance sheets were translated from their functional currencies to SEK based different factors, for example, salary and period of service. A defined-contribution on the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. The income statements and other pension plan is a pension plan in which the Group, after having paid its pension precomprehensive income were translated at the average exchange rate for the period. mium to a separate legal entity, has fulfilled its commitments towards the employee. Translation differences that arose were recognised in other comprehensive income Defined-contribution plans are recognised as an expense in the period to which against the translation reserve in shareholders’ equity. If the Group has classified the premiums paid are attributable. ­borrowing as hedging instruments in a hedge of net investment in foreign operations, Pension expenses for defined-benefit plans are calculated using the Projected Unit these exchange rate differences are also recognised in other comprehensive income Credit Method whereby expenses are distributed over the employee’s period of and accumulated in the translation reserve. The accumulated translation differences employment. These commitments, meaning the liabilities that are recognised, are Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 59 Notes NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT. measured at the present value of expected future payments, taking estimated future shareholders’ equity. The deferred tax is then also recognised against other compresalary increases into account, applying a discount rate corresponding to the interest on hensive income or directly against shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax assets and tax first-class corporate bonds issued in the same currency as the pension is to be paid in, liabilities are offset when they are attributable to income tax that is charged by the with a remaining duration that is comparable to the current commitment and with same authority and when the Group intends to pay the tax with a net amount. deductions for the fair value of plan assets. In countries where there are no functioning markets for corporate bonds, a discount rate corresponding to the interest rate on Goodwill mortgage bonds is used. Consequently, a discount rate established by referring to the Goodwill is initially measured at the amount by which the total purchase consideration interest rate on mortgage bonds is used for the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans and fair value for the non-controlling interests exceeds the fair value of identifiable in Norway. The most important actuarial assumptions are stated in Note 23. If a net acquired assets and assumed liabilities. If the purchase consideration is lower than the asset arises, it is be recognised only to the extent that it represents future financial fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, the difference is recognised directly in benefits, for example, in the form of repayments or reduced future premiums. profit or loss. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is recognised at cost less any One of the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans comprises a so-called multi-­ accumulated impairment. In the divestment of an operation, the portion of goodwill employer defined-benefit pension plan (ITP plan in Alecta). In accordance with attributable to this operation is recognised in the calculation of gain or loss on the Mekonomen Group’s accounting policies, a multi-employer defined-benefit plan is divestment. ­recognised based on the rules of the plans and recognises its proportional share of the defined-benefit pension obligations and of plan assets and expenses related to the plan Other intangible assets in the same manner as for any other similar defined-benefit pension plan. However, Expenditure for the development and implementation of IT systems can be capitalised Alecta has not been able to present sufficient information to facilitate reporting as a if it is probable that future financial benefits will accrue to the company and the cost defined-benefit plan, which is why the ITP plan is recognised as a defined-contribution for the asset can be calculated in a reliable manner. plan in accordance with IAS 19.34. Brands, customer relations and franchise contracts acquired through business comIn addition to the defined-benefit pension plans via Alecta described above, the binations are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. Group has defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway. Actuarial gains Acquired brands attributable to the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen, MECA, and losses on the defined-benefit pension plans for employees in Norway are recogFTZ and Inter-Team have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life and are recognised in their entirety over comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. nised at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Customer relations, other Remuneration in connection with termination of employment can be paid when an brands, franchise contracts and strategic IT investments have definite useful lives and employee has been served notice of termination prior to the expiration of the normal are recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation is applied accorddate of retirement or when an employee accepts voluntary retirement. The Group ing to the straight-line method over the assets’ estimated useful life. Customer relarecognises liabilities and expenses in connection with a termination of employment, tions, other brands and franchise contracts are deemed to have a useful life of five to when Mekonomen Group is unquestionably obligated to either terminate employment ten years. prior to the normal termination date or to voluntarily pay remuneration to encourage IT investments are deemed to have a useful life of three to ten years from the start early retirement. of operation. Mekonomen Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses when there are legal or informal obligations, based on earlier practice, to pay bonuses to employees. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recognised as assets in the balance sheet if it is probable that Share-based incentive programmes future financial benefits will be accrued to the company and the cost of the asset can Mekonomen Group has share-based remuneration plans in the form of share-savings be calculated in a reliable manner. Tangible fixed assets, primarily comprising land and programmes. buildings, equipment, computers, transport and construction in progress, are recogFor the programme, the cost is recognised based on the fair value per share award nised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. When the difference at the allocation date, calculated by independent third-parties, and the expected numin the consumption of significant components of a tangible fixed asset is deemed to be ber of shares that will be vested. These remunerations are recognised as personnel material, the asset is divided up into these components. Depreciation of tangible fixed costs during the vesting period with a corresponding increase of equity. Insofar as the assets is recognised as an expense so that the asset’s value is depreciated according to vesting conditions in the programme are linked to market conditions (TSR) and continthe straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Land is not depreciable. ued ownership of the investment shares, they are taken into account in the determination of the fair value of the share awards. Performance conditions (equity/assets ratio The following percentages were applied for depreciation: and EPS) and service terms (continued employment) affect the personnel expense Fixed assets % during the vesting period through a change in the number of shares that are ultimately Buildings 2.5–10 expected to be issued at the end of the programme. At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews its assessments of how many shares are expected to be Improvement costs, third-party property1) 10 vested based on the performance terms and service terms. Equipment 10–20 When allocation of shares takes place, social security contributions must be recogVehicles 20 nised in certain countries for the value of the employee’s benefit. The Group continuServers 20 ously recognises a liability for social security contributions for this remuneration. The Workplace computers 33 liability is continuously revalued and based on the share-based remuneration’s fair value on the balance sheet date period-allocated over the vesting period. 1. Depreciation takes place over the shorter period corresponding to 10 per cent per year and the remaining duration of the contract. Tax The Group’s total tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. Current tax The residual value of assets and useful life are tested at the end of each reporting is tax that is to be paid or received pertaining to the current year and adjustments of period and adjusted when necessary. prior years’ current tax. Deferred tax is calculated based on the difference between An asset’s carrying amount is immediately depreciated to its recoverable amount if the carrying amounts and the values for tax purposes of company assets and liabilities. the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance-sheet method. Deferred tax liabiliGains and losses from divestments are determined by comparing the proceeds and ties are recognised in principle on all taxable temporary differences, while deferred the carrying amount and recognised net in profit or loss. tax assets are recognised to the extent that is probable that the amount can be utilised against future taxable surplus. Right-of-use assets / Leasing, from 1 January 2019 IFRS 16 The carrying amount on deferred tax assets is assessed at each accounting year-end The Group’s leases essentially all relate to premises and vehicles. Leases are normally and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable surplus signed for fixed periods between three to five years, but the possibility of extension will be available to be utilised either in its entirety or partially against the deferred tax may exist; this is described below. The conditions are negotiated separately for each asset. lease and contain a large number of different contractual terms. The leased assets may Deferred tax is calculated based on the tax rates that are expected to apply for the not be used as collateral for loans. period when the asset is recovered or the debt settled. Deferred tax is recognised as The exemption rule for the definition of a lease was applied, which means that all revenue or expenses in profit or loss, except in cases when it pertains to transactions components of an agreement have been considered to be leasing component. or events that are recognised against other comprehensive income or directly against 60 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT. The lease liability was the sum of the present value of all future lease charges and independent party, net realisable value. The value in use comprises the present value the right-of-use asset corresponds to the lease liability adjusted for prepaid and of all in and out payments attributable to the asset during the period it is anticipated to accrued lease charges. The lease liabilities include the present value of the following be used in the operation, plus the present value of the net realisable value at the end lease payments: of the useful life. If the estimated recoverable amount falls below the carrying amount, • fixed fees (including substantially fixed fees), less any benefits in connection with the the asset is impaired to the recoverable amount. The impairment is recognised in profit signing of the lease that are to be obtained, variable lease charges that depend on or loss in the period it is determined. an index or a price, initially valued using an index or price at the initial date Refer also to Note 12 for information on how impairment testing is performed. • amounts expected to be paid out by the lessee according to residual value guarantees Previously recognised impairment is reversed only if there has been a change to the • the exercise price for an option to buy if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise assumptions that served as the basis for determining the recoverable amount in consuch an opportunity nection with the impairment. If this is the case, a reversal will be conducted to increase • penalties that are payable upon termination of the lease, if the leasing period the carrying amount of the impaired asset to its recoverable amount. A reversal of reflects that the Group will use an opportunity to terminate the lease. an earlier impairment takes place in an amount that does not allow the new carrying amount to exceed what would have been the carrying amount (after impairment) if Possibilities to extend a lease are included only in the lease’s length if it is reasonable the impairment had not taken place. Impairment of goodwill is never reversed. to assume that the lease will be extended (or not concluded). The probability that an extension option for a premises lease will be exercises is assessed based on factors, such Inventories as the market situation for the property and its significance to the business activities. Inventories are recognised at the lower of the cost and net realisable value. The cost is The lease payments are discounted by the implicit interest in the lease. If the interest established by using the first in/first out principle (FIFO). cannot be easily established, which is usually the case, the marginal loan interest rate is A provision for estimated obsolescence in inventories is established when there used. The marginal loan interest rate is determined based on country, duration and is an objective basis to assume that the Group will be unable to receive the carrying credit rating for the respective unit. amount when inventories are sold in the future. The size of the provision amounts to The Group is exposed to possible future increases in variable leasing payments the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the value of expected future based on an index or an interest rate that is not included in the lease liability until they cash flows. The reserved amount is recognised in profit or loss. The inventory value become effective. When adjustments of leasing payments based on an index or an was reduced by the value included in the inter-company profit from goods sold from interest rate enter into effect, the lease liability is revalued and adjusted against the rightthe Group’s central warehouse to the company’s own stores on the goods that are of-use asset. still in stock. Furthermore, the inventory value was also reduced by the value of the The assets with right of use are measured at cost and include the following: remaining portion of the supplier bonus on goods that are still in stock. • the amount the lease liability originally was valued at • lease charges paid at or before the start date, less any benefits received in Financial instruments ­connection with signing of the lease IFRS 9 contains three parts: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge • initial direct expenses accounting, and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. • expenses for restoring the asset to the condition prescribed in the lease terms. All financial instruments in Mekonomen Group, except for derivatives, are classified and measured at amortised cost with application of the effective interest method. Right-of-use assets are usually amortised straight-line over the shorter of the asset’s All of Mekonomen’s financial assets, except for derivatives, are the business model useful life and the term of the lease. If the Group is reasonably certain of utilising a held-to-maturity and the contractual cash flows are only comprised of principal and purchase option, the right-of-use asset is amortised over the useful life of the under­ interest. Derivatives are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss. lying asset. Even if the Group revalues buildings and land, which are recognised as The new rules for classification and measurement have no impact on Mekonomen ­t angible fixed assets, it has chosen to not do so for the Group’s right-of-use assets. Group. The new rules for hedge accounting have not effect on the consolidated Payments for short contracts and leases of minor value are expensed on a straight­balance sheet or income statement, but the scope of disclosure requirements has line basis in the income statement. Short contracts are agreements with a lease term increased. of 12 months or less. Agreements of minor value include IT equipment and basic office The change at the introduction of IFRS 9 pertains to impairment and the model for furniture. calculating expected credit losses. Mekonomen Group has chosen to apply the simplified method in the calculation of expected credit losses throughout the lifespan. ComLeasing, 2018, IAS 17 pared with the previously applied actual loss model, it entails an earlier recognition of A financial lease agreement is an agreement according to which the financial risks and credit losses. As grounds for forecasting expected credit losses, historical information benefits associated with ownership of an object are essentially transferred from the and experience of earlier credit losses are used. In addition, current and prospective lessor to the lessee. Leasing objects mainly comprise company vehicles and distribution information is used to reflect current and future conditions. The new model for calcuvehicles. lation of expected credit losses has not entailed any material impact on Mekonomen Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises and vehicles. Group’s financial statements. Financial assets recognised as assets in the balance sheet include loan receivables, Group as lessee accounts receivable and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities in the balance sheet Assets held under financial lease agreements are measured as fixed assets in the coninclude long-term and short-term loans and accounts payable. A currency derivative solidated balance sheets at fair value at the beginning of the leasing period or at the is recognised either as an asset or liability, depending on changes in the exchange rate. present value of minimum leasing fees if this is lower. The liability that the lessee has A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the comto the lessor is recognised in the balance sheet under the heading “Lease agreement” pany becomes party to the contractual conditions, but the scope of the disclosure divided into long-term and short-term liabilities. Leasing payments are divided between requirement has increased. interest and amortisation of liabilities. Interest is divided over the leasing period so that With the exception of cash and cash equivalents, only an insignificant portion of each reporting period is charged with an amount corresponding to a fixed interest the financial assets is interest-bearing, which is why interest exposure is not recognised. rate of the liability recognised during each period. Interest expenses are recognised The maximum credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. directly in profit or loss. Lease fees that are paid during operating lease agreements The terms for long-term and short-term loans are stated in separate note disclosures; are systematically expensed over the leasing period. other financial liabilities are non-interest-bearing. A financial asset, or portion thereof, is eliminated when the rights contained in the contract are realised or mature. A finanImpairment cial liability, or portion thereof, is eliminated as it is regulated when the commitment in Assets with an indefinite useful life, for example, goodwill and intangible assets that are the agreement has been fulfilled or has been terminated in another manner. not ready for use are not impaired but tested annually for any impairment requirements. The brands that were added through the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen, MECA, Calculation of fair value, financial instruments FTZ and Inter-Team have been deemed to have indefinite useful lives, which is why When establishing the fair value of derivatives, official market listings at year-end are these are also tested at least annually for any impairment requirements. used. If no such information is available, a measurement is conducted applying estabAssets impaired are measured in terms of value decline whenever events or changes lished methods, such as discounting future cash flows to the quoted market rate for in conditions indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If this occurs, each term. Translation to SEK is based on the quoted exchange rate at year-end. a calculation of the asset’s recoverable amount is performed. The fair value of the agreement on conditional supplementary purchase consideraThe recoverable amount comprises the highest of the value in use of the asset in tions is estimated by the application of the income approach. the operation and the value that would be received if the asset was divested to an Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 61 Notes NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT. Long-term receivables Provisions Long-term receivables comprise primarily deposits and lease-purchase agreements. Provisions differ from other liabilities since there is uncertainty regarding the date They have contractual terms that give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of of payment or the amount for settling the provision. Provisions are recognised in principal and interest and held within the framework of a business model the goal of the statement of financial position when Mekonomen Group has a legal or informal which is to collect contractual cash flows. They are valued at amortised cost according obligation as a result of an event that has occurred and it is probable that an outflow to the effective interest method. Changes in reserves for credit losses are recognised of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the in operating profit in the income statement. amounts can be made. Provisions are recognised in an amount corresponding to the For information about the change for the year and the loss reserve as per most reliable estimate of the payment required to settle the commitment. When an 31 December 2019, refer to Note 17. outflow of resources is expected to be required far later in the future, the expected future cash flow and provision are recognised at present value. Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for expected bad debts. The Cash-flow statement expected term of accounts receivable is short, which is why the amount is recognised The cash-flow statement was prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The at nominal value without discounting in accordance with the method for amortised cost. recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that result in inward and outward For information on the model for and calculation of expected credit losses, refer to payments. the financial instruments section. Changes in reserves for credit losses are recognised in operating profit in the income statement. Parent Company accounting policies Accounts receivable are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of The Parent Company complies with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the repayment. For information about the change for the year and the loss reserve as per ­Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal 31 December 2019, refer to Note 19. Entities. Application of RFR 2 means that, in the annual accounts for a legal entity, the Parent Company is to apply all of the IFRS and statements that have been approved by Cash and cash equivalents the EU where this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held at financial institutions and current Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and taking into account the link between liquid investments with a term from the date of acquisition of less than three months, accounting and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions and additions which are exposed to only an insignificant risk of fluctuations in value. Cash and cash that are to be made from IFRS. The differences between the Group’s and the Parent equivalents are recognised at nominal amounts. Company’s accounting policies are stated below. Financial instruments exist to a limited extent and are recognised in the Parent Derivative instruments and hedge accounting Company based on cost in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The Parent Mekonomen Group applies hedge accounting to receivables in foreign currencies. Company applies hedge accounting in legal entities for the hedging of interest rate risk. Hedging is conducted using currency derivatives with a maximum term of three This means that the derivative’s fair value is not taken up in the balance sheet insofar months. Hedged receivables in foreign currencies are recognised at the closing day as it is an effective hedge. What is continuously recognised in profit or loss is the fixed rate and hedging instruments are recognised separately at fair value in the balance interest expense that the interest-rate swaps give rise to in each period. sheet and the change in value is recognised in profit or loss. The policies have been applied consistently for all years presented, unless otherwise The Group signed derivative instruments aimed at hedging interest payments stipulated. attributable to loans at floating interest rates (cash-flow hedges). The Group applies hedge accounting to these derivative agreements. The derivatives are measured at Amended accounting policies 2019 fair value in the balance sheet. Value changes are recognised in Other comprehensive In January 2019, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board issued a new version of the income to the extent they are effective and accumulated in the hedge reserve in shareRFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. Implemented amendments to RFR 2 did not have holders’ equity until the hedged item impacts earnings. The portion of unrealised value any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements. changes that is ineffective is recognised in profit or loss. If the hedging instrument expires, is sold or the hedge no longer meets the requireClassification and presentation format ments on hedge accounting, the hedge accounting is discontinued. The accumulated The income statement and balance sheet comply with the presentation format specivalue change in the hedge reserve is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged fied in the Annual Accounts Act. This means they are slightly different to the consolitransaction occurs, i.e. in pace with interest payments. If the hedged transaction is no dated financial statements, for example, balance-sheet items are more specified and longer contracted or likely, e.g. if the loan hedged is redeemed early, the accumulated subitems are given different designations in shareholders’ equity. value change in equity is immediately reclassified to the income statement. If the Group has classified borrowing as hedging instruments in a hedge of net investment in foreign Shares and participations in subsidiaries operations, these exchange rate differences are also recognised in other comprehensive Participations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company according to the income and accumulated in the translation reserve. The accumulated translation differcost method. Acquisition-related costs for subsidiaries, expensed in the consolidated ences were transferred and recognised as part of capital gains or capital losses in cases financial statements, are included as part of the cost for participations in subsidiaries. where foreign operations were divested. Contingent considerations are measured based on the probability that the purchase consideration will be paid. Any changes in the provision/receivable will be added/de­­ Accounts payable ducted from the cost. In the consolidated financial statements, contingent consideration Accounts payable are recognised at amortised cost according to the effective interest is measured at fair value with changes in value in profit or loss. The carrying amount method, which in practice entails a nominal amount without discounting since the for participations in subsidiaries is tested pertaining to any impairment requirements term is short. when there are indications of impairment needs. Loans Tax Liabilities to credit institutions, overdraft facilities and other liabilities (loans) are initially The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves consist of taxable temporary differences. measured at fair value net after transaction costs. Thereafter, loans are recognised at Due to the link between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities that are amortised cost. Any transaction costs are distributed over the loan period applying the attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised separately in a legal entity. effective interest method. Long-term liabilities have an estimated term longer than one The changes in untaxed reserves are recognised in accordance with Swedish practice year while short-term liabilities have a term of less than one year. in profit or loss for individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” The accumulated value of provisions, including deferred tax liabilities, are recognised in Share capital the b­ alance sheet under the heading “Untaxed reserves”. Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Transaction costs in connection with a new rights issue are recognised as a deduction, net after tax, from proceeds from the rights issue. 62 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONT. Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions Leasing Shareholders’ contributions paid are recognised as an increase in the value of shares The Parent Company recognises all leases insofar as they exist in accordance with RFR2. and participations. An assessment is then conducted as to whether impairment IFRS 16 Leases is not applied in the Parent Company and lease charges are period-­ requirements exist for the value of the shares and participations in question. allocated straight-line over the term of the lease. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities Group contributions are recognised according to the alternative rule, entailing that are accordingly not recognised in the Parent Company balance sheet. all Group contributions, both paid and received, are recognised as appropriations. Other information Pensions The financial statements are in SEK M, unless otherwise stated . Rounding off may Defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans are recognised in accordance result in some tables not tallying. with the current Swedish accounting standard, which is based on the regulations in the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. NOTE 2 SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS The preparation of the annual accounts and application of various accounting standThe right of regress for product sales usually exists towards the supplier, whereby the ards are based to a certain extent on management’s assessments or assumptions and warranty commitments normally only constitute small amounts for the Group. The estimates that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. These assumptions Group has established policies for reserves for accounts receivable, obsolescence proand estimates are frequently based on historic experience, as well as other factors, visions and provisions for guarantee commitments and product returns. These policies including expectations of future events. The results could differ if other assumptions per se are estimates of historic outcome and evaluated continuously to ensure that they and estimates were used and the actual outcome will, in terms of definition, rarely correspond to actual outcome in terms of customer losses, obsolescence, guarantee agree with the estimated outcome. The assumptions and appreciations made by commitments and product returns. For the financial year and the comparison year, ­ Mekonomen Group in the 2019 annual accounts, and which had the greatest impact no further information on obsolescence and provisions, respectively, is provided for on earnings and assets and liabilities, are discussed below. warranty commitments and product returns as materiality does not exist. Further information about credit loss reserves for accounts receivable is found in Note 19. Goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible fixed assets When assessing the impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets Deferred tax with an indefinite useful life, the carrying amount is compared with the recoverable When preparing the financial statements, Mekonomen Group calculates the income amount. The recoverable amount is the highest of an asset’s net realisable value and tax for each tax jurisdiction in which the Group operates and the deferred taxes the value in use. Since there are normally no listed prices that may be used to assess attributable to temporary differences. Deferred tax assets that are primarily attributable the net realisable value of an asset, the value in use will normally be the value that is to loss carryforwards and temporary differences are recognised if tax assets can be used to compare with the carrying amount. Calculation of the value in use is based on expected to be recovered based on future taxable income. Changes in assumptions assumptions and assessments. Key assumptions are the future trends for revenue and regarding forecast future taxable earnings, and changes in tax rates, may result in margins, including trends for prices and volumes, utilisation of operating capital ­significant differences in the measurement of deferred taxes. At 31 December 2019, employed, as well as yield requirements, which are used to discount future cash flows. Mekonomen Group recognised deferred tax liabilities in excess of deferred tax assets These assumptions are described in more detail in Note 12 Intangible fixed assets. at a net amount of SEK 428 M (474). Further information about deferred taxes is On the whole, this means that the measurement of goodwill and intangible assets found in Note 16. items with an indefinite useful life is subject to significant estimates and assessments. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities Company acquisitions The Group has a significant number of leases and rental contracts that are covered by In conjunction with acquisitions, analyses are prepared in which all identifiable assets IFRS 16, which means that they are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as a and liabilities, including intangible assets, are identified and measured at fair value on right-of-use asset and a lease liability. The value of the asset and liability is dependent the date of acquisition. In accordance with IFRS 3, acquired identifiable intangible on several assumptions, such as the interest rate that discounts the liability to present assets, for example, customers, franchise contracts, brands and customer relations, are value and an assessment o the likelihood of exercising extension options. Changes in to be separated from goodwill. This applies if these fulfil the criteria as assets, meaning assessments and assumptions may result in significant differences in the Group’s value that it is possible to separate them or they are based on contractual or other formal of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability. rights, and that their fair values can be established in a reliable manner. An examination The lease liability amounted to SEK 2,010 M at 1 January 2019 and was the sum of is conducted at each acquisition. The remaining surplus value is allocated to goodwill. the present value on all future lease charges. The calculation of the present value is Measuring identifiable assets and liabilities in acquisition assessments is subject to based on a marginal loan interest rate set based on country, duration and credit rating important estimates and assessments. Information about company acquisitions and for the respective unit. The weighted average marginal borrowing interest rate applied acquisition analyses is found in Note 31. in the transition to IFRS 16 is 2.23 per cent. The possibility to extend a lease are included only in the lease’s length if it is reason­ Reserves for inventories, doubtful receivables, guarantee commitments able to assume that the lease will be extended (or not concluded). Rental contracts and product returns with an extension option are divided into different categories based on market situation The Group operates in several geographic markets with sales to both consumers for the property and its significance to the business activities. Based on these categories, and companies and with a broad product range to many different customer groups. In the leasing period is assessed. The assessment is reviewed if a material event occurs or order to satisfy customers’ needs, a sufficiently large inventory of products must be change in circumstances that affects this assessment and the change is within the lessee’s kept and various types of warranties must be provided that the products function as control. they should and customers must be offered the right to return products ordered by Lease liabilities at 31 December 2019 amounted to SEK 1,780 M. For the maturity mistake by the customer. With the type of business conducted in the Group, there is a structure for undiscounted cash flows, refer to Note 11. Further information about risk of customer losses and that some of the Group’s stocked products cannot be sold leasing is found in Note 15. at their carrying amounts, and also the risk that the company has guarantee commitments or return claims that extend further than the reserves for these commitments. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 63 Notes NOTE 3 SEGMENT INFORMATION Operating segments are reported to correspond with the internal reporting provided The MECA/Mekonomen business area primarily includes wholesale, store, workto the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the funcshop and fleet operations in Sweden, Norway and Finland. The business area consists tion responsible for the allocation of resources and assessing the earnings of the operof the previously reported segments MECA and Mekonomen, and of smaller operations ating segments. In Mekonomen Group, this function has been identified as the compathat were previously reported in “other segments”: Tunga Fordon, Preqas, Meko Service ny’s President and CEO. Nordic, Speedy, AlltiBil and Mekster. Comparative figures have been recalculated. As of the first quarter of 2019, Mekonomen Group implemented a new organisation The Sørensen og Balchen business area primarily includes wholesale and store to be better adapted to the business. The organisational change and additionally changed operations in Norway. internal governance also affects the segment reporting. As of the first quarter of 2019, “Central functions” include Group-wide functions, as well as Mekonomen AB and Mekonomen Group will be presented with four business areas: FTZ, Inter-Team, the operations in ProMeister Solutions. The units reported in “Central functions” do MECA/Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen. The comparative figures for MECA/ not achieve quantitative limits to be reported separately and the benefit is deemed to Mekonomen and Central functions have been restated. The segments FTZ, Inter-Team be limited for the users of the financial statements for them to be reported as segments. and Sørensen og Balchen are unchanged, since earlier segment reporting. Comparative figures have been recalculated. The FTZ business area primarily includes wholesale and store operations in “Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s ­Denmark. FTZ is included in Mekonomen’s financial statements from the acquisition direct acquisitions and elimination of intra-Group revenue. Current acquisition-related date 3 September 2018, meaning the comparative period only pertains to four months. items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of MECA, The Inter-Team business area primarily includes wholesaling and store operations in Sørensen og Balchen, FTZ and Inter-Team. Poland and export operations. Inter-Team is included in Mekonomen’s financial stateThe CEO assesses the results of the operating segments at an EBIT level. Financial ments from the acquisition date 3 September 2018, meaning the comparative period items are not distributed in segments since they are impacted by measures implemented only pertains to four months. by central finance management. The distribution of assets and liabilities at segment is not reported regularly. MECA/ Sørensen FTZ Inter-Team Mekonomen og Balchen Central functions Other items Group SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue External net sales 3,371 1,088 2,155 638 5,527 5,301 759 739 31 14 11,842 7,779 Internal revenue 0 0 1 0 97 88 34 38 115 94 –247 –220 0 0 Other revenue 1 0 20 0 108 105 8 10 38 56 174 172 Total revenue 3,372 1,088 2,176 638 5,731 5,493 801 787 183 164 –247 –220 12,017 7,951 Operating profit/loss (ebit) 299 49 43 –1 438 428 121 106 –39 –73 –157 –103 705 407 Financial items – net –150 70 Profit before tax 555 477 Investments, tangible assets1) 10 10 9 2 63 157 5 6 1 4 88 178 Investments in intangible fixed assets1) 0 0 4 1 28 33 0 0 11 8 43 43 Depreciation and impairment (tangible assets) 16 5 16 6 69 68 4 3 2 2 108 84 Amortisation of right-of-use assets 85 – 34 – 340 – 44 – 0 – 503 – Amortisation and impairment (intangible assets)2) 3 1 1 0 49 39 0 1 5 1 157 103 215 146 Average number of employees for the period 1,148 389 1,438 449 2,047 2,031 265 256 56 57 4,953 3,181 Number of proprietary stores 51 51 79 79 230 230 37 36 – – 397 396 Number of partner stores – – 3 3 41 40 28 28 – – 72 71 Number of stores in the chain 51 51 82 82 271 270 65 64 – – 469 467 Key figures EBIT margin, %3) 9 5 2 0 8 8 16 14 6 5 Change in sales, %3) 210 – 238 – 4 5 3 –5 52 33 Revenue per employee, SEK 000s 2,937 2,797 1,513 1,421 2,800 2,705 3,026 3,074 2,426 2,499 Operating profit per employee, SEK 000s 261 126 30 –2 214 211 456 414 142 128 1. Investments are exclusive of company and business combinations and exclusive of leases according to IFRS 16. 2. Including amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets. 3. Internal sales were excluded from the calculation of the operating margin and the sales increase for the segments. Sales between segments take place on market-based terms and conditions. Revenue Analysis of net sales by customer groups, %1) 2019 2018 from external customers that is reported to the Group Management Team is measured – Affiliated workshops 31% 32% in the same manner as in the income statement. Net sales from external customers derived primarily from the sale of goods, repre– Other corporate customers 53% 44% senting approximately 97 per cent (96) of net sales. The remaining net sales derived – Consumers 13% 20% from workshop services, as well as annual and license fees to affiliated stores and – Partner stores 3% 4% workshops. Total net sales 100% 100% Net sales derived from the sale of goods from external customers are distributed according to the following customer groups: 1. Customer groups were reclassified in 2019. Comparative figures have been recalculated. 64 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 3 SEGMENT INFORMATION, CONT. The company has its registered office in Sweden. The distribution of revenue from external customers in Sweden and other geographic markets is presented in the table below: Denmark Finland Norway Poland Sweden Other Total Net sales by country 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 FTZ 3,371 1,088 – – – – – – – – – – 3,371 1,088 Inter-Team – – – – – – 2,155 638 – – – – 2,155 638 MECA/Mekonomen – – 60 46 2,063 2,015 – – 3,404 3,240 – – 5,527 5,301 Sørensen og Balchen – – – – 759 739 – – – – – – 759 739 Central functions – – – – – – – – – – 31 14 31 14 Total 3,371 1,088 60 46 2,822 2,754 2,155 638 3,404 3,240 31 14 11,842 7,779 The Group has no individual customers that account for 10 per cent or more of the the total of such fixed assets located in other countries amounted to SEK 4,673 M Group’s revenue. (3,811), of which SEK 3,207 M (3,020) in Denmark and SEK 1,229 M (662) in Norway. All fixed assets, other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets (there are For 2019, fixed assets increased by right-of-use assets of SEK 1,818 M which were no assets in connection with benefits after terminated employment or rights according added as a result of the introduction of IFRS 16 Leases. to insurance agreements), located in Sweden amounted to SEK 3,308 M (2,424) and NOTE 4 AUDITING EXPENSES Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 PwC Audit assignment 10 8 2 1 Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 1 1 – 0 Tax consultancy 0 0 – 0 Other services 0 6 – 6 Total PwC1) 11 15 2 7 Other auditors Audit assignment 0 1 – – Audit-related services other than the audit assignment 0 0 – 0 Tax consultancy 0 0 – – Other services 0 1 – 1 Total other 0 1 – 1 Total fees to auditors 12 16 2 8 1. Of the total fee to PwC for the Group of SEK 11 M (15), SEK 6 M (5) relates to fees regarding audit assignments and SEK 0 M (4) relates to fees regarding other services than audit assignments invoiced by PwC Sweden. Of the total fee to PwC for the Parent Company of SEK 2 M (7), SEK 2 M (4) relates to fees invoiced by PwC Sweden. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 65 Notes AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND NOTE 5 SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS 2019 2018 Average number of employees No. of employees Of whom, men % No. of employees Of whom, men % Parent Company Sweden 5 49 5 40 Total in Parent Company 5 49 5 40 Subsidiaries Sweden 1,394 82 1,433 82 Denmark 1,148 88 389 88 Norway 931 84 883 83 Poland 1,438 84 449 86 Other countries 37 80 22 82 Total in subsidiaries 4,948 84 3,176 84 Group total 4,953 84 3,181 84 Salaries and other Soc. security expenses Salaries and other Soc. security expenses Salaries, remuneration, etc. SEK ’000s ­remuneration (of which pension costs) ­remuneration (of which pension costs) Parent Company 17,128 10,444 (3,932) 16,061 9,170 (3,658) Subsidiaries 2,031,675 484,330 (181,120) 1,383,795 390,599 (104,840) Group total 2,048,803 494,774 (185,052) 1,399,856 399,769 (108,498) Board and President1) Other employees Board and President1) Other employees Salaries and other remuneration distributed between the President and (of which bonus, (of which bonus, (of which bonus, (of which bonus, CEO, Board members and other employees, SEK ’000s and the like) and the like) and the like) and the like) Parent Company Mekonomen AB 8,827 (85) 8,301 (121) 7,934 (0) 8,127 (552) Total in Parent Company 8,827 (85) 8,301 (121) 7,934 (0) 8,127 (552) Subsidiaries in Sweden 16,451 (1,309) 646,635 (5,251) 22,364 (3,759) 603,861 (2,159) Subsidiaries abroad Denmark 3,158 (394) 680,339 (22,662) 808 (0) 221,337 (1,644) Norway 13,918 (613) 478,599 (5,695) 12,898 (866) 456,152 (2,789) Poland 2,365 (0) 171,892 (0) 2,475 (0) 53,834 (80) Other countries 0 (0) 18,318 (0) 0 (0) 10,066 (0) Total in subsidiaries 35,891 (2,316) 1,995,784 (33,608) 38,544 (4,625) 1,345,251 (6,673) Group total 44,718 (2,401) 2,004,085 (33,729) 46,478 (4,625) 1,353,378 (7,225) 1. Remuneration to the Board and President and CEO includes the Parent Company and, where applicable, subsidiaries in each country. 66 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND NOTE 5 SOCIAL SECURITY C­ ONTRIBUTIONS, CONT. Remuneration of senior executives 12 months. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary may be paid Fees are paid to the Chairman of the Board and Board members in accordance in the event of termination of employment by the company. Upon resignation, a sixwith the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The annual Board fee totalling month period of notice applies. Matters pertaining to remuneration of company manSEK 2,520,000 (2,345,000) was determined in accordance with the resolution of the agement are resolved by the Board’s Remuneration Committee. However, remunera2019 Annual General Meeting. Of this, SEK 620,000 (590,000) represents fees to the tion of the President and CEO is determined by the Board in its entirety. ­Chairman of the Board, SEK 400,000 (330,000) to the Executive Vice Chairman, and Long-term share-based incentive programmes are decided by the Annual General SEK 300,000 (285,000) to each of the remaining Board members. For members of the Meeting, however. Board’s Audit Committee, SEK 120,000 (70,000) is paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and SEK 50,000 (40,000) is paid to the other members of the Audit ComShare-based remuneration mittee. For members of the Board’s Remuneration Committee, SEK 45,000 (40,000) The 2019 Annual General Meeting also resolved to establish a long-term incentive is paid to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 25,000 (25,000) is programme (LTIP 2019), in accordance with the Board’s proposal. The primary paid to the other members of the Remuneration Committee. motives for establishing LTIP 2019 are to link together the shareholders’ and company No fees are paid to the Boards of other subsidiaries. management’s and other key individuals’ interests to ensure maximal long-term value The President, Pehr Oscarson, has a basic salary of SEK 435,000 per month and creation and to encourage personal shareholding in Mekonomen Group. a variable salary portion, which is based on the company’s earnings and individual To participate in LTIP 2019, the participant must make his or her own investment in ­qualitative parameters and can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic shares in Mekonomen Group (“investment shares”) that are allocated to LTIP 2019. annual salary. The President and CEO is included in LTIP 2019, which was approved at Each investment share entitles the holder to five share awards. The five share awards the 2019 Annual General Meeting. The President and CEO receives a pension benefit are divided into Class A and Class B. Of the five share awards the participants receive amounting to a maximum of 30 percentage points of the base salary. Other benefits for each investment share, one share award is of Class A and four are Class B. are primarily in the form of a company car. The period of notice is 12 months if employ­ For both classes, continued employment and continued ownership of the investment is terminated by the company, and six months if terminated by the President and ment shares are required. Allocation of Class A depends on the total return on the CEO. In addition, severance pay of a maximum of 12 months salary may be paid in the company’s shares (TSR), which is measured in the first quarter of 2019 against the first event of termination of employment by the company. quarter of 2022 and the company’s equity/assets ratio at the 2021 year-end account For other senior executives, remuneration follows the policies adopted at the 2019 closing. Allocation of Class B also depend on earnings per share (EPS) during the Annual General Meeting. This means that the company is to strive to offer its senior period compared with budget 2019 according to different levels. The Board of Directors executives market-based remuneration, that the criteria for this is to be based on the has set a minimum level and a maximum level during the measurement period and the significance of work duties, skills requirements, experience and performance and that outcome will be measured according to a linear scale. remuneration is to comprise the following parts: The vesting period for LTIP 2019 began on the allocation date, which was in • fixed basic salary June 2019 and expires in connection with publication of the interim report for the • variable remuneration period 1 January–31 March 2021. Any allocation of shares normally takes place • long-term share-based incentive programme (LTIP) within two weeks after publication of Mekonomen’s interim report for the period • pension benefits and 1 January–­31 March 2021. • other benefits and In accordance with the terms, the Group Management Team for Mekonomen Group • severance pay and certain other key individuals in the Group, 17 people in total, acquired or already head 15,850 shares. To ensure delivery of shares according to LTIP 2019, the company The variable remuneration for senior executives, excluding the President and CEO, is bought back 30,000 shares during the period 3 July–10 July 2019. The company already based partly on the Group’s earnings and partly on individual qualitative parameters has 63,250 treasury shares. The company thereby has a total of 93,250 treasury shares and can amount to a maximum of a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. at the end of 2019 to ensure delivery of shares for LTIP 2019. As the total number of The percentage is linked to the position of each individual and varies between 33 and shares in Mekonomen amounts to 56,416,622, this corresponds to 0.17 per cent. 60 percentage points for members of the Group Management Team. Other benefits For the programme, the cost is recognised based on the fair value per share award refer primarily to company cars. Pension premiums are paid in an amount that is based at the allocation date, amounting to 66.70 and the estimated number of shares that will on the ITP plan or a corresponding system for employees outside Sweden. Pensionable be vested. The total cost for the year amounts to SEK 0.8 M, including social security salary comprises basic salary. The company applies a period of notice of no more than contributions. There are no ongoing share-based incentive programmes. Basic salary1) Bonus2) Board fees3) Other benefits Pension premiums Executives/category, SEK 000s 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 John S. Quinn, Chairman of the Board 645 655 Helena Skåntorp, Executive Vice Chairman 1,120 400 Eivor Andersson, Board member 345 310 Kenny Bräck, Board member 300 285 Joseph M. Holsten, Board member 350 310 Magnus Håkansson, Board member 350 325 Arja Taaveniku, Board member 325 – Former Board members Malin Persson – 325 President and CEO Pehr Oscarson 5,307 5,324 85 – 91 78 1,541 1,545 Other senior executives, 5 (11)4) 9,072 20,410 121 1,487 396 1,022 2,110 4,554 Total 14,379 25,734 206 1,487 3,435 2,610 486 1,100 3,651 6,099 1) B  asic salary in this table includes holiday bonus. 2) Bonus for the President and CEO and other senior executives for 2019 is fully comprised of costs for the long-term share-based incentive programme (LTIP). 3) B  oard fees include fees to members of the Board’s Committees. The Board fees for 2019 include the one-time remuneration of SEK 600,000 set by the AGM for Helena Skåntorp for the special work done in connection with the company’s acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018. Remuneration and compensation set by the AGM are expensed every calendar year. The average number of people in Group Management, except the President and CEO, amounted to 5 (11) people during 2019, including 2 (4) women. In 2019, the Group Management Team consisted of the President and CEO, the CFO, the Director of Purchasing, the Director for Communication & Marketing and the Director of Legal Affairs & Sustainability. In addition to the aforementioned functions, the former HR Director, President of Sørensen og Balchen, President of MECA Sweden, President of MECA Norway, President of Mekonomen Sweden, President of Mekonomen Norway and the Business Area Head for the Group’s Venture companies were included until 14 February 2019. A closer presentation of the Board and Group Management and its changes during the year are presented on pages 46–47. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 67 Notes NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION/AMORTISATION AND NOTE 10 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE Group Parent Company FIXED ASSETS 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Parent Company Current tax 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sweden –42 –52 –27 –29 Other countries –144 –72 – – Depreciation of tangible fixed assets according to plan –108 –84 0 0 Total current tax –186 –124 –27 –29 Amortisation according to plan of Changes in deferred tax, right-of-use assets –503 – – – ­temporary differences 53 –85 7 –93 Total depreciation and impairment Recognised tax expenses –134 –209 –20 –122 of tangible fixed assets –611 –84 0 0 Tax on profit for the year Amortisation, brands 0 0 – – Recognised profit before tax 555 477 421 738 Amortisation, customer Tax according to applicable relationships –176 –118 – – tax rate –122 –108 –90 –162 Amortisation, franchise contracts –4 –4 – – Tax on standard interest on Amortisation, capitalised tax allocation reserves –1 0 –1 0 ­expenditure for IT systems –34 –23 – – Tax effects on expenses that are Total amortisation and impairment not tax deductible of intangible fixed assets –215 –146 – – Other non-deductible expenses –8 –8 –1 –1 Total –825 –229 0 0 Other non-taxable revenue 2 1 72 135 Effects on adjustments from preceding year –1 1 – – Effects of non-capitalised loss NOTE 7 RESULT FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP carryforwards –4 –8 – – ­COMPANIES Effect of change in the Swedish tax rate1) – 7 – – Parent Company Effect of change in the 2019 2018 Norwegian tax rate – –1 – – Effects of previously capitalised Dividends 332 612 loss carryforwards2) – –93 – –93 Total 332 612 Recognised tax expenses –134 –209 –20 –122 1. Corporate tax in Sweden is being reduced in two steps from 2019, which has an effect on the ­calculation of deferred tax in the balance sheet in 2018, which positively affected the tax expense by SEK 7 M. NOTE 8 APPROPRIATIONS 2. H  istorical deficits attributable to Mekonomen's earlier operations in Denmark are deemed to no longer be able to be used through Group deductions after the acquisition of FTZ. Capitalised loss Parent Company carryforwards regarding the former Danish operations, which amounted to SEK 93 M, were therefore fully expensed in 2018. 2019 2018 Group contributions received 204 155 The weighted average tax rate amounted to 21.99 per cent (22.7). The decrease is Group contributions paid –34 –87 mainly attributable to a reduced tax rate in Norway from 23 per cent in 2018 to 22 per cent in 2019 and a reduced tax rate in Sweden from 22 per cent in 2018 to 21.4 Changes in tax allocation reserve 36 5 per cent in 2019, and a major part of the profit pertains to Denmark at a 22 per cent Total 206 73 tax rate as FTZ is a part of the 2019 full-year profit, but only four months in 2018. NOTE 9 EXCHANGE-RATE DIFFERENCES – NET NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES, Exchange-rate differences were recognised in profit or loss as follows: FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Group Parent Company Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value in the balance sheet 2019 2018 2019 2018 The financial instruments that were measured at fair value in the balance sheet are showed below. Measurement is divided into three levels: Exchange-rate differences in EBIT –2 –3 –1 1 Level 1: Fair value is determined according to listed prices in an active market for the Exchange-rate differences in net same instrument. financial items 6 138 –12 132 Level 2: Fair value is determined based on wither direct (prices) or indirect (derived Total 3 135 –13 133 from prices) observable market data not included in Level 1. Level 3: Fair value is determined base on inputs not observable in the market. All of Mekonomen’s financial instruments that are valued are measured at fair value included in Level 2, except supplementary purchase considerations which are included in Level 3. 68 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES, FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. Calculation of fair value All valuation techniques applied are accepted on the market and take into account The following summarises he main methods and assumptions used to determined the all parameters which the market would take into consideration when pricing. The fair value of the financial instruments shown in the table below. techniques are reviewed regularly with a view to ensuring their reliability. Assumptions Fair value of listed securities, where appropriate, is determined based on the asset’s applied are followed up against actual results so as to identify any need for adjustments listed average price on the balance-sheet date with no additions for transaction costs to measurements and forecasting tools. on the acquisition date. For methods of payment, receivables and liabilities with variable interest rates, and For currency contracts, fair value is determined on the basis of listed prices. Fair current assets and liabilities (such as accounts receivable and accounts payable), fair value for interest-rate swaps is based on discounting estimated future cash flows in value is equivalent to the carrying amount. accordance with the contract terms and due dates, and on the basis of the market interest rate for similar instruments on the balance-sheet date. If discounted cash Group’s derivative instruments measured flows have been used, future cash flows are calculated on company management’s at fair value in balance sheet 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 best assessment. The discount rate applied is a market-based interest rate on similar Financial assets instruments on the balance-sheet date. The fair value of the agreement on conditional supplementary purchase consideraInterest-rate swaps 2 – tions is estimated by the application of the income approach. The supplementary Total 2 0 ­purchase considerations are all non-interest-bearing with relatively short durations Financial liabilities and amount to non-material amounts for the Group, which is why detailed disclosures on measurement are not provided. Interest-rate swaps 10 3 Total 10 3 Net gains on derivative instruments, held for trading amounted to SEK 0 M (0). Non-financial Financial assets and liabilities by Derivative Financial assets Financial liabilities Total carrying assets and Total ­measurement category, 31 Dec. 2019 instruments1) – amortised cost – amortised cost amount Fair value ­liabilities Balance sheet Financial assets Financial fixed assets 2 76 – 78 78 23 101 Accounts receivable – 855 – 855 855 – 855 Other current receivables – – – – – 725 725 Cash and cash equivalents – 355 – 355 355 – 355 Total 2 1,286 – 1,288 1,288 748 2,036 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 10 – 3,323 3,333 3,333 – 3,333 Long-term lease liabilities – – 1,323 1,323 – 1,323 Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing – – 6 6 6 14 20 Current liabilities, interest-bearing – – 748 748 748 – 748 Current lease liabilities – – 457 457 – 457 Accounts payable – – 1,353 1,353 1,353 – 1,353 Other current liabilities – – 5 5 5 869 874 Total 10 – 7,214 7,224 5,444 883 8,107 1. Derivative instruments used for hedging purposes. Non-financial Financial assets and liabilities by Derivative Financial assets Financial liabilities Total carrying assets and Total ­measurement category, 31 Dec. 2018 instruments1) – amortised cost – amortised cost amount Fair value ­liabilities Balance sheet Financial assets Financial fixed assets – 54 – 54 54 22 77 Accounts receivable – 868 – 868 868 – 868 Other current receivables – – – – – 662 662 Cash and cash equivalents – 205 – 205 205 – 205 Total – 1,128 – 1,128 1,128 684 1,812 Financial liabilities Long-term liabilities, interest-bearing 3 – 3,229 3,232 3,232 – 3,232 Long-term liabilities, non-interest-bearing – – 8 8 8 12 20 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 1 – 1,080 1,081 1,081 – 1,081 Accounts payable – – 1,363 1,363 1,363 – 1,363 Other current liabilities – – 12 12 12 828 840 Total 4 – 5,692 5,696 5,696 840 6,536 1. Derivative instruments used for hedging purposes. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 69 Notes NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES, FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT, CONT. Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2019 Nominal amount 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 and later Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 428 401 1,289 1,772 0 3,890 Liabilities to leasing companies 499 449 336 281 360 1,925 Overdraft facilities 410 0 0 0 0 410 Derivatives 3 3 3 1 0 10 Supplementary purchase considerations 5 5 1 0 0 11 Accounts payable 1,353 0 0 0 0 1,353 Total 2,699 859 1,629 2,054 360 7,599 Group’s maturity structure for undiscounted cash flows for financial liabilities and derivatives 31 Dec. 2018 Nominal amount 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 and later Total Liabilities to credit institutions, bank borrowing 870 399 375 1,297 1,322 4,263 Liabilities to leasing companies 2 1 0 0 0 3 Overdraft facilities 281 0 0 0 0 281 Derivatives 4 4 3 3 3 17 Supplementary purchase considerations 12 8 1 0 0 21 Accounts payable 1,363 0 0 0 0 1,363 Total 2,532 412 379 1,300 1,325 5,948 Time when hedged cash flows in the hedging reserve are expected to occur and affect profit for the year 2020 – Q1 2020 – Q2 2020 – Q3 2020 – Q4 2021 2022 and later Total Interest-rate swap 1 1 1 1 3 4 10 Total 1 1 1 1 3 4 10 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Derivative contracts are subject to legally binding framework agreements on netting. This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Capitalised expenditure Goodwill Brands Franchise contracts Customer relations for IT systems Total Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 3,688 1,880 858 327 43 42 1,609 803 287 259 6,486 3,312 Acquisitions – – 1 – – – – – 42 43 43 43 Acquisitions in connection with acquired operation 35 1,865 – 548 – – 17 829 0 12 52 3,254 Divestments/disposals 0 –9 – – – – 0 0 0 –25 0 –34 Translation difference, ­currency 47 –48 10 –17 0 1 11 –23 0 –1 68 –88 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 3,770 3,688 869 858 43 43 1,637 1,609 329 287 6,650 6,486 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January 0 –9 –3 –3 –33 –28 –563 –443 –141 –143 –741 –627 Divestments/disposals – 9 – – – – 0 0 0 25 0 34 Depreciation for the year – – 0 0 –4 –4 –176 –118 –34 –23 –215 –146 Impairment for the year – – – – – – 0 0 – – 0 0 Translation difference, ­currency – – 0 0 0 –1 3 –1 0 0 4 –2 Closing accumulated amortisation and impairment, 31 December – – –3 –3 –37 –33 –736 –563 –174 –141 –953 –741 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 3,770 3,688 866 855 6 10 901 1,046 155 146 5,697 5,745 70 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS, CONT. The carrying amounts of intangible fixed assets are distributed among operating segments as follows: Capitalised expenditure Goodwill Brands Franchise contracts Customer relations for IT systems Total Group Carrying amount for 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. ­operating segment at 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 FTZ 1,739 1,708 509 501 – – 662 727 4 7 2,914 2,943 Inter-Team 29 28 30 29 – – 19 21 6 3 84 81 MECA/Mekonomen 1,560 1,541 271 270 – – 204 270 126 125 2,161 2,207 Sørensen og Balchen 442 412 56 55 6 10 16 28 0 0 520 504 Central functions – – – – – – – – 19 10 19 10 Total 3,770 3,688 866 855 6 10 901 1,046 155 146 5,697 5,745 Testing of impairment requirement for goodwill and other intangible assets with The brands that have been identified and evaluated pertain to the acquisition of indefinite useful period brands in connection with the acquisitions of Sørensen og Balchen in 2011, MECA in Goodwill is distributed and tested among the Group’s cash-generating units (CGU) 2012 and FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018. Other brands are amortised and their carrying identified by operating segments. In addition to goodwill, the Group has acquired amount at year-end was SEK 1 M (0). A summary of goodwill and brands with indefibrands that are deemed to have indefinite useful period. nite useful period at operating segment level is provided in the table below. The useful period is deemed indefinite when it pertains to well-established brands in their individual markets, which the Group intends to retain and further develop. Goodwill 2019 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2019 Translation Translation 1 January AcquisiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. 1 January AcquisiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. Operating segments 2019 tions ment ments currency 2019 2019 tions ment currency 2019 FTZ 1,708 – – 31 1,739 501 – – 8 509 Inter-Team 28 – – – 1 29 29 – – 1 30 MECA/Mekonomen 1,541 18 – – 1 1,560 270 – – – 270 Sørensen og Balchen 412 17 – – 13 442 55 – – 1 56 Total 3,688 35 – – 47 3,770 855 – – 10 865 Goodwill 2018 Brands (indefinite useful period) 2018 Translation Translation AcquisiImpairDivestdifference, 31 Dec. AcquisiImpairdifference, 31 Dec. Operating segments 01/01/2018 tions ment ments currency 2018 01/01/2018 tions ment currency 2018 FTZ – 1,766 – – –58 1,708 – 518 – –17 501 Inter-Team – 29 – – –1 28 – 30 – –1 29 MECA/Mekonomen 1,470 69 – 0 1 1,541 270 – – – 270 Sørensen og Balchen 402 1 – – 9 412 53 – – 1 55 Total 1,872 1,865 – 0 –48 3,688 323 548 – –17 855 Testing impairment requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets with 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 ­indefinite useful period takes place in the fourth quarter annually or more frequently InterInterif there are indications of value depreciation. All CGU 1) Team All CGU1) Team The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is established based on calculations of the value in use. The value in use is the present value of the estimated future Discount rate (WACC) before tax 9.6–10.3% 10.6% 9.1–9.3% 12.8% cash flows. Discount rate (WACC) after tax 7.5–7.9% 8.5% 7.6% 10.8% Cash-flow forecasts are based on an assessment of the anticipated growth rate and Growth rate beyond the forecast the trend of the EBITDA margin, based on the budget that was adopted in December period 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% for the next year, forecasts for the next three years, managements’ long-term expecTotal price and volume trend tations of the operation, and historic trends. The cash-flow forecasts for the years years 2–4 of forecast period 2.0% 5.0–2.0% 2.0% 5.0–2.0% two-four are based on an annual growth rate of 2.0 per cent (2.0) except for InterTeam where the annual growth rate is deemed to amount to 5.0 per cent (5.0) in 1. Pertains to all test levels CGU excluding Inter-Team, see tables on operating segments above. the forecast’s year two and year three, and 2.0 per cent (2.0) thereafter. Cash flows beyond this four-year period were extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2.0 Sensitivity analysis per cent (2.0). The growth rate does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the For all CGUs, excluding Inter-team, an increase in the discount rate by 2 percentage market segments in which each cash-generating unit operates. points, a reduction in the assumed long-term growth rate by 2 percentage points or a Calculated value in use is most sensitive to changes in assumptions for growth-rate, decrease in the EBITDA margin by 2 percentage points would not individually result in EBITDA margin and the relevant discount rate (WACC, Weighted Average Cost of any impairment requirement. For Inter-Team, an increase of the discount interest rate Capital), which is used to discount future cash flows. The conditions that apply for by two percentage points and a decrease of the assumed long-term growth rate by the various Nordic markets in which Mekonomen operates do not deviate significantly two percentage points each do not entail any impairment need. For Inter-Team, EBITDA from each other, which is why the same discount rate is used there. can decrease by 0.8 percentage points before the recoverable amount reaches the The significant assumptions used to calculate the value in use for 2019 and 2018, book value. These calculations are hypothetical and shall not be seen as an indication respectively, are summarised as follows: that these factors are more or less likely to be changed. The sensitivity analysis should therefore be interpreted with caution. According to implemented impairment testing, there is no impairment require­ ment for goodwill or other intangible assets with indefinite periods of use as per 31 December 2019. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 71 Notes NOTE 13 IMPROVEMENT COSTS, THIRD-PARTY PROPERTY Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 103 86 0 0 Purchases, rebuilding and extensions 6 7 – – Increase through business combinations – 14 – – Sales/disposals –4 –3 0 – Reclassification 3 – – – Translation difference, currency 1 –1 – – Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 110 103 – 0 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January –70 –63 0 0 Sales/disposals 4 3 0 – Depreciation for the year –12 –10 0 0 Translation difference, currency –1 0 – – Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December –80 –70 – 0 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 30 33 – 0 NOTE 14 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Land and Equipment and Construction Financial buildings ­transport in progress leasing1) Total Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening accumulated cost, 1 January 57 – 796 494 9 89 33 30 894 612 Purchasing 2 – 61 60 18 104 – 7 82 171 Increase through business combinations – 59 2 73 – – – – 2 132 Reclassification – – –2 185 –1 –185 –33 – –36 0 Sales/disposals –4 – –31 –17 – – – –4 –35 –21 Translation difference, currency 3 –2 11 1 – – – – 14 –1 Closing accumulated cost, 31 December 58 57 838 796 26 9 – 33 922 894 Opening acc. depreciation and impairment, 1 January –2 – –406 –354 – – –30 –27 –438 –381 Sales/disposals – – 27 14 – – – 4 27 18 Reclassification – – – – – – 30 – 30 – Depreciation for the year –6 –2 –90 –64 – – – –7 –96 –73 Translation difference, currency –3 0 –8 –2 – – – – –10 –2 Closing accumulated depreciation and impairment, 31 December –11 –2 –477 –406 – – – –30 –487 –438 Closing carrying amount, 31 December 47 55 362 391 26 9 – 3 435 457 1. Tangible fixed assets also included lease assets rented under finance leases until 31 December 2018 (IAS 17). Reclassification of these leased assets was done in connection with the transition to IFRS 16 Leases and, as of 1 January 2019, are found under the heading right-of-use assets; refer to Note 15 and further disclosures in Note 1. Operational lease agreements Operating leases primarily comprise leased premises. Group1) Parent Company Group1) Parent Company Information about leasing expenses, Future leasing fees for irrevocable lease 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. operational leasing 2018 2019 2018 ­agreements falling due for payment: 2018 2019 2018 Premises rent 374 0 1 Within one year 484 0 1 Leasing expenses, other 53 0 0 Later than one year but within five years 938 1 2 Total 427 0 1 After five years 315 – – Total 1,737 1 3 1. From 1 January 2019, leases for the Group are instead recognised in accordance with IFRS 16 Leases. For further information, refer to Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies and Note 15 Leases. Of the future lease fees, rent for premises accounted for SEK 1 M (3) for the Parent Company. 72 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 15 LEASES NOTE 16 DEFERRED TAX Information on leases where the Group is the lessee Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when a legal right of The following amounts related to leases are recognised in the balance sheet: offset exists for current tax assets and tax liabilities and when deferred taxes refer to the same tax authority. Below, deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented gross, with information on the netting done regarding the company in the same tax law jurisRight-of-use assets 31 Dec. 2019 1 Jan. 20191) diction. Buildings 1,688 1,945 Vehicles 124 115 Group Parent Company Other 6 5 Deferred tax assets (+) 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. /tax ­liabilities (–) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total 1,818 2,065 Capitalised loss carryforwards 8 2 – – Lease liabilities Temporary differences on Long-term 1,323 1,552 inter-company profits 43 42 – – Current 457 458 Temporary differences, Total 1,779 2,010 inventory obsolescence 19 18 – – Temporary differences, other 58 16 11 4 1. O nly leasing assets and leasing liabilities attributable to finance leases were recognised in the ­previous year in accordance with IAS 17 Leases. The assets were presented as a part of tangible Less netting –128 –78 – – fixed assets and the liabilities as a part of the Group’s borrowing. For adjustments recognised at Total deferred tax assets 0 0 11 4 the transition to IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019, refer to Note 1 Accounting policies under the heading Amended accounting policies and Leasing. Untaxed reserves –86 –85 – – Surplus value in intangible fixed For information on maturity structure regarding lease liabilities, refer to Note 11 Suppleassets (through acquisition) –406 –432 – – mental disclosures on financial risk management. Temporary differences, other –64 –35 – – Additional right-of-use assets in 2019 amounted to SEK 326 M. Less netting 128 78 – – The following amounts related to leases are recognised in the income statement: Total deferred tax liabilities –428 –474 – – 2019 20181 Total (net) –428 –474 11 4 Amortisation of right-of-use assets –503 – of which buildings –436 – Group Parent Company Gross change in deferred tax Vehicles –64 – assets/tax liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 of which other –3 – Opening balance –474 –75 4 96 Interest expenses (included in financial expenses) –43 – Translation difference, currency –7 11 – – Expenses attributable to short-term leases Acquisition of subsidiaries –1 –324 – – (included in other external expenses) –9 – Recognition in profit or loss1) 53 –85 7 –93 Expenses attributable to leases for which the underlying asset is of low value that is not a short-term lease Tax recognised in comprehensive (included in other external expenses) –30 – income 1 –1 – – Expenses attributable to variable leasing payments that are At year-end –428 –474 11 4 not included in lease liabilities (included in other external 1. Historical deficits attributable to Mekonomen's earlier operations in Denmark are deemed to no expenses) –13 longer be able to be used through Group deductions after the acquisition of FTZ. Capitalised loss carryforwards regarding the former Danish operations, which amounted to SEK 93 M, were 1. E xpenses attributable to leases reported in 2018 in accordance with IAS 17 as other external therefore fully expensed in 2018. expenses. Taxable loss carryforwards Total cash outflow for leases in 2019 was SEK 559 M. At the end of the financial year, tax loss carryforwards amounted to SEK 0 M (0) in the Parent Company and SEK 761 M (711) in the Group. For deficits amounting to Information on rental agreements where the Group is the lessor SEK 148 M (116), there is a time limit of up to 10 years. None of these deficits were Premises are leased to tenants under operating leases with monthly rental payments. assigned a value in the balance sheet. All other deficits run without limit in time. Leasing payments for certain contracts include CPI increases, but there are no other Deferred tax assets for tax loss carry-forwards in the Group amount to SEK 8 M (2) variable leasing payments that depend on an index or an interest rate. Even if the Group at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets on the remaining deficit was not is exposed to changes in the residual value at the end of the current leases, the Group assigned a value in the balance sheet. usually enters new operating leases and will therefore not immediately realise any decrease in the residual value at the end of these leases. Information about leasing income 2019 2018 Leasing income, operating leases 53 55 Future minimum lease charges that will be received Within 1 year 51 53 Between 1–2 years 50 51 Between 2–3 years 42 50 Between 3–4 years 41 42 Between 4–5 years 18 41 More than 5 years 20 18 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 73 Notes NOTE 17 OTHER FINANCIAL FIXED ASSETS Group Group 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Credit loss reserve, hire-purchase contracts1) 2019 2018 Hire-purchase contracts 67 46 Credit loss reserve at beginning of year –2 –6 Other 11 8 Change in net credit loss reserve for the year 0 0 Total 78 54 Receivables written off during the year as non-collectable 1 4 Reclassification of renegotiated accounts receivable 0 0 Group Translation difference, currency 0 0 Hire-purchase contracts 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Credit loss reserve at year-end –1 –2 Hire-purchase contracts 68 48 1. This information is limited as the amounts are of minor value. Credit loss reserve1) –1 –2 Total 67 46 Interest income on hire-purchase contracts during the year was SEK 1 M (0). NOTE 18 INVENTORIES Group 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Goods for resale 2,854 2,816 Total 2,854 2,816 The cost of inventories expensed is included in the item goods for resale in the income statement and amounted to SEK 6,535 M (3,901). Provisions for obsolescence are induced in the value of inventories. In addition to the normal obsolescence reserve, inventories have been impaired by SEK 12 M (48). Only an insignificant part of the inventory is measured at net realisable value. NOTE 19 CURRENT RECEIVABLES Group Group 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Credit loss reserve 2019 2018 Accounts receivable 855 868 Credit loss reserve at beginning of year –47 –34 Tax assets 46 15 Incurred through acquisitions 0 –18 Other receivables 54 72 Change in net credit loss reserve for the year –13 –3 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 625 574 Change in provision, net in balance sheet 14 8 Total 1,580 1,530 Reclassification to long-term receivables 0 0 Translation difference, currency 0 0 Group Credit loss reserve at year-end –46 –47 Accounts receivable 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 Accounts receivable 901 915 Credit loss reserve –46 –47 Total 855 868 Mekonomen applies the simplified method for expected credit losses, which means that expected credit losses are calculated as percentages based on the number of ­different time categories. Overdue up Overdue up Overdue more Accounts receivable on 31 December 2019 Not overdue to 30 days to 60 days than 60 days Total Carrying amounts, accounts receivable, net 606 217 17 15 855 Total 606 217 17 15 855 Overdue up Overdue up Overdue more Accounts receivable on 31 December 2018 Not overdue to 30 days to 60 days than 60 days Total Carrying amounts, accounts receivable, net 729 105 26 8 868 Total 729 105 26 8 868 Fair value of accounts receivable agrees with the carrying amounts. Credit quality of unreserved receivables is assessed to be good. Interest income on accounts receivable during the year was SEK 3 M (5). 74 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 20 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME NOTE 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Prepaid rents 0 53 – – Cash and bank balances 355 205 235 79 Prepaid lease fees 0 2 – – Total 355 205 235 79 Prepaid insurance 6 6 1 1 Accrued supplier bonus 534 428 – – Other interim receivables 85 85 4 8 Total 625 574 5 9 NOTE 22 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS Group Parent Company The introduction of IFRS 16 Leases means that items totalling SEK 1,779 M are recog31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. nised as a liability to the leasing company, compared with SEK 3 M in 2018. During the Long-term 2019 2018 2019 2018 year, two short-term bridge loans of EUR 40.5 M and SEK 100 M were replaced by Liabilities to credit institutions, long-term loans. The former through an increase in the existing Term A loan and the bank borrowing 3,317 3,225 3,314 3,224 latter through an increase of existing RCF. The long-term Term A loan in EUR runs Liabilities to leasing companies 1,323 1 – – until 2023 and is repaid at EUR 5 M per quarter. The company also has an SEK loan Derivatives, interest-rate swaps 10 3 – – that runs until 2022 and is repaid at SEK 34 M per quarter. The RCF loan runs until 2022. During the year, Mekonomen moved parts of the SEK loan under RCF to NOK Total long-term liabilities, loans. This is to hedge the currency risk in net investments in NOK. The Group had interest-bearing 4,649 3,228 3,314 3,224 already in the same way currency hedged net investments in DKK with loans in EUR. Currency translation of the part of the loan included in the hedging relationship is Group Parent Company ­recognised in other comprehensive income. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. During the year, Mekonomen entered interest-rate swaps in NOK of SEK 300 M to Current 2019 2018 2019 2018 reduce the risk in the Group’s cash flow as a result of changed market interest rates. Liabilities to credit institutions, This swap runs until 2022. There are already two swaps in EUR of EUR 60.75 M each bank borrowing 341 800 341 800 that run to 2022 and 2023, respectively. All interest rates, excluding interest-rate Overdraft facilities 407 278 407 278 swaps, are variable or have a maximum fixed period of three months. During the financial year, the interest level varied around 2.3 per cent. Liabilities to leasing companies 457 2 – – Mekonomen AB’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known as Derivatives, currency and covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The introduction of IFRS 16 Leases ­interest-rate swaps – 1 – – does not affect the Group’s ability to fulfil these covenants. The conditions include an Total current liabilities, owner change clause that becomes current upon an owner change in excess of 50 per ­interest-bearing 1,204 1,081 748 1,078 cent or upon a delisting. The Group’s long-term borrowing occurs mainly under credit frameworks with long-term lines of credits, but with short-term fixed-interest periods. Total borrowing 5,853 4,309 4,061 4,302 The Group’s interest expenses pertaining to borrowing amounted to SEK 151 M (53). Refer also to the sensitivity analysis pertaining to interest-rate risks in the sensitivity Overdraft facility limit 570 443 570 443 analysis section in the Administration Report and in Note 36. Existing overdraft facilities of which, unutilised portion 163 165 163 165 are in SEK. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 75 Notes NOTE 23 PROVISIONS Group Parent Company Group 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. Present value of commitments 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 53 51 Provision for pensions 7 4 – – Gross pension cost for the year 2 2 Provisions for supplementary Interest expenses 1 1 ­purchase considerations 11 21 – – Pension payment –2 –2 Provisions for returns 16 17 – – Actuarial gains and losses1) 6 0 Other provisions 13 11 3 3 Exchange-rate differences 2 1 Total 48 53 3 3 Closing balance 61 53 Provisions for suppleGroup Provisions for mentary purchase Fair value of plan assets 2019 2018 returns and other ­considerations Opening balance 49 48 Carrying amount at the beginning of the year 28 21 Expected return 1 1 – New provisions 9 8 Payments 4 3 – Reversed provisions –7 –4 Pension payment –2 –2 Amounts utilised during the period 0 –13 Actuarial gains and losses1) 1 –2 Currency effects 0 0 Exchange-rate differences 1 1 Carrying amount at year-end 29 11 Closing balance 54 49 Net pension commitments 7 4 Provisions comprise: Group Parent Company 1. Changes in demographic and financial assumptions are not specified on the basis of a materiality 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. assessment. 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Long-term portion 27 24 3 3 Costs recognised in profit or loss 2019 2018 Short-term portion 21 29 – – Pension vesting for the year including contributions 2 2 Total 48 53 3 3 Administration fees 0 0 Pensions Interest expenses 0 1 Alecta Total 2 3 The ITP 2 scheme’s defined-benefit pension obligations for old-age and family pensions (or family pension) for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through insurance Group with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, 31 Dec. 31 Dec. UFR 10 Recognition of ITP 2 Pension Plans Financed through Insurance with Alecta, Composition of plan assets 2019 2018 this is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. In the 2019 financial year, the company Equities 10% 10% did not have access to such information that made it possible to recognise its proportional share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it was Bonds 70% 72% not possible to recognise this as a defined-benefit plan. ITP 2 pension plans that are Property 13% 11% secured through insurance with Alecta are therefore recognised as defined-contribution Other 7% 7% plans. The anticipated fees for the next reporting period for ITP 2 policies signed with Total 100% 100% Alecta amounts to SEK 15 M (13). The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as Group a percentage of insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial 31 Dec. 31 Dec. methods and assumptions, which are not in agreement with IAS 19. Alecta’s surplus, Actuarial assumptions 2019 2018 in the form of the collective consolidation level, amounted to 148 per cent at year-end 2019 (2018: 142 per cent). Discount rate 1.80% 2.60% Future salary increases 2.23% 2.75% Pension commitments Future pension increases 0.70% 0.80% All pension commitments pertain to employees in the subsidiary in Norway. The Group is obliged to provide pension provisions according to the Norwegian act on occupational pensions. The Group has a total of five defined-benefit pension plans Assumptions regarding future length of life are based on public statistics and experience which jointly include 49 (51) gainfully employed individuals and 49 (50) pensioners. from mortality studies in the country concerned, and set in consultation with actuarial Pension benefits are largely dependent on the number of years of service, salary level experts. at retirement and the amount of the benefit. This obligation is covered via insurance Through its post-employment defined-benefit pension plans, the Group is exposed companies. Employer contributions are included in the net pension obligation. The to a number of such risks as asset volatility, changes in returns and length of life commitamounts recognised in the balance sheet have been calculated as follows: ments. The company actively monitors how terms of and expected returns on investGroup ments match expected payments arising from its pension commitments. The Group 31 Dec. 31 Dec. has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. The 2019 2018 Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its risk. Investments are highly Present value of funded commitments 61 53 diversified. Fair value of plan assets –54 –49 Contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the 2020 financial year are expected to amount to SEK 4 M. Deficit in funded plans 7 4 A sensitivity analysis and weighted average term for the pension commitments and Present value in unfunded commitments – – term analysis for undiscounted payments have not been provided since they are Net debt in the balance sheet 7 4 deemed to be insignificant. 76 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 24 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES, NOTE 26 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES NON-INTEREST-BEARING AND COMMITMENTS Group Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accounts payable 1,353 1,363 Pledged assets – – – – Other liabilities 193 195 Contingent liabilities Accrued expenses and deferred income 584 530 Other guarantee commitments 0 0 – – Total 2,130 2,088 Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries – – 391 393 Other sureties 22 15 – – Total 22 15 391 393 NOTE 25 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Group Parent Company 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accrued personnel-related costs 373 337 8 10 Accrued bonuses/contract fees 104 94 – – Accrued interest expenses 2 6 2 6 Prepaid rental income 2 3 – – Other interim liabilities 103 90 2 6 Total 584 530 12 21 NOTE 27 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Parent Company 2019 2018 Opening cost 7,937 3,604 Capital contributions paid 474 28 Sale of subsidiaries – – Acquisitions during the year1) – 4,305 Closing accumulated cost 8,411 7,937 Opening impairment –574 –574 Impairment – – Closing accumulated impairment –574 –574 Closing residual value 7,837 7,363 1. Refers to the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team in 2018. For further information and the acquisition analysis, refer to Note 31. Corporate Book value, Book value, Participations in Group companies identity number Share of equity, % Number of stores 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Name of company/registered office, Denmark Acem A/S /Odense 30 07 81 28 100 0 0 FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S/Odense 73 64 87 18 100 49 4,065 4,065 Name of company/registered office, Finland Mekonomen Oy/Helsinki 2259452-4 100 4 0 0 Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen AS/Kolbotn 980 748 669 100 29 24 24 Sørensen og Balchen AS/Oslo 916 591 144 100 – 840 840 Name of company/registered office, Poland Inter-Team Sp. z o.o./Warszawa 5 240 301 927 100 79 240 240 Name of company/registered office, Sweden Bileko Car Parts AB/Stockholm 556062-4875 100 46 40 Bileko Tires AB/Stockholm 556821-5981 100 28 28 MECA Scandinavia AB/Malmö 556218-3037 100 2,446 2,053 Meko Service Nordic AB/Stockholm 556179-9676 100 1 1 Mekonomen Detaljist AB/Stockholm 556157-7288 100 83 81 5 Bileko Services AB/Stockholm 556724-9254 100 35 35 Mekonomen Services AB/Huddinge 556840-9428 100 0 0 Speedy Autoservice AB/Malmö 556575-9858 100 31 31 Participations in Group companies, total 244 7,837 7,363 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 77 Notes NOTE 27 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES, CONT. Share of NumShare of NumIndirect participations in subsidiaries Corporate equity, ber of Indirect participations in subsidiaries Corporate equity, ber of Company name/domicile ­identity number % stores Company name/domicile ­identity number % stores FTZ Mekonomen BilLivet Infra City AB/Stockholm 556864-3471 100 – Automester Danmark ApS/Odense 16 81 72 44 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Johanneshov AB/Stockholm 556882-0780 100 – Din Bilpartner ApS/Odense 32 14 21 09 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Karlshamn AB/Stockholm 559118-0608 100 – DriveClever A/S/ Odense 32 08 15 76 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Karlskrona AB/Stockholm 556882-0772 100 – FTZ Autodele & Værktøj P/F/Torshavn 51 29 23 70 2 Mekonomen BilLivet Katrinelund AB/Stockholm 556882-0954 100 – 2 Mekonomen Billivet Kiruna AB/Stockholm 559118-0616 100 – MECA/MEKONOMEN 1) Mekonomen Billivet Lidingö AB/Stockholm 559149-9289 100 – Mekonomen Grossist Oy/Vantaa 2445185-0 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Ljungby AB/Stockholm 559118-0582 100 – Mekonomen ehf./Gardabaer 411214-0520 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Ljusdal AB/Stockholm 559149-9297 100 – Follo Autosenter AS/Vestby 986 573 704 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Moränen AB/Stockholm 559055-8549 100 – J&B Maskinteknikk AS/Gjøvik 915 971 865 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Norremark AB/Stockholm 559116-8694 100 – MECA Norway AS/Gjøvik 935 682 525 100 24 Mekonomen Billivet Nybro AB/Stockholm 559149-9388 100 – MECA Service AS/Gjøvik 920 377 068 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Nödinge AB/Stockholm 559123-7432 100 – Mekonomen Services AS/Kolbotn 999 323 332 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Skellefteå AB/Stockholm 559118-0590 100 – Mekonomen Tønsberg AS/Tønsberg 934 256 867 75 1 Mekonomen Billivet Strömstad AB/Stockholm 559123-7382 100 – Motor Norge AS/Alta 945 481 668 51 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Södertälje AB/Stockholm 556882-0939 100 – Preqas AS/Gjøvik, Norway 816 479 932 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Täby AB/Stockholm 556882-0962 100 – Sluppen Bilservice AS/Trondheim 997 956 753 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Uddevalla AB/Stockholm 559164-2722 100 – AlltiBil Västra Sverige AB/Gothenburg 556603-0747 65 – Mekonomen BilLivet Vårby AB/Stockholm 556882-0947 100 – Bilglascentralen AB/Gothenburg 556076-4598 65 – Mekonomen Billivet Värnamo AB/Stockholm 559123-7705 100 – BilXtra Sweden AB/Malmö 556509-7861 100 3 Mekonomen BilLivet Växjö AB/Stockholm 559118-0574 100 – J&B Maskinteknik AB/Gothenburg 556490-2996 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Åkersberga AB/Stockholm 556819-5019 100 – MECA Car Parts AB/Malmö 556169-0412 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Älmhult AB/Stockholm 559115-9461 100 – MECA Sweden AB/Malmö 556356-5612 100 56 Mekonomen Bilverkstad AB/Stockholm 556607-1493 100 – MECA Tunga Fordon AB/Malmö 559009-7837 100 – Mekonomen Blekinge AB/Sölvesborg 556649-9017 100 – MECA Verkstadsdrift AB/ Malmö 559012-2478 100 – Mekonomen Bollnäs AB/Bollnäs 556827-3675 91 1 Meko Service 15 AB/Stockholm 559123-7424 100 – Mekonomen Eklanda AB/Gothenburg 556887-1999 51 1 Meko Service 16 AB/Stockholm 559123-7416 100 – Mekonomen Enköping AB/Enköping 556264-2636 91 1 Meko Service 19 AB/Stockholm 559124-5070 100 – Mekonomen Falkenberg AB/Falkenberg 556213-1622 91 1 Meko Service 24 AB/Stockholm 559149-8976 100 – Mekonomen Falun AB/Falun 556559-3927 100 – Meko Service 29 AB/Stockholm 559149-9420 100 – Mekonomen Fleet AB/Stockholm 556720-6031 100 – Meko Service 31 AB/Stockholm 559181-0790 100 – Mekonomen Göteborg AB/Gothenburg 556887-2294 51 3 Meko Service 32 AB/Stockholm 559181-0782 100 – Mekonomen Hedemora AB/Hedemora 556308-8011 91 1 Meko Service 33 AB/Stockholm 559181-0766 100 – Mekonomen Härnösand AB/Härnösand 556217-2261 100 – Meko Service 34 AB/Stockholm 559179-3269 100 – Mekonomen Hässleholm AB/Hässleholm 556678-0622 91 1 Meko Service 35 AB/Stockholm 559181-0758 100 – Mekonomen Järfälla AB/Järfälla 556580-2351 95 1 Meko Service 5 AB/Stockholm 559101-9681 100 – Mekonomen Karlskoga AB/Uppsala 556821-6062 100 1 Meko Service Hemmesta AB/Upplands-Väsby 556428-1102 100 – Mekonomen Kramfors AB/Kramfors 556496-1810 91 1 Meko Service Småland AB/Stockholm 559115-9479 100 – Mekonomen Kungsbacka AB/Kungsbacka 556887-2336 51 1 Meko Service Susannes Bilverkstad i Härlöv AB/ Mekonomen Kungshamn AB/Sotenäs 559101-6257 80 1 Upplands-Väsby 556964-0641 100 – Mekonomen Lidköping AB/Lidköping 556761-3012 100 – Meko Service Södra AB/Stockholm 559086-6645 100 – Mekonomen Linköping AB/Linköping 556202-9545 100 – Mekonomen Alingsås AB/Alingsås 556596-3690 95 1 Mekonomen Ljusdal AB/Ljusdal 556786-1066 100 – Mekonomen Arvika AB/Arvika 556528-3750 100 – Mekonomen Ludvika AB/Ludvika 556470-4210 91 1 Mekonomen BilLivet AB/Stockholm 556845-2196 100 – Mekonomen Lund AB/Lund 556531-0108 91 1 Mekonomen Billivet Albyberg AB/Stockholm 559149-8893 100 – Mekonomen Mariestad AB/Mariestad 556261-0179 75 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Backaplan AB/Gothenburg 556756-1146 91 – Mekonomen Mjölby AB/Mjölby 556362-0565 95.5 – Mekonomen BilLivet Bemanning AB/Stockholm 559149-9255 100 – Mekonomen Mora AB/Mora 556363-2487 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Borås AB/Stockholm 559149-8570 100 – Mekonomen Motala AB/Motala 556311-8750 95.5 – Mekonomen Billivet Bromma AB/Stockholm 556864-3455 100 – Mekonomen Norrköping AB/Norrköping 556376-2797 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Eklanda AB/Stockholm 556863-9909 91 – Mekonomen Norrtälje AB/Stockholm 556178-9719 60 1 Mekonomen Billivet Fosie AB/Stockholm 559098-0537 100 – Mekonomen Nyköping AB/Nyköping 556244-0650 75 1 Mekonomen Billivet Gislaved AB/Stockholm 559123-7408 100 – Mekonomen Nödinge AB/Ale 556530-7237 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Grimmered AB/ Stockholm 559185-6983 100 Mekonomen Osby AB/Osby 556408-8044 91 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Gärdet AB/Upplands-Väsby 556821-6047 100 – Mekonomen Oskarshamn AB/Oskarshamn 556631-8589 75 1 Mekonomen BilLivet Gävle AB/Stockholm 556864-3448 100 – Mekonomen Piteå AB/Piteå 556659-8966 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Hedemora AB/Stockholm 559112-6460 91 – Mekonomen Sandviken AB/Sandviken 556201-1295 100 – Mekonomen BilLivet Helsingborg AB/Stockholm 559086-6744 80 – Mekonomen Sollefteå AB/Sollefteå 556216-9424 100 – Mekonomen Billivet Härnösand AB/Stockholm 559149-9313 100 – Mekonomen Strängnäs AB/Strängnäs 556786-9457 100 – 78 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 27 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES, CONT. Share of NumShare of NumIndirect participations in subsidiaries Corporate equity, ber of Indirect participations in subsidiaries Corporate equity, ber of Company name/domicile ­identity number % stores Company name/domicile ­identity number % stores Mekonomen Strömstad AB/Strömstad 556775-9849 100 – OTHER SEGMENTS Mekonomen Sundsvall Birsta AB/Sundsvall 556201-1675 100 – Name of company/registered office, Mekonomen Sundsvall Nacksta AB/Sundsvall 556777-4863 100 – Hong Kong Mekonomen Trollhättan AB/Trollhättan 556515-0298 100 – ProMeister Global Limited/Hong Kong 1988735 100 – Mekonomen Umeå AB/Umeå 556483-3084 81.8 1 Mekonomen Valdemarsvik AB/Valdemarsvik 556963-4966 100 – Name of company/registered office, Norway Mekonomen Varberg AB/Varberg 556261-0161 75 1 Lasingoo Norge AS/Trollåsen 914 835 585 100 – Mekonomen Verkstadscenter Älvsjö AB/HudProMeister Solutions AS/Gjøvik 917 100 462 100 – dinge 556192-0314 91 1 Mekonomen Vetlanda AB/Vetlanda 556653-4219 91 1 Name of company/registered office, Sweden Mekonomen Vimmerby AB/Vimmerby 556232-5877 100 – ProMeister Solutions AB/Malmö 559034-6929 100 – Mekonomen Vänersborg AB/Vänersborg 556770-0058 100 – ProMeister Verkstad AB/Stockholm 559149-9347 100 – Mekonomen Växjö AB/Växjö 556192-0439 100 – 0 Mekonomen Örebro AB/Örebro 556216-4250 100 1 Mekonomen Örebro Birsta AB/Örebro 556389-4095 100 1 TOTAL NUMBER OF STORES 397 Mekonomen Örnsköldsvik AB/Örnsköldsvik 556465-6287 51 1 Mekonomen Östersund AB/Östersund 556296-5243 100 – Including the Parent Company, Mekonomen Group comprises a total of 172 companies, 397 proprietary stores and 82 proprietary workshops. Currently, 21 wholly-­ Mekster AB/Stockholm 556917-2595 51 – owned companies run 363 stores and 29 partly-owned companies run 34 stores. Mianjo i Nödinge AB/Ale 559210-7808 100 – ­Furthermore, 40 wholly-owned companies run 67 car workshops and 9 partly-owned Preqas AB/Gothenburg 556884-6504 100 – companies run 15 workshops. Speedy Bilservice Högsbo AB/Malmö 556909-4906 100 – The Group has no subsidiary with non-controlling interests that is of individual sigSpeedy Bilservice Mölndal AB/Mölndal 559004-5711 91 – nificance to Mekonomen Group. Speedy Bilservice på Limhamn AB/Malmö 559097-7970 100 – Speedy Bilservice Solna AB/Malmö 556953-2434 91 – 114 1. Within MECA Mekonomen, a total of 26 wholly owned store companies were merged into their respective parent companies: Mekonomen Detaljist AB, Mekonomen Oy, Mekonomen Service AS. Share of NumIndirect participations in subsidiaries Corporate equity, ber of Company name/domicile ­identity number % stores SØRENSEN OG BALCHEN Askim Bilrekvisita AS/Askim 885 049 702 100 2 Autoproducts AS/Tiller 995 080 125 50 1 Bilartikler AS/Fredrikstad 921 462 867 60 3 Bilutstyr Arendal AS/Arendal 961 171 067 100 1 Bilvarehusene Nor AS/Oslo 880 553 852 100 8 Bilvarehusene Sør AS/Oslo 887 813 752 100 5 BilXtra AS/Oslo 983 032 133 100 5 BilXtra Autogården Kongsberg AS/Kongsberg 914 746 345 91.9 – BilXtra Skøyen AS/Oslo 916 795 521 100 – DINDEL NORWAY AS/Oslo 913 284 607 100 – Høistad Bildeler AS/Lillehammer 981 015 142 100 1 Jahre Motor Hamar AS/Hamar 935 614 031 100 1 Rogaland Rekvisita AS/Stavanger 936 043 119 100 2 Rønneberg Auto Industri AS/Ålesund 981 015 150 100 6 Vest Bilutstyr AS/Kokstad 980 281 450 100 2 37 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 79 Notes NOTE 28 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY A specification of changes to shareholders’ equity can be found in the statement of Reserves changes in consolidated and Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity, see pages 53 and The item consists of translation differences attributable to the translation of foreign 57, respectively. subsidiaries and related hedges of equity in accordance with IAS 21 and cash-flow hedges as shown in the table below: Share capital and number of shares Translation Group Reserves differences1) Hedges Total Total number of shares 2019 2018 Opening balance on 1 January 2018 –178 –3 –182 At 1 January 56,416,622 35,901,487 Exchange-rate differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries –129 – –129 New share issue – 20,515,135 Hedging of net investment, net1) 4 – 4 At 31 December 56,416,622 56,416,622 Cash-flow hedging2) – 1 1 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 –304 –3 –307 Group Treasury shares 2019 2018 Opening balance on 1 January 2019 –304 –3 –307 At 1 January 63,250 63,250 Exchange-rate differences on translation Acquisitions for the year1) 30,000 – of foreign subsidiaries 108 – 108 At 31 December 93,250 63,250 Hedging of net investment1) –33 – –33 Cash-flow hedging2) – –4 –4 1. To ensure delivery of shares according to the long-term incentive programme decided by the AGM (LTIP 2019), the company bought back 30,000 shares during the period 3 July–10 July 2019. Tax recognised directly against equity 4 1 5 The company already has 63,250 treasury shares. The company thereby has a total of 93,250 Closing balance on 31 December 2019 –226 –7 –232 treasury shares at the end of 2019 to ensure delivery of shares for LTIP 2019. As the total number of shares in Mekonomen amounts to 56,416,622, this corresponds to 0.17 per cent. 1. Loans raised in EUR in connection with acquisitions in Denmark in 2018 hedge the currency risk in the net investments and loans converted to NOK in 2019 hedge the net investment in Norway Group and the currency translation is recognised in accordance with IFRS 9. 2. Holding of financial interest rate derivatives for hedging purposes, valued according to level 2 Number of outstanding shares1) 31 Dec. 2019 31 Dec. 2018 defined in IFRS 13. Total number of shares 56,416,622 56,416,622 Treasury shares –93,250 –63,250 Profit brought forward The profit brought forward item corresponds to the accumulated profits and losses Total 56,323,372 56,353,372 generated in total in the Group. 1. There was no dilution effect from the number of shares as of 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018, respectively. Profit brought forward Group Opening balance on 1 January 2018 1,000 Share capital, SEK 2019 2018 Comprehensive income for the year: At 1 January 141,041,555 89,753,718 Profit for the year 260 New share issue – 51,287,838 Actuarial gains and losses –2 At 31 December 141,041,555 141,041,555 Comprehensive income for the year 258 Dividends –251 Quotient value per share, SEK 2.50 2.50 Buyback of own shares –6 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests 0 Other capital contributions Closing balance on 31 December 2018 1,001 Other capital contributions included contributions the company received from shareholders and which are not recognised as share capital. Opening balance on 1 January 2019 1,001 Comprehensive income for the year: Other capital contributions Profit for the year 413 Opening balance on 1 January 2018 1,456 Actuarial gains and losses –4 New share issue 1,570 Comprehensive income for the year 409 New issue expenses -41 Buyback of own shares –2 Tax effect on new issue expenses 8 Sharesavings programme 1 Closing balance on 31 December 2018 2,993 Acquisition/divestment of non-controlling interests –6 Closing balance on 31 December 2019 1,401 Opening balance on 1 January 2019 2,993 Dividend to Parent Company’s shareholders Closing balance on 31 December 2019 2,993 The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for 2019. Proposed appropriation of profit – Parent Company The following profit is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting, SEK 000s: Profit brought forward 4,618,681 Profit for the year 401,393 Total 5,020,074 The Board of Directors proposes that profits be appropriated as follows: To be carried forward 5,020,074 Total 5,020,074 80 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 29 CAPITAL Mekonomen Group manages its capital to ensure that the units in the Group are able Mekonomen Group’s financial targets include that net debt (adjusted for IFRS 16)/ to continue operating, while dividends to shareholders are maximised through a sound EBITDA shall not exceed 2.0 over the long term. The Group’s acquisition of FTZ and balance between liabilities and shareholders’ equity. The Group’s capital comprises Inter-Team in 2018 have temporarily materially increased the key figure of net debt/ shareholders’ equity, as well as short and long-term borrowing. The proportions of EBITDA as the acquisitions are partly loan financed. According to plan, the loan financing shareholders’ equity and changes during the year are described in the changes in conwill gradually decrease, with it the net debt as well, and Mekonomen Group’s goal that solidated shareholders’ equity on page 53 and Note 28 Shareholders’ equity. net debt/EBITDA shall not remain above 2.0 in the long term. The Group’s financial At least once per year, the Board reviews the capital structure and takes this into targets also include that the equity/assets ratio shall not drop below 40 per cent long account when making decisions on, for example, dividends or raising new loans. The term. For further information on Mekonomen Group’s financial targets, see page key figure the Group Management Team and the Board primarily assesses regarding 16–17 and for further information on the Group’s key figures, see the section of the capital structure is net debt relative to EBITDA. This key figure is continuously folFive-year summary on page 90–92. lowed up in the internal reporting to the Group Management Team and the Board. NOTE 30 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES ON THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT Group Parent Company Adjustments for non-cash items in operating activities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Depreciation/Amortisation 825 229 0 0 Impairment of intangible fixed assets – 0 – – Impairment of financial fixed assets – 0 – – Impairment of inventories 12 48 – – Other provisions –6 9 0 0 Capital gain/loss from divestment of fixed assets 5 3 – – Capital gain/loss from divestment of operations – 7 – – Exchange gains/losses 0 –133 19 –126 Capitalised interest income – – –23 –9 Interest expense, IFRS 16 21 – – – Other items not affecting liquidity 4 11 5 11 Total 861 175 0 –124 Cash flow Non-cash items Effect of Period-­ Opening ­implementation Increase allocated Closing Change in liabilities with cash flows balance, of IFRS 161) Loans Amortisation of lease Currency loan raising Change in ­balance, in financing activities, Group 1 Jan. 2019 1 Jan. 2019 raised/repaid leasing1) ­liabilities1) effect expenses fair value 31 Dec. 2019 Liabilities to credit institutions2) 4,303 – –280 – – 36 5 – 4,064 Lease liabilities2) 3 2,007 – –507 250 27 – – 1,780 Derivatives, interest-rate swaps 3 – – – – – – 7 10 Total 4,309 2,007 –280 –507 250 63 5 7 5,853 1. The implementation of IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 meant that the lease liabilities increased without entailing a cash flow. The transition effect as per 1 January 2019 is reported separately in the table above. Continuous repayments of the lease liabilities (part of rental payments) are classified as cash flows in financing activities. The current year’s increase in lease liabilities as a result of new leases, etc. are not classified as cash flow, however. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the simplified method in the implementation of IFRS 16. For further information on the ­transition to IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019, refer to Note 1 Accounting policies under the heading Amended and new accounting policies and Leasing. 2. Opening lease liabilities of SEK 3 M at 1 January 2019 were included in the item liabilities to credit institutions in the previous year. Cash flow Non-cash items Opening Period-allocated Closing Change in liabilities with cash flows balance, Loans Currency loan raising Change in balance, in financing activities, Group 1 January 2018 raised/repaid effect expenses fair value 31 Dec. 2018 Liabilities to credit institutions 1,702 2,728 –136 11 – 4,305 Derivatives, interest-rate swaps 4 – – – 0 3 Total 1,706 2,728 –136 11 0 4,309 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 81 Notes NOTE 31 EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS IMPLEMENTED Business combinations 2019 Business combinations 2018 MECA/Mekonomen acquired four stores in Sweden and three workshops in Sweden On 6 July 2018, Mekonomen entered an agreement to acquire all shares in the car and two workshops in Norway. MECA / Mekonomen has also acquired minority holdpart distributors FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S (“FTZ”) in Denmark and INTER-TEAM ings in three stores and two workshops. Sp.z.o.o. (“Inter-Team”) in Poland. After approval by relevant authorities was obtained, Sørensen og Balchen acquired one store in Norway. the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team was completed on 3 September 2018. Payment Through FTZ, the Group also acquired Nordic Forum Holding A/S, the former for the shares was fully made in cash and the total purchase consideration amounted holding company for FTZ and Inter-Team. This was a part of the earlier acquisition to EUR 404 M, translated at the rate on the transaction date to SEK 4,284 M. Distriof FTZ and Inter-Team. However, Nordic Forum has not had any operations as a bution of the total purchase consideration is presented by the table below. ­holding company as before and the transaction does not have any material significance The share purchase agreement between Mekonomen and Hella Holding Internato Mekonomen, but rather the acquisition was only a practical result of the earlier tional GmbH comprised, in addition to acquisitions of the companies FTZ and Interacquisitions. Team, that Mekonomen on certain conditions would acquire Nordic Forum Holding Meko Service Nordic also acquired non-controlling interests in one workshop for A/S, the former holding company for FTZ and Inter-Team. After the end of the financial a minor value. Meko Service Nordic also acquired six workshops in Sweden, two in year, the acquisition of the holding company was carried out with the aim of fulfilling Malmö, one in Älmhult, Växjö, Ljungby and Västerås. the agreement and the transaction is not of a material significance to Mekonomen. The impact of all acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. Nordic Forum has no active operations after 2018 and will not be used in its former Information on corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each role in as the holding company or a commercial counterparty to its subsidiaries; the ­individual acquisition is not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate acquisition is only a practical result of the earlier acquisitions. ­recognition. All acquisitions were paid in cash. The acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team fit well Mekonomen Group’s strategy of being part of the ongoing consolidation in Europe. The business is strategic for Acquisitions in 2019 Total acquisitions Mekonomen Group, which is now taking the next step in its journey of growth. Through FTZ, the Group is strengthening its position as the leading car part distribuValue of acquired assets and liabilities tor in the Nordic region and through FTZ, which holds 28 per cent of the market Tangible fixed assets 2 share in Denmark, the leading car parts distributor in Denmark. Through Inter-Team, Inventories 11 Mekonomen Group establishes a strong market position in Poland and will be able to Current receivables 13 partake of the fast-growing and fragmented Polish car parts market that is also characterised by an older car fleet than in the Nordic countries. The acquired companies Cash and cash equivalents 14 shall continue to be developed in the scope of existing corporate structure and brands Current liabilities –20 within their own segments in the Group. Acquired net assets 20 Through the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team, Mekonomen Group’s sales were almost doubled. The acquisition is expected to generate annual synergies of SEK 100 M, Customer relations 17 of which the majority is comprised of purchasing synergies, with full effect in 2021. The Goodwill 35 Group is at the same time increasing the number of stores from around 330 to more Deferred tax liabilities –1 than 460 and the number of affiliated workshops is from 2,000 to more than 3,400. Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus value recognised FTZ and Inter-Team are included in Mekonomen’s financial statements from the against shareholders’ equity 6 acquisition date 3 September 2018. Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 78 In addition to the acquisitions of FTZ and Inter-Team, the Group acquired 18 workshops in Sweden and four workshops in Norway during the year. Acquisitions also Total purchase price –78 took place of 65 per cent of the participations in AlltiBil Västra Sverige AB with seven – of which, cash portion –70 workshops in Sweden, which in turn acquired Bilglascentralen with operations in – of which supplementary purchase considerations entered as Gothenburg and 51 per cent of the participations in Mekster AB with sales of spare liabilities –8 parts over the Internet. In addition, seven stores and three car wash facilities were Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired companies 14 acquired in Sweden. In addition, four new workshops were established in Sweden. Besides FTZ and Inter-Team, which are reported separately below, information on Plus paid supplementary purchase considerations regarding corporate acquisitions is provided in aggregate form since each individual acquisition is ­earlier years –13 not deemed to be of such a size as to warrant separate recognition. All other acquisiImpact on Group’s cash and cash equivalents –70 tions were paid in cash. During the 2018 financial year, FTZ and Inter-Team have affected the Group’s net One store manager entered as a partner in one store company during the year. sales and operating profit according to the table below: Partici­pating interest and SEK M FTZ Inter-Team Total Acquired subsidiaries/ Acquisition share of operations 2019 Country date voting rights Object Net sales, external 1,088 638 1,726 Operating profit/loss1) 49 –1 49 Stores, Malmö, Växjö, Jönköping Assets and – MECA/Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities 1. E xcluding acquisition costs of SEK 23 M and excluding amortisation of intangible assets identified in connection with the acquisition totalling SEK 26 M. Workshop, Gothenburg – MECA/Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities Workshop, Växjö Assets and The impact of other acquisitions on consolidated sales and earnings was marginal. – MECA/Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities If the acquisition of FTZ or Inter-Team been done as of 1 January 2018, the impact Assets and on consolidated net sales and the impact on the operating profit during the 2018 Store, Fredrikstad Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities financial year would have amounted to: Workshop, Trondheim – MECA/Mekonomen Norway Quarter 1 100 Equities Store, Nödinge SEK M FTZ Inter-Team Total – MECA/Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 3 100 Equities Workshop, Gothenburg Assets and Net sales, external 3,288 1,882 5,170 – MECA/Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Operating profit/loss1) 341 19 360 Workshop, Follo 1. E xcluding acquisition costs of SEK 23 M and excluding amortisation according to plan of intangible – MECA/Mekonomen Norway Quarter 4 100 Equities assets identified in connection with the acquisition totalling SEK 77 M. 82 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 31 EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS IMPLEMENTED, CONT. The total of other acquisitions would have had an immaterial impact on sales and Acquired subsidiaries/ Acquisition % equity and ­earnings if they had been implemented at the beginning of the year. operations 2018 Country date % v­ otes Object Acquisition-related costs amount to SEK 23 M for the 2018 financial year. The Assets and acquisition costs are essentially attributable to the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team. Store, Vårby – Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities These costs are not included in the total purchase consideration in the table below, but rather have been reported as other costs in the consolidated income statement. Stores, Hedemora and ­Kristinehamn – Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities The acquisition analysis for acquired operations is presented below: Workshops, Värnamo and Assets and Gislaved – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities Other Total InteracquisiacquisiWorkshop, Hedemora Acquisitions during 2018 FTZ Team tions tions – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 1 100 Equities Workshop, Sandefjord Value of acquired assets and liabilities – Mekonomen Norway Quarter 1 100 Equities Intangible fixed assets 8 3 1 11 Workshop, Skøyen Assets and Tangible fixed assets 76 51 20 148 – Sørensen og Balchen Norway Quarter 1 100 liabilities Financial fixed assets 8 6 0 14 Assets and Store, Söderhamn – MECA Sweden Quarter 1 100 liabilities Deferred tax assets – 1 – 1 Workshops, Trollhättan, Inventories 559 605 18 1,182 ­Strömstad, Borås and Gävle Assets and Current receivables 596 207 10 813 – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 640 37 4 681 Assets and Long-term liabilities –12 –469 –1 –482 Workshops, Nynäshamn – Speedy Sweden Quarter 2 100 liabilities Deferred tax liabilities –25 – – –25 AlltiBil Västra Sverige AB Sweden Quarter 2 65 Equities Bilglascentralen AB Sweden Quarter 3 65 Equities Current liabilities –581 –273 –23 –878 Workshop, Jaren – MECA Norway Quarter 3 100 Equities Acquired net assets 1,269 168 29 1,465 Workshop, Trøndelag Brands 518 30 – 548 – Mekonomen Norway Quarter 3 100 Equities Customer relations 778 22 29 829 Workshops, Eskilstuna, Nödinge Assets and Goodwill 1,766 29 70 1,865 and Nybro – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Workshops, Rosersberg and Lund Assets and Deferred tax liabilities –285 –10 –5 –300 – MECA Sweden Quarter 3 100 liabilities Acquired non-controlling interests, surplus Mekster AB Sweden Quarter 3 51 Equities value recognised against shareholders’ equity – – 1 1 FTZ Autodele & Værktøj A/S Denmark Quarter 3 100 Equities Total identifiable net assets and goodwill 4,045 239 123 4,407 INTER-TEAM Sp.z.o.o. Poland Quarter 3 100 Equities Total purchase price –4,045 –239 –123 –4,407 Workshop, Uddevalla – of which, cash portion –4,045 –239 –120 –4,404 – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 Equities – of which supplementary purchase Workshops, Lidingö, Ljusdal ­considerations entered as liabilities – – –3 –3 and Härnösand Assets and – Meko Service Nordic Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired Assets and companies 640 37 4 681 Workshop, Åbro – Speedy Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Less settlement of the acquired units’ Stores, Sunne and Hagfors Assets and ­liabilities to the seller – –469 – –469 – MECA Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities Plus paid supplementary purchase Store, Uddevalla – Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 4 100 Equities ­considerations regarding earlier years – – –5 –5 Assets and Impact on Group’s cash and Car wash facilities – Mekonomen Sweden Quarter 4 100 liabilities cash ­equivalents –3,405 –670 –121 –4,196 Fair value of acquired receivables amounts to SEK 813 M. The brands have indefinite lifespans. Customer relationships amount to SEK 829 M, NOTE 32 INFORMATION CONCERNING REVENUE AND of which SEK 800 M is attributable to the acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team and is EXPENSES BETWEEN GROUP COMPANIES assessed to have a useful life of 10 years. The remaining customer relationships of SEK 29 M are deemed to have a useful life of 5 years. During the year, the Parent Company Mekonomen AB sold products and services to Arisen goodwill is mainly attributable to the value of geographic expansion and a Group companies totalling SEK 34 M (30). Purchases relating to goods and services stronger market position, especially in the Nordic region. Arisen goodwill is furtherfrom Group companies amounted to SEK 52 M (67). more attributable to anticipated specific synergies in Mekonomen, new customers and, to a limited extent, the combined workforce. These advantages have not been recognised separately from goodwill since they do not meet the criteria for recognition of identifiable intangible assets. The acquisition of FTZ and Inter-Team is expected to NOTE 33 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED-PARTIES generate annual synergies of SEK 100 M, of which the majority is comprised of purchasing synergies. The synergies will gradually arise beginning in the second half of 2018 In 2019, Mekonomen Group sold goods and services worth SEK 5 M (5) and acquired and are expected to achieve full effect in 2021. Expenses of SEK 60 M are deemed to goods and services worth SEK 3 M (3) from companies where Mekonomen Group arise in connection with the work to realise the synergies and achieve integration. FTZ has significant influence or joint controlling influence. and Inter-Team shall continue to act as own companies in their existing corporate Figo AS, which is owned by Frank Bekken, President of Mekonomen Norway, has structures; thereby no significant integration costs will arise over time. during the period rented out premises to Mekonomen AS to a value of SEK 3 M. Of the goodwill that arose in connection with the acquisitions, SEK 25 M is expected Agreements on goods and services with related parties are made on market-based to be tax deductible. terms. As of the balance sheet date, receivables from affiliated companies totalled Three workshop managers entered as partners in three workshop companies SEK 0 M (3) and liabilities to SEK 0 M (0). ­during the year. No other transactions with related parties took place. For information on ­remuneration of senior executives, refer to Note 5. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 83 Notes NOTE 34 EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE YEAR NOTE 36 FINANCIAL RISKS On 5 January 2020, Mekonomen’s Nomination Committee submitted its proposal Through its operations, Mekonomen Group is exposed to currency, credit, interest-­ to the Board for the General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2020. The Nomination rate, financing and liquidity risks. The management of these risks is regulated in the Committee proposes the re-election of John S. Quinn, Eivor Andersson, Kenny Bräck, finance policy adopted by the Board. Credit risk relating to customer commitments Joseph M. Holsten, Magnus Håkansson, Helena Skåntorp and Arja Taaveniku. is managed, according to central frameworks, decentralised locally. Other risks are John S. Quinn is proposed to be re-elected as the Chairman of the Board. mainly managed centrally by the Group’s Treasury unit. From 7 February 2020, Petra Bendelin, Director of Business Development and Strategy, is a member of the Group Management Team for Mekonomen AB. Currency risk During the winter of 2020, COVID 19 pandemic is ongoing, which also affects Currency risks occur when currency fluctuations have a negative impact on the Mekonomen Group’s market conditions and operations. Group’s earnings and shareholders’ equity. Currency exposure arises in connection Mekonomen Group is working diligently to manage the effects of the coronavirus with cash flows in foreign currencies (transaction exposure), as well as in translation situation, the highest priority being the health and safety of employees and customers. of loans/receivables in foreign currencies and in the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ All activities in the company are being carefully evaluated from a cost and risk perspecbalance sheets and income statements into SEK (translation exposure). tive in order to mitigate the negative financial effects associated with the virus. In 2019, currency fluctuations had a positive impact on the Group’s profit before As a result of the rapid spread of the coronavirus and its impact in markets where tax totalling SEK 3 M (135). The most important currency in terms of transaction Mekonomen Group has a significant presence and the currencies the company is exposure is EUR, which represents 47 per cent (42) of goods purchases in the Group, exposed to, the company believes that the risk of adverse effects has increased as well as NOK pertaining to internal sales from wholesale companies in Mekonomen ­significantly. Sweden and MECA to Norway. NOK, DKK and PLN are the most important currenJanuary and February have developed in line with the corresponding period last year, cies regarding translation exposure. The handling of currency risks is regulated in the while recent weeks have shown a significantly lower market activity and demand for finance policy. The Group can hedge operating cash flows with a hedging period of workshop services and products. The difference in activity among our markets is conbetween 3 and 12 months. siderable, with Norway standing out as very weak. The supply chain is working well in The Group has a number of holdings in foreign operations, the net assets of which the current situation and the company’s branches and warehouses operate at normal are exposed to currency risks, mainly in NOK, DKK and PLN. With regard to this levels. The effects of the coronavirus situation will affect Mekonomen Group’s sales, ­currency exposure, the principal rule is that Mekonomen Group does not hedge this earnings and cash flow for the first quarter and for some portion of the rest of the year. exposure. However, if major foreign investments are made that require separate Due to the rapidly changing situation, it is not possible to predict the duration financing, a decision may be made to recognise all or part of the financing in the acquior scope of the impact on the company thereof and therefore the company cannot sition currency. During the year, the Group began hedge accounting of net investment ­predict the full potential financial impact. by foreign operations in NOK as a result of earlier investments in Norway. This hedgIn the end of March 2020, the business area MECA/Mekonomen was exposed to ing has been done by classifying a loan in NOK as hedging instruments. The translation data breaches. It is not possible to predict the duration of the breaches and therefore of the loan at the closing day rate is recognised in other comprehensive income instead the company cannot predict the full potential financial impact. Mekonomen Group of for profit or loss and meet the restatement of the net assets in NOK. There is has activated the company’s cyber insurance which, among other things, gives the already a currency hedge of net assets in DKK through loans in EUR that have been company access to IT expertise and limits potential financial damage for the company. classified as hedging instruments. This forms an effective hedge as a result of the The company believes it has adequate back-ups of these systems and is implementing strong connection between the exchange rates SEK/EUR and SEK/DKK since DKK is its disaster recovery plan. closely linked to EUR. For more information on currency exposure, refer also to the As a result of the COVID 19 pandemic and the impact of the data breaches, it sensitivity analysis section in the Administration Report. is very difficult to forecast the performance of the company, but we anticipate a material negative impact in the trading environment for the rest of the year. While Credit risk the company believes that at this time it has adequate liquidity, as a result of the The Group’s financial transactions give rise to credit risks in relation to financial counfast-changing environment, the company has been evaluating its liquidity and bank terparties. Credit risks or counterparty risks refer to the risk of loss if the countercovenants. party does not fulfil its commitments. Mekonomen Group’s credit risks primarily comThe company believes it was in full compliance with its bank covenants as of prise accounts receivable, which are distributed over a large number of counterparties 31 March 2020; however, out of an abundance of caution it pro-actively began dis­ and a small portion of long-term hire-purchase contracts. For each new customer, or cussions with its banking group. As a result of those discussions the banking group in the event an existing customer wants to increase the credit limit, a credit rating is has agreed to raise the bank leverage covenant as of 31 March and postpone the conducted according to the Group’s established policies. The maximum credit risk company´s planned amortization payment of Euro 5 million due 31 March 2020. corresponds to the carrying amount of financial assets. Specifications of changes to the In addition, the company is in further discussions with its banking group regarding credit loss reserve of accounts receivable for the year and long-term hire-purchase additional covenant relief or amendments for the future as well as potentially further contracts are found in Notes 17 and 19. postponing amortization payments and expanding its borrowing capacity. A breach of the covenants, if not waived by the banking group, could mean that the company Interest-rate risk may no longer utilize its credit facilities and could lead to an acceleration of the repayInterest-rate risks refer to the risk that changes in market interest rates will have a ment dates of certain of its borrowings leading to a liquidity shortage. ­negative impact on the Group’s net interest expense. The rate at which interest rate As a consequence of the uncertainty regarding the market development, the changes affect the net interest expense depends on the period of fixed interest for Board of Directors of Mekonomen Group has decided, in order to further strengthen the loan. According to the finance policy, the fixed-interest period is normally to be the company’s financial position, to withdraw the previous dividend proposal for 2019 24 months, with an exception mandate of +12/-18 months. to the Annual General Meeting of SEK 0.50 per share. As per 31 December 2019, Mekonomen’s net debt is SEK 3,709 M (4,098). A fixed-­ interest period is available with a term of less than one year. In addition to this, there No other significant events occurred after the end of the financial year. are interest-rate swaps of EUR 60.75 M falling due in March 2022, EUR 60.75 M falling due in August 2023 and NOK 300 M falling due in 2022 to hedge the cash flow in the loans Mekonomen AB has. The swaps lead to Mekonomen receiving variable interest and paying fixed interest. The Group has classified the interest-rate swaps as hedging NOTE 35 APPROVAL OF ANNUAL REPORT instruments in a cash flow hedge of future interest payments. Mekonomen measures the effectiveness of the hedging relationship on each reporting occasion. The interest The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements were approved for issue rate swap and the loan have the same currency, interest base (EURIBOR 3M and by the Board on 31 March 2020. The consolidated income statement, statement of NIBOR), interest translation date and the loan volume is not below the interest-rate comprehensive income and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement, swap’s nominal amount whereby there is a strong financial link between the loan and statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet will be subject to approval by the interest-rate swap. See also the table in the Sensitivity analysis section of the the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2020. Administration Report. 84 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 NOTE 36 FINANCIAL RISKS, CONT. Financing and liquidity risks Hedge accounting’s impact on the Group’s financial position and performance Financing risk is seen as the risk of the cost being higher and financing opportunities Group limited when loans are renewed and payment obligations cannot be met as a result of Translation of net assets in foreign currencies 2019 2018 insufficient liquidity or difficulties in securing financing. According to the finance policy, refinancing risks are to be managed by signing long-term and flexible credit agreements. Carrying amount, hedging instrument, SEK 2,379 M SEK 2,497 M As per 31 December 2019, the Group’s total loan financing excluding IFRS 16 Leases ­long-term liabilities to credit institutions amounted to SEK 4,064 M (4,303), of which the long-term portion is SEK 3,317 M (DKK/EUR) (3,225). The Group’s borrowing from banks is subject to certain conditions, known Nominal amount in EUR, EUR 228 M EUR 243 M as covenants, all of which Mekonomen AB meets. The conditions include an owner hedging i­nstrument change clause that becomes current upon an owner change in excess of 50 per cent Carrying amount in foreign assets SEK 2,379 M SEK 2,497 M or upon a delisting. Amounts in DKK DKK 1,703 M DKK 1,815 M See the maturity structure in addition to amortisation according to plan in the Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 graph below: Changes in the loan’s carrying amount SEK –41 M SEK –5 M MEKONOMEN GROUP’S EXTERNAL LOANS WITHOUT BACKUP due to changes in exchange rate ­FACILITIES AS PER 31 DECEMBER 2019 Changes in value of assets in SEK +41 M SEK +8 M foreign c­ urrency 2,000 SEK M Carrying amount, hedging instrument, longSEK 529 M – 1,600 term liabilities to credit institutions (NOK) Nominal amount in NOK, NOK 500 M – 1,200 hedging i­nstrument Carrying amount in foreign assets SEK 529 M – 800 Amounts in NOK NOK 500 M – 400 Hedge ratio 1:1 – Changes in the loan’s carrying amount SEK +7 M – due to changes in exchange rate 0 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Changes in value of assets in SEK –7 M – foreign c­ urrency Bank loans Group Repayments of loans take place in an amount of SEK 136 M plus EUR 20 M (SEK 209 M) Cash flow hedges of interest-rate risk 2019 2018 per year. In addition, the Group has overdraft facilities totalling SEK 570 M (443). The Group’s cash and cash equivalents are invested short term and any excess liquidity is Carrying amount, hedging instrument SEK -8 M SEK -3 M to primarily be used for amortising loans. According to the finance policy, investments Nominal amount SEK 1,585 M SEK 1,248 M may be made in SEK, NOK and EUR. Investments may be made with or in securities (2 x EUR 60.75 M (2 x EUR 60.75 M) issued by the Swedish Government or Swedish and foreign banks with at least an + NOK 300 M) A rating, according to the definition of Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Due date 2022 and 2023 2022 and 2023 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Fair value No financial assets or liabilities were recognised at a value that significantly deviated Value changes for outstanding derivative SEK -5 M SEK -3 M from fair value. instruments Value changes of the hedged item SEK 5 M SEK 3 M Ineffectiveness in hedge accounting For all hedging relationships, the effectiveness is evaluated. The relationship between Mekonomen’s impact on the uncertainty in future cash flows is presented by the table the hedged item and the hedging instrument is evaluated continuously to ensure that below (SEK M): the relationship meets the requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting. The More Group matches the critical conditions in the hedged item with corresponding conditions Within 1–3 3–5 than 5 Due date for nominal amount 1 year years years years in the hedging instrument. For cash flow hedges of interest-rate risk, the Group enters into interest-rate swaps that have the same critical conditions as the hedged item. Critical Nominal amount1) – 951 634 – conditions can be reference rate, interest translation dates, payment dates, due dates Average hedged fixed interest – 0.60% 0.375% – and nominal amounts. The Group does not hedge 100% of the loans and therefore identified only the part of the outstanding loans that are matched by the swaps’ nomi1. Nominal amounts per currency: 1–3 years consist of EUR 60.75 M and NOK 300 M. 3–5 years nal amounts. In addition, the credit risk at Mekonomen and the counterparty does not consist of EUR 60.75 M. The entire amount may be affected by IBOR reforms. significantly affect the measurement of the interest-rate swaps, which makes the hedge effective. The hedge ratio is 1:1. Effects of reference rate reforms may have an impact on the hedge’s effectiveness, but these effects are deemed to not be material. For impact on comprehensive income and reserves in equity, see Note 28 Equity. For hedges of net investments of foreign operations in Norway (NOK) and ­Denmark (DKK), ineffectiveness arises as a result of EUR loans being used to currency hedge net investments in DKK. As the currencies are closely linked, the discrepancy that arises is not deemed to be material. Other possible sources of ineffectiveness in the hedging relationships is if the hedged items, net investment in DKK and NOK, were to suddenly decrease since it would lead to the part of the loan classified as a hedging instrument exceeding the equity in DKK and NOK. The hedge ratio in the relationship is 1:1, which means that net investments in DKK and NOK, respectively, and loans in EUR and NOK, respectively, are equal. If changed conditions affect the condition for the hedged item in such an extent that the critical conditions no longer match the hedging instrument’s critical conditions, the Group uses the hypothetical derivative method to evaluate effectiveness. No ineffectiveness has been reported in the results in 2018 or 2019. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 85 Signatures The Board of Directors and CEO hereby certify that the Annual Report, including sustainability report, was prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 and provides a true and fair view of the company’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report ­provides a true and fair view of the performance of the company’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the company. The Board of Directors and CEO hereby certify that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as approved by the EU, and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and earnings and that the Administration Report for the Group provides a true and fair view of the performance of the Group’s operations, position and earnings and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 31 March 2020 John S. Quinn Helena Skåntorp Eivor Andersson Chairman of the Board Executive Vice Chairman Board member Kenny Bräck Joseph M. Holsten Magnus Håkansson Arja Taaveniku Board member Board member Board member Board member Pehr Oscarsson President and CEO Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 31 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Linda Corneliusson Authorised Public Accountant 86 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF MEKONOMEN AB (PUBL), CORP. ID NO. 556392-1971 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Our audit approach Opinions Audit focus and scope We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Mekonomen AB We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material (publ) for the year 2019 except for the corporate governance statement on pages misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered 42–50. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant on pages 36–86 in this document. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events ­prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2019 and of ­management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accorddue to fraud. ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us financial position of the group as of 31 December 2019 and of their financial perforto provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into mance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Finanaccount the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the cial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. industry in which the group operates. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 42–50. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual Materiality accounts and consolidated accounts. The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is We therefore recommend that the General Meeting of shareholders adopts the designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free income statement and balance sheet for the parent Company and the group. from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted to the to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation financial statements. (537/2014) Article 11. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial Basis for Opinions statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. ­in­dependent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities Key audit matters in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our ­applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. to provide a basis for our opinions. Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit matter Existence and valuation of inventory We refer to Note 1 Accounting policies, Note 2 Significant estimates and assessments and Note 18 Inventory. In Mekonomen Group, inventory, which consists of spare parts and car accessories, In the inventory process, there are controls that the business performs to ensure constitutes a significant part of the Group’s assets. Inventory amounts to SEK 2,854 M ­correct reporting. We have mapped the routines for inventory transactions and as at 31 December 2019. With the aim of offering rapid deliveries and being close accounting. Furthermore, we have evaluated and tested the effectiveness of key to the customers, there is a large number of local store warehouses represented in ­controls. We have also tested relevant IT systems. Mekonomen Group’s four business areas. In addition, there is a number of central In addition to test of controls in the purchase processes and test of controls of and regional warehouses in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Poland and Finland. Inventory IT systems, detailed testing was done of a selection of products in inventory for is measured according to the lower of cost and net realisable value. goods for resale to check the purchase price against invoice. Furthermore, we have To ensure the existence in inventory, Mekonomen Group performs perpetual conducted an analysis of the company’s assessment of the net realisable value. For inventory counts at the various inventory locations during the year. The value of the some of the Group’s central warehouses, data analyses are also being done, meaning inventory is affected by such factors as purchase prices and obsolescence. Purchase that all inventory transactions are sorted and analysed in accordance with predeterprices are in turn affected by agreements with various suppliers with regard to mined parameters. We also assessed the Group’s model for obsolescence calculation ­discounts and purchase bonuses, which are based on achieved purchase volumes. and reviewed its application. Inventory is a key audit matter in our audit as it is associated with estimates and In order to ensure the inventory’s existence and its condition, we also participate judgments mainly related to obsolescence and volume bonuses. In addition, invenin a selection of stock takes that Mekonomen Group performs. We also conduct our tory is a significant area as it relates to a transaction intensive process where there own stock takes in some warehousing locations. In addition, we assessed the adequacy is an inherent risk for errors in both inbound and outbound deliveries. of the disclosures provided in the annual report and consolidated financial statements. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 87 Auditor’s report Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit matter Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life We refer to Note 1 Accounting policies, Note 2 Significant estimates and assessments and Note 12 Intangible assets. Goodwill constitutes a significant part of Mekonomen Group’s total assets and We have verified that the forecasted cash flows included in the impairment test for amounts to SEK 3,770 M as per 31 December 2019, which represents 29 per cent the next year are based on the recurring budgets and forecasts prepared by manageof the total assets. Acquired brands attributable to the acquisitions of Sørensen og ment. We have reconciled that the assumptions used for the first years of the forecast Balchen, MECA, FTZ and Inter-Team have been assessed to have an indefinite useful are consistent with management’s strategic plans and intentions. And we have evaluated life and amount to SEK 865 M as of the same point in time. the long term margin and growth rate that the company use to forecast cash flows Impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful beyond the first five-year period. lives takes place in the fourth quarter annually or more frequently if there are indiOur tests of the discount rate used for calculation purposes, included and assesscations of value depreciation. The recoverable amount for a cash-generating unit is ment of whether the discount rate reflects the specific and general risks related to established based on calculations of the value in use. The value in use is the present the cash generating unit. We have been able to reconcile the data in the calculation to value of the estimated future cash flows. Calculated value in use is sensitive to changes independent external sources and validated that the composition of the discount rate in assumptions for the sales growth rate, EBITDA margin and the relevant discount is consistent with established theory and working practices. rate (WACC, Weighted Average Cost of Capital), which is used to d­ iscount future We have also evaluated the company’s analysis of the sensitivity in the valuation cash flows. of changes in significant parameters that could lead to impairment. As goodwill and assets with indefinite useful lives are subject to the management’s In addition, we assessed the adequacy of the disclosures provided in the annual assessments and judgment and as the items are significant, we assessed the risk for report and consolidated financial statements. impairment requirements as a key audit matter. Emphasis of Matter M ­ anaging Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is We draw attention to Note 34 of the financial statements, which describes the potennecessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that tial effects of COVID-19 and the related potential effects of the bank covenants. Our are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters This document also contains information other than the annual accounts and consolirelated to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going dated accounts and can be found on pages 1–35, 90–96 and 98–101. Other Informaconcern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the tion consists of information about Mekonomen Group and information about the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no Board of Directors, Group management and key ratios definitions. The Board of realistic alternative but to do so. Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsiOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this bilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding reporting process. this other information. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Auditor’s responsibility our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be ­Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit materially misstated. conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that ­Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Responsibilities of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual accounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, auditor’s report. in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the 88 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Auditor’s responsibility Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable also audited the administration of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing of Mekonomen AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the Director in any material respect: company’s profit or loss. • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be appro­liability to the company, or priated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual that the members of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director be discharged Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. from liability for the financial year. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s Basis for Opinions profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate with the Companies Act. to provide a basis for our opinions. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. Responsibilities of the Board of Director’s and the Managing Director This description is part of the auditor’s report. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the ­company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s The Board of Directors is responsible for the corporate governance statement on and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent pages 42–50 and has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. ­company’s and the group’ equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordin general. ance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordassessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standcompany’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and ards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The for our opinions. Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the management of assets in a reassuring manner. other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, Stockholm was appointed auditor of Mekonomen AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 9th of May 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 8th of April 2014. 31 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Linda Corneliusson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 89 Five-year summary FIVE YEARS IN SUMMARY The tables below present financial information in summary for the financial years 2015–2019. Income statements, SEK M 20191) 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 11,842 7,779 5,850 5,786 5,624 Other revenue 174 172 150 151 137 Goods for resale –6,535 –3,901 –2,654 –2,686 –2,529 Other operating expenses –3,951 –3,413 –2,635 –2,595 –2,449 EBITDA 1,531 637 710 656 784 Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets –611 –84 –60 –62 –57 EBITA 920 553 649 594 726 Amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets –215 –146 –127 –113 –110 Operating profit, EBIT 705 407 522 481 616 Net financial items –150 70 –48 –35 –22 Profit after financial items 555 477 475 446 594 Tax on profit for the year –134 –209 –107 –105 –164 Profit for the year 421 268 368 342 430 1. A s a result of the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, EBIT was positively impacted by SEK 20 M and the profit after tax was negatively impacted by SEK 18 M in 2019. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the future-oriented method in the implementation of IFRS 16. For further information on the implementation of IFRS 16, see Note 1. Balance sheets, SEK M 31 Dec. 20191) 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Assets Intangible fixed assets 5,697 5,745 2,686 2,757 2,734 Other fixed assets 2,384 567 409 304 288 Inventories 2,854 2,816 1,382 1,279 1,226 Accounts receivable 855 868 488 485 453 Other current assets 725 662 335 336 365 Cash and cash equivalents 355 205 254 291 295 Total assets 12,870 10,863 5,554 5,452 5,361 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity, Parent Company’s shareholders 4,303 3,828 2,363 2,311 2,143 Non-controlling interests 32 25 16 14 12 Long-term liabilities 5,104 3,726 1,640 1,524 1,645 Current liabilities 3,431 3,284 1,535 1,603 1,560 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 12,870 10,863 5,554 5,452 5,361 1. A s an effect of the introduction of IFRS 16 Leases from 1 January 2019, the consolidated balance sheet for 2019 was impacted compared with the previous year.. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the future-oriented method in the implementation of IFRS 16. For further information on effects of implementation of IFRS 16, see Note 1. Condensed cash-flow statement, SEK M 20191) 2018 2017 2016 2015 Cash flow from operating activities 1,142 331 496 544 439 Cash flow from investing activities –199 –4,407 –229 –94 –146 Cash flow from financing activities –798 4,044 –295 –466 –245 Cash flow for the year 146 –32 –27 –16 48 1. For 2019, cash flow from operating activities increased by SEK 507 M and cash flow from financing activities decreased by SEK 507 M as a result of IFRS 16. The comparative figures have not been restated as the Group applied the future-oriented method in the implementation of IFRS 16. For further information, refer to Note 1 and Note 30. 90 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 Data per share1), amounts in SEK per share unless otherwise stated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Profit 7.34 6.56 10.05 9.32 11.77 Cash flow 20.3 8.3 13.8 15.1 12.2 Shareholders’ equity 76.4 67.9 65.8 64.4 59.7 Dividends2) – – 4.46 4.46 4.46 Share of profit paid, % – – 70 75 59 Share price at year-end 93.1 91.5 149.3 171.5 173.0 Share price, highest for the year 96.0 166.2 191.0 207.0 234.5 Share price, lowest for the year 60.8 88.4 139.8 150.5 170.0 Direct yield, % – – 4.7 4.1 4.0 P/E ratio at year-end, multiple 12.7 14.0 14.9 18.4 14.7 Average number of shares after dilution effects3) 56,338,824 39,718,604 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shares at end of period4) 56,416,622 56,416,622 35,901,487 35,901,487 35,901,487 Number of shareholders at year-end 12,259 12,310 10,707 9,484 9,373 1. For information on financial definitions, refer to page 100. 2. T  he Board’s proposal for 2019. The dividend for 2015–2017 is restated with the number of shares outstanding as at 31 December 2019, 56,323,372. The actual dividend paid was SEK 7 per 35,901,487 shares for 2015–2017. 3. No dilution is applicable. 4. The total number of shares amounts to 56,416,622, of which 93,250 are treasury shares at the end of the financial year. Key figures1) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Sales growth, % 52 33 1 3 7 Gross margin, % 45 50 55 54 55 EBITDA margin, %2) 13 8 12 11 14 Adjusted EBIT margin, % 7 8 10 10 12 EBIT margin, % 6 5 9 8 11 Capital employed, SEK M 10,195 8,166 4,087 4,066 4,086 Return on capital employed, % 7 9 12 12 15 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 10 10 16 15 20 Return on total capital, % 6 7 9 9 12 Equity/assets ratio, %3) 34 35 43 43 40 Net debt, SEK M 3,709 4,098 1,444 1,437 1,626 Net debt/EBITDA, excl. IFRS 16 multiple4) 3.68 6.44 2.03 2.19 2.07 Net debt incl. IFRS 16/EBITDA, multiple 3.59 – – – – Average number of employees Sweden 1,399 1,438 1,365 1,413 1,438 Denmark5) 1,148 389 – – – Norway 931 883 834 808 794 Poland5) 1,438 449 – – – Other countries 37 22 31 66 58 Group 4,953 3,181 2,231 2,287 2,290 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 91 Five-year summary FIVE YEARS IN SUMMARY (CONT.) The tables below present financial information in summary for the financial years 2015–2019. Key figures1) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Number of stores/of which proprietary FTZ – Denmark 51/51 51/51 – – – Inter-Team – Poland 82/79 82/79 – – – MECA Sweden 66/59 61/56 62/52 61/51 61/48 MECA Norway 24/24 24/24 24/24 24/24 24/24 Mekonomen Sweden 129/112 130/112 133/113 132/112 134/113 Mekonomen Norway 42/31 42/31 42/32 45/32 45/32 Other 10/4 13/7 7/3 8/5 8/5 Total MECA/Mekonomen 271/230 270/230 268/224 270/224 272/222 Sørensen og Balchen – Norway 65/37 64/36 68/39 72/37 70/35 Group 469/397 467/396 336/263 342/261 342/257 Number of affiliated workshops6) AutoMester – Denmark 421 423 – – – Din BilPartner – Denmark 153 136 – – – HELLA Service Partner – Denmark 331 336 – – – CarPeople – Denmark 38 26 – – – Nosign – Denmark 39 – – – – Total FTZ 982 921 – – – O.K. Serwis – Poland 199 175 – – – Inter data service – Poland 404 290 – – – Total Inter-Team 603 465 – – – Mekonomen Bilverkstad Mekonomen Bilverkstad – Sweden 427 423 434 447 457 Mekonomen Bilverkstad – Norway 335 334 335 339 345 Mekonomen Bilverkstad – Denmark – – – – 102 Mekonomen Bilverkstad – Finland 33 23 23 23 19 Total 795 780 792 809 923 MekoPartner MekoPartner – Sweden 126 138 141 127 125 MekoPartner – Norway 82 86 95 93 97 MekoPartner – Denmark – – – – 39 Total 208 224 236 220 261 Speedy Speedy – Sweden 40 39 35 26 20 Total 40 39 35 26 20 MECA Car Service MECA Car Service – Sweden 401 419 425 425 404 MECA Car Service – Norway 308 302 299 286 272 Total 709 721 724 711 676 Allt i Bil Allt i Bil – Sweden 8 8 – – – Total 8 8 – – – Total MECA/Mekonomen 1,760 1,772 1,787 1,766 1,880 BilXtra – Norway 258 258 258 255 246 Total Sørensen og Balchen 258 258 258 255 246 TOTAL NUMBER OF AFFILIATED WORKSHOPS IN THE GROUP 3,603 3,416 2,045 2,021 2,126 1. For information on financial definitions, refer to page 100. 2. EBITDA margin has changed materially as a result of IFRS 16, EBITDA margin excl. IFRS 16 amounts to 8.39 for 2019. 3. Equity/assets ratio has changed materially as a result of IFRS 16, Equity/assets ratio excl. IFRS 16 amounts to 39.3 per cent for 2019. 4. Net debt/EBITDA excl. IFRS 16 is reported to banks and is below the maximum level as agreed by a margin. 5. The average number of employees in 2018 is calculated for the period 3 September–31 December 2018. 6. Includes 82 (75) proprietary workshops operated under our brands. 92 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 QUARTERLY OVERVIEW QUARTERLY OVERVIEW SEK M 2019 2018 Full-year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Full-year Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales1) FTZ 3,371 875 800 860 836 1,088 836 252 – – Inter-Team 2,155 524 532 582 517 638 490 147 – – MECA/Mekonomen 5,527 1,368 1,349 1,447 1,362 5,301 1,363 1,267 1,422 1,249 Sørensen og Balchen 759 176 192 207 183 739 168 180 209 182 Central functions2) 31 11 6 5 10 14 6 4 2 2 Group 11,842 2,954 2,879 3,100 2,909 7,779 2,864 1,850 1,633 1,432 EBIT FTZ 299 51 69 87 93 49 36 13 – – Inter-Team 43 20 9 15 –1 –1 0 0 – – MECA/Mekonomen3) 438 63 128 145 103 428 54 116 186 73 Sørensen og Balchen 121 28 30 38 24 106 24 29 39 14 Central functions2) 3) –39 –19 –5 –6 –10 –73 –19 –14 –33 –8 Other items4) –157 –39 –39 –39 –39 –103 –39 –26 –19 –19 Group 705 104 191 240 170 407 57 118 173 60 Investments5) FTZ 10 3 1 5 1 10 10 0 – – Inter-Team 13 5 5 2 1 3 2 1 – – MECA/ Mekonomen 91 20 22 27 22 191 36 21 72 61 Sørensen og Balchen 5 0 0 1 4 6 0 1 3 2 Central functions2) 12 2 6 0 4 12 4 2 3 3 Group 131 30 34 35 32 221 52 25 78 66 EBIT margin, % FTZ 9 6 9 10 11 5 4 5 – – Inter-Team 2 4 2 3 0 0 0 0 – – MECA/ Mekonomen3) 8 5 9 10 7 8 4 9 13 6 Sørensen og Balchen 16 16 16 18 13 14 15 16 18 8 Group 6 3 7 8 6 5 2 6 10 4 Quarterly data, Group6) Total revenue 12,017 2,995 2,929 3,144 2,948 7,951 2,922 1,887 1,673 1,469 EBITDA 1,531 313 400 443 375 637 134 177 219 106 EBITDA excl IFRS 167) 1,008 180 268 315 245 Adjusted EBIT 874 149 231 280 214 599 148 148 217 99 EBIT 705 104 191 240 170 407 57 118 173 60 Net financial items –150 –27 –44 –38 –41 70 –39 114 –3 –2 Profit after financial items 555 77 147 202 129 477 17 233 170 58 Tax –134 –22 –34 –45 –33 –209 –9 –147 –38 –15 Profit/loss for the period 421 55 113 157 96 268 8 85 131 43 Gross margin, % 45 44 45 45 46 50 44 51 56 53 EBITDA margin, % 13 10 14 14 13 8 5 9 13 7 Adjusted EBIT margin, % 7 5 8 9 7 8 5 8 13 7 EBIT margin, % 6 3 7 8 6 5 2 6 10 4 Earnings per share, SEK 7.34 1.00 1.95 2.71 1.68 6.56 0.18 2.30 3.53 1.15 Shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 76.4 76.4 76.6 74.5 71.0 67.9 67.9 64.4 66.3 68.8 Cash flow per share, SEK 20.3 3.6 7.5 6.3 2.8 8.3 0.9 1.2 6.5 0.2 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 10.0 10.0 9.8 10.1 10.5 9.7 9.7 13.7 14.0 13.6 Share price 93.1 93.1 82.8 77.4 64.9 91.5 91.5 126.4 123.8 142.6 1. Net sales for each segment are from external customers. 2. “Central functions” include Group-wide functions, as well as Mekonomen AB and the operations in ProMeister Solutions. 3. Acquisition expenses belonging to Q2 2018 of SEK 19 M and belonging to Q3 2018 of SEK 4 M have been moved from MECA/Mekonomen to central functions. 4. “ Other items” include acquisition-related items attributable to Mekonomen AB’s direct acquisitions. Current acquisition-related items are amortisation of acquired intangible assets related to the acquisitions of FTZ, Inter-Team, MECA and Sørensen og Balchen. 5. Investments are exclusive of company and business combinations and exclusive of leases according to IFRS 16. 6. For information on financial definitions, refer to page 100. 7. EBITDA excl IFRS 16, see alternative performance measures on page 101. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 93 Sustainability information SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Principles and delimitations Materiality analysis This year’s Sustainability Report is a part of the Annual Report and An analysis of significant areas was begun in 2014 and is updated was prepared in observance of the requirements in the Annual in pace with the stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. In Accounts Act and has been prepared using the Global Reporting 2017, the Group’s work was screened in relation to the Annual Initiative’s (GRI) Standards Core. The Sustainability Report also Accounts Act and new guidelines under GRI standards. In 2018, constitutes our Communication on Progress to the UN Global the materiality analysis was supplemented based on the UN’s 17 Compact. The Sustainability Report is a part of Mekonomen Global goals for sustainable development. Group’s Annual Report 2019 and covers Mekonomen Group’s ­proprietary operations in the Nordic region. The Sustainability Report covers the entire Group unless otherOur most important sustainability areas are within wise stated. Affiliated workshops are not owned by the Group and the four following main areas are not covered in the report’s information or presented key figures We focus on the customer We have requirements and unless otherwise stated. • Customer satisfaction expectations on our suppliers The GRI index refers to the sustainability reporting and informa• Product and workshop quality • Responsible purchasing tion in the annual report for 2019. The company’s auditors have We have committed and We have a responsibility for reviewed and certified that a Sustainability Report has been pre­competent employees our impact on the environpared by Mekonomen Group as per the regulations of he Annual • Competence development ment and the climate Accounts Act. The content of the sustainability reporting and • Working conditions and work • Transports and energy use environment • Waste and chemicals ­Sustainability Report has not been audited by a third party. The • Managers and employees ­management most recent Sustainability Report was published on 3 April 2019. • Gender equality, diversity and inclusion Summary results of the materiality analysis Main area Material area Materiality Why material to the stakeholders Why material to Mekonomen Group External Internal Customer Customer We are developing our offering in pace with society’s development Creating value for companies and car owners is in focus ­satisfaction   and customer demand to create recurring and loyal customers. important for the Group’s profitability and growth. Product and Workshops and store customers have requirements and expectations Many of our products and services are directly linked workshop   on the right quality and price on spare parts and accessories. The car to the car’s safety. A properly serviced and main­quality owners demand that their cars are maintained and repaired in tained car is an efficient car. It is therefore critical accordance with their expectations of quality and price. that we offer high quality Committed Skills The technical development of the vehicle manufacturers is taking Offering a workplace with the possibility of compeand com­petent ­development   place at a rapid pace. Employees at our workshops need continuous tence development and career paths is necessary to employees skills development to take care of the customers’ car in a secure and attract and retain skilled managers and employees. professional manner. Working Being a good employer is fundamental to attracting and retaining A good working climate, market-based working con­conditions  competent personnel. ditions and a good work environment, as well as a and work ­possibility of participation and development are prio­ ­environment ritised issues to attract and retain skilled personnel. Managers and Strong commitment and the right expertise among our managers and Committed managers and employees are key to the employees  employees are necessary to obtain satisfied customers. Group’s success and good financial results. Gender equalBy having employees and managers with varying experience and People’s differences and experiences contribute to an ity, diversity  expertise, we improve the possibility of meeting the customers’ attractive workplace and promote developing teams and inclusion needs. with better results. Requirements Responsible Good relationships to suppliers have a positive effect on our operaWorking with responsible suppliers reduces the risks on and expecpurchasing   tions. Mekonomen Group’s customers expect us to manage the supand contributes to Mekonomen Group’s sustainability tations of ply chain responsibly. performance. ­suppliers Responsibility Transports Purchases from suppliers and deliveries to our stores and workshops Effective planning of transports and a high filling for our impact and energy   entail daily transports, which affect the climate and local environment. ratio, as well as energy-efficiency improvements in on the use Energy use in premises affects the climate and environment. buildings contribute to a better environment and environ­ment lower costs. and the ­climate Waste and We put chemical products on the market. It is of central importance The right marking, storage and control of chemicals chemicals   to people and the environment that the products have the right labelreduces environmental and work environment risks. ­management ling, are correctly stored and that the right information is available to Correctly managed waste reduces costs and contribthe user. Waste and hazardous waste arise in our operations, which utes to reduced environmental impact. can affect people and the environment. 94 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES EMPLOYEES Employees per category FTZ Inter-Team MECA/ Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Central functions Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 No. of employees Men 1,027 1,034 1,191 1,165 2,121 2,116 293 286 52 45 4,684 4,646 Women 151 158 244 196 494 495 57 61 12 13 958 923 Total 1,178 1,192 1,435 1,361 2,614 2,611 350 347 64 55 5,641 5,569 Permanent/­ Temporary employees Men 1,019/8 1,028/6 578/613 501/664 1,869/252 1,883/234 293/0 286/0 52/0 45/0 3,811/873 3,743/903 Women 146/5 154/4 108/136 91/105 428/65 445/50 57/0 61/0 12/0 12/1 751/206 763/160 Total 1,165/13 1,182/10 686/749 592/769 2,297/318 2,328/283 350/0 347/0 64/0 54/1 4,562/1,080 4,506/1,063 Full-time/­ Part-time Men 992/35 1,007/27 1,189/2 1,087/78 1,768/357 1,759/337 170/123 163/123 50/2 43/2 4,169/519 4,059/567 Women 126/25 124/34 244/0 190/6 391/97 392/103 34/23 34/27 12/0 13/0 807/145 753/170 Total 1,118/60 1,131/61 1,433/2 1,277/84 2,159/454 2,106/440 204/146 197/150 62/2 53/2 4,976/664 4,812/737 Measurement and calculation method: The reporting of employee statistics is Comments: The majority of the work in Mekonomen Group is done by employees ­gathered from the respective company’s system for employee management. who are employed in the Group. In our wholesaler operations, staff is hired in from The i­nformation and method are ensured by the coordinating HR function. staffing agencies based on needs. Other exceptions from employment mainly concern project managers or IT personnel in the event of temporary needs during a project or in business development. Employee turnover FTZ Inter-Team MECA/ Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Central functions Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Men 13.2% 11.1% 0.9% 1.8% 8.5% 15.0% 6.8% – 7.7% 11.1% 11.9% 10.6% Women 14.4% 7.8% 0.0% 0.0% 15.4% 15.3% 15.8% – 16.7% 16.7% 13.0% 10.7% Total 13.3% 10.7% 0.7% 1.5% 9.8% 15.1% 8.3% – 9.4% 13.0% 12.1% 10.6% Measurement and calculation method: The number of departures as a percentage Comments: Data regarding Inter-Team is not directly comparable with other business of the number of permanent employees regardless of the reason for leaving. areas. Data regarding Sørensen og Balchen is unavailable for 2018. Sick leave FTZ Inter-Team1) MECA/ Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Central functions Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Men 3.2% 3.9% – – 3.3% 3.6% 3.4% 3.5% 2.3% 0.7% 3.2% 3.7% Women 4.1% 3.5% – – 4.7% 4.6% 6.1% 6.7% 1.8% 1.0% 4.6% 4.4% Total 3.3% 3.9% 3.2% 3.3% 3.5% 3.7% 3.9% 4.0% 2.2% 0.8% 3.4% 3.6% Measurement and calculation method: Sickness absence in relation to ordinary con1. Data divided into men/women not available tracted working hours presented in per cent. Occupational injuries FTZ Inter-Team MECA/ Mekonomen Sørensen og Balchen Central functions Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total 13 18 9 5 39 68 0 0 3 0 64 91 Comments: Improved measurement methods mean that data is not directly ­comparable between the years. Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 95 Sustainability information Employee survey Measurement and calculation method: In the Group, the business areas MECA/ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Mekonomen and Sørensen og Balchen and central functions conduct an employee survey every two years. FTZ conducts annual employee surveys. The surveys are done Mekonomen Group is covered by the requirement of a sustainability report according in cooperation with an external party. to the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory sustainability report is found in the annual and sustainability report under the following points and covers reporting requirements Employee commitment (EI) and leadership index (LSI) in the areas environment, social conditions, personnel, respect for human rights and Employee commitment (EI): 78 (78) anti-corruption: Leadership index (LSI): 75 (77) • Business model, pages 12–13 Measurement and calculation method: Employee commitment (EI) measures commit• Governance of the sustainability work, page 50 ment in the form of clarity regarding the operations’ goals and motivation in the work. • Risk management, pages 18–21 Leadership index (LSI) measures the fundamental leadership of the employees’ • Responsible purchasing, page 33 immediate managers. EI and LSI are currently measured in MECA/Mekonomen, • Human rights, pages 21, 24–26 and pages 32–33 Sørensen og Balchen and central functions. • Environment, pages 30–31, 40 and 96 • Social conditions, pages 28–29 and pages 95–96 Membership in employer organisations and information on collective ­agreements • Personnel, pages 28–29, 38 and 95–96 Mekonomen Group is a member of relevant employer organisations. In Sweden, we • Business ethics and anti-corruption, page 32 are, for example, members of Teknikarbetsgivarna, the Swedish Trade Federation and Motorbranschens arbetsgivareförbund. All employees in the Group have the right to joint associations, organisations and to organise union clubs. Within the Group, the workforce in the Nordic operations is covered by collective agreements that are signed in the respective companies. In Poland, the employees are covered by current labour legislation and regulations on compensation according to Polish labour law. CLIMATE-IMPACTING EMISSIONS Emissions (tonnes CO2-eq.) 2019 Direct emissions (Scope1) Own transports 8,512 Direct heating (gas and oil) 1,657 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Electricity 9,562 Heating 2,884 Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) Subcontractors, transports 9,082 Business travel 3,541 Total emissions 35,237 Measurement and calculation method: The calculations are based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Emission factors pertain to the entire life cycle as far as possible. Transports Own transports with delivery vehicles have primarily been calculated based on purchased amounts of fuel. Secondarily, estimates have been made based on e.g. costs or mileage. For information regarding purchased transport services with subcontractors, information has primarily been obtained from the hauliers. In some cases, calculations have been made based on costs. Emission factor sources: NTM Network for Transport Measures, Swedish transport Administration and Danish Energy Agency, etc. Premises Emissions originating from electricity and heating have primarily been estimated based on the purchased amount of energy. Secondarily, estimates were done based on premises area. Emission factor sources: Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate (EI), Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, HOFOR, Vattenfall, Fortum and JRC, etc. Business travel Emissions from business travel by air have primarily been obtained from travel agencies. Secondarily, estimates were done based on the number of employees. Emissions from business travel by car have primarily been estimated based on purchased fuel amounts. Secondarily, estimates have been made based on e.g. costs or mileage ­(references ­current emissions factors, see under the heading Transports, above). 96 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 AUDITOR’S STATEMENT REGARDING THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF MEKONOMEN AB (PUBL), CORP. ID NO. 556392-1971 Mission and activities e­ xamination of the sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Sustainability Report for 2019, than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as stated under the heading Sustainability Report above (page 96), and that it has been and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We consider that this review prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. provides us adequate grounds for our opinions. Review focus and scope Opinions Our review has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s statement RevR 12 A sustainability report has been prepared. ­Auditor’s statement on the sustainability report. This means that our statutory Stockholm, 31 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Linda Corneliusson Authorised Public Accountant Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 97 GRI index GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Organisation profile GRI 102 General disclosures 102-1 Organisation name Mekonomen AB (publ). GRI 102 General disclosures 102-2 Operations, brands, products and services 2–3, 12–13, 22–23 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 36 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-4 Countries where the organisation has operations 3, 11 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-5 Ownership structure and organisation form 42–50 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-6 Markets the organisation is active in 2–3, 11 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-7 Organisation’s size 2–3, 66, 95 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-8 Information on employees and others 3, 66, 95 who work for the organisation GRI 102 General disclosures 102-9 Supply chain 12–13, 33 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-10 Significant changes regarding organisation and No significant changes have occurred supply chain during the year GRI 102 General disclosures 102-11 Precautionary approach 40 7 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-12 External initiatives regarding sustainability that 7, 24, 50 the organisation supports/is covered by GRI 102 General disclosures 102-13 Membership in organisations The Group is part-owner and has Board members in Telge Tillväxt. The Group also has a Board position in the foundation En Frisk Generation, and is a member of the trade ­association SFVF. Strategy GRI 102 General disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior management 6–8 GRI 103 General disclosures 102-15 Significant impact, risk and opportunities 10–11, 18–21 Ethics and Integrity GRI 102 General disclosures 102-16 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 15, 32 10 Governance GRI 102 General disclosures 102-18 Governance structure 41–50 Stakeholder dialogue GRI 102 General disclosures 102-40 List over stakeholder groups 27 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-41 Collective agreements 96 3 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 27 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-43 Methods for stakeholder dialogue 27 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-44 Important issues addressed 27 Reporting practice GRI 102 General disclosures 102-45 Units included in the financial reporting 36–40 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-46 Definition of reporting content and 24–25, 94 the issues’ delimitation GRI 102 General disclosures 102-47 List over significant issues 94 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-48 Changes to information No significant changes have been made GRI 102 General disclosures 102-49 Changes in the reporting No significant changes have been made GRI 102 General disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 36, 94 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-51 Date for publication of the latest report 94 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle 36, 94 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-53 Contact person for the report susanna.fink@mekonomengroup.com GRI 102 General disclosures 102-54 Report in accordance with GRI Standards 94 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-55 GRI index 98–99 GRI 102 General disclosures 102-56 External review 94 98 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Sustainability governance GRI 103 Sustainability governance 103-1 Explanation of significant issues and their 24–26, 94 1, 2, 6, 7, ­delimitation 8, 10 GRI 103 Sustainability governance 103-2 Sustainability governance and its components 24–33, 50 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GRI 103 Sustainability governance 103-3 Evaluation of sustainability governance 24–33 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 10 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC GRI Type Description Page Comment/Reservation principle Economic impact GRI 205 Corruption 205-2 Communication and training regarding 32 10 ­anti-corruption GRI 205 Corruption 205-3 Confirmed corruption incidents and steps taken 32 10 Environmental impact GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 1) 30, 96 7, 8 GRI 305 Emissions 305-2 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 30, 96 7, 8 GRI 305 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 30, 96 7, 8 (Scope 3) GRI 307 Compliance with 307-1 Significant fines and sanctions resulting from The Group did not incur significant 8 ­environmental legislation ­violations of environmental legislation fines or sanctions in 2018. GRI 308 Environmental assessment 308-1 Share of new suppliers assessed based on 17, 33 8 of suppliers ­environmental requirements Social impact GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employees and personnel turnover 95 6 GRI 403 Work environment 403-2 Scope of injuries and sickness absence 95 – health and safety GRI 404 Training and education 404-1 Number of hours of training per year and 29 Information is not available at 6 employee ­present (U). GRI 405 Equality and diversity 405-1 Diversity within the Board, management and 29, 38, 44, 66–67, 6 among employees 95 GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Number of incidents of discrimination and No cases of discrimination were 6 their handling reported in 2018 GRI 414 Assessment of social 414-1 Share of new suppliers assessed based on 17, 33 2, 4, 5, 6 ­conditions at suppliers social requirements GRI 416 Customers 416-1 Evaluation regarding impact on health and safety Information is not available at – health and safety from product and service categories ­present (U). Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 99 Glossary and definitions GLOSSARY AND DEFINITIONS FINANCIAL DEFINITIONS Return on shareholders’ equity Cash flow per share B2B Profit for the period, excluding minority share, as a Cash flow from operating activities in relation to Sales of goods and services between companies percentage of average shareholders’ equity attributathe average number of shares. Average number of ­(business-to-business). ble to Parent Company’s shareholders. Average shareshares is calculated as the number of shares at period-­ holders’ equity attributable to the Parent Company’s end multiplied by the number of days this number B2C shareholders is calculated as shareholders’ equity existed during the period and added to any other Sales of goods and services between companies and attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders at ­number of shares during the period multiplied by consumers (business-to-consumer). the end of the period added to the four immediately the number of days these numbers existed during DAB products preceding quarters’ shareholders’ equity attributable the period, divided by the number of days during Accessories for the car adapted to digital solutions for to the Parent Company’s shareholders at the end of the period. radio broadcasting. DAB is an abbreviation for Digital the period divided by five. Audio Broadcasting. Cash and cash equivalents Return on capital employed Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds held Proprietary stores Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as at financial institutions and current liquid investments Stores with operations in subsidiaries, directly or a percentage of average capital employed. Average with a term from the date of acquisition of less than ­in­directly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. capital employed is calculated as capital employed at three months, which are exposed to only an insignifithe end of the period added to the four immediately cant risk of fluctuations in value. Cash and cash equivProprietary workshops preceding quarters’ capital employed at the end of the alents are recognised at nominal amounts. Workshops with operations in subsidiaries, directly or period divided by five. indirectly majority owned, by Mekonomen AB. Net debt Return on total capital Current and long-term interest-bearing liabilities OBP Profit after net financial items plus interest expenses as for borrowing, meaning excluding pensions, leasing, Own brand products, such as ProMeister and Carwise. a percentage of the average total assets. Average total ­derivatives and similar obligations, less cash and Fleet operations assets are calculated as total assets at the end of the cash equivalents. Mekonomen Group’s offering to companies. period added to the four immediately preceding ­quarters’ total assets at the end of the period divided Net debt incl. IFRS 16 Sales to customer group Affiliated workshops by five. Short-term and long-term interest-bearing liabilities for Sales to affiliated workshops and sales to proprietary borrowing, and long and short-term lease liabilities workshops. Gross margin according to IFRS 16, i.e. excluding pensions, derivatives Net sales less costs for goods for resale, as a and similar obligations, less cash and cash equivalents. Sales to customer group Consumers ­percentage of net sales. Cash sales from proprietary stores to customer Sales growth groups other than affiliated workshops and Other Gross profit Increase in the total revenue as a percentage of the B2B customers, as well as the Group’s e-commerce Revenue minus the cost of goods for resale. total revenue of the previous year. sales to consumers. EBIT margin Organic growth Sales to customer group Partner stores EBIT after depreciation/amortisation as a percentage Change in net sales adjusted for the number of workSales to partner stores. of total revenue. days, acquisitions/divestments and currency effects Sales to the customer group Other B2B customers EBITA Earnings per share Sales to business customers that are not affiliated to EBITA after depreciation according to plan but before Profit for the period excluding non-controlling interany of Mekonomen Group’s concepts, including sales amortisation and impairment of intangible fixed assets. ests, in relation to the average number of shares. in the fleet operations. ­Average number of shares is calculated as the number EBITDA of shares at period-end multiplied by the number of Items affecting comparability Operating profit before depreciation/amortisation and days this number existed during the period and added Events or transactions with significant effects, which impairment of tangible and intangible fixed assets. to any other number of shares during the period are relevant to understanding the financial developEBITDA excl. IFRS 16 multi­plied by the number of days these numbers ment compared with the earnings of the period in EBIT before depreciation/amortisation and impairment existed during the period, divided by the number question with earlier periods, including restructuring of tangible and intangible fixed assets excl. effects of of days during the period. programmes, costs related to large legal disputes IFRS 16. and impairments, as well as gains and losses from Equity/assets ratio acquisitions or divestment of operations, subsidiaries, EBITDA margin Shareholders’ equity including non-controlling interest associated companies and joint ventures or items of EBITDA as a percentage of total revenue. as a percentage of total assets. Equity/assets ratio for a similar nature. the Parent Company includes an equity component of Shareholders’ equity per share untaxed reserves. ProMeister Shareholders’ equity excluding non-controlling interMekonomen Group’s proprietary brand for high ests, in relation to the number of shares at the end of Capital employed ­quality spare parts with five-year warranties. Under the period. Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities and the ProMeister brand, the Group also offers services provisions including deferred tax liabilities. Adjusted EBIT to affiliated workshops. EBIT adjusted for items affecting comparability and Spare parts for cars material acquisition-related items. Current acquisition-­ COMPANY-SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS Business area Parts that are necessary for a car to function. related items are amortisation of acquired intangible Reportable segment Partner stores assets relating to the acquisitions of FTZ, Inter-Team, MECA and Sørensen og Balchen. Stores that are not proprietary, but conduct business Affiliated workshops under the Group’s brands. Adjusted EBIT margin Workshops that are not proprietary owned, but Adjusted EBIT as a percentage of total revenue. ­conduct business under the Group’s brands 100 Mekonomen Group Annual Report 2019 ALTERNATIVE ­P ERFORMANCE MEASURES AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Mekonomen Group’s 2019 Annual Report was produced by Mekonomen Group in cooperation with Solberg. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet 2020 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Accessories for cars Products that are not necessary for a car to function, but enhance the experience or extend use of the car, for example, car-care products, roof boxes, car child seats, etc. Annual General Meeting The shareholders of Mekonomen Aktiebolag (publ), corporate identity number Underlying net sales 556392-1971, are hereby invited to attend the Annual General Meeting on Sales adjusted for the number of comparable working Thursday, 7 May 2020, at 11:00 a.m. at Norra Latin, Pelarsalen, Barnhusgatan 7B, days and currency effects. Stockholm, Sweden. Registration for the Annual General Meeting will open at 10.30 a.m. Currency effects on the balance sheet The impact of currency regarding realised and Registration ­unrealised revaluations of foreign short-term non-­ Shareholders wishing to participate the Annual General Meeting must: interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. • be registered in the shareholders’ register maintained by E­ uroclear Sweden AB not later than 30 April 2020, and Currency-transaction effects • notify the company of their intention to attend the meeting no later Currency impact on internal sales from Mekonomen than 30 April 2020. Grossist AB and from MECA CarParts AB to each country. Notification may be made in writing to Mekonomen Aktiebolag, ”Årsstämman”, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, PO Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden or Currency-translation effects by phone + 46 8 402 90 47 on weekdays between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Currency impact in the translation of the earnings of ­Shareholders who are natural persons may also register on Mekonomen’s foreign subsidiaries to SEK. website, www.mekonomen.com. When registering, name, personal or ­corporate identity number, address, phone number and number of any Other operating revenue ­assistants must be provided. Mainly comprises rental income, marketing subsidies Nominee-registered shares and exchange-rate gains within Mekonomen Group. Shareholders who have nominee-registered shares must, in ­addition to register participation in the Meeting, temporarily re-register the shares in their own name in the shareholders’ ­register in order to be entitled to p ­ articipate in the Annual ­General Meeting. Such re-­registration must be carried out by 30 April 2020 and should be requested at the bank or trustee well in advance of this date. Proxies Shareholders who participate by proxy or representative should send authorisation documents (power of attorney and/or registration certi­ficate) to the company at the above postal address well in advance of the Meeting. Power of attorney forms are available on Mekonomen’s website, www.mekonomen.com. Dividends The Board of Directors proposes no dividend for 2019 to the Annual General Meeting. ALTERNATIVE Printed Annual Report Printed Annual Reports will be distributed only to shareholders requesting them approximately one week before the Annual G ­ eneral Meeting. ­PERFORMANCE Financial calendar 2020 MEASURES Information Period Date Interim report January–March 2020 7 May 2020 Interim report January–June 2020 21 August 2020 Interim report January–September 2020 6 November 2020 Year-end report January–December 2020 12 February 2021 As of the January–June 2016 interim report, Mekonomen applies the new guidelines for alternative performance figures issued by ESMA1). An alternative performance measure is a financial measure over histori­cal Investor relations contacts or future earnings trends, financial position or cash flow that are not Pehr Oscarson defined or specified in IFRS. Mekonomen believes that these measures President and CEO provide valuable supplemental information to the company’s manageTel: +46 (0) 8 464 00 00 ment, investors and other stakeholders to evaluate the company’s E-mail: pehr.oscarson@mekonomengroup.com ­performance. The alternative performance measures are not always comparable with measures used by other companies since not all comÅsa Källenius panies calculate these measures in the same way. They shall thereby CFO be seen as a complement to measures defined according to IFRS. For Tel: +46 (0) 8 464 00 00 ­relevant ­reconciliations of the alternative performance measures that E-mail: asa.kallenius@mekonomengroup.com cannot be directly read or derived from the financial statements, refer Fredrik Sätterström to the ­complement to the 2019 Annual Report on our website Head of Investor Relations http://www.mekonomen.com/sv/alternativa-nyckeltal/. Mobile: +46 (0) 8 464 00 00 E-mail: fredrik.satterstrom@mekonomengroup.com 1. The European Securities and Markets Authority. ADDRESSES Mekonomen Group Visiting address: Postal address: Solnavägen 4, 11th floor, Box 19542 Stockholm, Sweden SE-104 32 Stockholm, Sweden Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.mekonomen.com FTZ Mekonomen Sweden Postal and visiting address: Postal address: Hvidkærvej 21 Box 19542 5250 Odense SV, Denmark SE-104 32 Stockholm Tel: +45 65 65 40 00 E-mail: ftz@ftz.dk Visiting address: Solnavägen 4, 10th floor, Stockholm, Inter-Team Tel: +46 8 464 00 00 Postal and visiting address: E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se ul. Białołęcka 233 www.mekonomen.se 03-253 Warsaw, Poland Tel: +48 225 06 06 00 Mekonomen Norway E-mail: poczta@inter-team.com.pl Postal address: Postboks 524 Bedriftsenteret MECA Sweden NO-1411 Kolbotn Postal address: Box 9225 Visiting address: SE-200 39 Malmö Rosenholmveien 25, NO-1414 Trollåsen Visiting address: Tel: +47 66 81 76 90 Stenåldersgatan 27, Malmö E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se Tel: +46 40 671 60 60 www.mekonomen.no E-mail: info@meca.se www.meca.se Sørensen og Balchen Postal address: MECA Norway Postboks 134 Holmlia Postal address: NO-1203 Oslo, Norway P.O. box 1014 NO-2804 Gjøvik Visiting address: Tel: +47 61 13 19 30 Rosenholmveien 12, NO-1252 Oslo, E-mail: firmapost@meca.no Norway www.meca.no Tel: +47 22 76 44 00 E-mail: ir@mekonomen.se www.sogb.no
