SINTEF supports the Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Report SINTEF Technology for a better society November 2020 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Statement of continued support – Preface Technology for a better society SINTEF became member of UN Global Compact As SINTEF's direct activities by themselves is SINTEFs vision is Technology for a better society . We set to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure in 2009, and this is our tenth communication of performed in accordance with the UN Global are committed to contribute to a sustainable future, prosperity for all. progress report – in the format of our first, more Compact principles, this report mainly describes to human rights, labour rights, sound environment comprehensive sustainability report. the content of our research activities and how the and anti-corruption and to comply with the ten Our sustainability report demonstrates a breadth results from this research have an impact on the universal principles of the UN Global Compact. of efforts during 2019 to contribute to sustainable SINTEF is a private, not-for-profit research global environment and society in a way that will development – nationally and internationally. It institute, which is organized as a foundation with support the Global Compact principles, as well as SINTEF acts in accordance with the principles by presents SINTEF's commitment to operating our subsidiaries. Through first-rate solution-oriented the sustainable development goals. the way we conduct our own operations. But our organization in accordance with our sustainability research and knowledge generation, SINTEF creates most important contribution is the impact from our ambitions, including policies and commitments significant value for its Norwegian and international research and innovation. on human rights, labour, environment and customers, the public sector and society as a whole. anti-corruption. This expresses our continued Our strategy lays a heavy emphasis on SINTEF's role We are convinced that research plays an essential support and commitment for the UN Global in and commitment to developing society through role respecting both the Global Compact principles Compact principles. research and innovation. and to reach the 17 sustainable development goals, Alexandra Bech Gjørv President and CEO UN Global Compact – Communication of progress report for 2019 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Letter from the CEO We are on our way. of activities with the oil and gas sector in relation we have are far from perfect and that it takes a lot to sustainability; the second is a review of how of effort and knowledge to evaluate the results of Since our inception as an applied research institute SINTEF fulfils its role as a key resource in society's research in relation to an individual goal. 70 years ago, we have sought to provide our clients innovation system. and society with meaningful results from research SINTEF takes sustainability seriously. Therefore, and innovation. SINTEF's vision is 'Technology for We are not alone in paying greater attention to while highlighting results that benefit society, we a better society'. Our 2,000 employees hold our sustainability. The EU has launched the 'European also want to improve our reporting, specifically to traditions and vision clear, and many come to work Green Deal', which aims to make Europe the be even more quantitative in how we document for us because they want to make a difference. world's first climate neutral continent by 2050. the impact our work has on society. At the same Among investors and companies, in Norway and time, identifying good methods for measuring the SINTEF's strategy, adopted in 2019, is guided by the abroad, systematically monitoring an organisation's impact of applied research is not straight forward. UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This environmental, social and governance (ESG) Among other things, it involves getting to grips extends the obligations we have had as a member performance has quickly become commonplace.[1] with complex value chains involving many stakeof UN Global Compact since 2009, which still apply. At the start of 2019, 85 of the 100 largest holders and causal relationships. Research involves The 17 SDGs set out what we and the world have companies in Norway had defined one or more high-risk, long-term work with time lags between to achieve in order to create a better society. In key performance indicators (KPIs) to measure their when research is conducted and impacts can be this document we report on what we are doing to impact and progress within sustainability. Some 12 measured. But we want to do better! support the goals and strengthen our contribution per cent had linked their business strategy to the Alexandra Bech Gjørv to society, both through our research and innovation company's environmental and social impact.[2] Going forward, we will make even greater use of President and CEO activities and in SINTEF's own organisation. the SDGs in how we orient our portfolio and create It turns out that producing a sustainability report new research projects and start-ups. We can see In this, our first sustainability report, we have for an organisation that works in as many arenas that our clearly set out ambition of contributing decided to deep-dive into two themes in and on as many different issues as SINTEF does, to sustainability has already helped us, as an particular: The first is a discussion of SINTEF's is no easy task. Our diligent and knowledgeable organisation, to delve deeper into important issues. energy and climate work, including our portfolio researchers are the first to point out that the data [1] Harvard Business Review, “The Top Sustainability Stories of 2019.” 30.12.2019. https://hbr.org/2019/12/the-top-sustainability-stories-of-2019. [2] Hanne Løvstad, Magnus Young and Ulrik Hallén Øen, “Bærekraft 100” PwC (2019) https://www.pwc.no/no/publikasjoner/Baerekraft100-2019.pdf. Letter from the CEO 2 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Contents 1 About SINTEF 4 2 SINTEF's strategy and activities are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 8 3 How SINTEF's research and innovation contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals Affordable and clean energy and Climate action 13 14 Industry, innovation and infrastructure and Decent work and economic growth 22 Responsible consumption and production 38 Sustainable cities and communities 40 Life below water and Clean water and sanitation 42 Good health and well-being 48 Other sustainable development goals 53 4 SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles A not-for-profit research institute tasked with realising the Foundation's purpose 59 60 Sustainability as part of management and organisation 61 SINTEF wants to reduce its climate footprint 63 HSE is the top priority in SINTEF 65 SINTEF's employees – human rights, labour rights, gender equality and diversity 67 Ethics, anti-corruption and good governance are prerequisites for our activities 71 5 Lessons learned from our first sustainability report and strategic questions for the future 72 All figures in the report are from 2019, unless otherwise stated. Contents 3 10 MNOK equals ~1 MEUR (per 31 December 2019). SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu 1 About SINTEF 4 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Cutting edge expertise from ocean space to outer space SINTEF's business model is primarily based on carrying out research and innovation projects. Energy Health and welfare Our laboratories are closely involved in the research and, in addition, assist clients with their innovation Digitalisation and development work through test, prototype and verification projects. SINTEF also commercialises research results through licensing, selling technology, and start-up companies. We contribute knowledge, ideas and recommendations to public debates and policymaking. Industry and Smart and Our strategy is to move the research front and construction Competitiveness Societal solutions secure societies facilitate a transition towards a sustainable society, Climate, nationally and internationally. We want to produce environment good societal solutions and competitiveness for our and oceans partners that in turn have positive ripple effects for the general public and end-users of the technology. Work and productivity Food Mobility About SINTEF 5 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Our general reputation in society testifies to the “We are working on an exciting fact that we play a number of wide-ranging roles, project with SINTEF and other not least within sustainability. The majority of respondents in reputation surveys have a positive partners involving using plastic “Today's SINTEF is a perception of SINTEF. We score the highest in from the oceans for new successful and internationally environmental awareness, social responsibility products and combining this oriented research institute and morality among various areas.[3] Our staff also that occupies a key position with blockchain technology in believe that the organisation's work is important for sustainable development.[4] order to maintain control over in the Norwegian research value chains and avoid the landscape and is NTNU's most Key external stakeholders encourage us to play a plastic re-entering the oceans.”[5] important research partner. role in the global transition: Given its strong technology Jan Christian Vestre CEO of the furniture company Vestre profile and broad expertise in technologies important for the green transition, SINTEF is an important actor within research and innovation for sustainable “Everything is now in place for development in both a Norwegian SINTEF to take a leading role and an international context.”[6] in Norwegian society as we Anne Borg continue the green transition.”[7] Rector Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) Iselin Nybø Norwegian Minister of Trade and Industry [3] IPSOS profile survey, 2019. [4] Working environment survey in SINTEF, January 2020. [5] Jan Christian Vestre at SINTEF's management gathering, 3 June 2020, translated from Norwegian. [6] Anne Borg at SINTEF's management gathering, 3 June 2020, translated from Norwegian. [7] Iselin Nybø at SINTEF's management gathering, 3 June 2020, About SINTEF 6 translated from Norwegian. SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF is the largest research institute in A broad portfolio with an emphasis on applied Norway and one of the largest in Europe research with business and industry and other stakeholders Portfolio funding 2019 8% NOK 3.5 billion 3600 2000 customers employees customer 88 000 27% article views on 47% satisfaction: 74 forskning.no nationalities 7% 10% 1% With a total of EUR 149 million awarded, SINTEF is the Business and industry Public sector Source largest contributor to Norway asserting itself in the Other sources of income EU SINTEF EU's framework research programme, Horizon 2020 RCN project support RCN basic grant About SINTEF 7 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu 2 SINTEF's strategy and activities are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 8 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's corporate strategy, adopted in 2019, is guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The goals refine SINTEF's vision. This extends beyond the obligations we have had as a member of UN Global Compact since 2009. The 17 SDGs set out what we and the world have to achieve in creating a better society. SINTEF's strategy and activities are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 9 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Gross turnover per Sustainable Development Goal Many companies set clear priorities as regards the current snapshot provides a good illustration of which SDGs they particularly want to deliver on. SINTEF's profile. It shows that in 2019 we carried Goal 17 Goal 1 26 MNOK 3 MNOK This is often based on strategic considerations or on out significant activities in relation to seven SDGs Goal 16 an assessment of where they can have the greatest in particular, listed by the turnover associated with 20 MNOK Goal 2 72 MNOK societal impact.[8] As a research institute, SINTEF each SDG in our project portfolio: Goal 3 is involved in many value chains, industries and 187 MNOK Goal 15 areas of expertise – with an emphasis on sectors – Goal 7) Affordable and Clean Energy 11 MNOK where technological solutions play an important – Goal 12) Responsible Consumption and Goal 14 212 MNOK Goal 4 role. This breadth means that we want to deliver Production 16 MNOK on the entire sustainability agenda and have in our – Goal 9) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure corporate strategy committed ourselves to all 17 – Goal 13) Climate Action Goal 13 SDGs. At the same time, SINTEF clearly delivers – Goal 11) Sustainable Cities and Communities 433 MNOK more on some goals than others. – Goal 14) Life Below Water Goal 6 – Goal 3) Good Health and Well-being 43 MNOK An analytical approach confirms this. The figure on the right shows our research projects' relevance to We also have activities related to the other SDGs, Goal 12 the various SDGs, measured in terms of turnover in but these are marginal, especially in relation to goal 522 MNOK 2019.[9] The methodology is still being refined but 5) Gender Equality. Goal 11 Goal 10 Goal 8 386 MNOK 3 MNOK 47 MNOK Goal 7 536 MNOK Goal 9 471 MNOK Source The full title of all of the goals is provided on page 9 SINTEF [8] World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Reporting matters 2019 (2019) p. 20. https://www.wbcsd.org/Programs/Redefining-Value/ External-Disclosure/Reporting-matters/Resources/Reporting-matters-2019 [9] The model shows gross turnover of the research projects in SINTEF's six institutes in 2019, with one goal tagged per project. Other / Outside and SINTEF's strategy and activities are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 10 the untagged portfolio (representing a total of around 14% of the turnover) are not included in the model. SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Start-ups per Sustainable Development Goal SINTEF's current portfolio of 16 research-based At the same time, the work on this report has start-up companies have also been evaluated provided important lessons that will be used in relation to the 17 SDGs. Most of them have to further strengthen SINTEF's contributions to Goal 2 been tagged under goal 8) Decent Work and sustainability. We have chosen to develop the 2 Economic Growth or goal 9) Industry, Innovation report in-house, without explicit links to existing Goal 3 6 and Infrastructure. Many of these companies are suppliers' sustainability standards. Naturally, involved in the application of key technologies we understand the value of external guidance, within IT, biotechnology and nanotechnology that and in the future we will consider strengthening Goal 14 Goal 4 will enable a variety of products, services and the reporting with formal standards and audits. 3 1 value chains for sustainable innovation. In recent However, the process creating this report has been years, we have also seen a significant increase an important goal by itself. We have surveyed our in start-ups targeting goal 3) Good Health and activities. How the internal, external and multiWell-being. Many companies also target goal 12) faceted activities with partners live up to our Goal 6 Responsible Consumption and Production and 14) societal ambitions. By being transparent about this, 1 Life Below Water. we hope to build strength in our organisation and Goal 12 8 earn the trust of society at large. It is satisfying to see that that no less than 79% Goal 11 1 of the Group's employees believe their work contributes to sustainable development.[10] Goal 8 Goal 9 16 15 Source The full title of all of the goals is provided on page 9 SINTEF [10] SINTEF's working environment survey in January 2020, based on a total of 1,710 responses to the question: I believe my work contributes to sustainable development . SINTEF's strategy and activities are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 11 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Reflections on our reporting towards the Sustainable Development Goals When we started tagging our project portfolio, we The work on reporting on sustainability has given wanted to match SINTEF's turnover to the SDGs. rise to two major debates in SINTEF and we Therefore, a decision was made to only report on illustrate these through two 'deep dives'. First of one SDG per project, even though we know that all, we look at the perceived dilemmas associated many projects contribute to realising multiple goals. with goal 7) Affordable and Clean Energy and goal Looking at the results for 2019, we can see that 13) Climate Action, where we have evaluated the this method neither provides sufficient information correlation between SINTEF's work towards a about the interplay and dilemmas associated with green transition and work involving the oil and gas the efforts to achieve the goals nor does it provide as industry. Next, we look at how goal 9) Industry, rich a basis for strategic planning as we had hoped. Innovation and Infrastructure and goal 8) Decent We will change this for 2020 such that going forward Work and Economic Growth highlight SINTEF's role projects can be tagged with up to three SDGs. The as an agent of innovation and our interaction with start up companies in our portfolio have been tagged society at large, and also discuss this in detail. with multiple SDGs from the start. We must also increasingly ask ourselves whether Below we look in more detail at how research and SINTEF, together with authorities and partners, is innovation in SINTEF contributes to the 17 goals. making a great enough effort with respect to the Since many of the goals, and the solutions we challenges faced by developing countries. The develop, are interconnected, we deal with some of global balance between the North and the South is them together. central to the sustainability agenda. An interrelated question, therefore, is also whether our framework conditions must be changed in order for such efforts to succeed. SINTEF's strategy and activities are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 12 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu How SINTEF's research and innovation contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals 3 Goal 7 Affordable and clean energy Goal 13 Climate action Goal 9 Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth Goal 12 Responsible consumption and production Goal 11 Sustainable cities and communities Goal 14 Life Below Water Goal 6 Clean water and sanitation Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being Other Sustainable Development Goals 13 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Affordable and clean energy and Climate action The climate became an increasingly pressing The situation as per 2017 was that around 80 per issue in 2019 for all groups of stakeholders,[11] cent of the world's energy supply came from fossil Project turnover: Start-ups: including SINTEF. To avoid the catastrophic sources with corresponding emissions of CO2.[12] global consequences of climate change, the IPCC SINTEF's mission is to contribute with technology 536 0 M recommends limiting temperature rises to below and innovation during the transition in the lead up N 2°C, and preferably closer to 1.5°C, by the end of this to 2050, and we have activities related to all three of O K century. Most countries have signed up to this target the main strategic approaches. through the Paris Agreement. Norway has agreed to the EU's target from 2014 of cutting greenhouse gas Goal 7) Affordable and Clean Energy complicates the emissions by 40 per cent by 2030, compared with picture because it means that a large proportion of 1990 levels. The government recently told the UN the world's population needs more energy. As many and the EU that Norway intends to increase its target of the most populous countries prioritise growing the to a 50-55 per cent cut in emissions by 2030. prosperity of their populations over lower emissions, industrialised countries face a formidable challenge The Paris Agreement's goal of limiting global warming in helping to ensure that this energy is emissions free Project turnover: Start-ups: to closer to 1.5°C means that Norway must achieve and economically accessible. The difficult part here is 433 0 net zero greenhouse gas emissions in 2050. It will be that technologies for producing zero-emission energy M a difficult path. This will mainly have to be achieved are expensive and require economic incentives at an N O by 1) using energy and resources more efficiently; early stage. The capacity of countries to deal with this K 2) more renewable energy; and 3) measures that market failure varies. eliminate and capture emissions from fossil energy. [11] Harvard Business Review, The Top Sustainability Stories of 2019. 30.12.2019. https://hbr.org/2019/12/the-top-sustainability-stories-of-2019. [12] IEA, World Energy Balances (2019). UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 14 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu NCCS: research into CO2 Eco-Solar: greener solar power capture, transport, and storage The goal of the project is to make solar NCCS is an internationally recognised research power even greener. The project has centre for eco-friendly energy led by SINTEF. taken a systematic approach to reduce The centre carries out research into various the consumption of valuable resources in technologies for capturing, transporting, and manufacturing of solar panels, delivering the permanently storing CO2. CO2 management same performance as conventional panels. technology facilitates competitive CO2-free Eco-Solar has also developed a solar panel products, preserves the value of natural gas, concept that allows the main components to and provides great opportunities for the be disassembled, recycled or reused. Overall, maritime sector, including CO2 transport via the innovations in the project have reduced ship. CO2 management may protect 200,000 the ecological footprint in manufacturing solar Norwegian jobs and create 70,000 new ones by panels by 45 per cent, costs by 9 per cent, and 2050 and is a tool for climate-positive solutions. the carbon footprint by around 20 per cent. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 15 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's work on the green transition The green transition is partly about cutting greenLower energy use and carbon neutral buildings Maritime, which is developing the zero-emission – SINTEF has a broad focus on the bioeconomy of house gas emissions, but also involves transforming and neighbourhoods are priority areas for the and eco-friendly ships of the future, and is a the future through the utilisation of sustainable into a less resource-intensive society. A summary of Zero-Emission Buildings and Zero-Emission key partner in SFI Autoship along with NTNU. renewable biomasses. Our efforts are directed at SINTEF's activities relating to the green transition is Neighbourhoods (FME) centres. Other areas We also have several large EU projects in all of establishing climate-positive processes and the provided below. It is not exhaustive: include low-emission concrete and replacing the above-mentioned areas. We are working on future biorefineries for processing biomass into fossil raw materials with renewables in the further developing renewable forms of energy and bio-based chemicals and biomaterials, as well as – The circular economy is a prerequisite for the development of materials. We are also working electrification technology. We have particularly bioenergy and advanced biofuels designed for green transition and is one of SINTEF's largest on CO2 capture and storage from processes been instrumental in positioning Norwegian long-haul and air transport. research areas. Our work relating to the circular where renewable energy is not an alternative, industry within solar and offshore wind, as well economy is discussed under goal 12) Responsible such as emissions from chemical processes and as the optimal utilisation of investments in the – In addition to renewable energy, SINTEF is one Consumption and Production. waste incineration. electricity grid and hydropower system. Hydrogen of the world's leading environments within the as a zero-emission energy carrier has also been development of zero-emission energy solutions – SINTEF hosts three research centres for eco– SINTEF is working on energy efficient transport a cornerstone of the mobilisation of Norwegian as clean hydrogen produced from natural gas friendly energy (FME centres) and is a strategic solutions and we have major initiatives within industry in relation to the EU. with carbon capture and storage, and hosts FME partner for the five other centres actively zero-emission technology relating to batteries, NCCS, one of the world's largest centres for CCS engaged in technology and one in social charging solutions, fuel cells, hydrogen from – We are also helping to make society more resilient research. Fossil energy with CO2 management, sciences. The FME centres are large (up to eight electrolysis, and biofuels. We also have major to global warming through climate adaptations in the form of so-called 'blue hydrogen' or 'blue years) innovation and value creation-oriented initiatives within autonomous and automated and safeguarding society's infrastructure. SFI ammonia', may accelerate the transition to a collaborations between business, research transport that will contribute to the efficient and Klima 2050 is our most important research activity zero-emission society.[13] environments and the public sector linked to safe performance of transport with the least in this area and is also discussed under goal 9) targeted efforts within renewable energy, energy possible use of resources. SINTEF hosts a centre Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure. efficiency, CO2 management, and social sciences. for research-driven innovation (SFI centre), Smart [13] Blue hydrogen refers to hydrogen produced by converting natural gas into hydrogen and CO2 with the subsequent or integrated CO2 removal, transport and long-term storage. Blue ammonia is produced from blue hydrogen. UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 16 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Removing carbon from the atmosphere In addition to the measures described above, establish a group-wide effort in this topic, called to look particularly at the opportunities that exist in laboratory stage, or at best in pilot scale. Therefore, the IPCC points out that it may be necessary to 'New climate-positive measures'. Our hypothesis ocean spaces and in the boundary between blue and there is a great need for research and innovation remove the CO2 already present in the atmosphere is that as this area has not been in focus until now, green value chains. As far as storage is concerned, in relation to climate-positive solutions. Neither and oceans in order to limit global warming and there must be solutions that we can help to identify binding carbon in new, valuable, and stable materials Norway nor the EU have a related research and achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. This is and develop together with the government and is one alternative, although large-scale storage in the development or innovation agenda, so this is a because the world will be unable to cut emissions business. This group-wide effort will formulate form of either CCS or other methods may also be nascent market. The European Commission is fast enough and because we have sectors where it academic hypotheses and a proposed work relevant. The carbon must be stored in a form and in drawing up proposals regarding incentives and is hard to envisage zero emissions, e.g. agriculture, programme for the measures that would be most a manner that means that it would be isolated from regulations in order to accelerate the development parts of manufacturing and the transport sector effective, both for the capture and the storage of the atmosphere for a long time, and the solutions of technology and use of climate-positive solutions. (such as transcontinental air and maritime CO2. In 2020, the work will focus on idea generation chosen must be environmentally and socially acceptTherefore the group-wide effort is oriented towards transport). Some estimates indicate a need in the and pave the way for research and innovation able. Ideally, the carbon should be removed 'forever', both technical and market solutions, as well as range of 10-15 per cent of current emissions, which arenas for these solutions. but at least for several hundred years. Realistically, creating an understanding of the need for these must be balanced by climate-positive solutions.[14] we may also have to include measures that store solutions in society and research policy. SINTEF can It would be natural to look at opportunities for carbon for shorter periods of time. This will give us play a key role in the climate battle in this area and Atmospheric CO2 is a problem that is the capturing CO2 in new biomass production in oceans time to develop more permanent solutions. help to enable the authorities and business actors 'responsibility of everyone and no one' and there and water, as well as on dry land, and by using to realise concrete actions for the net removal of is no current business model for CO2 removal chemical/mechanical solutions for capture from air Dedicated processes for the extraction and CO2 from the atmosphere. measures, nor indeed for mobilising research into or oceans. Given Norway's ambitions and advantages long-term storage of carbon is a relatively new CO2 removal. In 2019, SINTEF therefore decided to as an ocean nation, it would also be natural for us field and the proposed solutions are mostly at the [14] Estimates based on the global need for climate-positive solutions depending on IPCC scenarios P1 to P4, assumed to be the same for Norway. UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 17 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's work with oil and gas in a climate and environmental context After it was decided that SINTEF's corporate strategy seeing. At the same time, there is a great deal of would be guided by the UN SDGs, several employees uncertainty surrounding what the demand will be asked whether our work for the oil and gas industry going forward. Green alternatives are pushing their is compatible with our sustainability ambitions. We way through and the review concludes that SINTEF therefore reviewed this in the winter of 2019/2020, should further enhance its green transition efforts. in consultation with external parties, SINTEF's governing bodies and our own organisation. We have Another conclusion is that the transition is so sought to establish a knowledge-based approach to comprehensive that even within the 1.5°C scenario, the dilemmas in order to plot the course ahead. A there will be a high level of demand for oil, and discussion paper was presented in-house for open especially gas, including a need for replenishment debate among colleagues. with new fossil resources during a transition period. The starting point for the discussion was that the Our main conclusion is that there is no moral goals require an energy transition towards the contradiction between working towards a sustain1.5°C scenario, which requires a society with net able society and assisting the oil and gas industry as zero emissions of CO2 by around the middle of this long as the work is based on a transition in line with century. SINTEF's activities must, therefore, be the path set out for the 1.5°C scenario. We assume guided by this. that this justifies exploration and field development near existing infrastructure, but probably not the Our review of various policy, market and risk development of new oil provinces, unless there is a SINTEF researcher testing the mechanical properties scenarios shows that this transition will require a fundamental breakthrough in the realisation of oil of core samples from an oil significantly more vigorous societal change towards and gas decarbonisation. well, which is important for safe and efficient extraction. the green transition than what we are currently UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 18 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Despite the advances of the last 20 years within solar, wind and batteries indicating that the Key clients are requesting assistance from SINTEF in the transition to zero-emissions in 2050. SINTEF is growing and becoming change could come about faster, and in more more diverse areas than even the most radical scenarios Below, we provide a brief account of what SINTEF suggest, there are also new considerations is currently doing for the oil and gas industry, that add new interests that must be balanced. and how this work interacts with our work on the NOK millions Among these, we can see that more attention green transition. 3500 is being paid to biodiversity and conservation 18% considerations, and that at times this gives rise to Despite a significant drop in turnover since 3000 conflicts with renewable energy projects. Similarly, 2014, oil and gas remains SINTEF's largest 21% 20% 22% there are also challenges in relation to supplies market area with an annual turnover of just over 26% of materials for batteries. Thus, our conclusion is NOK 600 million in 2019. Of this, around NOK 2500 31% 31% 30% that the energy transition will be very demanding 140 million is linked to CCS, renewable energy and that it is, therefore, important not to just and hydrogen-related projects for oil and gas 2000 work on renewable energy, but also to develop companies. The figure shows SINTEF's gross zero-emission solutions in order to be able to turnover and highlights how we have successfully 1500 utilise energy from petroleum resources in the grown and developed a more diverse and less form of hydrogen, ammonia and other solutions oil-dependent project portfolio. 69% 69% 70% 74% 78% 79% 80% 82% 1000 involving CCS as important contributions to the zero-emission society. 500 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Oil and gas, incl CCS Other Source SINTEF UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 19 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu The diagram on the right distributes SINTEF's turnover in relation to the oil and gas value chain. expertise is also used to cut emissions from cement production, waste incineration and other industrial SINTEF's level of activity in oil and Helping to streamline processes and lower costs activities, and will be an important prerequisite for gas through the value chain have been consistent features of our oil and gas carbon removal/BioCCS and clean hydrogen. portfolio. We help to ensure clients' competitiveness, (turnover in NOK millions) which also involves reducing environmental impact in The second largest market area, Marine the production and end-user phases, which includes structures, refers to Norway as a seafaring nation. Exploration technology greenhouse gas emissions. We built up expertise in shipping, which gave us Marine structures an advantage when we subsequently developed Drilling and wells A more detailed review of any individual area shows the offshore petroleum industry. Today, the same Marine environment that SINTEF's activities are, to a great extent, based expertise is being used in relation to aquaculture Reservoir technology on a high level of generic expertise with many areas and offshore wind. Marine operations of application, which may contribute to achieving Ocean space surveillance and modelling various SDGs in the longer or shorter term. The Drilling and wells and Reservoir technology are two Process technology growth in green areas has largely been based on major areas of activity that involve technologies for Materials science expertise that has been developed on behalf of the automating and streamlining drilling operations, Maritime transport oil and gas industry, and which there is still a market characterising, and modelling subterranean areas, Oﬀshore energy systems for there. understanding wells, safe drilling operations and Sensor technology reduced emissions to the environment. The same Working life and digitalisation Carbon capture and storage, our largest market expertise, and some of the same projects, are Renewable energy for oil and gas production area in relation to the oil and gas industry, is in contributing to the development of solutions for Plugging and abandonment of wells this context about eliminating emissions from the CO2 storage, utilising geothermal energy and many Carbon capture and storage (CCS) use or processing of gas into, for example, the other applications related to optimisation. Hydrogen technology and solutions raw materials for fish feed production. The same 0 20 40 60 80 100 Exploration Field development and operation Source SINTEF Renewables Shut down CCS and hydrogen UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 20 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu The areas Marine environment and Ocean Sensor technology and Working life and Hydrogen technology and solutions will be products. SINTEF's assessment is based on the fact space surveillance and modelling both include digitalisation are both about introducing new, important in transforming natural gas into a clean that the petroleum industry accounts for 23 per cent environmental studies that monitor more than just smarter and safer technology and work methods. energy carrier, at the same time as the carbon is of Norwegian emissions and that these emissions oil spills. New technologies in these areas have many These find their assignments out on the continental removed via CCS. Hydrogen and CCS could play must be cut in order to fulfil Norway's obligations marine applications, for example in relation to the shelf, as well as in all forms of industry on land. important roles in cutting emissions during the under the Paris Agreement. Compliance with the challenges of plastic littering of the oceans and the transition phase up to 2050, and perhaps afterParis Agreement is essential to ensure Norwegian utilisation of low trophic level marine organisms.[15] Offshore energy systems and Renewable energy wards as well. Our research into hydrogen from gas legitimacy in international climate negotiations. At for oil and gas production concern offshore energy is developing many solutions that are also relevant the same time, we cannot just settle for this, but A large proportion of the applications of Marine supply, with the goal of lower emissions. This for hydrogen from renewable electricity. must work to ensure that emissions from using oil operations and Maritime transport are in shipping, includes electrification of the continental shelf. These and gas are also eliminated. We are doing this by which is also where both originate. Supply vessels, are key areas in the new Low-Emission Research We currently have almost no activities linked to both working on renewable alternatives and by floating production and the automation of offshore Centre, funded by the Research Council of Norway Exploration for new oil and gas resources. The oil ensuring that the energy from petroleum can be operations, aimed at all ocean industries, fall under for the development of new technologies and companies have chosen to keep the exploration work used without emissions. these categories. concepts within offshore energy systems, energy in-house in recent years. The expertise possessed efficiency and the integration of renewable power by SINTEF's 'Exploration and reservoir' group has While we believe that the current portfolio is The areas of Process technology and Materials production technology for use on the Norwegian largely been refocused on safe and cost-effective justifiable from a climate ethics perspective, science are based on generic knowledge within continental shelf. This also includes areas of work CO2 storage. The turnover linked to CO2 storage is asking whether there are projects that we could physics and chemistry, which is used here to find linked to renewable energy at sea and other reported under CCS. not justifiably take on is a legitimate question. new and smarter solutions for oil and gas. They also electrification challenges. SINTEF rejected projects linked to oil sands in have several other areas of application such as in the As the host of the Low-Emission Research Centre, Canada because we did not believe the activity future bioeconomy through the utilisation of sustainPlugging and abandonment of wells is the process SINTEF plays an important role in helping the was sustainable. Similarly, we must ask ourselves able renewable biomass. Climate-positive processes of shutting down oil fields. In addition to shutting petroleum industry deliver 40 per cent cuts in ethical questions when assessing whether or not and the future biorefineries for processing biomass down fields, the area covers the secure plugging of emissions by 2030 and zero emissions in 2050. we should take part in projects in new provinces or into bio-based chemicals and biomaterials are being reservoirs used for CO2 storage. Some are critical of this effort because cutting in projects with high CO2 emissions or in especially developed here, as are bioenergy and advanced emissions on the continental shelf does not address vulnerable habitats. biofuels designed for long-haul and air transport. the main problem, the emissions from using the [15] Low trophic level species are organisms at the lowest level of the food chain. At the lowest level we find primary producers (plants and algae) which utilise sunlight as energy and provide the basis for the food chain. The next level up are animals that live off these plants and algae, and further up come animals that eat animals. 90 per cent of the energy is lost between each level and it is therefore more advantageous to harvest and cultivate the low UN SDGs – Goals 7 and 13 21 trophic level species than species further up the food chain. SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Industry, innovation and infrastructure and Decent work and economic growth The goal of SINTEF's corporate strategy is to produce competitiveness and societal solutions. It Project turnover: Start-ups: is, therefore, not surprising that we have significant 471 15 activity aimed at the SDGs relating to innovation, M infrastructure, and value creation. N O In this deep dive we want to both show examples of K projects and start-ups that are contributing to goals 8 and 9, and also look more closely at SINTEF's more overarching role in promoting innovation and value creation, in Norway and internationally. Project turnover: Start-ups: 47 16 M N O K UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 22 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Klima 2050: research into the societal risks associated with Societal infrastructure research projects climate change The large volume of projects related to goal 9 change, population and behavioural changes, reflects the fact that SINTEF has a substantial new mobility and energy supply needs, energy Klima 2050 is a centre for research-based project portfolio linked to increasing the efficiency needs, changed environmental innovation that aims to mitigate the societal sustainability of society's infrastructure. Important standards and for being able to exploit new risks associated with climate change due to research areas include road, rail, aviation, water technological solutions such as autonomy, factors such as higher precipitation volumes supply, power supply, communications and electrification and other zero-emission solutions. and flooding. The centre, which is led by computer systems, bridges, tunnels, underground Develop new standards, products, methods and SINTEF, carries out research into risk mitigation systems, pipelines, satellites, ferries and others. trading platforms for materials and equipment solutions involving the climate adaptation Much of this research contributes to more for infrastructure development, especially in light of buildings and infrastructure, as well as area-specific goals and is discussed in other places of the need for cuts in emissions, the circular solutions for strengthening the innovation in this report. economy and increased productivity. capacity of companies. One pilot project at the centre is the climate adaptation network More generally, it can be said that the research – Increase the safety and security of society's critical of the City of Trondheim and Trøndelag helps to: infrastructure, including new comprehensive County Authority, which is contributing to risk analysis methods for complex structures, the implementation of knowledge in all – Better utilise and maintain existing infrastructure, higher ICT and geopolitical threat levels, reduced municipalities in the county. including the use of sensors, big data analytics, biodiversity and more extreme weather. optimisation, traffic management and other planning tools. One concrete example of our work on protecting THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO and improving infrastructure is the work taking – Analyse and assess the need for new or changed place in SFI Klima 2050. infrastructure, including for managing climate UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 23 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SHOP: a planning tool for Research projects related to Decent Work and Economic Growth hydropower SINTEF's project activities make a direct contribution had projects related to the impact of digitalisation to value creation and employment in society. Our on working life. SINTEF also carries out extensive SHOP is a tool for planning hydropower research generally focuses on producing societal research related to HSE in the workplace, for example production one to two weeks ahead to ensure benefits and competitiveness, and from this to mitigate the risks associated with working in fishing the optimum use of resources. A study by perspective a large number of the projects contribute and aquaculture. Impello Management and Menon Economics to the work on achieving goal 8) Decent Work and shows that the planning tool has increased Economic Growth, although relatively few have been Economic benefits are often achieved through the value of the water in Norwegian power tagged with this as a (main) goal. research-based improvements to the technologies reservoirs by 2 per cent, which equates to NOK and work processes on which products and services 6.8 billion over 10 years. SHOP can be used To ensure a safe and secure working environment, we are based. One concrete example of this is a for different river systems and has recently work on tripartite cooperation and preventive working planning tool that we have developed over time for undergone major changes as a consequence of environment work and, especially recently, have hydropower production: an expanding user group with differing needs. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 24 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's role in the innovation system SINTEF's research and innovation work is mainly Research institutes like SINTEF play a key role in the There is also a lot of evidence at the European level The OECD's country study of the Norwegian research carried out in collaboration with partners in the Norwegian research and innovation system. In the regarding the importance of the research institutes. and innovation system from 2017 also highlights the private and public sectors. This allows us to make last five years, the institute sector has on average A 'ripple effect' reported for nine European importance of the institutes, especially regarding sure that the research is relevant and has impact. carried out 22 per cent of Norway's total research technical-industrial institutes (RTOs)[19] shows that increased competitiveness and innovation. 'One of Our expertise within research and innovation, as well and development production, equivalent to NOK EUR 1 invested in RTOs yields a return of EUR 3.8 the defining features of the Norwegian innovation as our infrastructure for research, verification and 13 billion per year.[16] In many ways, the research and that the nine institutes yield annual value system is the strong research institute sector' testing (laboratories), are important contributions institutes can be considered the business sector's creation of EUR 14 billion. SINTEF was one of the [...] 'Norway's research institutes, particularly the to our partners. In this way, SINTEF itself, as an research and development departments, or a nine institutes studied. technical-industrial institutes, have a long history of institution, represents infrastructure that enhances supplement to these. SINTEF also plays an essential supporting innovation in industry.'[20] the innovative capacity of our society. UN Sustainable role in disseminating expertise to relevant industrial Development Goal 8) emphasises the need to actors through publicly funded research. increase economic productivity by, among other things, 'diversification, technological upgrading and A number of external evaluations of the institute [16] Regjeringen.no, Strategi for helhetlig instituttpolitikk . [19] Valentijn Bilsen, Isabelle De Voldere, Miriam Van Hoed and Kleitia innovation.' Goal 9) deals with, among other things, sector has been carried out and was compiled 11.02.2020. https://www.regjeringen.no/ Zeqo, Economic Footprint of Nine European RTOs in 2015-2016 . upgrading infrastructure and retrofitting industries, into a synthesis report from the Research Council contentassets/980bb6529e194ddb970dc04b4d138af2/ Brussels: IDEA Consult, 2018. https://www.earto.eu/wp-content/ instituttstrategi.pdf uploads/EARTO-Economic-Footprint-Study-Impact-of-9-RTOs-inincluding 'enhanc[ing] scientific research and of Norway in 2018.[17] The evaluations document [17] Research Council of Norway, En målrettet og effektiv 2015-2016-Final-Report.pdf upgrad[ing] technological capabilities of industrial that technical-industrial institutes are particularly instituttpolitikk. En systematisk gjennomgang av Forskningsrådets [20] OECD, OECD Reviews of Innovation Policy: Norway 2017 , p. evalueringer av forskningsinstitutter . Oslo: Research 30. Paris: OECD Publishing, 2017. https://read.oecd-ilibrary.org/ sectors in all countries.' Here, the SDGs are focusing important in ensuring the impact of research through Council of Norway, 2018. https://www.forskningsradet.no/ science-and-technology/oecd-reviews-of-innovation-policyon SINTEF's core tasks. Therefore, when reporting on value creation and restructuring. One of the studies contentassets/52963f9c837c464d86185e92f82e64c6/evalueringnorway-2017_9789264277960-en#page1 forskningsinstitutter-synteserapport-.pdf these two goals, we believe it is of great relevance to in the evaluation estimates that the collaboration [18] Research Council of Norway, En målrettet og effektiv describe how we work in partnerships. between industry and the technical-industrial instituttpolitikk. En systematisk gjennomgang av Forskningsrådets evalueringer av forskningsinstitutter . Oslo: Research institutes has helped to increase value creation in Council of Norway, 2018. https://www.forskningsradet.no/ industry by NOK 800 billion over a 10-year period.[18] contentassets/52963f9c837c464d86185e92f82e64c6/evalueringforskningsinstitutter-synteserapport-.pdf UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 25 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Research infrastructure and laboratories/'test beds' surplus in the last 10 years. Co-funding from external sources, such as the Research Council of Norway We are investing in new laboratories, Research infrastructure plays an important role in and Innovation Norway, helps to 'gear up' our investscientific equipment, and other research how we can carry out projects for clients. Around ments and expand opportunities for the companies 40 per cent of our turnover is linked to projects and organisations with which we collaborate. production equipment that make use of this type of infrastructure. This figure is somewhat higher for projects we carry SINTEF has many laboratories, ranging in size from NOK millions out in collaboration with business. Access to pilot scale, such as the ocean basin at Tyholt, to 150 advanced research laboratories is a prerequisite for laboratories with equipment that measures distances succeeding as a world leading research institute. We on an atomic scale. Our research infrastructure repare developing the infrastructure further through resents the breadth of research carried out in SINTEF 120 contributions from national and international and the examples on the following pages describe infrastructure schemes and through our own some of our full-scale laboratories. investments. SINTEF has invested NOK 1.2 billion of its own funds in research infrastructure from its In total, SINTEF has more than 100 laboratories. 90 60 30 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source SINTEF UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 26 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Some of SINTEF's laboratories Manufacturing Technology MiNaLab ACE – full-scale Norwegian Catapult Centre aquaculture laboratory SINTEF MiNaLab is an advanced research facility SIVA Manufacturing Technology Norwegian Catapult for micro and nano fabrication of sensors and SINTEF ACE is a full-scale laboratory facility designed Centre develops and demonstrates production microsystems. It is the only complete, open access to develop and test new aquaculture technology. processes and enables technologies in mini-factories, processing line in Norway and offers a broad The research and experimental focus is mainly on in collaboration with industry, research and range of services from concept development to technology for operational activities, as well as the educational institutions, and its purpose is to shorten small-scale production. It develops miniaturised surveillance of structures and the environment. This is the time between research and development and components for applications within, among other based on interdisciplinary expertise in the interaction results being put into production. areas, the processing industry, the aeronautical between biology and technology. Facility users are industry, medical technology, environmental researchers and others who want to conduct practical surveillance, and the aerospace industry. experiments and tests under realistic conditions. UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 27 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Some of SINTEF's laboratories Electrotechnical laboratories CO2-Lab Tiller The ZEB Laboratory SINTEF carries out advanced experimental CO2-Lab Tiller contains a pilot plant and infraZEB Laboratory is a laboratory for zero emission activities in both laboratories and the field for structure devoted to the development, testing buildings (ZEB) – an arena where new and innovative manufacturers, suppliers and users of electric and validation of CO2 capture technologies for materials and solutions are developed, investigated, power equipment related to materials, components various emission sources. With a fully digitalised tested and demonstrated in mutual interaction with and systems for the sustainable energy solutions test facility, accurate measurements of many key people. The building form a living laboratory, i.e. and zero-emission mobility of the future. The process parameters can be carried out under a laboratory where people using it as an ordinary electrotechnical laboratories consist of several industrial conditions for the Norwegian and office building or for educational purposes become different units, including high voltage laboratories, international business sector. an experimental parameter giving variations in loads subsea laboratories, aging laboratories, chemistry with their use of the premises. laboratories, mechanical laboratories, power electronics laboratories and the smart grid laboratory. UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 28 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Ocean Space Centre ocean wind, aquaculture, fisheries, eco-friendly often through consortia consisting of multiple clients the results of the research belong to us and will be A major infrastructure project we have worked maritime transport, autonomous shipping, coastal with complex interests in a value chain. Nevertheless, published openly. extensively on in the last years, and especially in infrastructure, deep sea mining, and more. we distinguish between contract research and what is 2019, is the Ocean Space Centre (OSC)[21], which the referred to as collaborative research. We increase the expertise and pace of restructuring government granted funding for design planning Collaboration with Norwegian policy agencies in companies and public organisations in both in 2020 with the goal of reaching a decision on and research funding Put simply, in principle our contract research project collaborative research and contract research. investment in 2021 and starting construction in With basic funding of only 8 per cent, SINTEF relies portfolio consists of projects where companies By partnering with companies in many different 2022. Norway has been a great maritime power on successfully raising project funding in competitive have identified challenges or opportunities they industries, we are spreading technological solutions for generations, not least in combination with arenas, nationally and in Europe. The business want to explore, and they become the owner of the across industries while simultaneously protecting long-term thinking and technical marine knowledge sector funds 47 per cent of the portfolio. We also research results. In these projects, we meet their our clients' intellectual property. Learning between and expertise. For decades, the maritime sector has collaborate with the public sector through direct needs, challenge their technological perspective and industries is extremely important in particular in benefited from the infrastructure in the large, hydroprojects and research collaborations with public our function is to work as the companies' research times of big shifts. dynamic laboratories at Tyholt in Trondheim, and the research institutions. The projects we have with the and development department. In many cases, the expertise at NTNU and SINTEF. The OSC's societal Research Council of Norway or the EU programmes companies look for risk mitigation. SINTEF knows the Since the oil crisis in 2014, we have seen a trend mission is to ensure continued value creation for account for 34 per cent of the portfolio. different support schemes in Norway and in the EU towards companies in Norway increasingly seeking Norway through competitive ocean space industries and may suggest projects that can apply for support risk mitigation from the public support system. in line with the government's “New Growth, Proud SINTEF's collaborative and contract research, especially from the Research Council of Norway, Norway is thus approaching a model for research History” strategy and the OECD's perspectives in partnering with business Innovation Norway or SkatteFUNN, or from the funding like those in other European countries. It is the report, “The Ocean Economy in 2030”.[22] The To deliver on SINTEF's societal mission, we and framework programmes in the EU. This is how we clear from our data that the share of projects with OSC will contribute future-oriented infrastructure, our partners depend on a well-functioning public trigger research investments in the business sector. companies supported by government schemes is both in the form of more functional laboratories support system that mitigates the risk companies increasing. The growth in this portfolio from 2018 to with better instrumentation on land and in the and other clients face in early and long-term As far as collaborative research is concerned, in 2019 was no less than 15 per cent. The growth in our form of digital infrastructure in the Trondheim development processes. The support system also principle it is SINTEF itself that sees the opportunities contract research with no public support, is on the Fjord, Hitra and Ålesund that supports strategic allows investments to be made in research that provided by new knowledge or technology and then other hand marginal. The large increase in publicly priority areas like energy, food, transport, and the may have major long-term effects but where no applies for public funding for the research associated supported business research is both in projects environment into a more digital and greener future. well-functioning market exists yet. with such opportunities. These projects often receive where we have applied for research funding while The new infrastructure will result in better research co-funding from partner companies. By inviting the companies are partners and co-funders, and in and education, as well as a greater contribution Almost all of SINTEF's research and innovation activities business and others to be partners, we trigger more projects where the business sector has applied for to sustainable development in, for example, take place through active co-creation with clients and fundamental innovation in the organisations, while funding, with us as R&D-partner. [21] The laboratory project has been known as the Ocean Space Centre for years even though the concept alternative that was chosen and developed by the Norwegian Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries was called Ocean Space Labs. The two names refer to the same project. [22] Regjeringen.no, The Norwegian Government's Ocean Strategy: New Growth, Proud History . 23.03.2017. https://www.regjeringen.no/contentassets/097c5ec1238d4c0ba32ef46965144467/nfd_havstrategi_uu.pdf, OECD. The Ocean Economy in 2030 . Paris: OECD Publishing, 2016. https:// UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 29 www.oecd.org/environment/the-ocean-economy-in-2030-9789264251724-en.htm SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's start-ups SINTEF's start-ups emerge from our research eight have merged with others and the rest have ceased trading. Some 67 of the 80 companies were We create jobs through start-ups activities and contribute to value creation and established in the Trondheim region. The companies employment in society. The establishment of these employ 1,765 people (2019) and generate around companies testifies to the fact that not all new NOK 5.6 billion in earnings per year (2018).[23] knowledge can be commercialised in collaboration Employees with existing companies. Strong trends such as SINTEF has achieved good results from these 2000 digitalisation and sustainability are driving a need commercialisation activities. Selling stakes in 1765 for technologies that the current business sector companies established by us has resulted in both 1642 1640 1597 has not always demanded through contract returns for owners and the companies developing research. In our long-term research funded through well. The companies Nacre, GasSecure, Spermvital 1500 our own and free funds, we attempt to develop and Resman are good examples of this. technology that can contribute to creating a completely new business sector. These companies The diagrams on this and the following page are highly competitive because their operations provide a picture of SINTEF's commercialisation 1000 are based on expertise and leading technology. activities from 2003 to the present day. Together, these companies therefore represent a significant contribution to the renewal of the One good example of a start-up that is contributing Norwegian business sector. to goal 8) Decent Work and Economic Growth and 500 goal 9) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure is Since the middle of the 1980s, a total of 80 Zivid, which won the Research Council of Norway's companies have emerged from SINTEF. Of these, innovation award in 2018. 57 are still in operation as separate companies, 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source Cumulative overview of employees in companies that emerged from SINTEF The Impello Management Study 2019 [23] Data from the Impello Management Study 2019. UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 30 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Ripple effects of SINTEF's commercialisation activities 2003-2019 591 114 NOK 2 billion 30 ideas from projects in exit value start-up expert environments developed further companies NOK 1 NOK 1,7 15-20 74 billion billion per cent return licences and in portfolio value in extra funding on funds technology sales per 2019 triggered Source SINTEF UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 31 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Zivid The world's most accurate 3D camera Impact for clients, users and society Zivid AS is a spin-off company from SINTEF This innovative camera technology that has developed the world's most developed by Zivid provides great accurate 3D camera for industrial use. potential for increased productivity and The camera gives robots 'eyesight' and economic growth in several areas of enables them to discern colour, shape manufacturing. In 2018, Zivid won the THE COMPANY ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO and distance. This has made it simpler Research Council of Norway's innovation to automate manual tasks in large parts award. Since its founding in 2015, Zivid has of the manufacturing industry, including already established sales offices in China, the electronics, furniture, car and food South Korea, and North America, as well industries. as first-hand distributors in Canada, Japan, and the USA. Links to more info Application and scalability zivid.com sintef.no The technology developed by Zivid has wide-ranging potential applications in various sectors, including the health and care services sector. In the Intelli3D project, Zivid and SINTEF are partnering on using the camera technology in 'new' industries and small and medium-sized companies. If this goal is achieved, Zivid will become a key player in the global market and is expected to grow in value over the next seven years to more than EUR 400 million. UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 32 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF has increased the number of start-ups after attracting co-investors into its commercialisation the technologies. In 2019, the SINTEF Venture funds invested NOK 49 million in the company Internal and external capital supplied to activities in 2014 through SINTEF Venture IV, a portfolio, which in turn triggered NOK 138 million create new companies NOK 209 million fund, NOK 109 million of which in investments from others and are contributing to came from investors other than SINTEF. In 2018, these companies' growth and development. we established a new NOK 500 million fund, NOK millions SINTEF Venture V. SINTEF has invested NOK 110 Considering this, SINTEF's returns on its investments 200 million of its own money in the fund. SINTEF's are regarded as very good. The commercialisation commercialisation activities primarily focus on the concept is operated by SINTEF TTO, which both pre-seed and seed phases. These are important carries out technology transfers from SINTEF and activities when it comes to realising SINTEF's manages SINTEF's investment fund with the mission 150 vision of producing 'technology for a better of creating commercial value and exiting. The society'. The potential return on investments in concept is based on close collaboration with SINTEF's these phases is high, but so is the risk. The risk is expert environments and competent financial 138 particularly related to whether the technologies and industrial partners. There is a good supply of 100 will be attractive in the market, and whether the high-quality projects. companies will be able to sell solutions based on 94 50 60 51 18 21 35 49 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Co-investors SINTEF Venture Source SINTEF UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 33 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Client locations SINTEF Energy Research SINTEF's contribution to regional innovation Having such a presence has enabled us to bolster in Norway our expertise and take the initiative to establish SINTEF's projects contribute to competitiveness and development projects in these environments as a societal solutions throughout Norway. We lack geosupplement to our ordinary project collaborations graphical data on where all the institutes' projects in the large research environments in SINTEF, are carried out, but this map shows where SINTEF where Trondheim and Oslo are centres of gravity. Energy Research's clients are, which we believe is This presence contributes to value creation and relatively comparable to the other institutes. The is, in many cases, strongly contributing to a green map does not completely correspond with some transition in these industrial environments. official statistics which largely reflects head office addresses. The map shows where the research As an example, in 2019 SINTEF decided to establish actually finds its area of application. a permanent office in the industrial park in Verdal to strengthen the collaboration with business in the SINTEF has also actively focused on strengthening region. SINTEF's collaboration with the industrial innovation capacity in regional industrial park in Verdal prior to the establishment of the office environments, partly through collaboration with was vital for the development of a well-functioning clusters and partly through business establishment regional innovation ecosystem. This is based, and mergers in many parts of the country, as shown not least, on a multi-year collaboration with the on the map on the next page. The green spots show business development company Proneo, Verdal SINTEF's office locations, the red spots are the Business Forum and Verdal Upper Secondary School, Innovation Norway clusters we partner with, and supported by Verdal Municipality, Trøndelag County the yellow spot show our cluster-like collaborations Authority and SpareBank 1 SMN. The collaboration with the companies in Røros. has resulted in a portfolio of industrial research and development projects with a total budget of more than NOK 250 million. Kilde SINTEF UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 34 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Proximity to customers through regional presence and cluster collaboration Tromsø ARENA Marine Recycling Cluster, ARENA Torskeﬁsk SINTEF's oﬃces Narvik Innovation Norway clusters we collaborate with Cluster-like collaboration with the companies in Røros ARENA Arctic Cluster Team Mo i Rana ARENA Woodworks! Cluster Verdal Tequity Cluster, ARENA Autonomiklyngen, NCE Aquatech Trondheim NCE Blue Legasea Ålesund «The Røros cluster» NCE Seafood Innovation Cluster, ARENA Clean Ocean, ARENA Industry Green Tech Bergen NCE Raufoss Raufoss ARENA Construction City, NCE Norway Health Tech, NCE Energy Technology Oslo ARENA Sustainable autonomous mobility systems Porsgrunn ARENA Smart Care GCE Ocean Technology Hirtshals Brussels UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 35 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's engagement in EU research SINTEF's main strength, bringing partners from As of May 2020, SINTEF is the Norwegian actor that has won the most projects in H2020 with EUR 149 We help companies secure R&D funding in business and the public sector together in million in research and innovation funding. The the EU (figures in EUR millions) commercially-oriented research projects, has proved Norwegian government contributes around 2.7 a good starting point for bringing home funding per cent of the current framework programme's from the EU and thereby ensuring that Norwegian budget and has a target of a 2 per cent return share. actors build competitiveness by taking part in the SINTEF's H2020 activities account for more than one 289 35% 295000 international research front in key technologies tenth of the government's ambitions regarding the like ICT, biotechnology, energy, nanotechnology total return of funds to Norway. The projects we take 30% and materials science. Professional updates from part in receive a total of 2.9 per cent of the funds in 225 EU projects are invaluable in maintaining SINTEF's H2020, distributed across the various national and leading position and competitiveness. international partners. 25% In 2014, the EU merged its research and innovation More than 30 per cent of Norwegian companies 20% programmes into what is the world's largest research that obtain research and development funding from 143 programme worth around EUR 70 billion, Horizon the EU do so in collaboration with SINTEF, as per 15% 2020 (H2020). At the same time, the focus was October 2019. The figure shows how we trigger 98 shifted to resolving global challenges. The EU's activity in the Norwegian business sector that brings research programme is an important contributor to the companies into partnerships with clients and 10% the development of EU policies and regulations. other companies in the research front at an EU level, 38 accumulated through the period. 5% 10 0% 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Without SINTEF participation With SINTEF participation Kilde ECORDA contract database Annual proportion of support for companies October 2019 (signed that participate together with SINTEF contracts + closed) UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 36 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu H2020 is based around three pillars: societal SINTEF's goal is to double our turnover in relation to challenges, industrial leadership, and excellent the EU during the upcoming framework programme science. SINTEF's biggest contributions to EU up to 2027, assuming that the economic framework research are within societal challenges and industrial conditions for our participation do not deteriorate. leadership. The three largest areas for SINTEF The ambitions are based on the European arena are: secure, clean, and efficient energy, advanced helping to give our clients access to unique manufacturing and processing, and ICT research. networks and innovation power, and give SINTEF's researchers a unique platform for developing and The research programmes are one of the EU's most presenting results, getting feedback on the quality of important tools for achieving the goal of becoming deliverables and obtaining inspiration and knowledge the world's first climate neutral continent by 2050. from working with leading European actors. EU Research and innovation in areas like health, the research is an important aspect of our ambitions digital society, preparedness and safety, constitute regarding carrying out world-leading research. key parts of the next EU framework programme, Horizon Europe, where the EU's proposed budget is more than EUR 80 billion for the period 2021 to 2027. UN SDGs – Goals 9 and 8 37 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Responsible consumption and production The world's resources are today under heavy dissemination in the public debate on how we will pressure. The growing scarcity of raw materials and achieve responsible consumption and production. Project turnover: Start-ups: increasing volumes of waste and pollution make 522 8 the development of sustainable consumption and SINTEF contributes to efficient resource use via M production patterns an important goal. SINTEF is innovative processes and the development of N working in an interdisciplinary and cross-sectoral materials that reduce the use of raw materials in O manner with more than 100 business clients production. For example, together with Skanska, K on developing solutions for more responsible we are realising the waste-free construction site by consumption and production. developing process tools that support cooperation between partners in planning, procurement and SINTEF has strategically focused on the circular logistical activities related to construction sites. economy since 2016 with a vision of “challenging We are also contributing to developing technology and supporting Norway in the circular transition.” and bioprocesses for reducing loss and waste and The transformation to a circular society will be increasing the utilisation of raw materials in the value complex, and business and the public sector needs chain for marine and land-based food production. insights into the effects of a circular economic model Among other things, we are working on a project and support with developing new business models, that will increase the utilisation rate for, and value processes, and products. We spend a significant part creation from, residual raw materials from white of the Research Council of Norway's basic grant on fish. This means developing solutions for onboard delivering basic knowledge about the importance handling, logistics and processing ingredients from and potential of a Norwegian circular economy. residual raw materials from sea fishing. Reducing SINTEF hosts the annual Norwegian Circular consumer food loss and waste is another relevant Economy Conference and contributes heavily to topic where facilitating good solutions is important. UN SDGs – Goal 12 38 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu ConZerW: expertise in waste We develop solutions for keeping products and of contributing to a more circular economy through free construction sites waste-free construction site resources in circular the gas cylinders they produce. SINTEF contributes material silos through prevention, reduction, research expertise to the project within recovery recovery, and reuse. Important research topics technology, product condition detection, life cycle include life cycle analyses, the reuse of materials analysis for documenting environmental impact and and optimisation models that combine technological the strategic development of more circular business ConZerW is an innovation project that aims to opportunities with economic and environmental models. SINTEF has worked closely with Tomra for a develop expertise in order to create waste free effects. SINTEF coordinates several major EU projects long time on separation technology for the return of construction sites. This will be done through within the circular economy, including in relation beverage containers, and with Hydro on increasing process tools that can support professionals to the recovery of electronic components and the the recycling of aluminium alloys. in the various phases of the construction utilisation of waste streams for valuable products. process. The tool will contribute to good SINTEF contributes to knowledge building to planning before materials are ordered and Together with Norwegian Plastic Recycling and reduce emissions of chemicals and waste into the efficient assembly in the construction projects others, we are facilitating a sustainable value chain environment. Several of Norway's largest actors of the future. Methods and models will also be for plastic waste from the Norwegian aquaculture in the textile industry are collaborating on the developed for analysing material streams and industry. Another example is the Smart Sustainable MICROFIBRE project in order to understand and value chains in a flexible manner. Composite Products (CompDetect) project. The mitigate the environmental impact of pollution from project owner, Hexagon Ragasco, has set a clear goal microfibres discharged from textiles during washing. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Goal 12 39 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Sustainable cities and communities With a turnover of NOK 386 million, SINTEF project, Smart Societies. The project portfolio has a broad project portfolio related to goal 11) currently reflects great thematic breadth but needs Project turnover: Start-ups: Sustainable Cities and Communities. In this area to develop strong links across sectors. 386 1 we have, together with partners from research, the M public sector, and the organisation and business In the UniverCity3.0 project, SINTEF is monitoring the N sectors, succeeded in getting major, multi-year interaction between NTNU and City of Trondheim O research centres established and funded, like FME in their collaboration on University City TRD3.0, K ZEN (Zero Emission Neighbourhoods in Smart which is looking at the effects of collaborations Cities), SFI Klima 2050 (Risk reduction through across sectors, the innovative use of technology and climate adaptation of buildings and infrastructure) the development of the city as a living laboratory and FME CINELDI (Centre for Intelligent Electricity and learning community. Norwegian municipalities Distribution). Behind these spearheads lie a are important for facilitating interaction between wide range of projects linked to disciplines such members of the public, business, and the public as building, infrastructure and neighbourhood sector. Through partnership agreements with development, zero-emission mobility, sustainable forward-leaning Norwegian municipalities, SINTEF infrastructure and autonomous transport systems, contributes to the development of local communities the circular economy, energy systems, digitalisation, and local and national businesses. The intermunicipal and innovation in the public sector. 'Gode Sirklar' [Good Circles] initiative is one example of how three neighbouring municipalities, in Sustainable cities and communities largely involves collaboration with SINTEF, have over many years seeing issues from an overarching perspective and created an innovative partnership for sustainable creating solutions across sectors. social development within expertise-driven business development, education and location development. This is a big challenge that SINTEF wants to contribute to resolving through our group-wide UN SDGs – Goal 11 40 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu FME ZEN: Research Centre on Zero Emission Neighbourhoods In its report from 2020, the Expert Committee designed to contribute to traffic management and in Smart Cities for Data Sharing in Business (Ekspertutvalget for information in urban areas. The pilot projects will datadeling i næringslivet) points out that there is establish speed limit zones around schools to adjust a lot of value in sharing data and we have already the speed of vehicles, as well as low-emission zones seen international examples of urban and rural where hybrid vehicles are switched to electric development based on Open Data Platforms. propulsion. Sustainable transport is one of the The goal of the FME ZEN research centre, SINTEF has oriented its project development most important factors in achieving a number of which SINTEF is part of, is to develop towards sharing data across four selected sectors: the SDGs, and could contribute to better health, knowledge, solutions, and competitive buildings, energy, mobility, and health. These food for all, access to clean energy, responsible products. These should contribute to the are sectors in which we already find open data, consumption, innovation, lower climate emissions realisation of sustainable buildings and although the data quality, sharing platforms and and the development of sustainable cities and neighbourhoods with zero greenhouse gas pace of innovation are deficient. communities. The UN Secretary-General's High-Level emissions related to construction, operation, Advisory Board has defined sustainable transport as and transformation. The centre currently has Mobility is an important element of sustainable safe, affordable, accessible, efficient, resilient, and nine pilot projects spread across Norway. The cities and communities. The ambition behind our having minimal CO2 and other emissions that have research conducted in FME ZEN and FME ZEB group-wide focus on mobility is to create sustainable an adverse impact on the climate and environment. (Zero Emission Buildings) has demonstrated solutions that realise a much-needed transition Knowledge, technology, and innovations must be potential energy savings in the lead up to 2040 in the transport sector. For example, the GeoSum developed and implemented on a large scale to of 30 TWh through the active implementation innovation project is developing geofencing solutions ensure rapid adaptations in society to achieve this. of zero-emission buildings. This is equal to the expected increase in demand for electricity. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Goal 11 41 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Life below water and Clean water and sanitation Global systems and all life on earth depend on (dispersal model for oil spills) are used by the the oceans and it is therefore vital that these are industry to support decision-making in relation to Project turnover: Start-ups: managed in a sustainable manner. Environmental mitigating environmental risks from its activities 212 3 considerations are becoming an increasingly and evaluating impacts on external environmental M important factor in the sustainable development parameters in its operations. The modelling tools N of ocean-based industries. Clean oceans are are updated constantly by including data and O productive oceans and SINTEF is especially new knowledge from our own and international K interested in making use of our interdisciplinary research in fields related to the impact of pollutants expertise to solve challenges and create value for on marine organisms. Key fields included in the our clients. We are focusing on issues linked to modelling tools are hydrodynamics, ecotoxicology, marine littering and pollution and contributing to microbiology, and analytical chemistry, which are solutions to mitigate the environmental risk from crucial factors in understanding the decomposition, emissions from industrial activities in the oceans. effects, and life cycles of components of pollution (chemicals, microplastics, etc.) in ecosystems. We SINTEF is developing and using models for are developing technologies and systems that make Project turnover: Start-ups: mapping and managing environmental risk for use of digitalisation and autonomy within ocean 43 1 the sustainable harvesting and production of industries and which provide businesses and the M marine resources. The modelling tools SINMOD authorities with better conditions for sustainably N O (hydrodynamic ocean model), DREAM (dispersal managing industries and the ocean environment. K model for chemicals and particles) and OSCAR UN SDGs – Goals 14 and 6 42 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Knowledge and methods to The research portfolio includes development optimisation of harvesting levels, harvesting at prevent escape of fish projects aimed at the growing domestic a lower trophic level, protecting spawning and aquaculture industry that focus on better fish nursery areas, clean oceans, and the best possible health, lower emissions, impacts on the external quality throughout the entire value chain. environment and optimised production. Our research and technology development for SINTEF has significant infrastructure with some of The Prevent Escape research project was cultivating kelp and other low trophic level species the world's most modern and specialised maritime initiated to establish the causes of escape on an industrial scale is creating growth in a laboratories, which are used across projects. We incidents at Norwegian aquaculture facilities, sustainable blue economy. Expertise in microbial are responsible for the operation of full-scale develop methods for investigation of incidents, water quality, living feed and automation is aquaculture research facilities, have world leading and provide targeted preventative measures for providing sustainable value creation through robust laboratories for research into the life cycles and reducing escape of farmed fish. The project has fry production. SINTEF is focusing on producing impacts of industrial emissions, have a national categorized the causes of all escape incidents Norwegian raw materials for feed production that centre for research into marine plankton and are during 2010-2018, and the knowledge is used can replace soya imports and prevent further in the process of establishing a national centre for to prevent future escape incidents. A website, destruction of the rainforests in Brazil. digitalisation and autonomy (full-scale laboratory) www.hindreromming.no, has been established in the fjord and coastal region of Central Norway. to disseminate the results, including short Many of our activities are aimed at optimising Our researchers are working closely with industry articles, animations and research reports. Fish the harvesting of important marine resources, actors and the environmental authorities to farmers and employees in the aquaculture nationally and internationally. Optimised capture create a common understanding and basis for the industry is the main target group. technology helps to ensure correct extraction sustainable utilisation of resources that are created while also preventing bycatch, equipment losses in the ecosystems and life below water. and extensive ghost fishing, which is what happens when lost equipment continues to trap fish after Life Below Water is an important goal for SINTEF's THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO being left in the sea. There is huge potential for start-ups. Ocean Space Acoustics and C-Feed are greater value creation through ensuring further good examples of this. UN SDGs – Goals 14 and 6 43 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Ocean Space Acoustics PingMe™ locates hazardous waste Impact for clients, users and society Lost fishing gear are a major challenge to PingMe™ helps fishermen locate and marine life and makes up the majority of large identify lost fishing gear below water, plastic pollution in the oceans. More than down to 2 000 metres depth. Fishermen 640,000 metric tons of lost and discarded can register information about lost and fishing gear end up in the world's oceans found gear in a cloud solution. In the THE COMPANY ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO every year. The phenomenon of ghost fishing future, the service may be integrated is a threat to living species in the ocean, into public databases. PingMe™ is being harms the reputation of the fishing industry commercialised by SINTEF's start up and has major economic consequences company, Ocean Space Acoustics AS. PingMe for fishermen in the form of lost gear and will be tested by pilot clients in 2021. catches. Fishing gear is the most harmful type of marine waste for life below water, since lost equipment can continue to trap fish for periods of up to 30 years. Links to more info Application and scalability osac.no sintef.no PingMe™ can also be useful for other applications, including locating offshore anchoring systems, sea cables and pipelines for offshore wind power, aquaculture, and oil operations. UN SDGs – Goals 14 and 6 44 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu C-Feed Copepods for commercial use Impact for clients, users and society In 2016, the company C-Feed opened the One major problem in fish farming is that world's first commercial copepod production a large proportion of the fry die in the first facility. The company is based on more phase of the farming process. Copepods than 15 years of research and development have proved to be highly suitable as feed in SINTEF. Today, C-Feed offers eggs and for fish, including tuna, halibut, lobster THE COMPANY ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO live copepods to marine hatcheries, and ballan wrasse, and have in many ways aquariums, and researchers around the revolutionised the farming of these species. world. Copepods are mainly used for fry The use of copepods as feed thus increases feed due to their high levels of fatty acids efficiency in industrial fish farming by and proteins in the cell tissue. A container of improving the survival rate, quality, and copepod eggs can produce more than 100 weight of the fish. Using copepods also million copepods that can be kept alive for improves water quality and the production long-term storage in fish tanks. environment in the facility. Links to more info Application and scalability cfeed.no sintef.no C-Feed's products can be used as starter feed for a large number of farmed fish species around the world. The company's total market potential is estimated to be around NOK 3.5 billion. UN SDGs – Goals 14 and 6 45 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu STOP-IT: risk assessments and Clean water and sanitation also require new Water supply and wastewater facilities are critical protection of water supplies solutions, and these must be secured for the infrastructure. Other driving forces that impact sake of the world's entire population. One buildings and infrastructure are urbanisation, safety, of the consequences of climate change that less economic room for action, rapid advances we are experiencing today is large variations in technology and digitalisation. In Norway, the in precipitation. The frequency and intensity population growth is primarily expected to occur The STOP-IT project is looking at how water of precipitation has increased dramatically in in small and medium-sized towns. In many of supplies can be protected from physical threats the North, while water shortages are causing these towns, there is a huge need to increase the and cyberattacks. STOP-IT is contributing enormous tragedies in many countries (droughts, rehabilitation rate of existing infrastructure, and with an integrated, scalable, and flexible fires and more). Water quality in Norway has also safety, vulnerability and preparedness routines are technological platform that has been developed deteriorated as a direct consequence of climate not always satisfactory. Digitalisation of the water up to at least a level seven on the technolchange. Further, there are growing concerns about and wastewater industry opens the door to many ogy readiness level (TRL) scale. The solutions new emerging pathogens and micropollutants exciting opportunities, although it also presents that are being developed will help operators in water, such as medicine residues, hormones, challenges with regard to IT security. prioritise risk, develop a realistic approach cosmetics, and industrial activities, which may and plan how to strengthen the protection of constitute a danger to people and ecosystems. physical and digital infrastructure. In the future, this will contribute to secure operational control systems in European waterworks. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Goals 14 and 6 46 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Environmental protection and a greater focus on A large proportion of these challenges are owned resource optimisation are also important drivers, both by public authorities and the municipalities. In these for the public sector and for the Norwegian industry. cases, there is no commercial motivation, but rather a The requirements of the Water Framework Directive strong sense of social responsibility. In other cases, the regarding chemically and ecologically unaffected water challenges are owned by the private sector. bodies must be complied with and stricter regulations are expected for sewage sludge and wastewater (municipal, industrial and stormwater). SINTEF contributes expertise in areas such as: – Integrated water management, which combines – SINTEF has expertise that can help dealing with – The digitalisation of the water industry, – Safe and sustainable water treatment and knowledge about water resources, water the consequences of climate change in the form where there is a continuous need to upgrade resource recovery, which must safeguard public management infrastructure, economics, stormwater management, use of reservoirs processes for water treatment; a need that health and maintain a good environment/ and society to develop sustainable solutions for flood alleviation, nature-based solutions, is increasing with climate change and higher recipient quality from a sustainability throughout the water cycle. These include not just for stormwater but also for improving pollution loads on raw water sources. Artificial perspective, while conserving resources and solutions for the optimal utilisation of resources quality, purification, reuse, landslide prediction, intelligence and machine learning can also be minimising emissions and waste. This applies to for various purposes, solutions for infrastructure and urban drainage systems. Since climate used here, including in analyses of climate data drinking water, wastewater from municipal and for hydropower, water supplies, stormwater change also impacts water quality, especially and the effect of climate change on water and industrial uses and rainwater. management and wastewater treatment, and colour, organic content and microbiology, water wastewater resources. The water industry is methods and tools that allow solutions to be treatment needs to be re-evaluated to deal with transitioning from analogue to digital solutions evaluated in relation to the SDGs. these changes sustainably. for processes and systems. This is providing opportunities to improve existing technology and working methods ('digital maintenance') and to develop new solutions for controlling water quality and security of supply. UN SDGs – Goals 14 and 6 47 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Good health and well-being SINTEF aims to contribute to better and more challenging for many countries in the coming years. coherent healthcare, increased productivity in the Therefore, technologies and solutions that can help Project turnover: Start-ups: national health service and growth in the health us deal with these challenges in a way that ensures 187 6 industry. Together, this will result in a healthier the sustainability of healthcare and welfare services M population, a more sustainable welfare state, more must be developed. N jobs and increased export income. Our ambition O is to increase our contribution to achieving the SINTEF supports good health and well-being K health-related SDGs in low-income countries, through research and development in all phases of where access to healthcare for the most vulnerable patient pathways: health promotion and preventing in society, the development of medicines and diseases and injuries, diagnosis, treatment, vaccines, and using technology to increase capacity rehabilitation, and follow-up. This is being done in the healthcare sector, are particularly important. in partnership with employers and the education Changing demographics with more elderly sector, the national health services, patient and and relatively fewer in the labour force will be user organisations, and business. UN SDGs – Goal 3 48 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Social Health Bots: for an MEDPROT: production of effective health service for Antibodies young people MEDPROT aims to establish production of The concept behind Social Health Bots is that therapeutic proteins in Norway. The project is web-based chatbots will lower the threshold focusing on monoclonal antibodies that can for young people to ask questions and seek be used in treatment of, for example, cancer. help in relation to their mental health. This The production takes place in cell cultures will improve young people's access to reliable and the goal of the project is to understand information and support, and thus contribute and develop this process in order to improve to more effective services. The services may product yield and quality. Producing antibodies also be a gateway to more comprehensive better, faster, and cheaper will help to make healthcare services. Evaluations of current this type of medicine available to a larger prototypes have produced promising results proportion of the world's population. and show that young people benefit from healthcare chatbots. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Goal 3 49 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Health and quality of life are experienced at a supported healthcare like welfare technology and particularly vulnerable groups. SINTEF has worked Our work on more efficient and flexible personal level, and user participation is, therefore, e-health, the use of health data and more flexible on this by contributing to scientific data on pharmaceutical manufacturing can contribute to key in our approach to contribute to improved and efficient pharmaceutical manufacturing is vulnerable groups, through research into specific increased accessibility to new and more targeted health and care services. We are actively working helping to lower costs and improve the quality of services and through service development. The data medicines for the world's poor as well. The to enable data sharing in all parts of, and between, care. We are using our expertise in biotechnology, is used by the World Health Organisation (WHO), partnership with international organisations, national the various actors in the national e-health service. nanotechnology and imaging technology to develop the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and other authorities, civil society and other stakeholders has We are using our knowledge of physiology, sensors better diagnostic processes and treatments for international organisations, as well as on a national been a deliberate strategy aimed at obtaining more and materials in partnership with Norwegian and cancer and stroke patients. level for policy development. Special studies have data about lower priority groups, and has increased international industry to develop procedures and helped to turn the spotlight on specific areas, the ability to influence policies and practices. Over protective equipment that prevent accidents and SINTEF's work within global health in the last 25 like the access of disabled people to tuberculosis time, this has resulted in an extensive network of hazards at work and in leisure time. SINTEF has years has included research and development that prevention and treatment, the abuse of women contacts that can provide new opportunities both for developed roadmaps, procedures and solutions for is directly relevant to many of the SDGs: goal 1) No and discrimination against people with disabilities further research into health and healthcare, and act the health authorities to improve the treatment and Poverty; goal 4) Quality Education; goal 5) Gender by health professionals. SINTEF has also played as a good gateway for other specialist environments follow-up of large patient groups such as people with Equality; goal 10) Reduced Inequality; and goal 3) a leading role in developing provisions such as in SINTEF that want to, and can help to strengthen rheumatism, dementia, asthma and COPD, children Good Health and Well-being. This research and technical aids and hearing services, as well as using the work on achieving the goal of good health and and young people with mental disorders, and people development work involves extensive collaboration technology to make specialised healthcare services well-being for all. living at home with complex medical conditions. with national authorities and the civil society in more accessible (see project descriptions for I Hear many sub-Saharan countries, as well as in the You and LOREWO pp. 57-58). This has even greater Good health is also an important goal for the To increase both quality and productivity in the Middle East and Asia. potential going forward because the use of mobile start-ups in SINTEF where six of the 16 companies healthcare sector, we are developing completely phones is now common in all countries. are working on relevant solutions. Tellu and new ways of providing healthcare and tools The research and development activities have Minuendo are two good examples. to improve the efficiency of work processes. concentrated on living conditions, health, and Our research and development within digitally healthcare for people with disabilities and other UN SDGs – Goal 3 50 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Tellu E-health for remote follow-up, etc. Impact for clients, users and society Tellu is contributing to the development Taking care of people is Tellu's core mission. of the e-health market in the intersection The company's solutions make it easier between healthcare and technology. At the and safer to take good care of people in core of the company's activities lies a cloudvulnerable phases of their lives. Research based platform that serves as an integration into the implementation of the company's THE COMPANY ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO layer between various third-party or solutions shows a clear increase in the self-developed services, sensors, professional quality of care that can be given to the systems in home services, alarm services users, and at the same time significant and patient records. The cloud solution is savings for clients and improved working based on open standards, and it is possible conditions for employees. For society, to integrate advanced medical equipment, the large-scale introduction of the type which opens the door to, for example, of solutions Tellu delivers will provide big remote medical follow-up and 'hospital at savings and enable society to deliver better home' solutions in a safe and proper manner. services with fewer resources. Links to more info Application and scalability tellucloud.com sintef.no Following the merger with Telenor E-health, Tellu has budgeted for a turnover of NOK 77 million in 2020 and they have taken a position in the home market that makes rapid scaling in new markets possible. The company's solutions have been noticed in several EU countries, and as a pure software-as-a-service (SaaS) provider it will be possible to scale the business rapidly, alone or together with local partners. UN SDGs – Goal 3 51 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Minuendo Intelligent hearing protection Impact for clients, users and society Minuendo is developing intelligent hearing According to the European Commission, protection based on technology from SINTEF. hearing loss is the most serious Minuendo's solution is the first of its kind in occupational work-related injury in Europe. the world, which protects hearing without The hearing protection from Minuendo degrading the sound quality. This product aims to reduce the number of people THE COMPANY ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO will notify the user of dangerous noise developing hearing damage at work. levels and prevent hearing damage, as well as reproduce sound in environments with varying background noise levels. Minuendo's first product was launched in 2020 and is an earplug for musicians and concert participants with stepless variable attenuation between 7-25dB. The earplug includes a tuneable high-fidelity acoustic filter yielding natural sound reproduction at any attenuation level. Links to more info Application and scalability minuendo.com sintef.no High noise levels and hearing damage are a problem for many occupational groups, including the music and construction industries. Minuendo's products will, therefore, be important for many different industries and contribute to better hearing protection. UN SDGs – Goal 3 52 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Other sustainable development goals Our analysis shows that SINTEF also has research corporate strategy and are, therefore, focusing the activities aimed at other SDGs. spotlight on goal 2) Zero Hunger. The distribution Project turnover: Start-ups: of the world’s food resources is clearly skewed. 151 3 Listed by the size of turnover in relation to each SDG, The challenge is related to the paradox that while M this applies to: more than 800 million people in world are still N undernourished, on average we eat a third more O K – Goal 2) Zero Hunger calories than in 1961 and twice as much vegetable – Goal 17) Partnerships for the Goals oil and meat. Two billion people are overweight – Goal 16) Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions and suffer from obesity. Around 25-30 per cent of – Goal 4) Quality Education all the food produced for people is not eaten. It is – Goal 15) Life on Land expected that by 2050, the planet will be home to – Goal 1) No Poverty around 10 billion people. Demand for food, materials – Goal 10) Reduced Inequality and energy will increase. Therefore, we have to – Goal 5) Gender Equality look for new sources, both on land and in water, of healthy, nutritious food to meet the world’s needs. Together, this portfolio of projects was worth around We also have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions NOK 151 million in turnover in 2019. dramatically if we are to meet the UN’s climate goals. In the period 2007-2016, agriculture, forestry and For example, we have raised the theme of land-use changes accounted for around 23 per cent sustainable food to the highest level in SINTEF's of total net manmade greenhouse gas emissions. UN SDGs – Other goals 53 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's work on food from the sea represents SINTEF's research and innovation is relevant to all of ProSeaFood: Kelp on a plate significant activities relating to SDG 2. Cultivation these areas and seeks to contribute to the responsible in the sea, by developing the Norwegian salmon utilisation of resources and value creation. industry and by contributing to the profitable, sustainable production of other species, will In 2017, SINTEF established the group-wide Food form an important part of future sources of food, and Agri project to contribute to the more efficient, Global food production faces major energy, and raw materials. The production of new profitable, and climate-friendly production and technological and environmental challenges that species from the sea will be vital for feeding the processing of raw materials, not just from the sea, must be resolved to become sustainable. The world's population. In SINTEF, we are focusing on but also from fields and forests. We can see that ProSeaFood project is developing prototypes the interaction between technology and biology to interacting with technology providers and the of food products containing processed kelp. develop solutions that result in good fish welfare. To transfer of knowledge from other industries are The products are being evaluated based on ensure a high-quality product, we must understand prerequisites for a successful green transition in their sensory properties, nutritional content how technology influences quality throughout the these industries. SINTEF is contributing solutions and health promoting effects. The project is entire value chain, from catching to cultivating the that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions from also working on methods for processing kelp finished product. meat production and improve the utilisation of into food ingredients on an industrial scale. residual raw materials by more automated solutions Long-term efforts are being made to launch new The total utilisation of all raw materials is a and establishing new processes. Solutions for products in the Spanish and Norwegian markets. prerequisite for sustainable growth. The report, Value carbon capture in agriculture and forestry are also Creation Based on Productive Oceans in 2050, looks being developed. The development of Norwegian at the opportunities for achieving growth in bio-based ingredients for fish feed is a special priority area industries towards 2050.[24] It points to six areas in where we are promoting interaction between particular as having significant growth potential: agriculture and the marine sector. the fishing industry, the salmon industry, the supply THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO industry, the marine ingredients industry, seaweed and kelp production and low trophic level production. [24] Verdiskaping basert på productive hav i 2050 , report from a working group appointed by the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters (DKNVS) and the Norwegian Academy of Technological Sciences (NTVA). 16.08.2012. https://www.sintef.no/siste-nytt/ UN SDGs – Other goals 54 verdiskaping-basert-pa-produktive-hav-i-2050/ SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Information influence activities Similarly, we have also raised the topic of smart and Furthermore, SINTEF had the role as Scientific Officer in the 2019 Norwegian elections secure communities to the highest level in SINTEF's in the EU's SmartResilience project, which developed corporate strategy and are, therefore, also focusing an advanced method, based on indicators, for scoring on goal 16) Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. the resilience of infrastructures. Infrastructure owners Our research into secure societies is about reinforcing in Norway are already interested in implementing society's ability to protect itself from, and deal this method in their work with risk analysis. In total, The project investigated whether attempts with, events that threaten fundamental values and through the EU's research programme for “Secure were made by foreign actors to influence functions and put lives and health at risk. These Societies: Protecting freedom and security of Europe information in connection with the municipal could be events triggered by nature, technical or and its citizens”, SINTEF has brought home project council and county authority elections in human error, or even deliberate malicious actions, funding worth EUR 7.1 million. 2019. The method is both a quantitative and events that can occur both locally and globally. qualitative analysis of user-generated content SINTEF is carrying out research into critical societal In the wake of the coronavirus crisis, the group-wide from a range of social media and websites that systems and infrastructure. We are also developing Secure Societies project took the initiative to bring represent political actors, traditional media new knowledge that helps to improve coordination many of the national scientific research institutions and 'alternative media'. The materials were between the actors responsible for public security together in order to join forces on a common effort also analysed with a view to the dissemination and knowledge that enables us to map and handle in which everyone contributed to coordinating, of known 'fake news'. Conspicuous and, to the risks inherent in the dependencies between sharing and producing new knowledge related to some extent, suspicious communication systems and infrastructures. SINTEF's work on secure the crisis. One of the products of this common effort patterns were detected, although links to societies has garnered both national and international was a virtual national conference “What did we learn foreign actors could not be shown. The entire recognition. Nationally thanks to the establishment of from the Covid-19 pandemic?”, where 20 different process rests on advanced 'scraping' (the the Gemini Centre – Resilient Critical Infrastructures informative talks were given and discussed during a systematic collection of comments from social and Societies, and internationally thanks to the EU's four-hour digital session. media) combined with surveys by Faktisk.no research programme, including the DARWIN project and foreign analyses. co-ordinated by SINTEF being mentioned as one We also have activities aimed at the remaining SDGs. of only 10 projects in the EU's own midway evaluSome examples are provided on the following pages. ation of the framework programme Horizon 2020. UN SDGs – Other goals 55 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu BOOST: A school approach to Research project on impacts of promote mental health and decarbonisation strategies well-being The project is part of a partnership between The goal of the BOOST project is to create the International Labour Organisation (ILO) good inclusive school environments to prevent and the Inter-American Development Bank school dropout and ultimately social exclusion. (IDB). SINTEF is a member of the ILO's Green BOOST is working on developing a flexible and Jobs Assessment Institutions Network (GAIN) preventive school approach that promotes and contributes to improving skills in this good mental health and can be sustainably type of analysis. SINTEF has investigated the integrated into school environments. The degree to which jobs are affected by different approach will be implemented and tested in decarbonisation strategies. The project has Norway, Spain, and Poland. The goal is to make helped to provide insights into, and knowledge an approach which is relevant both nationally about, jobs and carbon emissions in different and internationally. sectors in 20 countries in the Latin America and Caribbean region. The numbers relate to sectors and emissions today and in 70 different possible scenarios for 2030 and 2050. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Other goals 56 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Value creation through increased cooperation between the ocean, I Hear You: Gaming technology agriculture and forest industries for testing children's hearing On behalf of Trøndelag County Council, the Using gaming technology, tablets, and project has mapped supply volumes and headphones, the I Hear You project has investigated how greater value can be realised developed new tools for testing of children's from regional bioresources by utilising residual hearing in schools in Tanzania. The aim is to raw materials across the ocean, agriculture, include children with hearing loss in school and forestry industries in the region. The work and education, and thereby reduce poverty. has concentrated on the potential represented The project has screened children from three by bioprospecting, biorefining, feed production primary schools. The prevalence of hearing loss for aquaculture and bioenergy, and the impact varied between 7-16 per cent, and the most new technology can have on the development common causes of hearing loss were earwax of new business models. It has identified and otitis. If hearing loss is detected early, it priority areas that will strengthen business might be treated with preventive measures and development, employment and contribute to proper medical follow up, thus reducing the the establishment of green, valuable industry number of children dropping out of school. in the region. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Other goals 57 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu LOREWO: Local rehabilitation workshops in Namibia and Zimbabwe Insight work for Ung.no The project is creating jobs, facilitatThe project involves analysing almost 300,000 ing inclusion and empowering people questions asked by adolescents using the with disabilities to live independent lives. information and communication channel, Ung. LOREWO provides wheelchairs and services no. The insights obtained from the research in Namibia and Zimbabwe. Annually more work may contribute to a better understanding than 1,000 people with disabilities and of what adolescents really are interested in and their families receive assistive technology, wondering about. One particularly important training, follow-up, as well as repair of broken finding is that boys seek help far less than girls. assistive technology. The project is based This has contributed to Ung.no now focusing on experience from Norwegian assistive more on gender and gender equality, and has technology centres adapted to local contexts raised awareness among the panel members in low-income countries. LOREWO strive to who answer the adolescent's questions. ensure 'no one is left behind'. THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO THE PROJECT ALSO CONTRIBUTES TO UN SDGs – Other goals 58 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu 4 SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 59 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu A not-for-profit research institute tasked with realising the Foundation's purpose As a foundation, SINTEF has no owners, but it does NTNU's rector and includes employees, individuals have a responsibility to fulfil its purpose and social from business, NTNU and the University of Oslo, mission. No dividends can be paid out and our employer and employee organisations, and people entire surplus is used to boost the organisation's with a background from the public sector. financial strength and innovation capacity through improving expertise and investing in infrastructure The SINTEF Foundation's articles of association and strategic priorities. describe its purpose and overarching management principles. The Board produces a report describing As a not-for-profit research institute with a board SINTEF's corporate governance every year. Our and council, we have involved important groups of annual report describes our financial results and stakeholders in our formal corporate governance. our HSE report provides further information about For example, SINTEF's Council is chaired by our HSE work. SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 60 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Sustainability as part of management and organisation Integrating sustainability into the core of how we position has been part of the group management contribute, but also because they want to assess of the agreed quality, takes account of the external work is not only important for our business areas. team since 2008. and price risk. In 2020, SINTEF will ask all start-ups environment, and works systematically on its It is also about how we manage and organise to report on their activities within sustainability and working environment and safety. ourselves. Historically, SINTEF's reporting on its internal societal impact. sustainability performance has not been prioritised SINTEF conducts ongoing client satisfaction surveys. The formal organisation of the group management equally high. In 2019, we started a more ambitious In-house 'Green Teams' (environmental working The survey is sent to contact people in private and team confirms the importance sustainability has on project developing a more comprehensive set of groups) have been established at institute and public organisations after projects are completed SINTEF's agenda. SINTEF established the position management information, which includes externally group levels with responsibility for our own green and amounts to around 500 responses annually. of Executive Vice President (EVP) Sustainability in and societally oriented key performance indicators transition and eco-friendly operations. The 2019 survey shows a satisfaction score of 4.49 2015 as an expansion of the position of Climate (KPIs). These apply to, for example, the projects' measured on a scale from 1 to 5. Our score has Director (2012-2015), formerly known as the contributions to the SDGs and our organisation's The basis for SINTEF's work includes formal developed positively since 2017 and the average Climate Technology Director (2008-2012). SINTEF CO2 emissions. certifications. SINTEF must always strive to for 2019 was the highest since the survey started in was one of the first to establish such positions ensure that the requirements and expectations 2013. Projects which receive a low evaluation score in Norway, separate from HSE and HR. However, Our sustainability profile is also being strengthened of our clients and other partners are properly (1 or 2) are followed up directly with the client in in line with SINTEF's unique position, the role of in SINTEF's portfolio of start-ups. When new met. SINTEF's management system is certified in line with the management system. The survey is SINTEF's EVP Sustainability has largely prioritised companies are established, SINTEF requires them accordance with the internationally recognised used to increase value creation in future projects proactive engagement with clients, the authorities, to organise and manage themselves in line with standards, ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO and identify areas with improvement potential. The industry organisations and other decision makers in the same principles as SINTEF, with the UN Global 45001:2018. SINTEF's certificates were renewed results are shown on the following page. order to develop understanding, demand and good Compact's principles acting as guidance. In our for a new three-year period in 2019. This means framework conditions for research and innovation experience, investors include sustainability in their that we have a management system designed to that contribute to sustainable development. The investment criteria both because they want to ensure that SINTEF delivers products and services SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 61 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Since 2017, all clients have also been asked to evaluate the contribution the activities make to and services that establish that all procurements must comply with SINTEF's code of conduct. An Our clients are satisfied and confirm that innovation and the external environment. The evaluation of the supplier is conducted for all SINTEF contributes to innovation and the clients confirm the positive results here too, procurements above NOK 300,000. The evaluation although as the figure shows at a slightly lower covers all technical areas such as social responsibility, external environment (scale from 1 to 5) level than the average for questions in the survey. economics, IT, quality, HSE, subcontractors, and We think this is due to the fact that many clients ethics. We also always check whether or not the 5 do not view innovation and the environment as key business concerned has documented its compliance factors for the given projects and many mark these with human rights principles and the ILO convention, categories as 'not relevant'. We are assessing the and that it has implemented the principles of 4 possibility of improving and clarifying the questions recognised standards or guidelines for ethics and in order to facilitate a better dialogue and a clearer social responsibility, such as the UN Global Compact, evaluation on how the partnership with SINTEF GRI, SA 8000 and ETI. 3 is contributing, or could contribute, to better competitiveness and good societal solutions in line In our experience, sustainability is very important with the SDGs and our strategy. to our employees, clients, and suppliers. The key figures included in supplier follow-up highlight our 2 We are also paying greater attention to sustainability focus on sustainability and cover factors such as food in our work with suppliers. This is reflected in waste, carbon footprint, ecology, and fair trade, as requests for tenders sent out by SINTEF and in well as employee satisfaction. One example where 1 documentation following procurements. Today, we many of these are relevant is the new supplier use SINTEF's declaration on social responsibility agreement we have concluded for the procurement and business ethics when we enter into contracts of furniture. The agreement focuses on the reuse, 0 and when sending out requests for tenders for repair, maintenance, sustainable manufacturing, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 contracts under the direction of the Group. We also and transport of the furniture. The circular economy apply procedures for the procurement of goods therefore has a key position in the agreement. Client satisfaction, average Client satisfaction, innovation Source SINTEF Client satisfaction, external environment SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 62 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF wants to reduce its climate footprint SINTEF's environmental policy dictates how we are concerning an energy monitoring system. SINTEF's SINTEF, in partnership with our suppliers, is are in particular working with the suppliers in Oslo to to operate our buildings and conduct our research water consumption varies greatly in the different continuously working to improve source separation make correct source separation simpler. activities. By systematically working to reduce SINTEF's buildings and reflects the proportion of the space routines for waste. To date, we have established impact on the environment we are seeking to fulfil our which is used for laboratories. Measures carried out a source separation system with separate waste SINTEF is working on developing its premises and aims societal responsibility and meet clients' expectations. in 2019 for monitoring water consumption included fractions for household plastic and food waste to ensure that all investments in new buildings satisfy installing water meters connected to the energy linked to canteen operations, but the supplier does the BREEAM-NOR Excellent standard. BREEAM-NOR is Energy, properties, water, and waste monitoring system and establishing non-return valves not have a reception system for the fractions. This a Norwegian adaptation of BREEAM – Norway's most SINTEF's environmental action plan contains several on all water intake points. SINTEF has implemented has not been part of the government's mandatory widespread environmental certification for all types measures aimed at more energy efficient operations measures to reduce water consumption, including source separation requirements for business waste. A of buildings. Several rehabilitation projects are being and better waste management. For 2019, the the elimination of mains water for cooling and the decision has also been made to eliminate single-use planned, where the modernisation of our premises in information about our energy-related CO2 emissions replacement of older toilets. plastics associated with meals. We have increased our Forskningsveien 1 in Oslo is closest to completion. In covers buildings owned by SINTEF in Trondheim. focus on this and will be working on several measures the case of rehabilitation, the standard being strived Information about our buildings in Oslo will be aimed at improving our source separation rate. We for is BREEAM-NOR Very Good. included in 2020. A significant proportion of our building stock consists of laboratories that require continuous 24/7 operation, which means that they 2016 2017 2018 2019 Goal (KPI) cannot be compared with ordinary office buildings. Total energy GWh 28,58 28,65 26,96 25,95 24,35 in 2021 Nevertheless, SINTEF is working to improve and Reduction (from 2017) in energy consumption Reduction of 5,7 % Reduction of 9,2 % >15% Reduction in 2021 measured in relation to 2017[25] reduce energy use in areas where this is possible. In 2019, we worked on the rehabilitation and effiMetric tons of CO2 from energy in buildings owned in Trondheim 2588 None ciency of heating systems, installation of combined Source separation rate Trondheim 24 33 37 47 >60 cooling and heat pumps, eliminating oil boilers and Source separation rate Oslo 42 42 37 29 >60 replacing all light sources with LED. We have also Mains water consumption in millions of litres 31 None established an agreement with an energy adviser [25] In SINTEF's building operations by the end of 2021, measured in relation to 2017. The reduction is an estimate. SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 63 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Travel Also, a great deal of work has gone into establishing uncertainty surrounding the emission figures and Climate neutrality SINTEF seeks to reduce emissions of CO2. The satisfactory video facilities and improving solutions we will continue working on improving and verifying SINTEF's activities will produce greenhouse gas organisation is geographically dispersed, with clients for Skype, Teams and videoconferencing to calculation methods. In any case, we believe it is emissions, including from travel activities, for the and partners across Norway and the world. Some make the services more user-friendly. The use of urgent that we work even harder to ensure that the foreseeable future. Therefore, we have given some travel activity is necessary, to develop and maintain videoconferencing solutions increased during 2019, organisation knows the alternative options and is consideration to whether or not we should purchase important relations, to cooperate and work efficiently gradually but significantly, from 2,230 conference aware of the need to reduce travel activities. climate quotas or implement other compensatory together, and also to produce societally beneficial hours in January to a peak of 4,210 hours in October. measures outside the organisation in order to help results. The table below summarises emissions from Therefore, a decision has been made to ensure SINTEF become climate neutral. Companies such domestic and international air travels in SINTEF. By comparing the increase in emissions from travel that all departments must keep regular discussions as Amazon, Microsoft, Starbucks, and Bosch have a with travel costs, it is obvious that there was a real about their emissions history and the need for goal of climate neutrality and they do this. However, After some reduction in previous years, CO2 emissions increase in the number of journeys from 2018 to travel activity. The aim is to ensure that decisions in our opinion, the most effective contribution per FTE (full-time equivalent) from domestic air travel 2019, but a significantly lower one than what the about travelling are properly considered so that SINTEF could make to climate neutrality would increased by no less than 42 per cent, and internaCO2-emission data show. A comparison of travel we all contribute to achieving the shared goal of be to invest the funds we would otherwise have tional air travel by 7 per cent, in 2019, according to expenses from 2018 to 2019 indicates an increase reducing emissions. Based on our experience from spent on quotas in our research on major and measurements by our travel agency. of 11 per cent for domestic air travel. If we also 2019, we have decided not to set new targets for time-critical climate improvements for which there compare the number of kilometres travelled and CO2 emissions from travel before all departments is currently no functional market. Specifically, we These figures surprised the management team, the number of journeys completed in the data from have analysed their travel pattern more thoroughly. believe that such a compensation scheme could not least because the general perception has been the travel agency, the increase is more moderate, This will provide us with a better factual basis when fund research into technologies and solutions that that we have looked critically at our travel activity. around 15 per cent. This means that there is some setting a target for 2021. will result in the net removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. We want to develop a simple, Experience from the coronavirus crisis in spring operational model for calculating the impact of such 2020, shows that we have good capacity for research. Through this, we will hopefully be able 2016 2017 2018 2019 interacting through digital solutions. The crisis may to offer a corresponding opportunity to contribute Kg CO2 per FTE from domestic air travel 446[26] 444[26] 427 607 accelerate the transition to digital solutions with to correcting this market failure, including to other permanent effects. Together with internal and companies, and thereby contribute to climate Kg CO2 per FTE from international air travel 839[26] 784[26] 792 849 external data sharing, and regular discussions, we neutrality beyond our own activities. Total metric tons of CO2 from air travel 2342[26] 2219[26] 2244 2534 hope the opportunities and incentives for reducing Source: SINTEF emissions will be significantly improved. [26] Our supplier of travel statistics changed its method for calculating emissions between 2018 and 2019, and the data are not directly comparable but do provide an indication of the trend. SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 64 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu HSE is the top priority in SINTEF Sick leave HSE is the top priority in SINTEF. This means that and 23 were registered as requiring first aid. Five we strive to ensure that the working environment of the injuries resulted in sick leave. Several of the is safe and promotes personal development, incidents were connected to the use of chemicals. 4,0% 4 well-being, and good health. We take a systematic An assessment of the HSE incidents shows that approach to addressing our employees' safety and prioritising the work on handling chemicals and 3,5% working environment, and our HSE standard is checking equipment is important. Today, the consistent with our strategy, policy, and goals for institutes carry out local training to protect the 3,0% the area of HSE. employees' safety in laboratories and workshops, and the corporate health service carries out regular, 2,5% In 2019, SINTEF's sick leave rate was 3.3 per cent. [27] targeted health dialogues with employees whose All sick leave is followed up by the institutes. This is work could potentially result in hazardous exposure. 2,0% particularly true for absences due to occupational Despite this, the institutes believe that there should illnesses, which in 2019 was 0.3 per cent. The be a greater focus on training and understanding the 1,5% follow-up involves close contact with the person on possible risks associated with the work being done, sick leave, in order to provide optimal condition for and we are now working systematically to improve 1,0% a good recovery and timely return to the workplace. this. In 2019, an internal survey was conducted on SINTEF has a target of zero personnel injuries and the life cycles of chemicals in the organisation. The 0,5% constantly and systematically works to put in place survey included around 540 employees. These were preventive measures to achieve this. A total of 35 project owners, project managers, project workers, 0,0% personnel injuries were registered in 2019. This laboratory managers, room managers and chemicals 0 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 represents an increase of 24 compared with 2018. Of managers. The response rate was 84 per cent. the injuries in 2019, 12 required medical treatment Self-certiﬁed Doctor certiﬁed Source SINTEF Work-related absence [27] New calculation method from 2019 based on guidelines from Statistics Norway. SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 65 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu In short, the survey showed that respondents generally think we have good routines for handling observations. These are important to reduce accidents. We believe that sharing experiences and Total recordable injuries frequency chemicals. It also showed that we must do more cooperation are important for increasing the safety (TRIF value) work on training, and using risk assessment of SINTEF's employees and partners. We produce methods in projects to ensure better support in the 'HSE one pagers' to encourage learning after handling of chemicals. The survey provided input incidents, near accidents and reported hazardous for improvement work that will form the basis for situations. These contain a brief description of the 6 new priority areas in 2020. causes and provide learning points. The HSE one pagers are shared in the organisation and used in All registered HSE incidents are reported to the many contexts, such as management meetings, 5 group management team on a weekly basis. Of the department meetings, working environment around 600 HSE reports in 2019, 50 were accidents committee meetings and external meetings. and 58 were near accidents, which represent a SINTEF shares many premises with NTNU and 4 small increase compared with 2018. There was good cooperation and coordination on safety is a a small reduction in the number of hazardous necessity. We are working to improve coordination, situations reported, from 29 per 100 FTEs in 2018 especially with a focus on sharing experiences from to 27 per 100 FTEs in 2019. Even though this is incidents. In 2019, a new coordination agreement 3 not a statistically significant change, the reduction template was agreed. This simplifies follow-up and has inspired further measures for increasing clarifies the requirements for the cooperation. the number of reported hazardous situations/ 2 1 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total recordable injuries frequency (TRIF value) = the sum of the number Source of injuries resulting in absences and other personal injuries (excluding SINTEF injuries requiring ﬁrst aid) per million hours worked SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 66 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's employees – human rights, labour rights, gender equality and diversity SINTEF is an attractive place to work. In the Career for diversity in scientific expertise, gender, age, International employees provide SINTEF with access SINTEF has established an integration programme Barometer's survey of the workplaces students find nationality, cultural background, and personal to valuable scientific and cultural competence. for foreign employees and their families to ensure attractive, SINTEF came first in the ranking by 4,600 characteristics. The diversity work is anchored in Some 26 per cent of all of SINTEF's employees in foreign employees are followed up in a proper respondents in 2019.[28] In the 2020 Universum SINTEF's Board and the group management team. 2019 came from countries other than Norway. manner. The programme offers expat services, free ranking of attractive workplaces, SINTEF was ranked SINTEF's managers are responsible for building, Together, these people were from 74 different Norwegian language courses and teaching in English number six by Norwegian university and university developing, and using the resources that diversity countries, with the largest groups from Germany in the SINTEF Academy. The working environment college students within technical and natural and gender balance represent within their areas. and France. This shows that SINTEF is an attractive survey has documented that foreign employees sciences.[29] However, recruitment of the most Managers are also given responsibility for allocating place to work for international researchers, and enjoy working at SINTEF. talented people in a number of fields is demanding pay, development opportunities and other benefits that we are contributing to recruiting highly and, for example, we are not satisfied with being in in a manner that ensures equality between men and qualified labour to Norway. 30th place among the ICT students in Universum. women. Diversity leadership is an important theme in the SINTEF Academy's management development Diversity and a good gender balance are essential programme. The strategy for people also states that Diversity based on country of birth for delivering on major societal challenges. This all employees are expected to contribute to diversity is because diverse experiences, approaches and by complying with SINTEF's core values, honesty, 2016 2017 2018 2019 perspectives are required to succeed as a research generosity, courage and solidarity, by contributing No. of countries excl. Norway 74 75 72 74 institute. SINTEF's strategy for people states that what they have to offer and appreciating the Proportion of foreign employees 22 % 23 % 24 % 26 % diversity and a good gender balance are important, particular contributions and competencies of others. No. of foreign employees 432 436 469 518 and that we will achieve these through seeking Source: SINTEF [28] KarriereStart.no, Dette er de mest attraktive arbeidsgiverne blant ingeniørog teknologistudentene. 20.05.2020. https://karrierestart.no/ karrierebarometeret/2660-karrierebarometeret-2020-mest-attraktive-arbeidsgivere-blant-ingeniorstudenter SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 67 [29] Universum, Norway. Retrieved 25.06.2020. https://universumglobal.com/rankings/norway/ SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu SINTEF's CEO is a woman and of the six institute heads, three are women and three are men. Despite have flexible working hours, with core hours between 09:00-15:00 when one is expected to be Gender distribution – scientific personnel this, structural disparities in SINTEF mirror those also present, and flex time periods between 07:00-09:00 and managers found in the recruitment base from the educational and 15:00-17:00. This is practised liberally, and most institutions. Our goal is to increase the proportion employees are able to make use of flex time within of women among our researchers and managers. core hours as well. Employees who have been on 2016 2017 2018 2019 Therefore, we attach great importance to recruiting parental leave for more than three months in the women when hiring, and developing female last year, receive an average pay rise. This may only managers from our own ranks. be deviated from with reasonable cause, which 29% 29% 30% 30% cannot be the parental leave. Scientiﬁc personnel 70% Because of the high degree of diversity, we are 71% 71% 70% aware that our employees have different needs. SINTEF has a good, well-regulated relationship with SINTEF therefore facilitates flexible solutions to the trade unions, and full freedom of association is meet the needs of individuals. Wherever possible, practised. A trade union representative attends all we make adaptations for employees who develop or courses for new SINTEF employees, both Norwegian have disabilities, and during recruitment we focus and foreign employees. The representative informs Heads of 35% 38% 37% 37% research and on skills, and not on limitations due to a disability. them about the work of the trade union, what it middle managers 65% 62% 63% 63% Another important area requiring facilitation is is and why it is important. Around 70 per cent of employees with children. In practice, all employees SINTEF's employees are members of a trade union. Group 29% 36% 36% 42% management 58% 71% 64% 64% team Source Women Men SINTEF SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 68 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu We also want to offer employees benefits, relevant across different life situations. SINTEF has a modern indicator of whether we are achieving this goal. The response rate to working environment surveys is FTEs per December hybrid pension scheme with a maximum rate usually very high, and in January 2020 it was 94 per for contributions. An extra contribution is paid cent. We want SINTEF to be an attractive place to for women due to their higher life expectancy. work, with unique development opportunities, and Our insurance schemes are also very good. We the working environment survey indicates so. This is emphasise having coverage that is as similar as a consequence of the fact that we have done good 2000 1860 possible at work and in leisure time, and we only work on developing SINTEF's working environment 1796 1777 1800 have exceptions where legislative restrictions exist. over time. If employees become ill or are taking parental leave, SINTEF covers the difference between the amount SINTEF has contributed funds to the annual TV 1500 paid by the public (up to a maximum of six times the fundraising campaign since 2007, and in 2019 the national insurance basic amount (G)), and the full employees' Christmas present went to the Church salary of the employee. City Mission. 1000 According to SINTEF's code of conduct, we need We employed around 2,000 people (1,860 full-time 97,6% 97,1% 96,5% 97,5% to work to achieve a good working environment equivalents (FTEs)) at the end of 2019. Some 59 per characterised by equality and opportunities. cent of SINTEF's researchers hold a PhD. SINTEF's working environment surveys are a good 500 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Temporary Permanent Source SINTEF SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 69 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Most jobs in SINTEF are permanent positions. To the extent that temporary positions are used in SINTEF, represent attractive competencies for business and other organisations, and thereby contributing to Employees and turnover this is done in specific cases, such as temporary strengthening their capacity for innovation. posts and to bring in particular expertise in individual projects. In 2019, 2.5 per cent of the workforce The SINTEF Academy is a strategically important were temporary employees. We believe that tool for developing employees and the organisation. offering permanent positions makes us an attractive Our overarching goal is to provide employees and 10% 250% employer and partner. managers with the knowledge they need to be 230 successful in their work and for SINTEF to achieve Both attracting and retaining the right expertise are its strategic goals. In 2019, 1,445 course days were 198 200% 9% crucial to SINTEF's success. Over the last four years, completed in SINTEF, 400 of which were for new 171 there has been an increase in new recruitment, employees' participation in the three-day 'Welcome 162 and we are experiencing a good supply of qualified to SINTEF' course. Our digital academy made an 147 8% 150% applicants within most fields. At the same time, important new addition to competence building with 133 127 we view it as positive, and part of our societal introductory and detailed training within machine 118 mission, that, through their work, employees learning and optimisation. of SINTEF are developing insights and skills that 100% 7% 6% 50% 5% 0% 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 Joined SINTEF Left SINTEF Source SINTEF Turnover SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 70 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Ethics, anti-corruption and good governance are prerequisites for our activities Ethics constitute an integral part of SINTEF's strategy Project Manager course', (3) ethics module for 'The the amended Norwegian Working Environment Act are commenced with foreign companies so that a and apply to all employees. The group management Manager Platform', and (4) ethics module in 'Good (1 January 2020). The routine states that SINTEF careful assessment can be made of whether SINTEF team frequently discusses ethical dilemmas relating Management in SINTEF'. puts great importance in ensuring a good climate should collaborate with the given company. SINTEF to our business and organisation. for freedom of expression in the organisation makes use of Transparency International's corruption Our research ethics are based on the guidelines where employees are encouraged to report index database and the associated social analysis SINTEF has a clear ethical platform, which is also set from national research ethics committees, the wrongdoing. The routine describes what is meant for each country. SINTEF's third important source out in our ethical compass. principles promoted by the European Group of by wrongdoing, the content of the whistleblowing is information from the Norwegian Ministry of Ethics in Science and New Technologies, as well as procedure, the administrative procedures in Foreign Affairs. SINTEF is a member of Transparency Ethics training was provided in four different international conventions and Norwegian law. Our whistleblowing cases, as well as the protection of international, follows their annual corruption courses run by the SINTEF Academy in 2019. business ethics, relationship ethics and research whistleblowers and follow-up of whistleblowing conferences and receives information about Six project manager courses and one course in ethics are well aligned with SINTEF's vision, values, cases. Two whistleblowing cases were reported corruption and ongoing anti-corruption work. research methodology and social responsibility goals, and societal mission. in 2019 and were considered by a whistleblowing were completed with a special module on ethics. A committee established in line with the new routine SINTEF's management system includes a special course module on ethics and management The ethics ombudsman in SINTEF also received for whistleblowing. It concluded in favour of the requirement regarding the proper management of has been produced for each of the management several questions about ethics from employees in whistleblower in one case. In the other case, the ethics and social responsibility, and this is reflected in training courses: 'The Manager Platform' and 'Good 2019. These were largely about research ethics, report was considered to be without merit. our code of conduct and in the 15 overarching policy Management in SINTEF', with an emphasis on the including publication rules, project manager documents. One important management policy in ethical responsibilities of managers and training responsibilities and describing ethics in EU proposals. Transparency, audits, and internal audits continue to this context is SINTEF's policy on defence-related through ethics exercises. A total of three manageThe ethics ombudsman took part in a range of be considered important. SINTEF conducts advance research and development, which provides principles ment courses including ethics training were carried departmental meetings, management meetings and checks of foreign companies through the RDC due for performing research activities for military out in 2019. Work on a plan for an e-learning ethics meetings of the group management team in which diligence database to obtain information about purposes and describes our attitudes and ethics module also started in 2019. This will be completed the topic of ethics was discussed in 2019. whether a company has previously been found principles related to the dilemmas that arise within in 2020. Four training modules in ethics, which form guilty of corruption or other irregularities such as these types of research activities. part of the SINTEF Academy, have been continued: A new routine for in-house whistleblowing was bribery, price fixing or child labour. Such checks must (1) 'Course on Research Methodology', (2) 'New drawn up in SINTEF in 2019, in compliance with be carried out before project work or partnerships SINTEF's operations and management are based on sustainable principles 71 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu 5 Lessons learned from our first sustainability report and strategic questions for the future 72 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Given SINTEF's many roles in society, separately. It will only be when all the goals have radical new ways and thereby create solutions that information. The work on this report has clarified the work on sustainability reporting is been achieved that the sustainability agenda will achieve several of the goals at the same time. the need to continue working on measuring the demanding and complex. We are working on have successfully been addressed. impact of research. This is difficult because the identifying good indicators and descriptions We are working on how we can use our project effects do not only occur at our clients, but also far for our approach. Not least, we are looking Some tensions also exist between the goals. Should SDG mapping as active management information out in value chains and at end-users. Some examples at the need to use the data to strengthen all the SDGs be assigned equal value or are some and a basis for prioritising future focus areas. of concrete individual projects in SINTEF whose our actual contributions to sustainable more important that others? For example, climate Among other things, we are discussing whether effects have been evaluated/estimated/quantified in development. This chapter looks beyond the change may be perceived as more fundamental contributions to sustainability should be a formal relation to sustainable development, are described reporting to the strategic measures that we than economic progress. At the same time, many criterion for the use of the basic grant and for in detail in this report.[30] Nevertheless, we see that want to take to strengthen SINTEF's total people believe that combatting poverty will require investments, in line with our vision. We want to we still ought to develop methods that allow us contribution to society. the use of fossil energy sources. SINTEF takes a encourage our own researchers and partners to let to be clearer about the aggregated effects of our knowledge-based approach to such questions, at project ideas erupt directly from the major societal activities. In this context, climate effects and value One concrete area with potential for improvement the same time as we have committed ourselves challenges SINTEF is meant to help solving. creation are two key areas. Further quantification is the relatively new marking of projects in relation to contribute to the achievement of all the goals. of our reporting is a clear ambition for subsequent to the SDGs. Following our initial effort, we can Our hope is that when SINTEF, as a wide-ranging We also acknowledge that the mapping indicates sustainability reports. see that we should have allowed projects to be research and innovation institute, works on the how much clients, the authorities and SINTEF invest tagged with multiple goals. We will change this in breadth of societal challenges, the tensions in each SDG through our research and innovation our future reporting. The SDGs are not achieved between the goals will challenge us to think in projects. This is and will be rather superficial [30] As far as energy research is concerned, there is an impact report from 2018 in which, among others, the effects of SHOP, referred to as an example case in the report under goal 8 (page 24), are assessed. Impello Management AS, Effekter av energiforskningen . 28.12.2018. https://impello.no/ Lessons learned from our first sustainability report 73 en/referanse/forskningsradet/ SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu One new and exciting field of research we are and indicators. The idea is then to develop a developing in SINTEF assesses the impact of new platform for assessing the societal impact of new technologies and solutions on sustainability. This is technologies and structural changes based on expertise that we will offer to our clients and that the UN's indicators for sustainable development. we will also use in our own projects to estimate the This system could be used by clients who want to effects of technological development pathways we analyse the impact they are having on society, or are working on. internally in SINTEF to estimate the effects of our research. We want to develop new methods and SINTEF wants to motivate researchers and decision combine existing modelling tools and different data makers in the public and private sectors to take into sources and data for sustainability analysis. This is account their influence on the SDGs and assist with especially important since SINTEF is involved in the analysing this. Based on this, we started developing development of technologies and products from “systematic assessments of sustainability impacts” an early stage where there is still room for making at SINTEF in 2019/2020 to assess the impact decisions and different approaches are assessed. technology has on society in relation to the SDGs Illustration of how technology and product development and implementation impact global value chains and have eﬀects in relation to the SDGs around the world. Lessons learned from our first sustainability report 74 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu The work on the sustainability report has also The balance between the North and the South is shown us the general limitations of the SDGs. another challenge. Many of the goals deal with how The goals have been set for 2030 but many of the we should contribute to sustainable development themes require measures and solutions with a in countries in the South and enhance capacity significantly longer horizon. This is true, not least, building for this. While we also have projects in in relation to climate issues, where it is the need for SINTEF that contribute to development in the changes by 2050 that in reality provide the most South (see the description and examples under inspiring and important information. the sections on the goal of good health and well-being and 'other SDGs'), we think that the We can also see that the applicability of the SDGs capacity building, partnerships and funding for is not always good fit in relation to Norwegian such work should be on the agenda of Norway issues. The specific targets may address challenges and the EU. World leading solutions that help all that we no longer face in Norway. This is why we countries, require collaborations between business, interpret the main goals more broadly. For example, governments and research actors in well-developed in Norway we have to work to promote good health countries, cf. goal 17) Partnerships for the Goals. and well-being beyond the minimum agenda the global community has agreed for the SDGs, We must also strive for a balanced development and we are working together with partners on with skills enhancement and capacity building in all solutions that promote the life situations of boys, sectors and regions in Norway. and not just girls, when, for example, one gender is underrepresented in the use of healthcare. Lessons learned from our first sustainability report 75 SINTEF's Sustainability Report Menu Sources: Picture sources and photo credits: – References to external resources are provided in footnotes/graphs. – Pages 1, 12, 37: iStock – Page 32: Zivid – Other use of SINTEF's data and content from, among other places, Sintef.no and Gemini.no. – Page 2: Terje Trobe/SINTEF – Page: 39: Skanska – Pages 18, 27 (MiNaLab), 28 (Electrotechnical): – Page 41: Tegn 3 Geir Mogen/SINTEF – Page 44: Ocean Space Acoustics AS – Pages 15 (Eco-Solar), 28 (CO2), 60: Thor Nielsen/ – Page 45: John Andre Aasen/Phokus SINTEF – Page 51: Tellu – Pages: 15, 23, 24, 46, 49, 55, 56, 57, 58, 75: – Page 52: AF Gruppen Shutterstock – Page 54: Seaweed Energy Solutions AS – Page 27 (ACE): Mentz Indergaard/SINTEF – Page 56: Boost Project – Page 43: Tom EK/SINTEF – Page 57 (Ocean): Silje Forbord/SINTEF – Page 28 (Illustration ZEB): Link Arkitektur/ – Page 58 (LOREWO): Joshua Webster/SINTEF Veidekke – Page: 27, 49, 57: SINTEF Sustainable Development Goals graphic: The Sustainable Development Goals logo and icons have been reproduced in accordance with the UN's graphic profile. Sources 76 Technology for a better society
