Annual Report Statkraft AS 2019 CONTENT 3 Introduction 3 Statkraft at a glance 6 The Board of Directors 7 The Corporate Management 8 Letter from the CEO 9 Report from the Board of Directors 12 Strategy – Powering a green future 16 Financial performance 20 Segments 25 Risk management 29 Sustainability 31 Sustainability management 33 Statkraft’s contribution 35 Social disclosures 41 Environmental disclosures 45 Economic disclosures 49 Corporate Governance 59 Statements 59 Group Financial Statements 59 Financial Statements 64 Notes 129 Statkraft AS Financial Statements 129 Financial Statements 133 Notes 150 Auditor’s Statement 155 Sustainability Statement 170 Auditor’s Statement 176 Declaration from the Board of Directors and CEO 177 Key figures and Alternative Performance Measures Statkraft is a leading renewable energy company with activities on three continents within hydro, wind and solar. Through our market activities and production assets we create value for our owner, our customers and the societies we operate in. Statkraft at a glance USA Statkraft has Peru Brazil 4.000 employees in 16 countries Chile Europe’s largest producer of renewable energy EBIT underlying Net profit Cash flow from operations 17.6 NOK BILLION 11.3 NOK BILLION 12.0 NOK BILLION ROACE Net interest-bearing debt Dividend paid in 2019 16.3 PER CENT 16.0 NOK BILLION 8.5 NOK BILLION Norway Sweden The Netherlands United Kingdom Ireland Germany France Spain Nepal Albania Turkey India Power generated in 2019 Share renewable energy Investments in 2019 61 TWH 93 PER CENT 7.4 NOK BILLION Standard & Poor's Fitch Ratings' long-term rating long-term rating ABBB+ 59% Norway 27% Europe 14% Outside Europe 5 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 6 The Board of Directors From the left: Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes, Mikael Lundin, Ingelise Arntsen, Asbjørn Sevlejordet, Thorhild Widvey, Peter Mellbye, Bengt Ekenstierna, Hilde Drønen and Thorbjørn Holøs Thorhild Widvey Peter Mellbye Hilde Drønen Born 1956, Norwegian Born 1949, Norwegian Born 1961, Norwegian Chair of the board, member since 2016. Vice Chair of the board, member since 2016. Board member, member since 2014. Chair of the Compensation Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Chair of the Audit Committee Current board positions: Chair: Antidoping Norway, Current board positions: Chair: Wellesley petroleum, Current board positions: Board member: DOF Subsea Concert Hall Stavanger, Bergen International Festival. Otovo, Westgass. Board member: TechnipFMC, Altus and various subsidiaries in the DOF ASA Group, Board member: Kværner. Intervention, Competentia, Halfwave, Resoptima. Beerenberg. Experience: Minister of Culture. Experience: Statoil: EVP. Norwegian Export Council, Experience: DOF ASA: CFO (present). Minister of Petroleum and Energy. Norwegian Ministry of Trade Bergen Yards AS (today Bergen Group ASA): CFO. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs: State Secretary. and Commerce: various positions. Møgster Group: various positions. The Minister of Fisheries: State Secretary. Mikael Lundin Bengt Ekenstierna Ingelise Arntsen Born 1966, Swedish Born 1953, Swedish Born 1966, Danish Board member, member since 2018. Board member, member since 2016. Board member, member since 2017. Member of the Audit Committee Current board positions: Chair: Wrams Gunnarstorp Member of the Audit Committee Experience: Administrative Director Polhem Infra Castle. Current board positions: Chair of the board: Asplan Viak. (present).Nord Pool: CEO. Vattenfall Power Consultant: Experience: Beken: Senior advisor (present). Several Board member: Export Credit Norway, Beerenberg. CEO. Vattenfall Poland: CFO. Vattenfall Europe CEO positions within E.ON Group. Sydkraft Bredband Experience: Aibel: EVP. Sway Turbine: CEO. Statkraft: Trading: CFO. Birka Kraft: Director. and Baltic Cable. Sydkraft Elnät: COO. EVP. Arthur Andersen Business Consulting/ Bearing Point: Director: Sogn og Fjordane Energiverk: CEO. Kværner Fjellstrand: CFO. Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes Thorbjørn Holøs Asbjørn Sevlejordet Born 1975, Norwegian Born 1957, Norwegian Born 1960, Norwegian Employee-elected board member, member since 2014. Employee-elected board member, member since 2002. Employee-elected board member, member since 2014. Employee in Statkraft since: 2001 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Current work position: Statkraft: Vendor Manager IT. Employee since: 1976, Skagerak Energi Employee in Statkraft since: 1978 Current board positions: Chair: EL og IT Forbundet Current work position: Statkraft: Head union Vestfold/Telemark. representative, Mechanical maintenance worker. Current work position: Skagerak Energi: Head union representative. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 7 The Corporate Management From the left: Jon Vatnaland, Anne Harris, Steinar Bysveen, Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, Hallvard Granheim, Hilde Bakken and Jürgen Tzschoppe. Christian Rynning-Tønnesen Anne Harris Hallvard Granheim Born 1959, Norwegian Born 1960, Norwegian Born 1976, Norwegian Group management since 2010 Group management since 2019 Group management since 2014 Position: CEO Position: CFO Position: EVP Markets and IT With Statkraft in 1992-2005 and since 2010 Education: MSc Finance BI, Oslo. With Statkraft since 2012 Education: MSc NTH, Trondheim Former positions: Multiconsult AS: CFO. Entra Eiendom Education: MSc Finance NHH, Bergen Norwegian Army officer education AS: Acting CEO and CFO. Norsk Hydro: EVP HR and Former positions: Statkraft: EVP & CFO, Former positions: Norske Skog: CEO and CFO. Organization, SVP Corporate Financial Reporting and SVP Financial Reporting, Accounting and Tax. Statkraft: CFO and other executive positions. Performance. Deloitte: Director, Advisory & Auditor. McKinsey: Consultant. Current board positions: Board member IFE (Institutt Norske Skog: VP Energy Sourcing & Trading. Esso Norge: Refinery commercial coordinator. for energieteknikk) Current board positions: Board member: Klaveness, UMOE. Chair: VCOM. Advisory board member: Det Norske Veritas. Hilde Bakken Jon Vatnaland Jürgen Tzschoppe Born 1966, Norwegian Born 1975, Norwegian Born 1968, German Group management since 2010 Group management since 2017 Group management since 2015 Position: EVP Production Position: EVP Corporate Staff and Industrial Ownership Position: EVP International Power With Statkraft since 2000 With Statkraft since 2009 With Statkraft since 2002 Education: MSc NTH, Trondheim and TU Delft, Education: Cand. polit. sociology and Ph.D. innovation Education: Ph.D. Electrical engineering, RWTH Aachen Netherlands studies, UiO. Former positions: Statkraft: EVP Market Operations Former positions: Statkraft: EVP Corporate Staff Former positions: Statkraft: SVP Strategy in Wind and IT, SVP Continental Energy. MD Statkraft Markets and various positions within the Generation and Power and Technologies, MD Statkraft UK ltd, Senior GmbH and Knapsack Power GmbH & Co. KG. Market business. Norsk Hydro: various mgmt. and advisor Corporate Strategy. McKinsey: Engagement mgr. Enron: Power Trading Europe Associate. engineering positions Current board positions: Chair: Skagerak Energi. IAEW Aachen: Chief engineer. Current board positions: Board member: Yara Deputy chair: BKK. Board Member: Agder Energi, Energi International. Norge, Oslo Energy Forum. Steinar Bysveen Born 1958, Norwegian Group management since 2010 Position: EVP European Wind and Solar With Statkraft since 2010 Education: MSc NTH, Trondheim. Business studies BI. Former positions: Statkraft: EVP Wind, Technology and Strategy, EVP Production and Industrial Ownership, EVP Corporate Development. Energi Norge: CEO. Industrikraft Midt-Norge: MD. Current board positions: Chair: Fosen Vind DA. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 8 Letter from the CEO 2019 was a solid year for Statkraft and the company continued to deliver on its strategy. High standards of health, safety, security and environment, We also acquired three wind power projects in Chile with a human rights and business ethics are integral parts of our planned installed capacity of 110 MW. business models and form the basis for interaction with all our business partners. A fatal accident occurred in India in In Norway, three of the wind farms in Fosen are now in full January 2020, while there were no serious injuries in 2019. production, while the remaining three will open in 2020, We will continue to strengthen and improve Statkraft’s safety completing the largest onshore wind project in Europe. culture and performance across the organisation. It is our ambition to be a leading provider of market solutions Statkraft reported a record-high underlying EBIT of NOK 17.6 for renewable energy to large customers in all our markets. We billion, equivalent to 16.3 per cent return on average capital entered into new industrial power supply agreements in employed. Net profit ended at a solid NOK 11.3 billion. The Norway and confirmed our leading position within the fastproposed dividend for 2019 amounts to NOK 6.5 billion. Net growing European market for power purchase agreements by profit, taxes and salaries contributed with NOK 22 billion in signing several new long-term power contracts in 2019. total value creation from Statkraft to the Norwegian society in 2019. Statkraft also continued to develop new business opportunities including advanced biofuel, data centres and hydrogen. We Statkraft’s ambition is to be one of the world’s leading sold our first data centre site to Google, paving the way for renewable energy companies by 2025. The strategy is to hyperscale data centres in Norway, a fast-growing power expand in hydropower, ramp up as a wind and solar intensive industry. In addition, Statkraft expanded the electric developer, be a leading provider of market solutions and vehicles charging business by taking control of Norway’s develop new business. We delivered on our strategy through Grønn Kontakt and acquiring German EV charging company organic growth, investments and acquisitions across markets E-Wald. in Europe, South America and India in 2019. Looking ahead, Statkraft will continue to aim for capturing During the year, Statkraft continued to reinvest in hydropower value from new projects and acquisitions, while at the same operations in Norway, focusing on maintenance, upgrades and time managing cost levels. Statkraft has a high employee expansions. In the Nordic region, the company has worked on engagement and will continue to motivate and develop all approximately 140 ongoing hydropower projects of different employees going forward. sizes throughout 2019. Statkraft also has hydropower construction projects in Albania, India and Chile. Statkraft has been making renewable energy possible for over a century, long before climate change was a crisis. To keep As part of growing the company’s wind and solar business, our planet’s temperature increase well below 2 degrees and Statkraft acquired nine Irish solar projects with a planned meet growing energy demand, renewables can’t be part of the combined output of 320 MW. In addition, we acquired UK solution. Renewable energy must be the energy solution. onshore wind developer Airvolution Clean Energy Ltd. In Brazil, Statkraft was awarded contracts securing grid connection for almost 400 MW of new wind power capacity. Christian Rynning-Tønnesen President and CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 9 Electricity has transformed humanity. It lights our homes, our schools, our offices. It powers our machines. It makes modern transportation and communication possible. It’s an inseparable part of how we live, work, and advance as a society. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 10 Report from the Board of Directors 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 11 Report from the Board of Directors Caring for people is at the core of Statkraft’s company culture and everyone should return home safely from work for the company. There were no fatal accidents in 2019, but one fatal accident occurred in January 2020 in India. There were seven serious injuries in 2019. Statkraft is not satisfied with this. Strengthening the safety culture and the performance across the organisation and among subcontractors is top priority and has high attention throughout the organisation. The underlying EBIT of NOK 17.6 billion in 2019 was the highest ever achieved in Statkraft’s history. The increase from the previous year was mainly driven by higher contributions from Market operations. Profit before tax ended at NOK 19 billion and net profit at NOK 11.3 billion. Statkraft has a solid financial position to deliver on the current growth strategy. The company’s commitment to act in a sustainable and responsible manner continues to be a foundation for all activities. VALUES Statkraft recognises that there are dilemmas related to sustainability. The company seeks to understand and manage The values that shall govern Statkraft’s actions and provide such dilemmas through a risk-based approach, carefully weighing guidance for the employees are: different concerns, and implementing mitigating activities where  Competent. Use knowledge and experience to achieve needed. ambitious goals and to be recognised as a leading player. Key topics within sustainability in 2019 include:  Responsible. Create values, whilst showing respect and care for employees, customers, the environment and society.  Installed renewables capacity increased with 613 MW to  Innovative. Creative thinking, identify opportunities and 16 055 MW. develop effective solutions.  The Group’s CO2 emissions are amongst the lowest in the global energy sector. In 2019, 93% of Statkraft’s power These core values apply to all employees and others who generation was based on renewable energy sources. Carbon represent Statkraft. intensity increased to 26 kg/MWh due to increased gas-fired generation. This reflects a shift from coal to gas in the SUSTAINABILITY European power sector.  Within health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) there Statkraft is committed to responsible business practices and to was continued focus on key issues through the ‘Powered by combat climate change. The company’s approach to sustainability care’ programme. is continuously evolving, along with the company’s business strategy and international developments.  In the area of business ethics particular attention was paid to growth activities, and a new dilemma training toolkit and The Code of Conduct sets out Statkraft’ s fundamental principles competition law e-learning were launched. for responsible behaviour. Suppliers are expected to meet the  Human rights risks were addressed through an update of the requirements in Statkraft’s Supplier Code of Conduct. corporate level human rights impact assessment, and a In its work with sustainability Statkraft is also guided by continued focus on training for key personnel. international frameworks addressing anti-corruption, environment,  Responsible supply chain management was addressed in an human and labour rights. Statkraft believes business plays an improvement project. important role in contributing to the realisation of the UN The Board of Directors follows up the company’s sustainability Sustainable Development Goals, and the company is a member of work through its regular meetings. More detailed information the UN Global Compact. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 12 related to Statkraft’s sustainability management and performance Financial solidity is presented in the sustainability chapter in this report. Statkraft has a strong financial foundation and has demonstrated the ability to make solid returns in changing markets. A significant STRATEGY portfolio of long-term power contracts and hedging has a stabilising effect on revenues and net profit. Statkraft will have a Market development high focus on cost optimisation as the company continues to grow. The trends that laid the foundation for the new corporate strategy in 2018 are confirmed and in some cases also strengthened. A market-centric approach Statkraft sees increasing volumes of renewable energy, Statkraft will continue to pursue a market-centric approach. This particularly solar, being developed. This massive growth increases means building on the Group’s deep market understanding to find the need for flexible generation. the best opportunities in renewable energy within each market Decreasing costs of solar and wind power will move the industry across technologies. away from subsidies and into an energy system with new ways of Statkraft focuses on building scale in the countries where it selling power, and that customers are taking a stronger interest in already has presence, i.e. the Nordics, Europe, South America renewable energy. The access to cheap and clean energy makes and India, and will own, develop, acquire and operate renewable electrification the most effective solution to the climate challenge assets. To further strengthen the position in each market, Statkraft and contributes to lead the world in the direction of a low-carbon will expand its market activities and offer products and services to economy. other power producers and large consumers. Statkraft’s corporate strategy aims to respond to these The rapid changes in the energy markets necessitate some developments. flexibility in the targets and opportunities pursued. Statkraft continuously monitors the market and technology development to Statkraft’s competitive position identify business risks and opportunities arising. Statkraft has a solid foundation for further growth. From being a supplier of hydropower to Norwegian industry and general Strategic priorities consumption, Statkraft has become Europe’s largest producer of Optimise and expand hydropower renewable energy and has a growing presence in other The need for flexibility in the energy market increases and international markets. provides a unique starting point for a flexible hydropower Unique and large flexible portfolio generator with market expertise. Statkraft will optimise and Statkraft’s unique hydropower portfolio in the Nordics constitutes expand its strong hydropower portfolio. Europe’s largest reservoir capacity and a fleet of flexible power The Nordic portfolio is a unique and important source of flexible plants that enables optimisation of power generation based on and stable power generation. Given the age of the Nordic market needs. The strong competence in optimising profitability hydropower fleet, Statkraft will continue with reinvestments to with an integrated energy management, operations and retain its competitiveness and optimise profitability. Annual maintenance processes, makes Statkraft an excellent owner of reinvestments of around NOK 2 billion are expected for Norwegian flexible hydropower. and Swedish hydropower in the coming years. Statkraft will further Strong track record in wind power focus on optimising and protecting the value of its hydropower Statkraft is the largest owner and operator of onshore wind power assets outside the Nordics. A significant share of the generation assets in the Nordics and has a strong track record with from Nordic hydropower plants is hedged with long-term power developing, constructing and operating wind power plants. purchase agreements (PPAs) with customers. Statkraft will Statkraft is currently constructing the largest onshore wind power continue to enter into new contracts. project in Europe, Fosen Vind in Norway, and is expanding Before 2022, 80% of Statkraft’s hydropower generation portfolio in internationally with large wind power portfolios under development Norway will be due for revision of the concession terms, targeting in Brazil, UK and Ireland. improved environmental conditions for the revised concessions. This may cause reduced generation and flexibility, decrease flood Deep market understanding control ability and reduced profitability of the portfolio. Statkraft’s The Group possesses deep market understanding across many response is to engage with involved stakeholders to find solutions markets. The market activities includes securing profitable longwhich balance environmental and societal needs with profitability. term power purchase agreements, providing market access services, energy management and trading and origination. The Statkraft will seek profitable growth in hydropower through skill-set, originated from managing flexible hydropower, forms the acquisitions that fit well with the rest of the portfolio. The foundation for the large market access business of wind and solar acquisitions of a hydropower project in India and hydropower power in many countries. plants in Brazil in 2018 are examples of this. As the competitiveness of new hydropower is challenged by solar, wind and batteries, very few new hydropower projects will be profitable. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 13 Thus, only projects with particular competitive advantages in portfolio, aiming to be among the top three players in Norway and terms of costs and/or flexibility will be pursued. Sweden. In Europe, gas-fired power will be key to provide the flexibility The market for electric vehicles and related services like EV needed and Statkraft will own and operate the existing gas-fired charging is expected to grow massively. The Norwegian market is power fleet, while all further growth will be in renewable energy. at the forefront of this development, and Statkraft is well positioned with its ownership in Grønn Kontakt, the second largest Ramp up wind and solar development EV charging company in Norway. Statkraft will expand the Grønn Solar and onshore wind power are becoming the technologies Kontakt business in the Nordics and pursue international with the lowest cost, and strong growth is expected within these expansion. The acquisitions of the German electric vehicle technologies in all countries in which Statkraft operates. Statkraft charging companies E-Wald and eeMobility are examples of this. has a strong starting point with a good track record within wind development, some experience within solar power and strong Develop new business competence within market activities enabling the Group to secure Norway and Europe are early movers in the energy transition, on different types of revenue streams. decarbonisation overall and on electrification in particular. This gives Statkraft testing ground and early learnings on new business Statkraft will ramp up as a wind and solar asset developer, opportunities. Based on this, Statkraft aims to create new targeting a developed portfolio of 6 GW of onshore wind and profitable growth opportunities and expand in other markets. 2 GW of solar power by 2025. Statkraft will take on a developer role and constructed assets can also be partly or fully sold down. Currently, the main initiatives are: The Group will look into both organic growth based on existing  Develop attractive sites for data centres and other powerpositions as well as acquisition of projects or portfolios to ramp up intensive industry in Norway and provide them with wider the business. The recent acquisitions of wind power projects in energy management services. Chile and Brazil and a solar development portfolio in Ireland are  Develop biodiesel production from wood residue feedstock, in examples of this. Statkraft has also opened a Scottish office a joint venture with Södra, which can be used for transport following the successful acquisition of the wind power developer segments and countries where combustion engines will Airvolution. Statkraft will seek to secure revenue streams through remain for the next decades. auctions and PPAs. The Group will use its market knowledge to  Produce hydrogen from water electrolysis, to replace coal and create additional value from PPAs through financial hedging and gas in industrial processes and refineries, and for usage in energy management. The recent success in a public auction in heavy-duty transport replacing diesel. Brazil is an example of this, where Statkraft won PPAs which will secure the construction of almost 400 MW of wind power. One of the facilitated data centre sites in Skien Norway was recently acquired by Google. Statkraft will partner with Google to Grow customer business develop the basic infrastructure of the property. Renewables are increasingly being exposed to power market forces and customers are taking a stronger interest in renewable Moreover, Statkraft is continuously screening new opportunities energy. Statkraft’s customer business is founded on market where the existing capabilities and portfolio can give a competitive leading energy management and hedging of revenue from its own advantage. assets. By 2025 Statkraft will significantly increase its volumes in market Statkraft’s ambition for 2025 operations, expand the product offering and increase activity also Statkraft aspires to be a leading renewables company in 2025, in markets outside Europe. Statkraft will be a leading provider of with sustainable, ethical and safe operations. The aim is to be: market access services, hedging services to asset owners as well  The largest hydropower company in Europe and a significant as green power supply and hedging services to power intensive player in South America and India industry and industrial and commercial customers. The focus will  A major wind and solar developer with 8 GW installed be on green investment products for corporate and institutional capacity investors, bringing wind and solar investment opportunities to  A leading provider of market solutions for renewable energy Statkraft’s customers. In 2019, Statkraft has signed a range of  Top three player in district heating in Norway and Sweden long-term PPAs with large companies, among others the Spanish  A developer of 1-2 new commercial and green business electricity suppliers Fortia Energia and Audax Renovables, as well areas as the UK Universities Consortium and Daimler. Statkraft also opened a new office in Madrid as part of its aim to expand in the Iberia region. Investments Statkraft has an ambitious growth strategy within renewable District heating based on renewable energy is considered a key energy. Towards 2025 Statkraft is planning to invest NOK 60-80 solution for decarbonising heating and cooling in Europe by 2050. billion in renewable energy, while maintaining the current rating. Statkraft’s district heating business amounts to an annual The pace and total amount of investments in the strategic period production of around 1 TWh of heating and is well-positioned with will be dependent on market opportunities and market good profitability. Statkraft will continue improving and growing the ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 14 development and will be adapted to Statkraft’s financial capacity expected to take place in Norway. There will also be substantial and rating target. The investment programme has a large degree growth in markets where Statkraft is already present, like South of flexibility and Statkraft will continue to be transparent and America and India. communicate with the market on investment plans and progress The investment programme will be financed through retained towards the strategic objectives. earnings from existing operations and future operations, external Around two thirds of the investments until 2025 are planned in financing and divestments of e.g. completed solar and wind Europe, with more than a third of the European investments projects. STRATEGIC TARGETS The Board of Directors has set financial and non-financial targets for the Group. The main targets are listed in the table below. The performance related to several of the targets will be assessed over a longer time horizon. AMBITION TARGET STATUS 2019 HSE and sustainability Prevent incidents and be committed to a workplace without injury or harm Zero serious injuries 7 Prevent corruption and unethical practices in all activities Zero serious compliance incidents 0 Deliver climate-friendly, renewable power and taking responsible Zero serious environmental incidents 0 environmental measures Financial performance Deliver a solid return on capital >7% ROACE 16.3% Value creation in ongoing business >3.5% higher realised prices than the average spot price in Efficient management of energy resources in the Nordic hydropower fleet 4.5% the market Growth Grow capacity in renewable energy (hydro-, windand solar power) 9 GW growth by 2025 1.4 GW Organisational enablers Develop diversity in background, competence and gender across the Long-term ambition of 40% women in top management 27.5% company positions Caring for people is at the core of Statkraft’s activities and Statkraft works continuously towards the goal of zero injuries. There were no fatal accidents in 2019, but there were seven accidents with serious injuries. See section “Health and safety” in the sustainability chapter of the report for more information. Statkraft has zero tolerance for corruption and unethical practices in all activities, and there were zero serious compliance incidents in 2019. Assessing environmental risks is part of Statkraft’s daily risk management procedures and practices and there were no serious environmental incidents in 2019. Statkraft aims to deliver a solid return on capital employed. In 2019, the ROACE was 16.3%, significantly above the target. See section “Return on investment” for more information. With Europe’s largest portfolio of flexible hydropower plants and reservoir capacity, Statkraft is well positioned to achieve a higher average price for generation from the Nordic hydropower fleet than the average Nordic spot price. In 2019, Statkraft’s realised prices were 4.5% higher than the average spot price in the Nordics. The strategy has a growth target of 9 GW by 2025. Statkraft is still at an early phase of the growth cycle, but is on track to reach the target. Statkraft aims for a diverse workforce and has a long-term ambition of having at least 40% women in top management positions. At the end of 2019 the share was 27.5%, up from 23% at the end of 2018. See subsection “Labour practices” in the sustainability chapter of the report for more information. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 15 Power prices The average system price in the Nordic region was 39 EUR/MWh, a decrease of 11% year-on-year and the average German spot price (base) was 37.7 EUR/MWh, a decrease of 15%. Power generation Generation, technology TWh 2019 2018 Hydropower 53.4 57.2 Wind power 3.0 2.7 Gas power 4.5 1.5 Other (biomass and solar power) 0.3 0.3 Total generation 61.1 61.7 Generation, geography TWh 2019 2018 Norway 44.9 48.6 Sweden 6.2 6.0 Rest of Europe 5.6 2.8 Rest of the world 4.4 4.3 Total generation 61.1 61.7 Generation, revenue type TWh 2019 2018 Net physical spot sales 36.6 37.3 Concessionary sales at statutory prices 3.3 3.3 Long-term commercial contracts 21.2 21.1 Total generation 61.1 61.7 Total power generation was 61.1 TWh, a decrease of 1%. The decrease in Norwegian hydropower generation was offset by the increase in Norwegian wind power generation and gas-fired generation in Germany. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 16 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE2 The Group’s underlying operating profit increased by 18%, mainly Net operating revenues and other income due to extraordinary good results from Market operations. The underlying positive effect was partly offset by lower power prices. Statkraft’s revenues are generated through spot sales, contractual Profit before tax was NOK 18 959 million and net profit ended at sales to the industry, market activities, grid activities and district NOK 11 327 million. At the end of 2019, the Group’s equity was heating. In addition, the Group delivers concessionary power. The NOK 100 764 million, corresponding to 57% of total assets. Cash fundamental basis for Statkraft’s revenues comprises of power flow from operating activities was at a solid NOK 11 961 million. prices, energy optimisation and generation. The generation revenues are optimised through financial power trading, and the In the following, the emphasis will be to present the result from the Group engages in energy related trading activities. underlying operations for items up to and including the operating profit. All underlying items are alternative performance measures, Underlying net operating revenues and other income was 12% higher than in 2018. see the chapter «Alternative Performance Measures» for purpose, definition and statement of all items. Elements from the statement The Market operations segment was the main contributor to the of comprehensive income after the operating profit are analysed in improvement, as most of its activities improved year-on-year. In accordance with the financial statements. 2 Figures in parentheses show comparable figures for 2018. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 17 particular, trading, dynamic asset management, market access Operating expenses underlying and origination achieved good improvements. In total, the Group’s underlying operating expenses increased by The International power segment had an increase in net operating 5% year-on-year. The increase was primarily related to new revenues and other income due to new generation capacity in businesses and business development costs in the segments Brazil and a one-off effect related to a hydropower plant in Turkey. International power and European wind and solar, as well as increased number of employees and higher performance-related The Group’s largest segment, European flexible generation, had accruals due to the extraordinary good results in the Market 4% lower net operating revenues and other income, primarily due operations segment. This was partly offset by the effect of the to lower Nordic hydropower generation and lower Nordic power deconsolidation of Fjordkraft in March 2018 for the segment prices. The picture was the same for the Industrial ownership Industrial ownership and lower Swedish property tax, which segment. affected the European flexible generation segment in particular. In For the other segments there were only minor changes compared addition, changes in the Norwegian pension scheme had a with 2018. positive effect on all segments. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 18 Items excluded from the underlying Tax expense operating proﬁt The recorded tax expense was NOK 7632 million (NOK 7258 million). The tax expense increase was mainly due to higher profit Items excluded from the underlying operating proﬁt before tax subject to income tax. The profit before tax for 2018 NOK mill. 2019 2018 included significant tax-free gains. The majority of Statkraft’s tax Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -801 -789 expense was related to Norway. Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 55 1449 Impairments/reversal of impairments 136 -167 Income tax payable amounted to NOK 3249 million (NOK 3181 Total adjustments -610 493 million). Resource rent tax payable amounted to NOK 3407 million (NOK 3678 million). The decrease in resource rent tax was mainly The negative unrealised effect from energy derivatives excluded due to lower power prices and hydropower generation, partly from the underlying operating profit was driven by changes in offset by higher tax rate. commodity prices linked to long-term industry contracts and a stronger NOK vs. EUR. Cash flow The gains from divestments of business activities excluded from Cash flow from operating activities was NOK 11 961 million the underlying operating profit were related to sale of a wind (NOK 15 286 million). The decrease was primarily due to higher power project in Sweden. taxes paid. The difference between underlying EBIT and cash flow from operating activities was mainly due to taxes paid and Impairments and reversal of previous years’ impairments excluded unrealised effects included in operating profit (EBIT), partly offset from the underlying operating profit had a net positive effect of by depreciations and amortisations. NOK 136 million. This was due to reversal of impairments related to gas-fired power assets in Germany, somewhat offset by Cash flow from investing activities of NOK -4821 million was impairments of hydropower assets in Chile and Nepal and wind mainly related to investments in property, plant and equipment assets in Sweden. and acquisitions of shares, partly offset by cash inflow from divestments. Significant cash flows from divestments and repayment of loans from associated companies were included in Financial items the cash flow from investing activities in 2018. Financial items Cash flow from financing activities amounted to NOK -15 039 NOK mill. 2019 2018 million and was primarily related to dividend paid and repurchase Interest income 440 404 and repayment of interest-bearing debt. Interests expenses -669 -905 Net currency effects 132 -464 At the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents amounted to Other financial items 829 5 377 NOK 15 203 million (NOK 23 175 million). Net financial items 733 4 412 Return on investments Net currency effects Statkraft achieved a return on average capital employed (ROACE) NOK mill. 2019 2018 of 16.3% in 2019. This was 1.6 percentage points higher than in Currency hedging contracts and short term 2018, and well above Statkraft’s target of minimum 7%. The currency positions -16 182 improvement was primarily related to higher operating profit, Debt in foreign currency 191 -542 mainly due to improved contribution from Market operations. The Internal loans, joint ventures and associates -42 -104 average capital employed was 6% higher than for 2018. Net currency effects 132 -464 The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE) was 9.5% (5.9%), which was above the target of minimum 7%. The Interest expenses were lower, mainly due to lower interest rates improvement was primarily due to higher share of profit from BKK and repayment of interest-bearing debt. and Agder Energi. The net currency effects were relatively small in 2019. The positive effect was predominantly related to debt in foreign currency and was a result of a strengthening of NOK against EUR. Other financial items were primarily related to gains from the sales of shares in BKK, a positive change in the fair value of the shareholding in Fjordkraft and effects from the step-up acquisition of Grønn Kontakt. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 19 Net interest-bearing debt repayment plan Financial strength and rating It is important for Statkraft to maintain its credit rating with the two rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Statkraft AS has a current credit rating of A(stable outlook) from Standard & Poor’s and BBB+ (stable outlook) from Fitch Ratings. See note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Investments The main objectives of the Group’s capital structure management are to maintain a reasonable balance between solidity, the ability to invest and to maintain a strong credit rating. When new external financing is considered, Statkraft seeks to ensure an evenly distributed repayment profile. Statkraft invested NOK 7421 million in 2019 (NOK 6981 million), The most important target figure for the Group’s management of of which NOK 3738 million were in new generating capacity. The capital structure is the long-term credit rating. largest investments in new capacity were related to the Fosen At the end of 2019, net interest-bearing debt amounted to wind portfolio in Norway, the Moglice hydropower project in NOK 15 965 million (NOK 12 921 million), giving a net interestAlbania and the Tidong hydropower project in India. Investments bearing debt-equity ratio of 13.7%. in shareholdings of NOK 972 million were mainly related to the acquisition of a Brazilian wind project portfolio, electrical vehicle At the end of the year, Statkraft’s equity totalled NOK 100 764 charging companies and businesses within solar and wind. million, compared with NOK 98 004 million at the start of the year. Maintenance investments and other investments were This corresponds to 57% of total assets (54%). NOK 2712 million, primarily in hydropower in the Nordic region. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 20 SEGMENTS Availability is an important factor when optimising hydropower revenues. Statkraft measures whether its power plants are Statkraft is organised in four business areas and two corporate available to produce when it is most profitable to do so through a staff areas. The business areas are Production, International KPI. The most critical factor affecting the KPI, and that can be power, European wind and solar and Markets and IT. The staff influenced, is how effectively plant maintenance and areas are Corporate staff and industrial ownership, and Chief refurbishments are planned and executed. Inflow and market Financial Officer. All business areas and staff areas are headed prices are important external factors affecting the results. by an Executive Vice President. The Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice Presidents form the Corporate Management. Production costs for the Nordic hydropower plants are relatively See note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further low in comparison with other types of power generation facilities. description of the business areas and staff units. To ensure that Statkraft maintains its long-term competitiveness, Statkraft has an ambition to balance cost of operations for the fleet The Group’s reportable segments are in accordance with how the with ensuring availability, completing necessary reinvestments Chief Executive Officer makes, follows up and evaluates his and continuously improving cost efficiency. For 2019 the cost per decisions. The operating segments have been identified on the kWh was NOK 9.1 øre. basis of internal management information that is periodically reviewed by the Corporate Management and used as a basis for Market Operations includes trading, origination, market access resource allocation and key performance review. for smaller producers of renewable energy, as well as revenue optimisation and risk mitigation activities related to Continental The reportable segments are defined as: and Nordic power generation. European Flexible Generation includes the majority of the Market Operations is Statkraft’s interface with markets where Group’s hydropower business in Norway, Sweden, Germany and energy and energy-related products are traded. The segment is the United Kingdom, as well as gas-fired power plants in also responsible for developing new customer-oriented business Germany, the subsea cable Baltic Cable and the biomass power models in Europe and in selected countries where Statkraft owns plants in Germany. assets. The main activities of the segment are: European Flexible Generation is by far the largest segment  Trading of standard financial contracts and structured measured in terms of installed capacity, assets, net operating products revenues and other income and results. The assets are mainly  Origination, which includes customised agreements for flexible with the majority of the capacity related to hydropower in industry and commerce Norway and Sweden.  Dynamic asset management by holding a varying amount of Primarily the segment’s revenues stem from sales in the spot asset-backed positions to generate profit market and from long-term contracts, mainly with power intensive  Provide market access for Statkraft’s own assets, as well as to industries in Norway. The segment also delivers concessionary external generators of renewable energy power. The long-term contracts have a stabilising effect on the  Exploring and developing new business models, primarily revenues and profit. targeting customer solutions in the distributed energy market Multi-year reservoirs in Norway and the flexibility of the power During the past years, the business activities have increased plants enable optimisation of the power generation based on the and have led to a significant geographical expansion with hydrological situation and power prices. Norwegian hydropower is presence in many European countries, Brazil, Chile, Peru, USA therefore optimised over longer time periods than one year. In (California) and India. Statkraft has an ambition to be a leading order to mitigate risk in relation to uncertainty of future prices and provider of market solutions for renewable energy. To reach this generated volumes, Statkraft hedges generation revenues through ambition, Statkraft’s target is to grow profitable market access physical bilateral contracts and financial power trading. The activities for third party generators and consumers, and build up hedged percentage of generation varies with market development the market access for flexibility in demand response and expectations and generation volumes. batteries by 2025. Furthermore, the ambition is to grow the customer business by substantially increasing the volumes in The volume sold in the spot market may vary significantly between profitable renewable PPAs, sale of power, guarantees of origin years, depending on the hydrological situation, e.g. inflow and and green power supply by 2025. Statkraft is on track to ramp reservoir filling, and generation optimisation decisions. The up these activities. management of multi-year reservoirs and flexible power plants normally enables Statkraft to achieve a higher average price for International Power includes development, ownership and the power generation than what other companies in the Nordics operations of renewable assets outside Western Europe. do. How effectively Statkraft manages the Nordic hydropower fleet International Power operates in growth markets with an is an important key performance indicator (KPI) for the Group, see increasing need for more energy. Statkraft is focusing on section “Strategic targets” for information on the performance in selected markets where the company can add value in a clear 2019. The management of the Nordic hydropower fleet is further industrial role. Statkraft aims to expand the portfolio to include measured by supporting targets for availability and cost. more wind and solar power, in addition to hydropower. Some of ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 21 the investments are made in collaboration with local partners or European Flexible Generation international investors. The segment currently operates in Brazil, Peru, Chile, India, Key figures Nepal, Turkey and Albania. NOK mill. 2019 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income 21 368 21 602 The revenue stems from power sales, mainly on long-term Net operating revenues and other income 18 028 18 765 contracts. Operating expenses -5 780 -5 822 Important KPIs related to the financial performance are cost per Operating profit (EBIT) underlying 12 247 12 943 kWh and market-adjusted availability. Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -801 -333 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities European Wind and Solar includes Statkraft’s development, Impairments/reversal of impairments 1 035 ownership and operation of wind and solar power in Europe. The Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS 12 482 12 610 segment has operations in Norway, Sweden, Ireland and United Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments Kingdom. In addition the segment has development activities in ROACE (%) 21.7 23.3 several countries in Europe. ROAE (%) n/a n/a The revenues come from power sales and support schemes. Maintenance investments and other investments 1 532 1 185 Investments in new capacity 194 67 Important KPIs related to the financial performance are cost per Investments in shareholdings kWh and market-adjusted availability. Generation (TWh) 48.7 48.9 District Heating includes Statkraft’s development and operation The segment’s total generation was slightly lower than in 2018. of district heating plants in Norway and Sweden. 43.6 TWh of the generation was from the Nordic hydropower The revenues stems primarily from the sale of heating and plants (46.8 TWh). 28.5 TWh, 59% of total generation, was sold cooling to customers, as well as waste handling. Generally, the in the spot market, while the contracted volume was 17.3 TWh. revenues are influenced by power prices, waste prices, grid The remaining volume was concessionary sales sold at tariffs and taxes. Waste, biomass, bio oil, electricity and gas statutory prices. The generation from gas-fired assets increased constitute the energy sources in the production of district significantly in 2019 and ended at 4.5 TWh (1.5 TWh). heating. Important events in 2019 Industrial Ownership includes management and development of Norwegian shareholdings within the Group’s core business and  Statkraft entered into new long-term power contracts in includes the shareholdings in Skagerak Energi, BKK and Agder Norway with Alcoa Norway, Borregaard and Wacker Energi. Skagerak Energi is included in the consolidated financial Chemicals Norway. statements, while the other companies are reported as equity  Improved outlook for future gas to power margin led to a accounted investments. reversal of previous years’ impairments for gas-fired power plants in Germany of NOK 1035 million. Skagerak Energi’s revenues primarily come from power generation, distribution grid and district heating. Financial performance In addition the group reports: The decrease in net operating income was mainly due to lower Nordic power prices and reduced hydropower generation in the Other activities, which includes cost related to governance of the Nordics. This was partly offset by higher revenues from gasGroup, new business within biomass and electric vehicle charging fired power plants. as well as venture capital investments. Unallocated assets are also reported as Other activities. Operating expenses were lower, primarily due to changes in the Norwegian pension scheme and lower property tax in Sweden Group items, which include eliminations. driven by a lower tax rate. The lower EBIT was reflected in the return on average capital employed (ROACE). The average capital employed was on the same level as year-end 2018. The investments were primarily related to maintenance of Nordic hydropower assets. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 22 Market Operations due to large fluctuations in the underlying EBIT and inventory. The average capital employed was on the same level as yearend 2018. Key figures NOK mill. 2019 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income 19 713 27 007 International Power Net operating revenues and other income 4 455 834 Key figures Operating expenses -1 428 -1 155 NOK mill. 2019 2018 Operating profit (EBIT) underlying 3 027 -321 Gross operating revenues and other income 3 215 2 641 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -456 Net operating revenues and other income 2 702 2 244 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 15 Operating expenses -1 946 -1 613 Impairments/reversal of impairments Operating profit (EBIT) underlying 756 631 Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS 3 027 -761 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 3 2 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities ROACE (%) 62.6 -6.9 Impairments/reversal of impairments -564 -160 ROAE (%) n/a n/a Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS 192 471 Maintenance investments and other investments 73 10 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments -86 143 Investments in new capacity 2 24 ROACE (%) 3.1 2.9 Investments in shareholdings 39 ROAE (%) -3.2 7.8 Generation (TWh) n/a n/a Maintenance investments and other investments 214 155 Investments in new capacity 808 894 Important events in 2019 Investments in shareholdings 349 1 345  Extraordinary good results from trading. Generation (TWh) 4.9 4.9  Opening of office in Madrid and substantial growth in The segment’s total generation was on par with 2018. The upstream and downstream PPA portfolio in Spain. contracted volume was 3.9 TWh, 79% of total volume. The  1000 MW virtual power plant in UK integrates renewable remaining volume was sold in the spot market. New capacity in power, storage and flexibility assets and delivers balancing Brazil resulted in 0.2 TWh higher generation in that market. This power to the UK grid. was offset by lower generation in Albania and Chile due to dry  First subsidy-free solar PPA in Germany. The 12-year PPA hydrology. has a total volume of around 600 GWh (installed capacity of 52 MWp). Important events in 2019  First 100%, as consumed, green power delivery PPA from  Final investment decision was made for project Los Lagos wind, solar and hydropower in industrial scale to Daimler in in Chile. Estimated project cost is NOK 1.6 billion. Germany.  Acquired wind projects in Chile (102 MW) and Brazil (664  First 10-year financial corporate PPA with Polish subsidiary MW). Subsequent to the acquisition, Statkraft successfully of global steel market leader. participated in an auction in Brazil selling 376 MW on longterm power sales contracts, mainly from the acquired Financial performance projects. The significant decrease in gross operating revenues and other  Reduced long-term price expectations led to impairments of income is related to the transition to IFRS 16 from 1 January NOK 255 million for hydropower assets in Chile. 2019, when certain contracts that were previously presented  Revised assumptions related to future control of the gross on sales revenues and energy purchase changed to net subsidiary Himal Power Ltd in Nepal indicated that the presentation on sales revenues. In 2018 Statkraft recognised company will not qualify for continued consolidation. This sales revenues of approximately NOK 9 billion from these power led to an impairment of NOK 254 million. purchase agreements. The comparable figures have not been  An impairment of NOK 115 million (Statkraft’s share) was restated. recognised in a joint venture in India. This was related to Most of the segments main activities improved compared with hydropower assets and was a result of reduced long-term 2018. The major contributors to the underlying EBIT were price expectations. trading, dynamic asset management and market access. Origination, which had a negative contribution in 2018, also Financial performance made significant improvement. The net operating revenues and other income increased due to new capacity in Brazil and an insurance settlement related to a The operating expenses increased, primarily due to new tunnel collapse at the Kargi hydropower plant in Turkey. employees and higher performance-related accruals due to extraordinary good results. Operating expenses increased, primarily due to new businesses in Brazil and India and business development costs in line with The return on average capital employed (ROACE) is volatile the growth strategy. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 23 The decrease in share of profit/loss in equity accounted This led to impairments of NOK 333 million for Swedish wind investments was mainly due to impairment in India and negative power assets. effects in joint ventures in Chile. Financial performance The increase in the return on average capital employed Net operating revenues and other income was on par with 2018. (ROACE) was primarily due to a higher underlying EBIT. The Higher generation was offset by lower power and el-cert prices. capital employed is relatively high mainly due to newly built and Operating expenses increased due to new employees and acquired assets leading to high carrying values. higher business development costs in line with the growth The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE) strategy. was negative in 2019 as a result of the negative share of profit The decrease in return on average capital employed (ROACE) following an impairment. was due to both a lower EBIT and a higher average capital The investments in new capacity were mainly related to the employed. The capital employed is relatively high mainly due to construction of the Moglice hydropower plant in Albania and the newly built and acquired assets leading to high carrying values. Tidong hydropower plant in India. The increase in average capital employed was primarily due to wind power investments in Norway. European Wind and Solar The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE) decreased because of lower share of profit due to lower Key figures generation and power prices. In 2018, the divested Dudgeon NOK mill. 2019 2018 offshore wind farm was included for part of the year. Gross operating revenues and other income 1 388 1 367 The investments in new capacity were mainly related to the Net operating revenues and other income 1 330 1 320 Fosen project in Norway. Operating expenses -1 103 -891 Operating profit (EBIT) underlying 227 429 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives District Heating Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 55 1 Key figures Impairments/reversal of impairments -333 NOK mill. 2019 2018 Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS -50 431 Gross operating revenues and other income 919 908 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 12 30 Net operating revenues and other income 653 650 ROACE (%) 2.6 6.3 Operating expenses -437 -444 ROAE (%) 1.4 3.2 Operating profit (EBIT) underlying 216 206 Maintenance investments and other investments 231 4 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives Investments in new capacity 2 215 1 623 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities Investments in shareholdings 188 381 Impairments/reversal of impairments -3 -7 Generation (TWh) 2.6 2.2 Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS 213 199 The increase in generation year-on-year was primarily related to Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments new capacity in Norway. 44% of the generation was from ROACE (%) 6.2 5.9 Norwegian wind farms and 52% from Swedish wind farms. The ROAE (%) n/a n/a rest was from a wind farm in the UK. Maintenance investments and other investments 6 9 Investments in new capacity 168 134 Important events in 2019 Investments in shareholdings  The wind farms Storheia and Hitra 2 in Norway came into Delivered volume (TWh) 1.0 1.0 full production. The combined installed capacity is 382 MW. Delivered heating volume was on par with 2018. 81% of the The two wind farms are part of the Fosen portfolio which is volume was delivered in Norway, the remaining volume in now approximately 60% completed. Sweden.  Completed the Kilathmoy wind farm (23 MW) and battery project in Ireland. Financial performance  Acquired a 326 MW portfolio of solar projects in Ireland. Net operating revenues and other income was stable year-on Acquired a project development company within wind power year. in the UK. Operating expenses were slightly lower, primarily related to less  Entered into a put and call option agreement to divest 100% purchase of external services. of the Windy Rig and Twentyshilling wind farms once they enter commercial operation. The stable EBIT was reflected in the return on average capital  The growth in generation capacity in the Nordic region is employed (ROACE), which increased slightly year-on-year. The expected to lead to decreased revenues for certain assets. ROACE was mainly driven by district heating activities in Trondheim. The average capital employed was stable compared ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 24 with 2018. increased due to improved performance from BKK and Agder Energi. The investments were primarily related to pipelines in Norway. The investments were primarily related to maintenance and new Industrial Ownership capacity investments within grid activities in Skagerak Energi. Key figures Other Activities NOK mill. 2019 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income 3 408 4 631 Key figures Net operating revenues and other income 3 159 3 284 NOK mill. 2019 2018 Operating expenses -1 506 -1 817 Gross operating revenues and other income 1 252 1 011 Operating profit (EBIT) underlying 1 653 1 467 Net operating revenues and other income 1 252 1 011 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives Operating expenses -1 778 -1 556 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 1 432 Operating profit (EBIT) underlying -526 -545 Impairments/reversal of impairments Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS 1 653 2 899 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 1 396 635 Impairments/reversal of impairments ROACE (%) 10.8 10.1 Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS -526 -545 ROAE (%) 14.7 6.1 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments -50 -20 Maintenance investments and other investments 603 663 ROACE (%) n/a n/a Investments in new capacity 351 309 ROAE (%) n/a n/a Investments in shareholdings 53 Maintenance investments and other investments 54 40 Generation (TWh) 4.9 5.7 Investments in new capacity Investments in shareholdings 381 97 The consolidated hydropower generation was 14% lower than in Generation (TWh) n/a n/a 2018. 91% of the volume was sold in the spot market. The remaining volume was concessionary sales sold at statutory prices. Important events in 2019  Acquired 47.5% of the shares in the electric vehicle Important events in 2019 charging company Grønn Kontakt from Agder Energi. At  Skagerak Energi and BKK divested part of their year-end Statkraft owned 95.72% of the shares. shareholdings in Fjordkraft.  Acquired shares in the German EV charging companies E Skagerak Energi acquired the shares in Hjartdal Elverk. WALD and eeMobility.  BKK acquired 4.41% of their own shares from Statkraft. The  Divested a data centre project in Norway. ownership in BKK subsequent of the sale is 43.44%.  BKK and Sunnfjord Energi merged. Financial performance  BKK completed and put the new 420 kV powerline ModalenThe group’s increased activity level is in line with the growth Mongstad into operation and divested the powerline to strategy and is reflected in the financial figures for Other Statnett upon completion. activities. Financial performance Net operating revenues and other income decreased, primarily due to lower power prices and generation. Operating expenses decreased, mainly related to pension scheme changes in Norway and the deconsolidation of Fjordkraft in March 2018. The share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments from both BKK and Agder Energi increased year-on-year. The increase from BKK was driven by significant one-off effects, while the increase from Agder Energi was driven by positive effects from unrealised value changes in energy and interest contracts. The increase in the return on average capital employed (ROACE) was due to the higher underlying EBIT. The average capital employed increased slightly year-on-year. The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 25 PROFIT ALLOCATION oriented business, amongst other by enabling new and automated solutions within trading and origination. R&D will play The parent company Statkraft AS had a net profit of NOK 9105 a vital role in understanding the future energy landscape, million in 2019. including how climate effects will impact operations and markets Statkraft AS is fully owned by Statkraft SF. The Board of Directors across all technologies. In this landscape, social science of Statkraft SF proposes a dividend of NOK 6454 million to its research is becoming more important. Hence, we seek new owner. In order to provide Statkraft SF with sufficient ability to knowledge on customer and society’s behaviour to improve our disburse dividend, the Board of Directors of Statkraft AS proposes understanding on challenges in the interface between the the following allocation of the annual profit in Statkraft AS: society and Statkraft. The new R&D strategy has identified several areas where R&D Profit allocation will provide major contributions towards development of new Amounts in NOK mill. business initiatives. Battery and hydrogen hybrids for heavy Net annual profit in Statkraft AS' company accounts 9 105 land and sea transport, e-ammonia for marine transport and mobile energy solutions (fuel cells) for use within zero-emission Appropriation of profit for the year and equity transfers: sites are all areas with large business potential and unsolved Allocated dividend from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF 6 362 challenges. Allocated to other equity 2 743 The proposed dividend is deemed to be prudent based on R&D in Statkraft Statkraft AS’ equity and liquidity. By participating in R&D projects both on the Norwegian, European and international arena, Statkraft intend to strengthen its position as a leading player in renewable energy. GOING CONCERN The mode of operation is to pursue clear business cases owned In accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act, the Board of by the business line, preferably through joint industry and Directors confirms that the annual financial statements have been research institution projects. Statkraft encourages open prepared on the assumption that the company is a going concern, discussions and cooperation on our core technologies and and that it is appropriate to assume this. pursues competitive advantages through optimal use of the knowledge. We normally aim for a leading role in governing RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) these joint projects. The majority of Statkraft’s R&D activity is The ambition for Statkraft's R&D efforts is to strengthen the coordinated and financed through the internal Corporate R&D Group's competitive advantages. program. As of today, the program portfolio consists of approximately 40 projects. Revised R&D strategy 2019-2025 – broadened scope and extended horizon Added value of the R&D activity An evaluation of previous R&D portfolio has indicated an In 2019 the R&D strategy has been revised and broadened in average value creation of five times the research effort. accordance with the direction set in Statkraft’s corporate strategy. The R&D strategy will now support the breadth of In 2019 Statkraft has amongst other entered the EU-project Statkraft's growth and business opportunities globally, whilst Hydropower Europe with aim to develop a research and earlier being concentrated mainly on hydropower issues. The innovation agenda as well as a technology roadmap for the R&D activities will provide knowledge and solutions for ongoing hydropower sector in Europe. Concerning digitalization in wind operations as well as for new business development. operations, new solutions for data collection and transfer have been developed and tested successfully the past year. Further, Concerning hydropower, the R&D activities will support Statkraft’s modular and flexible hydrologic forecasting toolbox for optimised operation and maintenance and increased flexibility. operational environments, SHyFT (Statkraft’s Hydrologic Contributing with fact-based knowledge within regulatory and Forecasting Toolbox), has shown operability and delivers framework conditions is also high on the agenda. In addition, forecasts three times daily in the Nordic countries. SHyFT is now Statkraft explores step change market models, adapting to a set up for four fields in Peru and 150 fields in Brazil. Estimated future marked by developing more robust, flexible and scalable net value of SHyFT in Nordic energy management is NOK 10-30 models. In the Nordic countries, Statkraft is a leading force million/year and NOK 10-50 million/year for South America. within hydropower R&D, especially through our strong involvement and contributions to the Norwegian research centre HydroCen. RISK MANAGEMENT For Statkraft to remain a competitive developer within wind and Statkraft is exposed to risks throughout the value chain. The most solar, R&D is needed to steadily decrease the cost of energy. important risks are related to HSSE, market prices, financial risk, As part of this, the company aim at being an innovator on new construction projects and operating activities as well as framework business models. R&D will contribute in growing the customerconditions. Growth and increased international presence as well ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 26 as fundamental changes in the energy sector emphasise the Group's overall risk profile. Statkraft has insurance coverage for importance of risk management. all significant cases of operational damages or injuries, partly through the Group’s own captive insurance company Statkraft Risk management is an integrated part of Statkraft’s governance Forsikring AS. model. The Group has a risk-based approach to target setting, prioritisations and follow-up of the business and staff areas. The Additional information about operational risk is presented in the day to day risk management is a line responsibility. The Group's sustainability chapter later in the report. overall risks are reviewed and followed up by the Corporate Management and are reported to the Board of Directors. Statkraft Market risk performs an independent quality assessment prior to investments, Statkraft is exposed to significant market risk in power sales and acquisitions. generation and trading: Operational risk  Both power prices and generation volumes are impacted by weather conditions, consumption and transmission conditions All processes throughout the value chain are exposed to in the energy markets. operational risk. The operational risk is highest within  Power prices are also affected by fuel prices such as gas, coal implementation of our investment projects, operation and and oil, in addition to the price of carbon emission quotas, maintenance activities and market operations. This may result support schemes, demand growth and the introduction of new in: technologies.  Injury to employees, contractors or third parties Statkraft manages market risk in the energy markets by trading  Harm to the environment physical and financial instruments in multiple markets, as well as  Compliance breaches entering into bilateral long-term power contracts. Increased  Damage and losses related to own and third-party production integration of the energy markets is having a significant impact plants and other assets on business models and risk management. Consequently,  Weakened reputation Statkraft places significant emphasis on identifying the  Financial loss relationships between the various markets. The Group's hedging Statkraft's first priority is to act in a sustainable, ethical and strategies are regulated by defined limits on the positions’ socially responsible manner and to comply with all applicable volume and value, and by criteria for evaluating new contracts legal requirements wherever the company operates. Statkraft against expected revenues and downside risk. The portfolio is has high attention on executing development activities and constantly adjusted in relation to updated perceptions of future operations in a responsible manner and to prevent loss. A sound prices and the company’s own generation capacity. business culture is the foundation of continuously improving a Statkraft's activities in energy trading and services consist of robust system of prevention and control. Ensuring that business both trading with standard products on energy exchanges and development activities are in accordance with international sale of services or products adapted to the individual customer. standards has high priority. Risk is handled through mandates covering energy products, Operational risk is managed through procedures and controls of geographical areas and duration. A risk management function activities and processes, by design of technical solutions, ensures objectivity in the assessment and handling of risk. competence development and in various types of contingency See notes 7 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements for plans. Furthermore, Statkraft has a comprehensive system for further information about market risk. registering and reporting risks, hazardous conditions, undesirable incidents, damages and injuries. Such cases are continuously analysed in order to prevent and limit any negative Financial risk consequences, and to ensure that we can follow up causes and Financial risk associated with foreign currencies, interest rates, implement the necessary measures. liquidity and funding are coordinated and managed centrally at group level. The cyber risk is increasing worldwide. Statkraft’s infrastructure and applications are exposed to external attacks. Procedures, Currency and interest rate risk are regulated by means of competencies and systems are continuously improved to mandates and managed by using hedging instruments such as strengthen the robustness against such incidents. forward contracts, swaps and debt in foreign currency. All projects in Statkraft carry out systematic risk assessments. The objective of Statkraft’s currency hedging is to secure the Larger investments have allocated a risk-based project Norwegian kroner value of future cash flows exposed to foreign contingency and reserve. Implementing risk management in the exchange risk. Hedging of foreign currency risk is primarily done early stages of business and project development is an by allocating appropriate volumes of foreign currency debt and important success factor. derivatives to the relevant cash flows. The foreign exchange risk is subject to continuous assessment and treated in accordance with The possible financial consequences of the total operational risk, the Group Treasury strategy. The group is exposed to currency as well as significant individual risks, are key drivers to the risk through operational cash flow in foreign currency and ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 27 investments, capital expenditures and divestments in foreign development, security, compliance, tax regime and corporate currencies. legislation. The exposure to corruption risk is high in several of these countries. Statkraft has developed standards and Statkraft’s interest rate exposure is related to its debt portfolio and implemented a system to ensure compliance in all activities and managed based on a balance between keeping interest cost low has zero tolerance for corruption. over time and contributing to stabilise the group’s cash flows. The liquidity risk in Statkraft is related to having insufficient funds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to meet the Group’s financial commitments in a timely manner. The liquidity risk is managed through cash flow forecasting, Statkraft adheres to the Norwegian Code of Practice for committed credit facilities, access to several funding Corporate Governance (NUES) within the framework sources/markets, ensuring evenly distributed debt maturity profile established by the company's organisation and ownership. and maintaining a sufficient liquidity buffer. Statkraft follows the Norwegian state’s principles for sound corporate governance, described in the White Paper, Meld. St. Statkraft is exposed to credit and counterparty risk through energy 8 (2019-2020) “Statens direkte eierskap i selskaper – trading, long-term contracts and investment of surplus liquidity. Bærekraftig verdiskaping” (“The state’s direct ownership of The credit quality of all counterparties is evaluated before companies – sustainable value creation”) and is subject to contracts are signed, and exposure vis-à-vis individual reporting requirements relating to corporate governance counterparties are limited by mandates based on their credit according to Section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. quality. Credit and counterparty risk in the energy markets and exposure in connection with the issued mandates, are followed up See separate chapter later in the report for more information by independent middle-office functions and regularly reported to about corporate governance, including corporate audit, internal management in the business area. A summary is reported control of financial reporting and the work of the Board of annually to the Corporate Management and the Board of Directors. Directors. See note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about credit and liquidity risk. Regulatory and country risk Statkraft's activities in Norway are influenced by framework conditions such as taxes, fees, terms for concession, grid regulations and requirements stipulated by the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE). Statkraft puts substantial efforts into the understanding of environmental regulations and climate change. The risk of flexibility loss due to stricter regulations for hydropower generation, the cumulative effect for the Norwegian society and value of flood-damping capabilities are being analysed. In addition, there are general terms and conditions stipulated for the energy industry that must be adhered to. These framework conditions may affect Statkraft's generation, costs and revenues. The framework conditions in the individual countries in Europe are the result of international processes that will be important for Norwegian and other European power plants. With its international presence, Statkraft is also directly exposed to different national framework conditions, tax levels, licence terms and public regulations. Statkraft therefore emphasises the uncertainty in the future development of these factors at investment decision. Possible changes in the political landscape are considered and maintaining an open dialogue with decisionmakers in relevant arenas is of a high priority. Statkraft is exposed to significant country risk, especially in emerging markets. A common risk assessment process has been implemented across the business areas to ensure a comprehensive and proactive management of business risk in these countries. The risk assessment of the activity in each country covers political and regulatory aspects, social ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 28 OUTLOOK Statkraft’s ambition is to maintain the position as the largest generator of renewable energy in Europe and also to grow The power surplus in the Nordics is expected to increase in the significantly in South America and India. The target is to coming years. Demand growth from the transport sector, optimise and further grow the hydropower portfolio and to industry and data centres will be more than offset by an even develop 8000 MW of onshore wind and solar power by 2025. larger growth in wind power. Furthermore, Statkraft aims to increase the market activities, grow the district heating business and develop new businesses Statkraft has Europe’s largest portfolio of flexible hydropower with international potential. To achieve these growth targets, plants and reservoir capacity. The operations of the assets are Statkraft is planning to invest NOK 60 80 billion in renewable continuously optimised according to the hydrological situation energy towards 2025. The investments will be financed through and expected power prices. Statkraft also has a large share of retained earnings from existing operations, external financing long-term power contracts within the segments European and divestments. The investment programme has a large flexible generation and International power. The contracts have degree of flexibility and will be adapted to market opportunities, a stabilising effect on revenues and net profit. In 2019, Statkraft the company's financial capacity and commitment to the successfully replaced some of the long-term industry contracts existing rating target. that will expire in the next couple of years and will continue to offer new contracts to maintain its position as a competitive Statkraft’s commitment to act in a safe, ethical and socially supplier to the industry in Norway. responsible manner will continue to be a foundation for all activities. Strong underlying operations and successful divestments over the last years, have provided Statkraft with a solid financial foundation to deliver on the growth strategy. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 29 Statkraft is committed to responsible business practices and to combat climate change. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 30 Sustainability 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 31 Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Our approach to sustainability Statkraft is committed to responsible business practices and to There is also a system for registration and follow-up of noncombat climate change. We do business globally, and our vision is compliance with external and internal requirements. The system to provide pure energy. The majority of the power we produce is facilitates handling of cases, analysis of incidents, identification of through hydro, wind and solar. Statkraft’s business strategy is improvements, and subsequent learning across the group. based on the premise of safe, ethical and responsible operations. Statkraft’s Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) include Our approach to sustainability is continuously evolving, along with sustainability aspects, such as health and safety, environment and our business strategy and international developments. Statkraft is business ethics. Group KPIs are regularly reviewed by Corporate guided by international frameworks, such as the OECD Guidelines Management and the Board of Directors. Sustainability topics are for Multinational Enterprises and the UN Guiding Principles on also included in Corporate Audit’s annual plan and work. Business and Human Rights. For new business activities, the IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability reporting Sustainability are taken into consideration. Statkraft’s sustainability reporting is based on the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI-core option). Our materiality Statkraft is a member of the UN Global Compact and is committed analysis identifies the sustainability topics that are most material to its ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and these are covered in this report: and anti-corruption. This chapter constitutes Statkraft’s progress  Safety and safeguarding of people report for 2019.  Human rights  Water management Recognising the important role that business can play in realising  Biodiversity the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Statkraft has a  Climate change mitigation, adaptation and particular focus on Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and Goal preparedness 13: Climate Action. We are currently reassessing all the goals,  Business ethics and anti-corruption aiming to further strengthen our ambitions in 2020. Sustainability figures are collected from companies where Overall our business activities have a positive impact, but may Statkraft is the majority owner and are included in the also at times have a negative impact on people, communities and Sustainability Statement. nature. Renewable energy is critical for reducing global CO2 emissions. At the same time, our operations can impact e.g. on Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to provide a limited level of biodiversity, use of land and interests related to outdoor activities. assurance of this report. We seek to understand and manage such dilemmas by taking a risk-based approach, carefully weighing different concerns, and implementing mitigating activities. Stakeholder dialogue Statkraft aims to have an open dialogue on sustainability issues Governance with stakeholders impacted by our activities. Important stakeholders in these conversations include government officials, Statkraft’s fundamental principles for responsible behaviour are local and regional authorities, local communities, employees, described in our Code of Conduct which is approved by the Board customers, suppliers, research institutions, non-governmental of Directors. The Code applies to all companies in the Statkraft organisations, voluntary organisations and the media. Group and all individuals who work for them. Our business partners are expected to adhere to standards consistent with Stakeholder dialogue forms part of daily operations, ranging from Statkraft’s Supplier Code of Conduct. regular stakeholder interaction at our project sites, through to participation in sustainability forums like the UN Global Compact Statkraft’s management system sets ambitions, direction and local networks. more detailed requirements. The system is regularly reviewed to tailor it to new expectations and challenges. Sustainability requirements and guidance are included in key activities, including Responsible supply chain management acquisition and construction projects. The basis for Statkraft’s responsible supply chain approach is our Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers health and safety, ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 32 environment and climate, human rights, labour rights, and ensure continuous improvement. Further updates to our approach business ethics. Suppliers are expected to meet these will be implemented in 2020. requirements throughout their relationship with Statkraft. Suppliers are informed about the Supplier Code of Conduct during the Reporting of concerns procurement process, and it forms part of all contracts. Reports can be made through various channels such as email, phone, or via a dedicated whistleblowing channel which has a Statkraft has a wide variety of suppliers ranging from large built-in function safeguarding the anonymity of the reporter. The international companies to smaller, local suppliers in different whistleblowing channel is also available to external users via industry categories. In order to manage the most important risks in Statkraft’s website. In 2019, a total number of 60 concerns were the supply chain, Statkraft has adopted a risk-based approach to reported, of which 26 were reported through the whistleblowing pre-qualification and contracting with suppliers. Thresholds are set channel. The concerns mainly related to human resources, conflict both globally and locally in order to concentrate the effort where of interest, corruption and other business ethics areas. the risks in the supply chain are the highest. The main objective is to ensure that only companies which meet Statkraft’s standards The reported concerns are assessed based on the evaluation of become suppliers. During 2019, approximately 500 potential the nature and severity of the case and followed up according to suppliers were risk assessed, and approximately 330 of them had established procedures. Some reported concerns are closed after individual follow up. an initial evaluation by Corporate Audit, and some are followed up further by line management and/or Corporate Audit. In some In cooperation with industry peers, Statkraft performs audits of 60cases, an internal investigation is deemed necessary to clarify the 70 suppliers per year in order to verify supplier information and facts and initiate possible actions. Corporate Audit is responsible collaboratively drive improvement in supplier compliance. In 2019, for executing these investigations efficiently, objectively and in 30 of these audits were performed on Statkraft’s direct suppliers. accordance with internal procedures. In 2019, Corporate Audit In addition, project specific audits and integrity due diligence initiated three investigations. The investigations concluded in 2019 reviews are carried out. did not identify material violations. In 2019, Statkraft executed a project to improve the way Statkraft Statkraft acquired controlling interest in the Brazilian company works with sustainability in the supply chain. The project evaluated Desenvix Energias Renováveis S.A. in 2015, and carried out an Statkraft’s overall approach to ensure consistency in the way internal investigation related to this subsidiary. Based on the Statkraft works across geographies and functions, as well as to investigation, Statkraft contacted Brazilian authorities. It is at this stage not possible to predict the final outcome of this process. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 33 STATKRAFT’S CONTRIBUTION The majority of climate gas emissions in the world are energy increasing activities across our portfolio.In countries where related. Hence, increasing the production of energy from Statkraft is present, the company also contributes to more optimal renewable sources is critical in order to reach global emissions utilisation of energy resources through market access services, targets. Further, electrification based on renewable energy is a remote control of renewable assets and virtual power plants. key element to combat climate change. Statkraft is part of the solution for a clean energy world. Statkraft is committed growing Statkrafts CO2 emissions are amongst the lowest in the global solely within renewable energy technologies. energy sector. In 2019, 92.6% of Statkraft’s power generation was based on renewable energy sources, and 87.3% or 53.4 TWh, Statkraft’s activities contribute in different ways to global, national came from hydropower. The average carbon intensity of and local economies through dividends to our shareholder, taxes Statkraft’s power generation increased to 26 kg CO2/MWh in 2019 paid to governments, direct employment, our global and local due to more gas power generation. procurement activities, R&D and social investments. Our approach to responsible business conduct contributes to the Statkraft’s non-renewable energy generation includes gas-fired promotion of good business practices. We also seek to share power plants and fossil-based peak and reserve capacity in district knowledge about renewable energy, energy systems, climate heating plants. Through 2019, the utilisation of coal-fired plants change and environmental issues. has been reduced in the European power markets, while gas-fired generation has increased. Statkraft’s increased carbon intensity Statkraft’s business reflects this. The shift from coal to gas has led to a significant drop in the total emissions from the power sector, as gas-fired The majority of Statkraft’s power generation is from renewable generation has lower CO2 intensity. sources: hydro, wind and solar. Statkraft also generates heat and power from biomass and natural gas. Hydropower has many advantages, including high efficiency, low Statkraft and the UN Sustainable operating costs, longevity, high flexibility and low carbon intensity. Development Goals The large Norwegian water reservoirs enable storage and Statkraft aims to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development electricity production even in periods of reduced or low inflow. This Goals (SDGs) in ways most relevant to our business activities. gives flexibility in energy production. This is particularly important Our primary business is to provide energy, making Affordable and when there is a need to balance the increasing amounts of Clean Energy (SDG 7) and Climate Action (SDG 13) key focus periodic electricity production from wind and solar power. areas. The 17 SDGs are inextricably connected and Statkraft’s activities impact many of the other SDGs. Statkraft aims to The development and operation of hydropower plants facilitate harness the positive synergies whilst minimizing the negative multiple uses of watercourses and infrastructure for example trade-offs. irrigation, drinking water supply, transportation and recreation. In addition, the use of reservoirs for flood control becomes even more important as the climate changes. One of the key transformations needed to meet the goals by 2030 is a global shift to a more sustainable energy system. We want to Wind and solar power investments are important parts of play a significant role in this transformation by generating energy Statkrat’s business strategy. Both are becoming viable without through our existing portfolio, with our deep knowledge and subsidies in an increasing number of markets. Statkraft continues experience in hydropower, as well as integrate new renewable to develop and operate onshore wind farms in the Nordics as well capacity from wind and solar. In addition, through our knowledge as in the UK and Ireland, Chile and Brazil. A continuing sharp of energy markets, we can act as an integrator of renewable reduction in the cost of solar panels makes solar power the energy in the marketplace. fastest-growing energy source in the world, and Statkraft is ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 34 POSITIVE IMPACT Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7) Statkraft contributes to raising the share of renewable energy in the energy mix (SDG target 7.2) in 16 countries. In 2019, 92.6% of Statkraft’s power generation was based on renewable energy sources. 87.3% or 53.4 TWh of our total production came from hydropower. The rest came from solar, wind, gas, district heating and biomass. Synergies: By developing renewable energy solutions, Statkraft also creates opportunities for jobs in the sector (SDG targets 8.5, 9.2, 9.4). When replacing generation of fossil fuel plants with high emissions of air pollutants, renewable energy can also contribute to improved air quality and a reduction in diseases associated with this (SDG target 3.9). Also, through our low-cost new capacity, extensive experience and competence, and role as market integrator we can contribute to more affordable energy. Trade-offs: Clean energy can have negative consequences for terrestrial and aquatic life. For instance, wind turbines can be damaging for avian populations (SDG target 15.5) and hydropower can have effects on river ecosystems (SDG target 15.1). Read more about how Statkraft minimises these risks in the Biodiversity subsection. Climate Action (SDG 13) Statkraft operates hydro, wind, solar power plants, as well as district heating plants with a high share of renewable fuels. Statkraft also has strong growth ambitions within solar, wind, hydro. At and the new capacity will replace fossil fuel-based energy supply contributing to reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Hydropower reservoirs can also contribute to reducing floods and droughts in regulated river basins (SDG target 11.5 and 13.1). Read more about this in the Water Management subsection. Hydropower reservoirs also enable irrigation and can reduce floods/drought damage in agriculture (SDG target 2.4), increase the amount of available freshwater (SDG target 6.1 and 6.4). Statkraft is committed to climate neutrality through Climate Neutral Now. Emissions from our gas fired plants are compensated through ETS. See Climate subsection for more information about Statkraft’s emissions. Synergies: Mitigating climate change is expected to have positive benefits for the remaining 16 goals. If the world does not reach SDG 13, there will be impacts on the other goals making them hard to reach. In addition to contributing through our core activities, and working to reduce our own emissions, Statkraft also contributes to climate action through R&D. Trade-offs: It is expected that renewable energy will become the cheapest source of energy. At the same time mitigating climate change may place a burden on some countries that may lack the resources, technology, and/or expertise to make the shift. Statkraft is enhancing international cooperation to facilitate access to clean energy research and technology (SDG target 7.A). As we are expanding infrastructure and upgrading technology in several developing countries, this may contribute to more sustainable energy services for all (SDG target 7.A). RISK & CHALLENGES While the majority of our activities contribute positively towards the SDGs, there are risks and challenges too. Some examples include: Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) One of Statkraft’s main risks is related to health and safety, such as injuries to employees, contractors or third parties (SDG target 8.8). There were no fatal accidents in 2019, however 7 contractor’s employees suffered serious injuries. Read more in the Health and Safety subsection. Life on Land (SDG 15) While clean energy generation is a key part of a sustainable future, all forms of production have a footprint. Statkraft’s wind and hydro operations in particular can impact life on land (SDG targets 15.1 and 15.5) but key measures have been put in place to actively reduce the negative impacts. Read more in the Biodiversity subsection. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 35 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES Health and Safety AMBITION TARGET STATUS Prevent incidents and be committed to a workplace without injury or harm Zero serious injuries 7 ● Protect health and well-being of staff Sick leave < 3.5% 2.7% ● Comments on performance  There were no fatal accidents in 2019, however Statkraft did not reach the target of zero serious injuries and the status is therefore yellow. Seven contractors (employees) suffered serious injuries in work-related accidents, and the serious injury rate was 0.33.  The Powered by Care programme and the efforts to continually improve health and safety performance and culture will continue to have a high focus going forward. Key elements include HSSE (Health, Safety, Security and Environment) leadership, Life-Saving Rules for high risk activities, an improved framework for HSSE management, enhanced HSSE in Projects, and clear effective HSSE requirements. Key initiatives  Provide leadership and drive cultural change at all levels.  Encourage and measure management and employee engagement.  Strengthen the focus on high risk activities and preventative measures.  Provide training to build the required competence.  Ensure learning and sharing from high risk potential incidents. Our approach Caring for people is at the core of Statkraft’s culture and we work implemented at project level and across the Group to ensure continuously towards our goal of zero injuries. Statkraft has a learning and preventing recurrence. programme to implement improvements within health and safety across the organisation, called “Powered by Care”. Statkraft’s The Lost Time Injury rate (LTI rate) was 2.1 among Statkraft’s Corporate Management clearly demonstrates their commitment to Group employees while the LTI rate among Statkraft’s Group a workplace without injury and harm as communicated through contractors was 3.1. Correspondingly the Total Recordable Injury their “Powered by Care” commitment statement. Rate (TRI rate) among Statkraft’s Group employees was 3.8 and 5.9 among Statkraft’s Group contractors. In total, 101 injuries were Key risks recorded for Statkraft’s Group employees and contractors, of which 54 were lost-time injuries. Health and safety risks arise from Statkraft’s activities in construction projects, operations and maintenance of power plants Sick leave and other facilities, from our presence in various geographical Sick leave in Statkraft is at a stable low level, at 2.7% in 2019, locations, and from travel and other business activities. The which is below the target of 3.5%. predominant high-risk areas are related to personnel injuries from workplace accidents. Activities related to driving, working at Health and Safety Improvement Programme heights, lifting operations, energised systems, heavy mobile In 2019, the ‘Powered by Care’ programme focused on: equipment, ground works and working in confined spaces are Leadership and commitment considered to have highest risk. During 2019, management throughout Statkraft was actively engaged and participated in local activities in the Powered by Status 2019 Care programme. Workshops were held to address health and Accidents safety leadership and culture, and a new framework for effective A contractor employee on the Tidong hydropower project in India HSSE management was developed. The framework defines died 6th of January 2020 following a fall incident on site. The expectations related to the following areas: accident is being investigated. There were no fatal accidents in  Leadership 2019, however 7 contractor’s employees suffered serious injuries.  Roles and competences A total of 53 accidents and observations were classified as having  Risk management high risk potential. Most of these accidents and near-accidents  Integration in processes were associated with driving, energized systems, ground works,  Contractor management forest work, heavy mobile equipment and working at heights. The  Continuous improvement accidents were investigated, and mitigating actions were ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 36 Serious injury mitigation Sharing and learning Serious incidents those with serious consequences or high Collaboration takes place within and across business areas to potential of serious injury – are analysed to identify causes and share and learn from incidents, health and safety programmes identify measures to prevent recurrence. The lessons learned are and best practices. Regular network meetings, and an annual shared across the organisation. Lifesaving rules aimed at conference is arranged to help facilitate this process. A dedicated preventing serious and fatal injuries have been rolled out and intranet portal provides easy access to HSSE documents, implemented. materials and tools. Engagement KPIs Health and safety training Indicators are in place to encourage and measure employee and Appropriate competence is a prerequisite for a strong health and management engagement through e.g. risk observations, safety culture. Statkraft employees are provided with training improvement proposals, positive observations and safe job according to their individual needs and work situation. Modular edialogues. These KPIs have had positive development since their learning is made available to effectively reach out and provide fit introduction in 2016. for purpose training to various target groups. This includes a “Powered by Care” module providing basic training for all and CEO’s HSSE Award modules to support the Life Saving Rules. An HSSE award scheme is in place to encourage activities that contribute to improved HSSE awareness, results and Third party safety engagement across the organisation.The award for 2019 was Statkraft’s activities have significant interfaces with third parties given to District Heating for their targeted efforts resulting in and we are focused on ensuring their safety. Dam safety is one greatly improved results over the last year. key focus area. Measures are carried out according to legal and regulatory requirements. Statkraft performs maintenance on dams and associated structures within a strict and controlled system. The company has developed detailed procedures and plans and thereby ensures that these structures do not pose a threat to life, property or the environment. Security AMBITION TARGET STATUS Actively prevent harm to people and assets through a Implementation of identified supporting systematic approach initiatives ● Comments on performance  Statkraft has established a more strategic approach to security as a business enabler, proactive handling of security incidents and improved information security awareness. Statkraft is on track with the implementation of new security regulations.  Key achievements in 2019 include improved operational capabilities towards preventing IT security incidents, positive trends in information security awareness, and improved emergency response capabilities. Key initiatives  Improve processes and capabilities for security management.  Key measures planned for 2020 are continued implementation of new national security regulations, implementation of a new global requirement for pre-employment background checks and further strengthening of the Group’s IT/cyber security capabilities. Our approach Statkraft has a comprehensive approach and follows international The aim is to build and continually improve a strong information good practice for security management. Security refers to the security culture that ensures the confidentiality, integrity and ability to keep people, operations, information and systems secure availability of Statkraft’s information. During 2019, Statkraft from intentional harm or damage. Security matters are addressed experienced a positive trend in information security awareness. through a risk-based approach. Statkraft has well established relationships with both local and global security companies, and Key risks participates in national and international networks to ensure an Statkraft assesses security risks by analysing threats, up-to-date understanding of security risks. vulnerabilities and consequences in accordance with Norwegian Standard NS-5832. Conducting security risk assessments is a line Information security is a high priority and Statkraft follows responsibility, supported by the Corporate Security & Emergency international good practice for information security management. Response unit and the Corporate Information Security unit. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 37 Status 2019 Statkraft uses a wide range of measures to reduce security risks. Statkraft is currently working on enhancing security risk Sudden changes in a security situation will trigger immediate assessment across the Group. In 2019, Statkraft has implemented measures. or is in the process of implementing new regulations in Norway, Sweden and Germany. Statkraft mostly use unarmed security guards to enforce local security, but in some countries where national regulations or the Continuous training efforts were also made to enhance security situation dictates this, armed security is used. capabilities in emergency preparedness. More complex exercises were introduced focusing on crossbusiness area cooperation Statkraft’s security work is being impacted by changes in national and complex cyber related incidents. regulations in several countries and Statkraft is currently working with the different national energy authorities on this matter. To ensure high awareness and to mitigate behavioural risk, Statkraft regularly conduct awareness workshops and dilemma Emergency preparedness training relating to information security for all business areas. Statkraft’s capability to handle serious and unwanted emergency events is a constant priority. A group requirement on Emergency In 2019, we revised our IT/Cybersecurity operations and Response Management was introduced in 2017, to ensure a strengthened our capabilities. common approach to emergency response across the company. Statkraft’s emergency response is based on the use of dedicated In 2019, 191 security incidents were reported, and 5 of these were and temporary teams. This approach aims to enable Statkraft to assessed to be serious. The cyber security team handled 155 of simultaneously handle emergencies at local, regional/national and these incidents, including 36 high potential incidents that were strategic levels. detected and blocked at an early stage. The majority of the serious IT security incidents were related to targeted phishing Statkraft is also working with other companies, non-governmental emails. organisations, local law enforcement and fire departments to ensure the best possible preparedness for handling emergencies. Human rights AMBITION TARGET STATUS Act according to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Implementation of identified key Business and Human Rights initiatives ● Comments on performance  Key achievements in 2019 include strengthened focus on human rights in key processes, e.g. new capital investments and acquisitions.  Awareness training on salient human rights for selected teams across the organization was performed. Key Initiatives  Update and continuously improve human rights requirements, aligning with international developments and integrate in key processes.  Update of the corporate level human rights due diligence.  Key measures planned for 2020 include rolling out Human Rights Due Diligence processes in key locations. Our approach Key risks Statkraft’s work on human rights is based on the UN Guiding Our corporate human rights due diligence identified local Principles on Business and Human Rights. Statkraft’s policy community acceptance (including by indigenous peoples), labour commitment on human rights is reflected in Statkraft’s Code of rights, health and safety, and security arrangements as salient Conduct. This commitment is publicly available and human rights issues for the Group. Given the developments communicated internally and externally to personnel, business internationally, and Statkraft’s business strategy from 2018 we are partners and other relevant parties. Our approach is to currently taking a renewed look at our human rights impacts. continuously improve and to strengthen the integration of human Based on the outcomes, we will recalibrate our approach to key rights into key processes; such as acquisitions and new capital risks where needed. Key human rights risks in the supply chain investments. will also be assessed. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 38 Status 2019 determine compensation to the herding groups related to the operational phase of the wind farms, including a preliminary Human rights initiatives hearing on the issue of the validity of the license for the Storheia In 2019, we continued to embed our commitment to respect and Roan wind farms. The court has not yet made its decision. human rights in key processes and have prioritised efforts related to salient human rights issues. One focus area has been including In Chile, within the Information, Consultation and Participation human rights considerations in project management and process of the Los Lagos project, representatives from the acquisition processes. Pochoco and Maihue Pilmaiquen indigenous communities visited our Rucatayo hydropower plant in February. It was an opportunity Statkraft’s human rights awareness initiatives continued to be to observe in “real-time” the operation of a hydropower plant quite rolled out for critical functions and geographies. Training sessions similar to the one being planned and raise questions and concerns typically include an overview of external and internal expectations, about the construction and operation phases. We have and an introduction to Statkraft’s salient human rights issues and experienced demonstrations from indigenous groups opposing the lessons learned. In 2019 several awareness raising sessions were development of our greenfield projects in the Pilmaiquen river, in conducted, including with key staff at selected locations. For particular to the Osorno HPP – which is currently on hold while we example, an induction session was conducted for the Los Lagos in continue the dialogue with local communities and authorities. Chile project team. Statkraft has multiple refurbishment projects for hydropower plants Further, human rights considerations were included in the work close to Sami communities. These projects are located in related to responsible supply chain (see the sustainability Helgeland, Ofoten, Øst-Finmark, and Neadalen in Norway, and management subsection). Jamtland in Sweden. The company maintains a regular dialogue with community representatives for these projects along with Networks annual contact meetings. Statkraft is a member of the Nordic Business Network for Human Rights and engages in other relevant forums at corporate level. Statkraft has wind farms in Sweden close to the Sami Country organisations also participate in local networks. For communities of Ohredahke and Jijnjevaerie, and the company example, in Peru Statkraft is an active member of the Human maintains a regular dialogue with community representatives. Rights Committee of the National Mining, Oil and Energy Society. A Public Information Center for the Tidong 1 project in India was Consultations established to address grievances and deal with issues raised by In 2019, consultations and engagement with a wide range of local local communities. stakeholders, including indigenous peoples, continued. Sharing knowledge For the Fosen wind farm projects in Norway, agreements on Statkraft continues to provide expertise to the International Centre mitigating measures and compensation for extra costs during the for Hydropower (ICH) which holds courses for government construction phase had been entered into with reindeer herding representatives, investors, energy companies and other groups. Unfortunately, it was not possible to reach agreements stakeholders from emerging markets. In 2019, Statkraft provided with the groups regarding measures and compensation for the lecturers for courses and workshops held in Trondheim and Oslo. operational phase. Hearings by the High court in Trondheim Statkraft also shared our experiences at the University of Bergen (Frostating lagmannsrett) were held in December 2019 to Executive Master course on business and human rights. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 39 Labour practices AMBITION TARGET STATUS Improve diversity in background, competence and gender Long-term target of 40% women in top across the company management positions 27.5% ● Comments on performance  In 2019, efforts taken continued to improve the company’s gender balance. We increased the percentage of women in management positions from 21% to 23%. At the end of 2019, 26% of the Group’s employees were women.  30% of employees attending leadership development programs in 2019 were women. Key initiatives  Continued implementation of people development including targeted leadership development activities.  Unconscious bias training for all leaders in Statkraft and strengthened mechanisms to avoid bias in Statkraft’s people processes.  Increased mobility and rotation.  Key activities planned for 2020 include working actively to increase the number of women in management positions. Our approach Statkraft supports and respects internationally recognised labour People Development rights including freedom of association and the effective In 2019, we have continued to implement measures to maintain a recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of high level of employee engagement and further strengthen people all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of development. Examples of this include continued efforts to child labour, and the elimination of discrimination with respect to strengthen the competence of leaders to motivate, develop and employment and occupation. Statkraft also works towards the increase the performance of their teams. Different leadership realisation of these rights as part of our supply chain development initiatives were implemented during 2019, targeted management. to different groups and learning objectives. Further efforts to build and expand on leadership development will be introduced in 2020. In Statkraft, we aim to create an environment where current and future employees can learn and grow. We recognise that a career In addition to initiatives aimed at leaders, Statkraft also has a path can take many different directions. To utilise our shared continuous focus on learning activities that are tailored to the competence and learn from each other, mobility between development needs of employees across the Group. Statkraft geographical and organisational boundaries is encouraged. offers many internal courses, webinars and seminars. In 2019, we continued to learn from pilots on agile project methods and A safe work environment and support from the people around us develop training as an offering to all employees. is also an important enabler for development. Workforce diversity and inclusion Key risks Statkraft seeks to increase diversity and foster inclusion. We believe this provides new perspectives and ideas that foster It is of key importance for Statkraft to attract, develop, and retain innovation that meet the needs of our customers and society. The people and competence to meet our target and strategy. There commitment to diversity and inclusion relates to all aspect of are challenges related to achieving this in a timely and adequate diversity i.e. gender, nationality, educational background, age and manner. Statkraft is competing in a global workforce market and mind set. We have a clear commitment to equal treatment and we need to ensure attractiveness as an employer in all our zero tolerance for discrimination, bullying and harassment are locations and towards all relevant expert groups. It is also crucial core tenets of Statkraft’s people policies. to develop our employees and leaders to meet future competence needs and to retain out talents. Initiatives to further strengthen our At the end of 2019, Statkraft had approximately 4000 employees, employer brand and develop new skills and competencies will be 45% outside Norway. Statkraft had employees in 16 countries, prioritised in 2020. representing 61 nationalities. 26% of the Group’s employees were women, and the percentage of women in management positions Status 2019 was 23%. The percentage of women in Statkraft’s Board of Statkraft’s employee engagement survey was conducted in Directors was 44%. Average service time in Statkraft was 10.5 September 2019 with a response rate of 92%. The survey showed years, while turnover in 2019 was 4.3%. high and stable motivation and satisfaction. The result on total score for employee engagement was 84%, up from 78% in 2018. During 2019, we continued to focus on strengthening the diversity measures in Statkraft, including specific measures to increase the gender balance. Amongst others, we have increased the target of ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 40 female participation in leadership development programs from Wherever it operates, Statkraft supports and respects 30% to 40%. We also introduced unconscious bias training for internationally recognised labour rights. Relevant ILO conventions leaders, including for corporate management and their leadership and EU directives have been included in the SEWC agreement teams. We will continue the work in 2020 to embed diversity into with EPSU (European Federation of Public Service Unions), the people development process. federation for European unions within the energy sector. In countries not covered by SEWC, Statkraft respects the Employee relations employees’ freedom of association and collaborates with union Statkraft has a structured and close collaboration with local representatives in accordance with collective bargaining employee representatives and trade unions. In addition to agreements, legal requirements, international standards and cooperation at the national level, Statkraft has established the prevailing industry best-practice for each location. Statkraft European Works Council (SEWC), with employee representatives from Norway, Sweden, Germany and the UK. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 41 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES Biodiversity AMBITION TARGET STATUS Deliver climate-friendly, renewable power and taking Zero serious environmental incidents responsible environmental measures on biodiversity ● Comments on performance  Statkraft had no serious environmental incidents in 2019. The Group undertook a broad range of initiatives, either required by the energy or environmental authorities or voluntarily, aimed at preserving biodiversity.  Key achievements for 2019 comprised mapping and improvement of habitats for species of particular concern which are affected by Statkraft’s activities. In project areas overview of red-list fauna and flora species are maintained. Initiatives to increase awareness about biodiversity among employees are carried out. During the revision of terms processes in Norway, several studies have been completed to evaluate environmental enhancement measures, and several initiatives have already been implemented. Key initiatives  Enhanced tracking and communication of performance of the systematic handling of biodiversity, e.g. red-list species, critical habitats and presence in protected areas.  Increased understanding of our impacts on biodiversity, and adequate handling in project development and operation.  Key measures planned for 2020 are the monitoring of biodiversity and species of particular interest in project areas hereunder identify whether mitigation measures are adequate and monitoring levels are sufficient. Our approach Statkraft is committed to managing the impacts on biodiversity management of parasites, predators, overfishing, genetic caused by the Group’s activities in a responsible manner and pays interference with species from aquaculture and water quality. special attention to red-listed, highly valued or vulnerable species, such as eel, wild salmon, sea trout, eagles and wild reindeer. Historically, stocking of fish has been an essential measure to maintain healthy fish populations in Norway, until it was discovered that survival rates are higher when fish mature in rivers Key risks rather than in hatcheries. Consequently, Statkraft is stocking more Globally the biggest risk to biodiversity is the fragmentation and roe and juvenile fish as well as improving fish habitat and degradation of species’ habitats. In a global assessment report spawning areas. In Norway, the long-term goal is to achieve selfpublished in 2019, the UN ‘Intergovernmental Science-Policy sustaining fish populations, wherever feasible. Monitoring studies Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services’ stated that this are performed annually and conducted in cooperation with is a bigger threat to biodiversity than climate change. regional authorities. Where natural recruitment of fish is not possible, Statkraft is stocking fish from our six hatcheries. All power generation affects biodiversity and the environment. Together with the Norwegian Environmental Agency, Statkraft Statkraft’s impact on biodiversity comes from our main power also manages a gene bank at Bjerka (Northern Norway) to generation activities: hydro and wind. Wind power development preserve the unique genetic material of five different wild salmon utilizes large natural areas and can interfere with vulnerable families.This enabled Statkraft to reintroduce the original wild nature and species. Hydropower modifies the living condition of salmon population in the Vefsna River (Northern Norway), after a aquatic species, which poses a challenge to migrating fish. parasite infection (Gyrodactylus salaris) had extinguished it. In Reservoirs, high voltage lines and roads impact the habitat quality addition, Statkraft contributed to the building of a new fish ladder for both wild and domestic reindeer. To assess environmental to increase the living area for anadromous fish. risks related to biodiversity is part of Statkraft’s risk management procedures and practices. In Brazil, releasing fish into the reservoir of Santa Rosa, is part of the fish management and monitoring programme and is carried Status 2019 out quarterly to comply with the operational license. Improving conditions for aquatic species Statkraft continuously seeks to enhance living conditions for fish in Eels are a seriously threatened species in Europe and Statkraft regulated waterbodies. To achieve good ecological results in fish has a special management programme to enable eels to pass management, it is important that a holistic approach is applied by through our hydropower plants. In Western Sweden, along the all stakeholders for the whole catchment area. This includes Lagan River, Statkraft is operating a special “taxi service” for eels, environmental enhancement measures as well as the appropriate transporting very young eels, called glass eels, upstream and adult eels downstream. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 42 In Germany, an R&D project has been initiated to ensure eel to everyone’s benefit. It started out as an effort from personnel at migration. A warning system signalling the start of eel migration Statkraft’s Kargi power plant on the Kizilirmak River in northern and monitoring studies are also part of the programme. Turkey to tackle the large amount of waste accumulating in the plant’s reservoir. It has turned into a win-win situation, between Other examples of biodiversity initiatives the power plant, the neighbouring community and the local To ensure a reliable connection of the Rheidol hydropower plant environment. to the grid in Wales, Statkraft had to replace a transmission line in 2019. To safeguard protected ancient woodland and a site of Wind power and biodiversity particular geological scientific interest, a 320 meter long tunnel When establishing new wind farms, noise, landscape aesthetics was drilled through the Rheidol valley to install underground and possible impact on outdoor recreation are receiving a lot of cables. attention. Wind farms and the associated infrastructure can also impact the living conditions of rare plants, animals and may As part of the environmental requirements for the Cheves change the conditions for grazing animals. Even if the actual land hydropower plant in Peru, biological monitoring of flora, fauna and used for construction, roads, crane pads and wind turbines only aquatic species in the project area is carried out twice a year amounts to 2-3 percent of the total wind farm area, increased during wet and dry seasons. This monitoring documents the human activity and the disturbance caused by the operation of the impacts of the project, if any, on the environment and assesses wind turbines, may affect the biological conditions in the whole the need to initiate any mitigation activities during operations. wind farm area. To design solutions that consider all these aspects, Statkraft cooperates closely with external expertise, In Chile, in the Los Lagos project influence area one of the national and local authorities, land owners and other stakeholders. initiatives launched in 2019 is the ‘Intercultural education support Some negative impacts can be avoided or minimised by good programme for environmental and natural sciences’, promoting planning, others can be mitigated or compensated ecologically learning and awareness on the protection of the environment, through offsets. natural sciences and energy issues in local schools. Statkraft strives to reduce negative environmental impacts during In the Devoll and Moglice hydropower plant in Albania, there is all phases of a project. This includes e.g. mapping of biodiversity ongoing monitoring of water quality and aquatic biodiversity with values and protected and sensitive areas early in the planning samples sent for external analysis (see subsection on Water phase, implementing mitigation measures during construction, Management for more information). and selecting environmentally friendly methods during operation. Mitigating actions related to water management and pollution Paper, plastic and other forms of waste threatening to enter the prevention are also always of great importance. In some water intake from a hydropower plant’s reservoir is a constant construction projects, no-work zones close to “active territories” for challenge and a constraint on plant operations. In Turkey, several focus bird species have been established during the breeding tonnes of waste have been collected with the help of local schools season. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 43 Climate change AMBITION TARGET STATUS Growth 100% in renewables ● Emissions from consumption of electricity Contribute to the transition to a more sustainable energy 100% neutralised with guarantees of origin ● system, where greenhouse gas emissions are reduced from renewables to a level consistent with the targets set out in the Paris 100% of remaining unavoidable greenhouse agreement. gas emissions are compensated with Certified ● Emission Reductions (CERs) Reduction of non-ETS greenhouse gas emissions according to set ambitions ● Comments on performance  The installed power generation capacity based on renewables was increased by 613 MW, to a total of 16 055 MW, in line with the growth strategy.  Reinvestments in existing hydropower and growth within solar, wind and hydro was a key focus area in 2019. Key initiatives  Follow climate politics at national and international level closely.  Continuously develop Statkraft’s market and strategic analysis in order to make robust commercial decisions and assess how climate change and climate politics impact Statkraft’s portfolio and strategy.  Promote ambitious emission reduction targets and perspectives on how the energy sector can be decarbonized in an effective way to relevant stakeholders. Our approach Through our core business activities Statkraft contributes to and more extreme weather patterns can increase the value of increasing the generation of power and heat from renewable flexibility and storage capacity. energy sources. This is essential for achieving the targets in the Paris Agreement. Statkraft is committed to climate neutrality and Status 2019 has signed up to the UN Climate Neutral Now initiative. Statkraft’s Statkraft’s emissions primary contributions to a more sustainable energy system are our Statkraft owns and operates gas-fired power plants in Germany. current operations and new investments in renewable energy and These plants are a dominant source of Statkraft’s own emissions, associated market activities. accounting for 96.7% of CO2 emissions in 2019. The emissions from these plants are regulated under the European Emissions The Group actively promotes more ambitious political targets for Trading System (ETS), which is a cap and trade system covering emission cuts and policies supporting decarbonisation. Statkraft’s the energy sector and several other major industrial sectors within own emissions are at a very low level compared with other major the EU/EEA. Reforms in the ETS the last years have led to a European utilities. tighter market for emission allowances, and the cost of emitting CO2 has increased significantly. This led to lower utilization of Key risks European coal-fired power plant, whilst the use of gas in the Statkraft is well positioned in a market with stronger restrictions on power sectors increased. In 2019, Statkraft’s CO2 emissions carbon emissions. However, the profitability of the company is increased significantly, as the generation by our gas-fired plants highly exposed to climate politics. increased. However, this should be seen in a broader context, as a reflection of a more ambitious European climate policy, where Changes in weather patterns will also impact the value of more polluting fossil fuels such as coal are gradually pushed out Statkraft’s assets directly, as it will impact the annual generation of of the electricity sector and total emissions are reduced. the power plants and the value of the flexibility the plants can provide. Hydropower plants are particularly exposed to climate Statkraft expects European climate policy to be further tightened. change. More extreme weather can also challenge the physical This will increase attractiveness of investing in renewable energy. integrity of our infrastructure. As the lifetime of important In the short term, this may also lead to further improvements in components like dams, waterways and turbines is long, changing gas-fired capacity’s ability to compete against coal-fired weather patterns must be considered both in greenfield generation and hence to significant emissions from these gas-fired investments and in upgrades and refurbishments. Commercially, plants. A gradual tightening of European climate policy and changes in precipitation levels will impact the output of the plant, continued growth within renewable energy will over the long ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 44 horizon also reduce the utilization of gas-fired plants, and Statkraft has signed the Climate Neutral Now pledge, an initiative Statkraft’s emissions are then expected to reduce. launched by UN Climate Change. Unavoided emissions outside the ETS are compensated with UN verified emissions reduction Fossil fuels are to some extent used to cover peak load in credits (CERs). Statkraft’s emission reduction ambitions will Statkraft’s district heating plants in Norway, accounting for 1.9% of systematically be updated as new possibilities emerge. emissions. The use of fossil fuels is at a low level and has been reduced systematically over time. Statkraft will continue to reduce Statkraft used Guarantees of Origin to document that our use of the use of fossil fuels in district heating plants. The primary fuel for electricity is based on renewable energy. the district heating plants is biomass and waste with a high share of biomass. Statkraft actively supports and promotes policies for emission reductions in all markets where we operate. This includes both Anaerobic degradation of organic material in hydropower reservoir general energy market regulations that will increase the may lead to climate gas emission. Statkraft has been actively effectiveness of the energy markets and thus make it easier to involved in developing a method for estimating such emissions integrate large shares of renewable energy, as well as promoting through collaboration with the International Hydropower politically increased targets for emission reduction. Statkraft Association (IHA). This method has shown that for some of the supports a more powerful ETS which is and should be the main reservoirs, primarily located in warmer climatic zones, climate gas tool for regulating power sector emissions in Europe. emissions can be substantial, while for others they may be negative, if carbon is stored in the sediments or methane emitting Climate change and market operations natural peat lands are replaced by fresh water reservoirs. A significant part of Statkraft’s hydropower portfolio has large reservoirs which can store water across seasons and years. A key There are also CO2 emissions related to travel and constructions element of the daily energy management process is forecasts for activities. These are small compared to Statkraft’s total emissions. future inflow and any uncertainty related to this. Such estimates Both travel and construction are sectors with significant potential are based on historical observations over several decades. Time for emission reduction, and Stakraft will actively seek such series will however have to be adjusted for climate change to possibilities going forward. provide a good basis for estimating future inflow. For Statkraft, understanding how the climate is changing is therefore important Climate neutrality in our daily operations. In 2019, Statkraft’s total emissions were 1 493 100 million tonnes of CO2, and most of the emissions come from gas-fired generation Statkraft participates in several international and national projects in Germany. The emission intensity in our total electricity to improve the understanding of climate change effects on the generation was 26 kg CO2/MWh. hydrological resources. Statkraft’s primary contribution to reducing global climate gas Regulatory framework and emission reduction potential emissions is to direct our full investment capacity to renewable Climate policies have a large impact on Statkraft. Climate and energy. energy policies are increasingly interlinked. Statkraft follows national, European and global climate policy development closely Most of Statkraft’s emissions are regulated under the European to assess the impact of such policies. Understanding the Trading system. Increases in Statkraft’s emissions will thus be development of renewable energy and related technologies is also compensated by reductions elsewhere, and the gradual reduction critical, as this will impact the pace of energy transition and of available emission allowances will reduce the total European Statkraft’s commercial position. Statkraft thus invests significant emissions in line with targets set by the EU. Small district heating resources in market analysis, to have a robust basis for plants are exposed to a carbon tax that incentivises emission investment and operation decisions. Parts of this insight is shared reductions. Statkraft has systematically reduced emissions from publicly through an annual publication of a Low Emissions the use of fossil fuels in district heating plants. Scenario. The report demonstrates how renewable energy growth can play a key role to reduce climate gas emissions in line with the Paris agreement. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 45 ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES Water management AMBITION TARGET STATUS Statkraft is recognised as a company with a responsible Implementation of identified supporting water management practice initiatives ● Comments on performance  A century of energy and water management experience enables Statkraft to optimize water use while continually improving its environmental and economic performance. In the context of climate change, adapting the water storage capacity of hydropower reservoirs contributes to reducing floods and droughts in regulated river basins. Reservoirs can also facilitate other water usage such as increasing the availability of water for irrigation or transportation.  Key achievements in 2019 include responsible operations everyday and particularly in extreme situations, resulting in the impacts of major flood events in Norway being more than halved. Knowledge and efficiency in integrated water resource management has been strengthened. Key initiatives  Ensure proactive, adequate handling and systematic follow-up of water levels, flow limits and hydropeaking requirements in concessions.  Demonstrate responsible water management based on improved understanding of the effects of climate change on water availability (e.g. water scarcity, drought and flood management) in all areas of operations.  Key measures planned for 2020 are to preserve the capacity of Norway’s hydropower generating system to respond to changing needs, whilst safeguarding its value creation for society. Improved modelling and R&D play a key role in achieving more accurate forecasts of weather trends and extreme climate events. For example, historic weather years from 1931-2018 will be replaced with synthetically generated weather scenarios derived from European weather forecasting model. Our approach By using water for renewable power generation, Statkraft is power system in Norway. The results showed that the robustness playing an important role in managing this common resource. of the power system will be reduced. Another risk is the loss of Statkraft is developing and operating hydropower in a variety of options for flood mitigation by imposing reservoir operating climate zones and in different national framework conditions. restrictions which reduce the ability to absorb heavy rain falls Water management is governed through laws and concessions combined with snow melting. taking into account social, economic and environmental needs. Status 2019 Statkraft makes additional efforts to improve our performance Optimised water use through R&D and voluntary initiatives. Hydropower reservoirs can By modernising our facilities, Statkraft is generating more power provide unique services to the power system such as flexibility in from the same amount of water. This can in certain cases supply as well as balancing services to the electric transmission increase the plant generation capacity with 1% to 5% without grid. These man-made lakes also offer water management options additional environmental impacts. which reduce vulnerability to extreme weather conditions such as floods and droughts. Operation in Norway Statkraft is managing 261 dams and 161 reservoirs in Norway, Statkraft is working to improve to optimize the use of water equal to half of Norway’s and close to a quarter of Europe’s resources. A wide spectrum of experts ranging from hydrologist to reservoir capacity. In 2019, Norway experienced a period of heavy infrastructure technicians are working to maximize the value of rainfall. The precipitations were particularly intense in the Western water stored in our reservoirs. Simulation models and part of Norway. Thanks to our reservoirs and expertise related to infrastructure make it possible to release stored water when it has managing complex water systems, Statkraft was able to contribute the highest value for society, typically when demand is high and to the reduction of this major flood event by more than half. other technologies are less capable. Safeguarding flexibility in managing the amount of water stored in the reservoirs is essential for Statkraft’s ability to meet the Key risks changing needs of both the power system and public security. Losing flexible renewable hydropower generation is a key risk following planned revision of terms in several watercourses. In Concession process 2019, Statkraft conducted a simulation of the cumulative effects of Norway has long-term hydropower concessions with terms that possible operating restrictions in each river basin for the whole are reviewed and updated by the authorities every 30 years with ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 46 the main goal of improving environmental performance. In coming effects. The outcome of this study will allow the optimization of the years about 70% of Norway’s hydropower assets and about 80% hydropower plant’s operating rules in order to improve living of Statkraft’s Norwegian hydropower assets will be granted new conditions for anadromous fish in the river stretch downstream of operating conditions under this process. Currently, Statkraft is the plant. active in 13 revision of terms processes in Norway. Statkraft supports environmental enhancement measures which are based In Sweden, Statkraft initiated an R&D project which assessed on a cost-benefit evaluation and which assess appropriately the different environmental flow scenarios in combination with potential loss of: different climate change scenarios, for the rivers Ljungan, Lagan  renewable and climate-friendly power generation and Ume. At the same time, hydropower production simulations of  flexibility required to balance power demand the different scenarios will provide a better understanding of how  flood management possibilities. environmental results can be improved as well as how hydropower generation can be optimized. In 2019, field studies Statkraft believes that local environmental conditions can be were conducted to quantify the environmental benefits of different enhanced without compromising the robustness of the Norwegian ecological flow regimes. power supply system or the capacity to mitigate floods. Statkraft is committed to participating in the revision process utilising our Examples of water management initiatives expertise and experience. Our objective is to provide this The Banja Hydropower Plant is located near Gramsh in information to the energy and environmental authorities when Albania. Approximately 14000 people live in the city close to determining the updated operating terms. where the Devoll River enters the reservoir. Prior to the construction of the Banja dam, Gramsh had no functional waste In 2019, a plan to update the concessions of Swedish hydropower and sewage treatment solution. If not mitigated, sewage and has also been elaborated. waste water would have accumulated in the reservoir instead of being transported by the river to the sea. This would have resulted Improved knowledge in a major environmental impact. As part of an extensive Statkraft aims to be a driving force in hydropower R&D. environmental and social mitigation programme, a waste water Better planning and optimization tools developed through R&D and sewage treatment plant was financed by Statkraft as a publicprojects increasingly enable Statkraft to better handle long-term private partnership, and Statkraft handed over these assets to changes in weather patterns and extreme weather conditions. Gramsh Municipality for maintenance and operation. An environmental monitoring programme is currently on-going in Statkraft cooperates with national research institutes like cooperation with the Universities of Tirana and Thessaloniki. HydroCen in Norway to find innovative ways of generating more electricity from the same amount of water and improve the The operation of the 102 MW Kargi hydropower plant in northenvironmental performance within these regulated catchment central Turkey has resulted in a reduced water flow of Kizilirmak areas. River between the dam and the powerhouse. The water in this river is further used for irrigation facilities that produce rice. For In 2019, Statkraft initiated several studies related to water this reason, the flow regime has been increased during the management, in close collaboration with the relevant authorities. agriculture growth season to ensure enough irrigation water for For example, a special study was launched in the Skjoma river the paddy fields. In 2017, a study was conducted of how water basin in Northern Norway to document how low temperatures and management of the Kizilirmak River could be improved for the the phenomenon of freezing affects different minimum flow benefit of all water users. The study proposed a solution to regimes. overcome poor condition of the existing irrigation infrastructure. The results were presented to the relevant authorities and in At the Rana hydropower station in Northern Norway, Statkraft October 2019, the government approved new irrigation water commissioned another study to examine in more detail the effect release requirements for Kargi that will save up to 6.6 GWh and of natural inflow, tidal variations and hydropower plant operation 0.5 million USD on an annual basis starting in 2020. pattern on the downstream flow regime and its related biological ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 47 Business ethics AMBITION TARGET STATUS Zero serious compliance incidents ● Prevent corruption and unethical practices in all activities On schedule implementation of the compliance measures ● Comments on performance  Roll out of the compliance programme is on-track, including implementation of planned measures related to training, culture building and risk mitigation in critical business processes.  Key achievements in 2019 include the roll out of a new Business Ethics Toolkit for management engagement and culture building, new training on competition law, and the completion of a personal data protection project. Key initiatives  Regular communication and culture building activities, and training rolled out to all employees on business ethics.  Regular review of internal controls in key business processes to ensure adequate handling of business ethics risks.  Compliance programme rolled out to all entities in the group.  Key measures planned for 2020 include further improvements to the risk assessment process, the procedures for integrity due diligence reviews of business partners, and a new training and communication plan for business ethics. Our approach Statkraft is committed to high standards of business conduct. Status 2019 Our Code of Conduct sets out the key expectations to all Training and communication employees, and our strict requirements are in line with Statkraft ensures that all employees are familiar with the international good practice. Business ethics is a line principles set out in the Code of Conduct and internal business responsibility, supported by a central compliance function. We ethics rules. Class-room training sessions were conducted in all have a comprehensive compliance programme in place covering major locations during 2019, and e-learning was completed by the areas of corruption, fraud, money-laundering, sanctions and all new employees. In addition, specialised training sessions export control, as well as personal data protection and were organised for the Board of Directors, the Corporate competition law. The compliance programme was audited in Management, high level managers, and staff members in 2019, and was assessed as adequate and adjusted to the risks different functions. Business ethics topics have been included in of the Group, and up to date with the relevant developments in leadership and Group events through the year. external legislation and standards. Statkraft has developed Business Ethics Quick Guides focused The Board of Directors is involved in compliance work through on a set of eight core Business Ethics Rules to ensure that the regular discussions on the development of the programme. This most fundamental internal rules are well known. In 2019, printed includes review of audits and follow-up plans presented by the versions of the Quick Guides were provided to all employees. administration to address identified improvement areas. Due diligence of business partners Key risks Statkraft has clear, detailed procedures for the handling of risks Statkraft conducts regular risk assessments on anti-corruption related to third parties. This includes a policy for background for the whole Group and annually for all business areas. The risk checks, contract clauses and monitoring conducted for high risk management process is more extensive for high risk locations contracts. All high-risk business partners (including all agents) and projects, and always involves a combination of local are checked by the Compliance Unit. The integrity reviews expertise and central compliance resources. The methodology conducted include assessments of the ownership structure (incl. for risk assessment is regularly reviewed, and further changes to beneficial owners), of connections to politically exposed persons the methodology will be introduced in 2020. and reputational risks associated with the counterparty. The main corruption risks relate to transaction processes, During the year compliance concerns were identified in some procurement and payment processes, the use of agents and acquisition processes, and where such concerns were not intermediaries, government permitting processes, and local resolved Statkraft decided not to move forward with the stakeholder management. The risks typically vary depending on acquisitions. the geographical location, technology and type of business activity in question. These nuances are reflected in the risk maps In 2019, an independent review was undertaken of the approach of the different business units. The corporate compliance to compliance due diligence in merger and acquisitions. The programme is regularly updated to reflect risks identified and review confirmed that Statkraft’s approach is in line with market lessons from concrete cases and investigations. practice and relevant standards. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 48 Internal controls Tax Several initiatives were taken in 2019 to further strengthen In light of an increased focus globally on tax governance and tax internal procedures and controls related to compliance. These transparency, Statkraft decided in 2017 to voluntarily disclose a include further developments of the Fraud Prevention System global tax strategy detailing the internal tax policies, practices that includes a set of controls in financial processes aimed at and procedures embedded in Statkraft’s management system. preventing and detecting fraud. Several new corporate-wide controls were implemented in 2019. Statkraft pursues a tax strategy that is principled, transparent and sustainable and aligned with Statkraft’s Code of Conduct. There were also significant investments in new personal data Statkraft is committed to ensuring full compliance with all protection controls, as part of the implementation of the statutory obligations and full disclosure to tax authorities. European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Statkraft transacts on an arm’s length basis and does not engage in artificial tax arrangements and actively considers all Business Ethics Toolkit implications of tax planning. Moreover, all tax planning is subject In 2019, a new Business Ethics Toolkit was launched specifically to robust review and approval processes and shall: aimed at strengthening management engagement and culture  support genuine commercial activity building. This includes tools such as dilemma discussions,  rely on full disclosure of the facts and circumstances to the success stories and videos. The toolkit has been made available relevant tax authority to all managers and targets are set for the frequency of dilemma  not use tax regimes considered as “harmful” by the OECD discussions and other similar initiatives. or EU Competition law training Statkraft has an established procedure for tax risk management In 2019 Statkraft developed new guidance and training on that facilitates appropriate identification, measuring, competition law and undertook specific assessments of management and reporting of tax risks. competition law frameworks in jurisdictions outside the EU. A new e-learning training programme, to enhance employees’ knowledge on competition law, was developed. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 49 To keep our planet’s temperature below breaking point, and close the energy gap for the nearly one billion people in the world who have no access to electricity, renewables can’t be part of the solution. They must be the energy solution. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 50 Corporate Governance 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 51 Corporate Governance The corporate governance statement clarifies the distribution of roles between the Norwegian state as owner, the board and the management in the company. Efficient and transparent management and control of the business Capital increases are processed through the enterprise meeting of forms the basis for creating long-term value for the owner, Statkraft SF and the general meeting of shareholders in Statkraft employees, other stakeholders and society in general, and as a AS. result, contributes to sustainable and lasting value creation. The The State as the shareholder is free to set the dividend in its distribution of roles inspires confidence among stakeholders wholly owned companies. The provision of the Limited Liability through predictability and credibility. Open and accessible Companies Act to the effect that the general meeting cannot adopt communication from the company ensures that the Group a higher dividend than that proposed or accepted by the Board of maintains a good relationship with society in general and with all Directors, does not apply to wholly owned state companies. stakeholders affected by the company’s activities. In 2017, the Norwegian government announced a new dividend expectation for Statkraft as part of the proposal for the revised CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT State budget. The owner’s dividend expectations is that Statkraft Statkraft is organised through a state enterprise, Statkraft SF. The pays a dividend of 85 per cent of realised profit from Norwegian activity in Statkraft SF is, for all practical purposes, restricted to hydropower business and 25 per cent of realised profit from other owning all shares in Statkraft AS. Statkraft SF and Statkraft AS business activities. Realised profit is the profit before tax, minus have an identical board of directors and management. Statkraft payable taxes and adjusted for unrealised effects and minority AS is the parent company for an underlying Group structure. interests. Dividends received from equity accounted investments Statkraft adheres to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate are included in realised profits. The Norwegian hydropower Governance (NUES) within the framework established by the business is defined in the notes to the consolidated financial company's organisation and ownership. Statkraft follows the statements in the annual report. The Board of Directors maintains Norwegian state’s principles for sound corporate governance, a continuous focus on adapting the company's objectives, strategy described in the White Paper, Meld. St. 8 (2019-2020) “Statens and risk profile to the company's capital situation. Statkraft's direkte eierskap i selskaper – Bærekraftig verdiskaping” (“The investments are financed through a combination of retained state’s direct ownership of companies – sustainable value earnings, borrowings and any new equity contributed by the creation”) and is subject to reporting requirements relating to owner. See Note 6 in the Group financial statements in the corporate governance according to Section 3-3b of the Accounting annual report for more information about the company's capital Act. structure management. ACTIVITIES EQUAL TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS The objective of Statkraft AS, alone, or through participation in, or AND TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED cooperation with other companies, is to plan, engineer, construct PARTIES and operate energy facilities, conduct physical and financial Statkraft engages in transactions with companies that are closely energy trading, and perform naturally related operations. Statkraft related to Statkraft's shareholder, the Norwegian state. All AS is registered in Norway and its management structure is based transactions are based on regular commercial terms and on Norwegian company legislation. Statkraft is also subject to the principles. Norwegian Securities Trading Act and stock exchange regulations associated with the company’s debt obligations. The instructions to the Board of Directors state that neither board Objectives and framework for the activities in Statkraft are set out members nor the President and CEO may participate in the in parliamentary documents and resolutions by the Parliament processing or resolution of issues that are of substantial personal (Stortinget), see www.regjeringen.no and www.stortinget.no. or financial interest to them or their related parties. Any persons in such a situation must, on their own initiative, disclose any interest they or their related parties may have in the resolution of an issue. EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS The same follows from the Group’s ethical guidelines. Statkraft AS’ share capital totals NOK 33 600 000 000, divided among 200 000 000 shares of NOK 168 each. The company's FREELY NEGOTIABLE SHARES shares can only be owned by Statkraft SF. Shares in Statkraft AS can, according to the Articles of ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 52 Association, only be owned by the state-owned enterprise There are provisions stipulating that senior officials and civil Statkraft SF. servants employed in a ministry or the Central Administration in general, who deal with matters concerning the enterprise as part of their job, or that are working in a ministry or other Central ENTERPRISE MEETINGS AND GENERAL Administration agency that regularly processes matters of MEETINGS significance for the company or the industry sector in question, The Norwegian state exercises its authority as the owner in the cannot be elected to the company's board, see the White Paper, enterprise meeting of Statkraft SF. In accordance with the Articles Meld. St. 8 (2019-2020). The President and CEO and senior of Association of Statkraft SF, Statkraft SF cannot attend and vote executives of Statkraft are not members of Statkraft's board. in a general meeting in Statkraft AS without a preceding decision in an enterprise meeting. The enterprise meeting and the following Members of the Board of Directors are normally elected for terms general meeting are held annually by the end of June. The auditor of two years and can be re-elected. attends the enterprise meeting and the general meeting. Before the Board of Directors decides in matters assumed to be of THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS significant importance for the purpose of the enterprise/company, The Board of Directors usually meets eight to ten times a year. or which will significantly change the character of the activities, the The Chair of the Board of Directors will hold board meetings as matter must be put before the ministry representing the state's often as is required. The Board of Directors has stipulated board ownership in accordance with the State Enterprise Act. instructions with guidelines for the work and case processing of the board. The instructions also cover the President and CEO. The instructions define the work scope, duties and authorities of NOMINATION COMMITTEE the President and CEO in more detail than follows from the Statkraft SF and Statkraft AS have no nomination committee. The legislation. election of the board members appointed by the owner in Statkraft SF will take place in the enterprise meeting. Statkraft SF and The Board of Directors prepares an annual agenda for its work, Statkraft AS have identical boards. with a special emphasis on goals, strategies, governance and oversight of daily operations and the company’s other activities. The Board of Directors holds an annual strategy conference. The CORPORATE ASSEMBLY AND BOARD OF President and CEO prepare background material for such DIRECTORS: COMPOSITION AND conferences in the form of strategic, economic and financial plans. INDEPENDENCE The Board of Directors informs the boards of subsidiaries of The State Enterprise Act stipulates that state-owned enterprises matters of potential significance for the subsidiary in question. shall be governed by a board and a chief executive officer. The Board of Directors evaluates its own performance and Pursuant to the Limited Liability Companies Act, Statkraft AS has expertise annually. entered into an agreement with its employees’ trade unions stipulating that the company will not have a corporate assembly. The Board of Directors has appointed a Compensation Committee Three of the board's nine members are elected by the employees consisting of the Board Chair and two of the other board based on the agreement that the company will not have a members. The Compensation Committee prepares the board’s corporate assembly. deliberations on the wages and other benefits paid to the President and CEO as well as matters of principle related to The State emphasises competence, capacity and diversity based wage levels, incentive schemes, pension terms, employment on the company's distinctive character when the State selects contracts and similar for the company’s executives. The people to sit on the companies' boards. The goal is for the board remuneration for the Head of Corporate Audit is stipulated by the of each company, to collectively represent the desired expertise board. based on the company’s objective, business area, challenges and the State's ownership goals. Emphasis is e.g. placed on selecting The board’s Audit Committee comprises four of the Board of representatives with broad-based experience from commerce and Director’s members. The committee functions as a preparatory industry for companies with commercial goals. body for the board's management and supervision work, and at least one member of the Audit Committee shall have experience The Norwegian Parliament (Stortinget) has decided that its in accounts management, financial management or auditing. members should not be appointed to offices in companies that are An overview of the members' participation in board meetings is subject to the Parliament's control. It is also assumed that available in Note 37 of the annual report. ministers will resign from such offices when elected into the Government and cannot be selected for new offices. The same applies to state secretaries. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 53 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL Corporate Audit CONTROL Statkraft’s corporate audit function is an independent function The internal control concept includes compliance with the which assists the Board of Directors and management in company's value base and guidelines for ethics and corporate assessing whether the group’s most significant risks are responsibility. Important functions to ensure that risk management sufficiently managed and controlled. The purpose of Corporate and internal control are an integrated part of the activities in Audit is to enhance and protect organisational value by providing Statkraft include the Group's internal auditing, the Compliance risk-based and objective assurance, advice, and insight related to functions, the Group risk function, the Group's Investment Review the organisation's governance, risk management and internal unit and the Group’s internal control in connection with financial control. reporting. Internal audits are conducted according to an annual rolling plan. Risk management is an integral part of all activities across the The audit work shall be carried out in accordance with the organisation and of the decision-making process. It supports the International Standards for Internal Auditing (IIA). The annual decision makers to prioritise their actions. Managers at all levels of corporate audit report is submitted to the Board, which also the organisation are responsible for appropriate risk management. approves the audit plan for the coming year. Corporate Audit also Risk management is regulated by mandates, requirements and presents a semi-annual report to the Audit Committee. The Audit guidelines. Follow-up of risk and risk management are Committee and Corporate Audit hold a minimum of one meeting incorporated in the daily business operations. per year without anyone from the Group’s administration being present. Implementation of the recommendations from Corporate Risk management and internal control are integral parts of the Audit is regularly followed up. Board of Directors work. To ensure that Statkraft has suitable and efficient systems in place for risk management and internal The Head of Corporate Audit is responsible for Statkraft`s system control, the Board of Directors shall: for independent reporting of concerns related to unethical or illegal  Review the Group’s most important risk areas at least once a matters. In cases where an investigation is required, this is the year responsibility of the Head of Corporate Audit.  Ensure that the systems are adequately established, implemented and followed up, e.g. through processing of Internal control of financial reporting reports submitted to the board by the President and CEO The Group's CFO is responsible for the process for Internal and the internal audit function Control in the Financial Reporting (ICFR) in Statkraft. The ICFR  Ensure that risk management and internal control are work is based on the COSO framework for internal control, integrated in the Group's strategy and business plans published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Furthermore, the Board of Directors shall ensure that the President and CEO have: The ICFR ensures reliable and timely financial information in the  Stipulated instructions and guidelines for how the Group's interim and annual reports. All subsidiaries are required to comply risk management and internal control will be carried out in with the ICFR requirements. The same applies for associated practice companies, joint operations and joint ventures where Statkraft is  Established adequate control processes and functions responsible for the book-keeping and financial reporting. If a third  Ensured that Statkraft's risk management and internal control party is responsible for the book-keeping and statutory reporting of are carried out, documented, monitored and followed up in a the partly owned company, the responsible segment shall perform prudent manner compensating controls. Statkraft's management system, The Statkraft Way , defines the The activities related to ICFR are performed in the Group’s Group's principle rules and ensures a sound control environment Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) system, BWise. for fulfilling the management's goals and intentions. The Statkraft Through BWise, the Group can efficiently monitor real time status Way is based on ISO principles for quality and environmental on control performance throughout the whole organisation. management systems. Statkraft’s governance model has a risk-based approach to target setting, prioritisations and follow-up of the business and staff areas. The Group's risk function is process owner for the overall risk management framework and monitors Statkraft's overall risks at Group level. The Group's overall risk profile is concluded upon by the Corporate Management and is reported to the Board of Directors. The Group Risk function reports to the CFO. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 54 Shareholder-elected board members normally do not perform any additional tasks for the company. To the extent that the members of the board perform tasks for the company, this must be clarified with the other board members in advance. Board of Directors remuneration is described in Note 37 in the annual report. REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE PERSONNEL Statkraft adheres to the Norwegian state's guidelines for employment terms for managers in state enterprises and companies. The Board of Directors will contribute to a moderate, but competitive development of executive remuneration in Statkraft. The board’s Compensation Committee prepares the board's deliberation of the wages of the President and CEO and the rest of the company’s Executive Vice Presidents. The President and CEO and corporate executives shall receive both a fixed salary and a variable payment. The variable salary has a maximum The main elements of the ICFR system are: disbursement that complies with the owner's guidelines dated 13  Risk assessment and evaluation of control design February 2015. The entering into pension agreements adheres to The Group's ICFR Network performs an annual assessment the current guidelines issued by the owner. where the financial reporting risks are identified and assessed. The purpose is to verify whether Statkraft has The Board of Directors declaration regarding executive wages and appropriate controls to mitigate these risks sufficiently. other remuneration to executive employees can be read in Note  Reporting of ICFR to Audit Committee 37 in the annual report. The result of the yearly assessment related to control design and operational effectiveness is reported in to the Audit Committee in February. The conclusion of the financial reporting risk assessment is reported in September. Material breach in ICFR will be reported to the Audit Committee.  Test of control performance Quarterly and on a sample basis, the quality of control performance and compliance with the control descriptions are tested to ensure continuous improvement.  Continuous performance and monitoring Managers are responsible for compliance with the control descriptions and ICFR requirements. Responsible managers perform an annual assessment of design and operational effectiveness of all controls. Fraud Prevention System Statkraft has a fraud prevention system to prevent and detect fraud in processes related to procurement, accounting, tax and treasury. The fraud prevention system is under continuous development. The system has a risk-based approach and will make use of methodology already in place for the ICFR system. REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The owner stipulates the remuneration for the Board of Directors. The remuneration is not related to the company's results. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 55 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION AUDITOR The Board of Directors has stipulated guidelines for financial The enterprise meeting appoints the auditor based on the Board reporting and other information. Statkraft SF publishes its annual of Directors proposal and stipulates the auditor’s fee. Statkraft SF financial statement. Each year, Statkraft AS releases three and Statkraft AS use the same auditor. The auditor serves until a quarterly financial statements and one annual financial statement. new auditor is appointed. The financial calendar, press releases and stock exchange The Board of Directors and the auditor hold at least one meeting notices, investor presentations, quarterly and annual reports and annually where the President and CEO and other Group other relevant information are published on Statkraft's website. executives are not present. The Audit Committee evaluates the external auditor’s independence and reviews the overall use of the Statkraft emphasises transparent communication with all external auditor for consultancy purposes. stakeholders. The information the company provides to its owner, lenders and the financial markets in general shall provide enough As part of the ordinary audit, the auditor presents an audit plan to details to permit an evaluation of the company’s underlying values the Audit Committee including a summary of the audit from last and risk exposure. The owner and the financial markets shall be year. The auditor reports in writing to Statkraft's Audit Committee treated equally, and information shall be communicated in a timely concerning the company's internal control, applied accounting manner. principles, significant estimates in the accounts and any disagreements between the auditor and the administration. The Board of Directors is briefed on the highlights of the auditor's TAKE-OVERS reporting. At the end of the audit the auditor performs a summary The Articles of Association for Statkraft AS state that the shares meeting with the Audit Committee. can only be owned by Statkraft SF. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 57 Renewable energy can power every industry, every business, every community, every home. It can power progress. It can power possibilities. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 58 Statements 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 59 Group Financial Statements Statement of Comprehensive Income Statkraft AS Group GROUP NOK million Note 2019 2018 Profit and loss Sales revenues 4, 12, 21 43 450 56 888 Gains/losses from market activities 13, 21 3 716 -1 696 Other operating income 14 767 2 092 Gross operating revenues and other income 4 47 933 57 283 Energy purchase 12, 21 -16 483 -27 858 STATKRAFT AS Transmission costs -2 035 -1 840 Net operating revenues and other income 4 29 415 27 585 Salaries and payroll costs 16, 17 -3 971 -3 615 Depreciations and amortisations 23, 24, 25 -3 824 -3 567 Impairments/reversal of impairments 15, 23, 24 136 -167 Property tax and licence fees 18 -1 139 -1 352 Other operating expenses 19 -3 638 -3 439 Operating expenses -12 438 -12 139 Operating profit (EBIT) 16 978 15 446 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 15, 26 1 249 790 Interest income 440 404 SUSTAINABILITY Interest expenses 20 -669 -905 Net currency effects 21 132 -464 Other financial items 5, 20, 21 829 5 377 Net financial items 733 4 412 Profit before tax 18 959 20 649 Tax expense 22 -7 632 -7 258 Net profit 11 327 13 390 Of which non-controlling interest 417 680 Of which owners of the parent 10 910 12 710 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items in other comprehensive income that recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax -16 8 Items recorded in other comprehensive income in equity accounted investments 16 -131 Recycling of financial instruments related to cash flow hedges, net of tax -6 Recycling of currency translation effects related to foreign operations disposed -54 Currency translation effects -475 -316 Items in other comprehensive income that will not recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of equity instruments, net of tax 17 -27 Estimate deviation pensions, net of tax 88 -153 Other comprehensive income -375 -673 Comprehensive income 10 952 12 717 Of which non-controlling interest 474 642 Of which owners of the parent 10 478 12 075 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 60 Statement of Financial Position Statkraft AS Group GROUP NOK million Note 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 ASSETS Deferred tax assets 22 614 676 Intangible assets 23 4 633 3 909 Property, plant and equipment 24 109 852 105 744 Equity accounted investments 4, 26 12 917 13 105 Other financial assets 17, 27 3 597 3 986 Derivatives 10 2 694 2 926 Non-current assets 134 306 130 345 STATKRAFT AS Inventories 28 4 468 6 316 Receivables 29 13 348 12 831 Financial investments 10 1 470 604 Derivatives 10 8 752 9 118 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) 30 15 203 23 175 Current assets 43 242 52 044 Assets 177 548 182 388 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Paid-in capital 59 219 59 219 SUSTAINABILITY Retained equity 37 164 34 815 Non-controlling interest 4 382 3 970 Equity 100 764 98 004 Deferred tax 22 10 792 9 826 Pension liability 17 2 685 2 655 Other provisions 31 3 033 3 189 Interest-bearing liabilities 25, 32 28 160 30 354 Derivatives 10 983 1 253 Non-current liabilities 45 653 47 277 Interest-bearing liabilities 25, 32 4 479 6 346 Taxes payable 22 7 109 7 391 Other interest-free liabilities 33 10 049 10 245 Derivatives 10 9 496 13 124 Current liabilities 31 131 37 107 Equity and liabilities 177 548 182 388 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 61 Statement of Cash Flow Statkraft AS Group NOK million Note 2019 2018 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit (EBIT) 16 978 15 446 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments 23, 24, 25 3 689 3 734 Gains/losses from divestments and disposal of assets -50 -1 399 Unrealised effects included in operating profit (EBIT) 21 -1 250 4 557 Dividends from equity accounted investments 26 736 606 GROUP Changes in working capital 528 -2 201 Cash collateral, margin calls and option premiums -1 238 -1 226 Cash effects from foreign exchange derivatives related to operations 30 -451 Taxes paid -6 900 -3 605 Other changes -562 -175 Cash flow from operating activities (A) 11 961 15 286 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1) -5 786 -4 713 Business divestments, net liquidity inflow 5 1 578 7 316 STATKRAFT AS Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries, net liquidity outflow 5 -841 -1 587 Loans to equity accounted investments -25 -3 Repayment of loans from equity accounted investments 137 3 894 Interests received from loans to equity accounted investments 11 102 Other investments 105 292 Cash flow from investing activities (B) -4 821 5 301 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES New debt 32 261 759 Repayment of debt 32 -5 924 -5 535 SUSTAINABILITY Interests paid -958 -1 104 Interest rate derivatives realised before maturity -220 Interests received from cash and other assets 434 284 Dividend and group contribution paid to Statkraft SF -8 549 -6 040 Transactions with non-controlling interests -83 -53 Cash flow from financing activities (C) -15 039 -11 689 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (A)+(B)+(C) -7 900 8 899 Currency exchange rate effects on cash and cash equivalents -71 59 Cash and cash equivalents 01.01 30 23 175 14 217 Cash and cash equivalents 31.12 2) 30 15 203 23 175 Unused committed credit lines 9 189 9 189 Unused overdraft facilities 1 025 1 002 Restricted cash 30 36 61 1) Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the cash flow in 2019 are NOK 664 million lower than investments (excluding investments in shareholdings) in note 4. This is due to capitalised borrowing costs of NOK -123 million, capitalised decommissioning of NOK -54 million, non-cash additions from right-of-use assets of NOK -146 million and timing differences between capitalisation and payment date of NOK -341 million. 2) Included in cash and cash equivalents are NOK 328 million related to joint operations as of year end 2019. For 2018 the amount was NOK 357 million. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. Operating activities Changes in working capital comprise of inventory, short-term interest-free receivables and short-term interest-free liabilities. Effects related to capital expenditures, unrealised changes or reclassifications are not included in changes in working capital. Investing activities Acquisition/divestment of shares includes cash and cash equivalents in the investee that are recognised/divested at the transaction date. Hence, this is presented net together with the cash consideration paid or received. Financing activities Interest payments from interest rate derivatives, which are used to manage the Group’s debt portfolio, are presented as a part of interest paid. Cash effects from foreign exchange derivatives related to debt are presented as a part of repayment of debt. Following the implementation of IFRS 16, both the principal portion and the interest portion of payments of lease liabilities are included in financing activities as repayment of debt and interest paid respectively. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 62 Statement of Changes in Equity Statkraft AS Group Currency Attributable NonPaid-in Other Other translation Retained to owners controlling Total NOK million capital reserves 1) equity effects equity of parent interests equity Balance as of 01.01.2018 59 219 -874 25 080 4 635 28 842 88 061 3 567 91 627 Net profit 12 710 12 710 12 710 680 13 390 GROUP Items in OCI that recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax 2) 8 8 8 8 Items recorded in other comprehensive income in equity -131 -131 -131 -131 accounted investments Recycling of currency translation effects related to foreign -54 -54 -54 -54 operations disposed Currency translation effects -306 -306 -306 -10 -316 Items in OCI that will not recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax -23 -23 -23 -4 -27 STATKRAFT AS Estimate deviation pension, net of tax -129 -129 -129 -24 -153 Total comprehensive income for the period -146 12 581 -360 12 075 12 075 642 12 717 Dividend -6 100 -6 100 -6 100 -204 -6 304 Capital injection from non-controlling interest 176 176 Business combinations/divestments -212 -212 Balance as of 31.12.2018 59 219 -1 020 31 561 4 275 34 815 94 035 3 970 98 004 Implementation of IFRS 16 see note 13 and 25 380 380 380 380 Balance as of 01.01.2019 59 219 -1 020 31 941 4 275 35 196 94 415 3 970 98 384 SUSTAINABILITY Net profit 10 910 10 910 10 910 417 11 327 Items in OCI that recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax 2) -16 -16 -16 -16 Items recorded in other comprehensive income in equity 16 16 16 16 accounted investments Recycling of financial instruments related to cash flow hedges, net -6 -6 -6 -6 of tax 2) Currency translation effects -461 -461 -461 -14 -475 Items in OCI that will not recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of equity instruments, net of tax 14 14 14 3 17 Estimate deviation pensions, net of tax 20 20 20 68 88 Total comprehensive income for the period 9 10 930 -461 10 478 10 478 474 10 952 Dividend and group contribution -8 510 -8 510 -8 510 -83 -8 593 Business combinations/divestments 20 20 Balance as of 31.12.2019 59 219 -1 011 34 361 3 814 37 164 96 383 4 382 100 764 1) Other reserves is mainly related to net investment hedges. 2) Financial instruments is related to foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives. GENERAL INFORMATION The parent company has a share capital of NOK 33.6 billion, divided into 200 million shares, each with a par value of NOK 168. All shares have the same voting rights and are owned by Statkraft SF, which is a Norwegian state-owned company, established and domiciled in Norway. Statkraft SF is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, through the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries. On 27 June 2019 Statkraft’s General Assembly approved a disbursement of NOK 8510 million as dividend and group contribution to Statkraft SF. For the current year the Board of Directors has proposed to pay a dividend and group contribution of NOK 6500 million. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Dividend proposed at the time of approval of the financial statements is classified as equity. Dividends are reclassified to current liabilities once they have been approved by the General Assembly. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 63 Notes Statkraft AS Group Index of notes to the consolidated financial statements General Page Statement of financial position Page Note 1 General information and summary of 64 Note 23 Intangible assets 103 significant accounting policies Note 24 Property, plant and equipment 104 Note 2 Key accounting estimates and 66 Note 25 Leases 107 judgements Note 26 Associates and joint arrangements 111 Note 3 Subsequent events 66 Note 27 Other non-current financial assets 114 GROUP Note 4 Segment information 67 Note 28 Inventories 115 Note 5 Business combinations and other 72 Note 29 Receivables 116 transactions Note 30 Cash and cash equivalents 116 Note 31 Provisions 117 Financial risk and instruments Note 32 Interest-bearing liabilities 118 Note 6 Management of capital structure 76 Note 33 Other interest-free liabilities 118 Note 7 Market risk in the Group 77 Note 8 Analysis of market risk 79 Other information Note 9 Credit risk and liquidity risk 80 Note 34 Disputes, contingencies and uncertain 119 Note 10 Financial instruments 82 tax positions Note 11 Hedge accounting 87 Note 35 Pledges, guarantees and obligations 120 STATKRAFT AS Note 36 Fees paid to external auditors 121 Statement of comprehensive income Note 37 Benefits paid to executive management 122 Note 12 Sales revenues and energy purchase 90 and the Board of Directors Note 13 Gains/losses from market activities 93 Note 38 Related parties 125 Note 14 Other operating income 93 Note 39 Consolidated companies 126 Note 15 Impairments 94 Note 16 Payroll costs and number of full-time 96 equivalents Note 17 Pensions 97 Note 18 Property tax and licence fees 99 Note 19 Other operating expenses 99 Note 20 Financial items 99 Note 21 Unrealised effects recognised in the 100 SUSTAINABILITY statement of profit and loss Note 22 Income taxes 101 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 64 Note 1 General information and summary of significant accounting policies GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft AS is a Norwegian limited liability company, established and domiciled in Norway. Statkraft AS is wholly owned by Statkraft SF, which in turn is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, through the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries. The company’s head office is located in Oslo and the company has debt instruments listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange. Statkraft’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations from International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as adopted by the EU and further requirements in Norwegian Accounting Law (Regnskapsloven). GROUP The consolidated accounts have been prepared on the basis of the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain financial instruments, derivatives and certain elements of net pension assets measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. Historical cost is generally based on fair value of the consideration given when acquiring assets and services. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement of fair value is contingent upon market prices being available or whether other valuation techniques have been applied. When determining fair value, the management must apply assumptions that market participants would have used in a similar valuation. Measurement and presentation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value when presenting the consolidated accounts are based on these policies, with the exception of measuring net realisable value in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories and when measuring value in use in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. STATKRAFT AS The accounting policies applied to the consolidated financial statements as a whole are described below while the remaining accounting policies are described in the notes to which they relate. The policies have been applied in the same manner in all presented periods, unless otherwise stated. The descriptions of accounting policies in the statements and notes form part of the overall description of accounting policies:  Statement of cash flow  Statement of changes in equity  Segment information Note 4  Business combinations and other transactions Note 5  Financial instruments Note 10  Hedge accounting Note 11  Sales revenues and energy purchase Note 12  Gains/losses from market activities Note 13 SUSTAINABILITY  Impairments Note 15  Pensions Note 17  Income taxes Note 22  Intangible assets Note 23  Property, plant and equipment Note 24  Leases Note 25  Associates and joint arrangements Note 26  Other non-current financial assets Note 27  Inventories Note 28  Cash and cash equivalents Note 30  Provisions Note 31 CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company Statkraft AS and its subsidiaries. A subsidiary is an entity in which Statkraft has the power to govern the financial and operating policies (control). Control is obtained when Statkraft has the ability to affect the variable returns through its power over the investee. Power is obtained either through ownership of more than 50% of the voting power or/and through agreements with other shareholders. Subsidiaries are included from the date control commences until the date control ceases. If necessary, the subsidiaries’ financial statements are adjusted to correlate with the Group’s accounting policies. Inter-company transactions and inter-company balances, including internal profits and gains and losses, are eliminated. Investments in joint arrangements and associates Statkraft classifies its investments based on an analysis of the degree of control and the underlying facts and circumstances. This includes an assessment of voting rights, ownership structure and the relative strength, purchase and sale rights controlled by Statkraft and other shareholders. Each individual investment is assessed. Upon changes in underlying facts and circumstances a new assessment must be made on how to classify the investment. Joint operations are joint arrangements where the participants who have joint control over a business activity have contractual rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the operation. In joint operations, decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The Group’s share in joint operations is recognised in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Statkraft’s interest in the joint operation’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The proportionate share of realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions between entities and joint operations is eliminated. Joint ventures are companies where Statkraft has joint control together with one or several other investors. In a joint venture company, decisions related to relevant activities must be unanimous between participants which have joint control. The Group’s share in joint ventures is recognised in the consolidated accounts using the equity method and presented as equity accounted investments under non-current assets. The Group’s share of the companies’ profit after tax, adjusted for amortisation of excess value and any deviations from accounting policies, is presented as share of profit in equity accounted investments in the statement of profit and loss. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 65 Note 1 continued Associates are companies or entities where Statkraft has significant influence. The Group’s share in associated companies is recognised in the consolidated accounts using the equity method and presented as equity accounted investments under non-current assets. The Group’s share of the companies’ profit after tax, adjusted for amortisation of excess value and any deviations from accounting policies, is presented as share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments in the statement of profit and loss. COMPARABLE FIGURES AND RECLASSIFICATIONS The statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, statement of equity, cash flow statement and notes provide comparable information in respect of the previous period. Excepted from this are impacts from the implementation of IFRS 16 as outlined in note 13 and 25. FOREIGN CURRENCY GROUP Subsidiaries prepare their accounts in the company’s functional currency, normally the local currency in the country where the company operates. Statkraft AS uses Norwegian kroner (NOK) as its functional currency, and it is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. When preparing the consolidated financial statements, the local currency of the foreign subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are translated into NOK in accordance with the current exchange rate method. This means that balance sheet items are translated to NOK at the exchange rate prevailing at 31 December; whilst the income statement is translated using monthly weighted average exchange rates throughout the year. Currency translation effects are recognised as other comprehensive income and recycled to the income statement upon sale or loss of control of shareholdings in foreign companies. The currency translation effects that are recycled are presented as part of the gain or loss of the sale/disposal in the income statement. The part of the currency translation effects related to noncontrolling interest are not recycled to the income statement. STATKRAFT AS Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. CLASSIFICATION AS CURRENT/NON-CURRENT Items in the statement of financial position are classified as current when they are expected to be realised within 12 months after the reporting date. With the exception of the items mentioned below, all other items are classified as non-current. Derivatives that are hedging instruments in fair value hedge accounting are presented together with the hedged item. The first year’s repayments relating to non-current liabilities are presented as current liability. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS SUSTAINABILITY In 2019 new standards and amendments to existing standards have become effective. This is related to the following standards: IAS 28 Long-term interests in associates and joint ventures An amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, effective from 1 January 2019, clarifies that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, including its impairment requirements, applies to long term interests in an associate or joint venture that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture, for which the equity method is not applied. The implementation of this amendment at 1 January 2019 had limited impact on the presentation in Statkraft’s statement of profit and loss and statement of equity. A reclassification from Other financial assets to Equity accounted investments has resulted in a decrease in the carrying amount of other financial assets and an increase in equity accounted investments, see note 26. IFRIC 23 (Interpretation) Uncertainty over income tax treatments The interpretation is to be applied to the determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS 12. See Note 34 for additional information. “Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amendment to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7)” In January 2020, the EU endorsed an amendment “Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amendment to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7)”. Statkraft chose to early implement the amendment with effect from 2019. The amendment is relevant for Statkraft given that application of hedge accounting related to some hedging instruments is affected by changes in interest rate benchmarks. The early adoption of the amendment allows Statkraft to continue the hedge accounting for these instruments. In addition; the following new and revised standards have been adopted:  IFRS 16 Leases  IFRS 9 (amendments) Prepayments Features  IFRS 19 (amendment) Plan amendment, Curtailment or Settlement The effects from implementing IFRS 16 Leasing are described in note 25. The adoption of the other items did not have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group. THE FOLLOWING REVISED IFRSs HAVE BEEN ISSUED, BUT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE, AND IN SOME CASES HAVE NOT BEEN ADOPTED BY EU  IFRS 3 Business combinations (amendment) Definition of a Business  IAS 1 and IAS 8 (amendment) Definition of Material  Conceptual Framework (amendment) References in IFRS Standards  Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 cycle Statkraft do not expect that the adoption of these Standards will have a material impact on the financial statements for the Group in future periods. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 66 Note 2 Key accounting estimates and judgements INTRODUCTION The use of reasonable estimates and judgements is a critical element in preparing the financial statements. Due to the level of uncertainties inherent in Statkraft’s business activities, management must make certain estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting policies, results of operations, cash flows and financial position as reported in the financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are held to be reasonable under the circumstances. AREAS OF SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT GROUP LONG TERM PRICE FORECAST FOR POWER One of the key assumptions used by management in making business decisions is Statkraft’s long term price forecasts for power and the related market developments. In addition, these assumptions are critical input for management related to financial statement processes such as:  Allocation of fair value in business combinations Note 5  Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment Note 15, 24  Impairment testing of intangible assets Note 15, 23  Impairment testing of equity accounted investments Note 15, 26 Statkraft performs an annual update of its long-term price forecasts and the related expected market developments in the geographical areas where Statkraft STATKRAFT AS operates. This update is the output from a continuous process of monitoring, interpreting and analysing global as well as local trends, which will affect future markets and revenues. The update provides basis for both strategic decisions as well as the management’s expectation for future prices and revenue streams beyond 2025 associated with the assets. A fundamental approach is applied when analysing the markets, considering elements such as:  Cost levels of competing technologies and fuels  Future energy balances  Political regulations  Technological developments to reduce emissions of climate gases The process is headed and run by a team of experts across the Group. The main results are benchmarked to external references and major deviations are explained. The process aims to ensure consistency, and provide a balanced view of both the markets and expected future power prices. SUSTAINABILITY The Corporate Management is forming its management view by being involved in the process. Corporate Management is invited to provide and challenge the input and scenarios applied in the analysis to be used in asset valuations and other strategic considerations. Based on the expert recommendations, the Corporate Management approves the annual long term price forecasts for power and the view upon the related market development. Various sensitivity analyses are disclosed in:  Analysis of market risk Note 8  Financial instruments Note 10  Impairments Note 15 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT In addition to the above, significant judgement is applied in the valuation of the Group’s long term power purchaseand power salescontracts categorised within level 3 in the fair value hierarchy levels. The fair value estimate is based on the amounts for which the assets or liabilities could be exchanged at the relevant transaction date on the reporting period end. Where fair value measurement cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and other valuations methods. To the extent possible, the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs. However, such information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based transactions often do not exist. In such cases Statkrafts management is required to make market based-assumptions, see note 10. OTHER AREAS In addition, significant judgement is applied in estimating the carrying amounts of:  Pensions Note 17  Deferred tax assets Note 22 APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING POLICY Due to Statkraft’s business activities, management must apply judgements in determining the appropriate accounting policy in areas where the choice of policies may have a material impact on the accounting treatment in the financial statements. Such areas include;  Classification of energy contracts Note 10  Classification of energy revenue Note 12  Classification of investments made together with Note 26 third parties Note 3 Subsequent events There have been no significant subsequent events. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 67 Note 4 Segment information GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft is organised in four Business Areas (BAs) and two corporate Staff Areas (SAs). The BAs are: Production (P), International Power (I), European Wind and Solar (E) and Markets and IT (M). The SAs are: Corporate Staff and Industrial Ownership (S) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). BAs in Statkraft shall, within their respective areas of responsibility, pursue Statkraft’s strategic, financial and other targets and objectives, which are reported through the segment structure. Targets and objectives are defined by key performance indicators. GROUP The following BAs are responsible for deliveries across the segments within their field of expertise:  M is responsible for market activities and optimisation of revenues from production facilities, as well as IT.  P is responsible for operation and maintenance of the production facilities.  E is responsible for development of new technologies as well as construction. Activities in the business areas are allocated and presented in the respective segments. The Group’s reportable segments are in accordance with how the corporate management makes, follows up and evaluates its decisions. The operating segments have been identified based on internal management information that is periodically reviewed by the corporate management and used as a basis for resource allocation and key performance review. In 2019 the segment Wind power has changed name to European wind and solar. STATKRAFT AS The segment reporting is based on underlying figures. The table on next page reconciles the Group IFRS figures with the Group underlying figures. The rationale for reporting underlying figures is described in the Alternative Performance Measures section. See note 12 for revenues per category and geography. The reportable segments are defined as: European flexible generation includes asset ownership and operation of most of the Group’s hydropower business in Norway, Sweden, Germany and the United Kingdom, as well as the gas-fired and the biomass power plants in Germany and the subsea interconnector between Sweden and Germany. Market operations includes all trading, origination, market access for smaller generators of renewable energy, as well as revenue optimisation and risk SUSTAINABILITY mitigation activities related to Continental and Nordic power generation. The segment has activities in several countries in Europe, and is also active in Brazil, India and USA. International power includes development, ownership and operations of renewable assets in emerging markets. The segment operates in Brazil, Peru, Chile, India, Nepal, Turkey and Albania. European wind and solar includes development, asset ownership and operations of onshore wind power and solar power. The segment operates in Norway, Sweden, Ireland and the United Kingdom. In addition the segment has development activities in several countries in Europe. District heating includes development, ownership and operations of district heating plants in Norway and Sweden. Industrial ownership includes management and development of Norwegian shareholdings within the Group’s core business and includes the shareholdings in Skagerak Energi, BKK and Agder Energi. Skagerak Energi is included in the consolidated financial statements, while BKK and Agder Energi are reported as equity accounted investments. In addition: Other activities includes costs related to governance of the Group, new business within biomass and electric vehicle charging as well as venture capital investments. Unallocated assets are also reported as Other activities. Group items includes eliminations. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 68 Note 4 continued Reconciliation of IFRS versus underlying figures 2019 2019 2018 2018 NOK million IFRS Adjustments Underlying IFRS Adjustments Underlying Profit and loss Sales revenues 1), 2) 43 450 43 450 56 888 -676 56 212 Gains/losses from market activities 3 716 801 4 517 -1 696 1 464 -232 Other operating income 2) 767 -55 712 2 092 -1 449 643 GROUP Gross operating revenues and other income 47 933 745 48 679 57 283 -660 56 623 Energy purchase 1) -16 483 -16 483 -27 858 -27 858 Transmission costs -2 035 -2 035 -1 840 -1 840 Net operating revenues and other income 29 415 745 30 161 27 585 -660 26 925 Salaries and payroll costs -3 971 -3 971 -3 615 -3 615 Depreciations and amortisations -3 824 -3 824 -3 567 -3 567 Impairments/reversal of impairments 136 -136 -167 167 Property tax and licence fees -1 139 -1 139 -1 352 -1 352 Other operating expenses -3 638 -3 638 -3 439 -3 439 STATKRAFT AS Operating expenses -12 438 -136 -12 573 -12 139 167 -11 972 Operating profit (EBIT) 16 978 610 17 587 15 446 -493 14 953 1) Sales revenues and energy purchase were reported NOK 1 050 million too low in 2018, and have been restated. This was related to market access activities in Germany. 2) NOK 488 million in revenues from rental of power plants in Norway have been reclassified from Other operating income to Sales revenues in 2018. The underlying adjustments in 2019 are:  Gains/losses from market activities: unrealised value changes from embedded derivatives in energy contracts are not included in the underlying figures.  Other operating income: gains from divestment of subsidiaries and joint operations are not included in the underlying figures.  Impairments/reversal of impairments related to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment are not included in the underlying figures. SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 69 Note 4 continued Accounting specification per segment Segments European InterEuropean Statkraft flexible Market national wind and District Industrial Other Group NOK million AS Group generation operations power solar heating ownership activities items 2019 Gross operating revenues and other income, external 48 679 21 077 19 629 3 145 469 918 3 360 216 -134 Gross operating revenues and other income, internal 291 84 70 919 1 48 1 036 -2 449 Gross operating revenues and other income, underlying 48 679 21 368 19 713 3 215 1 388 919 3 408 1 252 -2 583 GROUP Net operating revenues and other income, underlying 30 161 18 028 4 455 2 702 1 330 653 3 159 1 252 -1 418 Operating profit (EBIT), underlying 17 587 12 247 3 027 756 227 216 1 653 -526 -13 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -801 -801 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 55 55 Impairments/reversal of impairments 136 1 035 -564 -333 -3 Operating profit (EBIT), IFRS 16 978 12 482 3 027 192 -50 213 1 653 -526 -13 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 1 249 3 -86 12 1 396 -50 -26 Assets and capital employed 31.12.19 STATKRAFT AS Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 114 485 58 011 179 24 889 10 004 3 478 16 247 1 677 Equity accounted investments 12 917 8 2 631 871 9 375 32 Loans to equity accounted investments 1 518 969 522 27 Other assets 48 629 2 546 9 795 1 429 421 300 1 414 32 893 -169 Total assets 177 548 60 557 9 982 29 918 11 818 3 778 27 062 34 602 -169 Assets not included in capital employed -48 015 -35 -8 -3 909 -1 398 -10 288 -32 377 Liabilities included in capital employed -19 137 -2 702 -5 598 -1 228 -652 -215 -1 277 -7 634 169 Capital employed 110 396 57 820 4 376 24 781 9 768 3 563 15 497 -5 409 Return on average capital employed (ROACE) 16.3 % 21.7 % 62.6 % 3.1 % 2.6 % 6.2 % 10.8 % n/a n/a SUSTAINABILITY Return on average equity accounted investment (ROAE) 9.5 % n/a n/a -3.2 % 1.4 % n/a 14.7 % n/a n/a Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -3 689 -679 -31 -1 448 -687 -178 -509 -156 Maintenance investments and other investments 2 712 1 532 73 214 231 6 603 54 Investments in new production capacity 3 738 194 2 808 2 215 168 351 Investments in shares 972 349 188 53 381 1 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 70 Note 4 continued Accounting specification per segment Segments European InterEuropean Statkraft flexible Market national wind and District Industrial Other Group NOK million AS Group generation operations power solar heating ownership activities items 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income, external 56 623 21 158 27 057 2 502 399 907 4 537 134 -71 Gross operating revenues and other income, internal 444 -50 139 968 1 94 877 -2 473 Gross operating revenues and other income, underlying 56 623 21 602 27 007 2 641 1 367 908 4 631 1 011 -2 544 GROUP Net operating revenues and other income, underlying 26 925 18 765 834 2 244 1 320 650 3 284 1 011 -1 183 Operating profit (EBIT), underlying 14 953 12 943 -321 631 429 206 1 467 -545 142 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -789 -333 -456 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 1 449 15 1 1 432 Impairments/reversal of impairments -167 -160 -7 Operating profit (EBIT), IFRS 15 446 12 610 -761 471 431 199 2 899 -545 142 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 790 2 143 30 635 -20 Assets and capital employed 31.12.18 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 109 653 57 250 85 24 976 8 018 3 461 15 494 369 STATKRAFT AS Equity accounted investments 13 105 25 1 977 879 10 116 108 Loans to equity accounted investments 2 319 1 737 568 15 Other assets 57 311 2 221 11 655 1 447 533 281 988 40 318 -132 Total assets 182 388 59 472 11 765 30 137 9 998 3 741 26 613 40 795 -132 Assets not included in capital employed -56 323 -35 -203 -4 011 -1 461 -10 609 -40 003 Liabilities included in capital employed -19 685 -2 848 -5 856 -1 481 -293 -212 -1 275 -7 853 132 Capital employed 106 380 56 589 5 706 24 645 8 243 3 529 14 728 -7 061 Return on average capital employed (ROACE) 14,7% 23,3% -6,9% 2,9% 6,3% 5,9% 10,1% na na Return on average equity accounted investment (ROAE) 5,9% na na 7,8% 3,2% na 6,1% na na SUSTAINABILITY Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -3 734 -1 692 -17 -910 -309 -172 -574 -59 Maintenance investments and other investments 2 067 1 185 10 155 4 9 663 40 Investments in new production capacity 3 053 67 24 894 1 623 134 309 Investments in shares 1 862 39 1 345 381 97 Selected financial figures from “Norwegian hydropower and related business” In the white paper Prop. 40 S (2014-2015) related to revised national budget, it was stated that Statkraft should disclose information related to the Norwegian hydropower activities (“Norwegian hydropower”). The table on the next page includes financial figures for the Norwegian hydropower, which have been extracted from the relevant operating segments. “Norwegian hydropower” includes the results from all activities related to the Norwegian hydropower assets in the subsidiaries Statkraft Energi AS and Skagerak Kraft Group. Activities which are related to hydropower assets include hydropower generation and the share of contract portfolios related to hydropower generation (Nordic dynamic asset management portfolio and other risk reducing portfolios). “Related business” refers to all activities in the investments in the associated regional companies BKK AS and Agder Energi AS. The column Sum “Norwegian hydropower, excluding related business” represents the totals for the two subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances. The figures for Statkraft Energi AS are extracted from the segments European flexible generation and Market operations, while the figures for Skagerak Kraft Group are extracted from the segment Industrial ownership. The line “Profit after tax (majority share)” from Skagerak Kraft Group is calculated based on Statkrafts ownership interest of 66.62%. The lines Net financial items and Tax expense show the financial items and tax related to the activities in the definition of “Norwegian hydropower”. The figures from the equity accounted investments in the associated companies BKK AS and Agder Energi AS have been extracted from the segment Industrial ownership. See note 26. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 71 Note 4 continued Norwegian hydropower Norwegian hydropower from: Sum Norwegian hydropower, excluding Sum Norwegian Statkraft AS Statkraft Energi Skagerak Kraft related Related hydropower and NOK million Group AS Group business business related business 2019 Gross operating revenues and other income 47 933 15 491 2 045 17 516 17 516 Net operating revenues and other income 29 415 14 350 1 953 16 298 16 298 Operating profit (EBIT) 16 978 10 553 1 319 11 871 11 871 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 1 249 1 360 1) 1 360 GROUP Net financial items 733 -323 -65 -388 -388 Tax expense -7 632 -5 707 -613 -6 320 -6 320 Net profit 11 327 4 523 642 5 164 1 360 6 524 Net profit (of which owners of the parent) 10 910 4 523 426 4 949 1 360 6 309 Paid dividend and group contribution to Statkraft 6 000 2) 151 3) 6 151 638 3) 6 789 Assets 31.12.19 Equity accounted investments 12 917 2 2 5 9 259 1) 9 264 STATKRAFT AS Other assets 164 632 37 804 5 401 43 205 43 205 Total assets 177 548 37 806 5 403 43 210 9 259 52 469 EBITDA 20 666 11 628 1 495 13 123 13 123 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -3 688 -1 075 -177 -1 252 -1 252 Maintenance investments and other investments 2 712 991 185 1 175 1 175 Investments in new production capacity 3 738 194 27 221 221 Investments in shares 972 1) Statkraft's share. 2) Dividend and group contribution after tax paid from Statkraft Energi AS. 3) Dividend paid to Statkraft. SUSTAINABILITY Norwegian hydropower Norwegian hydropower from: Sum Norwegian hydropower, excluding Sum Norwegian Statkraft AS Statkraft Energi Skagerak Kraft related Related hydropower and NOK million Group AS Group business business related business 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income 57 283 17 166 2 118 19 254 19 254 Net operating revenues and other income 27 585 15 852 2 009 17 851 17 851 Operating profit (EBIT) 15 446 12 045 1 375 13 420 13 420 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 790 596 1) 596 Net financial items 4 412 -171 -64 -235 -235 Tax expense -7 258 -6 299 -853 -7 151 -7 151 Net profit 13 390 5 576 458 6 034 596 6 630 Net profit (of which owners of the parent) 12 710 5 576 303 5 879 596 6 475 Paid dividend and group contribution to Statkraft 4 499 2) 119 3) 4 618 541 3) 5 159 Assets 31.12.18 Equity accounted investments 13 105 2 2 9 030 1) 9 032 Other assets 169 284 37 754 5 306 43 060 43 060 Total assets 182 388 37 754 5 307 43 062 9 030 52 092 EBITDA 19 180 13 145 1 567 14 712 14 712 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -3 734 -1 100 -192 -1 292 -1 292 Maintenance investments and other investments 2 067 864 105 969 969 Investments in new production capacity 3 053 62 25 87 87 Investments in shares 1 862 1) Statkraft's share. 2) Dividend and group contribution after tax paid from Statkraft Energi AS. 3) Dividend paid to Statkraft. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 72 Note 5 Business combinations and other transactions SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The acquisition method is applied in business combinations. The acquisition date is the date when the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree and normally transfers the consideration to the seller. In general the acquisition date coincides with the closing date. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date. If the accounting of a business combination is incomplete at the end of the reporting period, in which the transaction occurred, the Group will report preliminary values for the assets and liabilities. Preliminary values are adjusted throughout the measuring period of maximum one year in order to reflect new information obtained about circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, which if known, would have affected the valuation on that date. Correspondingly, new assets and liabilities can be recognised. Non-controlling interests are recognised as the proportionate share of the identifiable net assets and liabilities. Any differences between cost and fair value for acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised as goodwill or recognised in the income GROUP statement when the cost is lower. No provisions are recognised for deferred tax on goodwill. Transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred. If business combinations are achieved in stages, the existing ownership interests are recognised at fair value at the point in time when control is transferred to Statkraft. Such a change in the carrying value of the investment is recognised in the income statement. On acquisition of an investment in a joint venture or an associated company any difference between the cost of the shares and Statkraft’s share of the net fair value of the investee’s identifiable assets and liabilities is accounted for as goodwill and excess values. Goodwill may arise as the surplus of the cost of the STATKRAFT AS investment over Statkraft’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the joint venture or associate. Such goodwill is recognised within the corresponding investment, presented as Equity accounted investments. Acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that are not within the scope of business combinations require all individual identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be identified. The identified assets and liabilities are assigned a carrying amount based on their relative fair value at the date of acquisition. Directly attributable transaction cost is generally capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. Goodwill and deferred taxes are not recognised in an asset acquisition. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Consideration paid in such acquisitions is allocated to acquired assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities based on their estimated fair values. Statkraft uses both external advisors and internal experts to assist in the determination of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, depending on the size and complexity SUSTAINABILITY of the acquisition. This type of valuation requires management to make judgements with regards to valuation method, estimates and assumptions. Management’s estimates of fair value and useful life are based on assumptions supported by internal experts, and involve inherent uncertainty. As explained in note 2, Statkraft’s long-term price forecast for power is a critical assumption used in estimating fair values of relevant assets and liabilities. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ASSET ACQUISITIONS IN 2019 Ventos On 8 October, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in Ventos de Santa Eugênia Energias Renováveis S.A. and Ventos de São Vitorino Energias Renováveis S.A, consisting of two projects of a total of 664 MW for development within onshore wind in Brazil. One of the projects is ready-to-auction and the other is an early stage development project. The shares were acquired from Fundo de Investimento em Participações Multiestratégia, and the purchase price was NOK 296 million. The acquisition is considered not to constitute a business, and is accounted for as an asset acquisition. In addition Statkraft has acquired several other companies, mainly related to electrical vehicle charging and projects within onshore wind and solar development. DIVESTMENT AND RESTRUCTURING OF BUSINESS IN 2019 Fjordkraft On 28 March, Statkraft’s subsidiary Skagerak Energi AS sold 15.5 million shares, representing 14.86% of the share capital in Fjordkraft Holding ASA. The selling price was NOK 35.70 per share. The net cash inflow from the sale was NOK 550 million and Statkraft recognised a gain of NOK 43 million as Other financial items. Subsequent to the transaction, Skagerak Energi AS owns 14.86% of the shares in Fjordkraft. On 14 May, a general assembly was held in Fjordkraft. Subsequent of this general assembly, Statkraft’s subsidiary Skagerak Energi no longer has representatives on the Board of Directors, leading to loss of significant influence. The use of the equity method discontinued on the date when the retained investment ceased to be an associate and became a financial asset recognised at fair value. As a result of the change of control a gain of NOK 143 million was recognised as Other financial items. Fjordkraft On 3 June, Statkraft’s associated company, BKK, sold 15.67 million shares in Fjordkraft Holding ASA. This represented 15% of the shareholding in the company. The selling price was NOK 42.50 per share and Statkraft’s share of the gain recognised by BKK was NOK 242 million and has been recognised as Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments. Subsequent to the transaction, BKK owns shares representing 15.25% of the share capital in Fjordkraft. BKK On 9 October, two agreements where BKK acquired 6517 of its own C-shares from Statkraft, corresponding to a total of approximately 4.4% of the company’s total share capital, were closed. The acquired shares have been used by BKK as consideration when merging with Sunnfjord Energi and acquiring Kvinnherad Energi. The purchase prices for the shares were NOK 966 million in total, and gains of NOK 438 million in total were recognised as Other financial items. Öråsa Vind On 5 June 2019, Statkraft signed an agreement to divest 100% of the shares in Öråsa Vind AB, including four Swedish wind farm projects. The shares were sold to Stena Renewable AB and the purchase price was NOK 1 million upfront, in addition to contingent considerations of up to NOK 71 million in total. NOK 55 million of the contingent considerations were received and recognised in 2019, presented as Other operating income. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 73 Note 5 continued Allocation of cost price for acquisitions in 2019 1) Ventos Other 2) Total Acquisition date 08.10.2019 Voting rights/shareholding acquired through the acquisition 100% Total voting rights/shareholding following acquisition 100% Measurement of non-controlling interests n/a Consideration NOK million Cash paid at acquisition date 296 402 698 Contingent consideration 130 130 Other 139 139 GROUP Total acquisition cost 296 671 967 Book value of net acquired assets (see table below) 1 100 101 Identification of excess value, attributable to: Intangible assets 173 173 Property, plant and equipment 295 295 Gross excess value 295 173 468 Deferred tax on excess value -15 -15 Net excess value 295 158 453 STATKRAFT AS Fair value of net acquired assets, excluding goodwill 296 258 554 Of which Controlling interests 296 248 544 Non-controlling interests 11 11 Total 296 259 555 Total acquisition cost 296 671 967 Fair value of net acquired assets, excluding goodwill (controlling interest) 296 248 544 Goodwill 423 423 1) All cost price allocations for acquisitions are based on preliminary assessments, and could be subject to changes within 12 months of each transaction. 2) Includes JBM Solar, eeMobility, Torsa, Airvolution, E-WALD, Hjartdal, Grønn Kontakt and an additional payment of NOK 31 million in 2019 for the shares in Tamar, SUSTAINABILITY acquired in 2018. NOK million Ventos Other 1) Total Book value of net acquired assets in 2019 Intangible assets 45 45 Property, plant and equipment 227 227 Deferred tax assets 21 21 Non-current financial assets 1 10 11 Non-current assets 1 303 304 Cash and cash equivalents 32 32 Inventories 5 5 Receivables 51 51 Current assets 88 88 Acquired assets 1 391 392 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 178 178 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 9 9 Other interest-free liabilities, current 101 101 Other interest-free liabilities, non-current 2 2 Net value of acquired assets 1 100 101 Total acquisition cost 296 671 967 Non-cash elements of acquisition cost 269 269 Consideration and cost in cash and cash equivalents 296 402 698 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 32 32 Net cash payments in connection with the acquisitions 296 370 666 Contribution to gross operating revenues and other income since acquisition date 34 34 Contribution to net profit since acquisition date -6 -32 -38 1) Includes JBM Solar, eeMobility, Torsa, Airvolution, E-WALD, Hjartdal and Grønn Kontakt. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 74 Note 5 continued BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND TRANSACTIONS IN 2018 Tidong On 4 September, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in NSL Tidong Power Generation Private Ltd. The shares were acquired from NSL Renewable Power Private Ltd. The purchase price of the shares was close to zero. Tidong is a hydropower project in India with a planned capacity of 100 MW. Element Power Group On 2 October, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in the Irish and UK wind development business of the Element Power Group. The shares were acquired from Hudson Clean Energy Partners AIV LP. The purchase price of the shares was NOK 372 million. In addition, loans to former shareholders of a total of NOK 40 million were repaid in connection with the transaction. Tamar On 21 December, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in the two companies Santa Fé Energia S.A. and Tamar Pequenas Centrais Hidroelectricas S.A., consisting of eight operational hydropower plants in the state of Espírito Santo in Brazil. The shares were acquired from EDP Energias do Brasil for a total GROUP of NOK 1344 million. The portfolio has a total installed capacity of 132 MW and will expand Statkraft’s operations in Brazil. DIVESTMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING OF BUSINESS IN 2018 Dudgeon Offshore Wind On 7 March, an agreement to divest Statkraft’s 30% share in the joint venture Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd was closed. The counterparty was a consortium led by China Resources Company Limited. Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 5947 million and resulted in a gain of NOK 5106 million recognised as Other financial items. A shareholder loan of NOK 317 million from Statkraft UK Ltd provided to Dudgeon was repaid by the joint venture in the first quarter. Statkraft UK Ltd provided a sponsor loan to Dudgeon of NOK 3534 million. The sponsor loan was not part of the transaction and was repaid in the fourth quarter. Fjordkraft On 21 March, Fjordkraft concluded a successful Initial Public Offering (IPO) and was listed on Oslo Stock Exchange at a share price of 31 STATKRAFT AS NOK/share. Statkraft recognised a total gain from the IPO of NOK 1659 million of which NOK 1432 million was recognised as Other operating income. BKK, an associated company of Statkraft, also divested some of its shareholding in Fjordkraft through the IPO and recognised a gain of NOK 227 million that was presented as Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments. Net cash income from the transaction was NOK 673 million. Subsequent of the IPO, Statkraft held a shareholding of 29.72% in Fjordkraft and the investment was presented according to the equity method, see note 26. Of the total gain recognised, NOK 869 million is a true up to fair value on the remaining shares in Fjordkraft held by Statkraft. The excess values have been analysed and allocated to identifiable intangible assets. NOK 255 million (before tax) are allocated to customer portfolios and will be depreciated over six years. The depreciations will affect share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments. The remaining excess values are allocated to brand name and goodwill, which both have indefinite useful life. The excess values are presented net as a part of equity accounted investments in the statement of financial position. BKK On 11 June, an agreement where BKK acquires its own B-shares from Statkraft, corresponding to 1.7% of the company’s total share capital, was closed. Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 350 million. The gain was NOK 141 million and was recognised as Other financial items. SUSTAINABILITY Istad On 3 September, Statkraft closed the agreement to divest 49% of the shares in Istad AS. Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 380 million and a gain of NOK 168 million was recognised as Other financial items. Lange Runde On 7 September, Statkraft sold 90% of the shares in the solar park Lange Runde in the Netherlands. The cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 130 million, including repayment of a loan. The gain from the sale was NOK 15 million and was recognised as Other operating income. BKK On 14 September, an agreement where BKK acquires its own B-shares from Statkraft, corresponding to 0.35% of the company’s total share capital, was closed. BKK has used the acquired shares as consideration when acquiring Etne Elektrisitetslag. Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 72 million and a gain of NOK 34 million was recognised as Other financial items. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 75 Note 5 continued Allocation of cost price for acquisitions in 2018 Tidong Element Power Tamar Total Acquisition date 04.09.2018 02.10.2018 21.12.2018 Voting rights/shareholding acquired through the acquisition 100% 100% 100% Total voting rights/shareholding following acquisition 100% 100% 100% Measurement of non-controlling interests n/a n/a n/a Consideration NOK million Cash 372 1 344 1 716 GROUP Total acquisition cost 372 1 344 1 716 Book value of net acquired assets (see table below) -4 252 566 814 Identification of excess value, attributable to: Intangible assets -99 334 235 Property, plant and equipment 4 449 453 Inventory -4 -4 Gross excess value 4 -99 779 684 Deferred tax on excess value -1 -119 -120 Net excess value 3 -99 659 563 STATKRAFT AS Fair value of net acquired assets, excluding goodwill -1 153 1 225 1 377 Of which Controlling interests -1 153 1 225 1 377 Total -1 153 1 225 1 377 Total acquisition cost 372 1 344 1 716 Fair value of net acquired assets, excluding goodwill (controlling interest) -1 153 1 225 1 377 Goodwill 1 219 119 339 SUSTAINABILITY NOK million Tidong Element Power Tamar Total Book value of net acquired assets in 2018 Intangible assets 371 6 378 Property, plant and equipment 392 1 727 1 120 Deferred tax assets 2 2 Other non-current assets 34 11 45 Non-current assets 426 372 747 1 545 Cash and cash equivalents 15 150 165 Inventories 12 12 Receivables 1 48 49 Current assets 1 15 210 226 Acquired assets 427 387 957 1 771 Deferred tax 1 1 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 342 38 337 717 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 2 19 21 Taxes payable 24 24 Other interest-free liabilities 87 97 10 195 Net value of acquired assets -4 252 566 814 Total acquisition cost 372 1 344 1 716 Non-cash elements of acquisition cost Consideration and cost in cash and cash equivalents 372 1 344 1 716 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 15 150 165 Net cash payments in connection with the acquisitions 357 1 194 1 551 Contribution to gross operating revenues and other income since acquisition date 7 7 Contribution to net profit since acquisition date -8 -15 -23 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 76 Note 6 Management of capital structure The target for the Group’s management of its capital structure is related to long-term credit rating. Statkraft AS has a long-term credit rating of A(stable outlook) from Standard & Poor’s and BBB+ (stable outlook) from Fitch Ratings. Statkraft’s target is to maintain its current ratings. The tools for long-term management of the capital structure consist primarily of the draw-down and repayment of long-term liabilities and payments of share capital from/to the owner. In addition, the Group may also adjust the level of investments to manage its capital structure. The Group endeavours to obtain external financing from various capital markets. The Group is not subject to any external requirements with regards to the management of capital structure other than those relating to the market’s expectations and the owner’s dividend expectations. There were no changes in the Group’s targets and guidelines governing the management of capital structure in 2019. GROUP Overview of capital included in management of capital structure NOK million Note 2019 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 32 28 160 30 354 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 32 4 479 6 346 STATKRAFT AS Financial investments, current -1 470 -604 Cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted cash 30 -15 168 -23 114 Net interest-bearing liabilities 16 001 12 982 SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 77 Note 7 Market risk in the Group RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS GENERALLY Statkraft is engaged in activities that entail risk in many areas and has a unified approach to the Group’s market risks. The Group’s risk management policy is based upon assuming the right risk based on the Group’s ability and willingness to take risks, expertise, financial strength and development plans. The purpose of risk management is to identify threats and opportunities for the Group, and to manage the overall risk level to provide reasonable assurance that the Group’s objectives will be met. In Statkraft, market risk will primarily relate to prices of energy and commodities, interest rates and foreign currencies. The following section contains a more detailed description of the various types of market risk, and how these are managed. GROUP MARKET RISK RELATED TO PRICES ON ENERGY AND COMMODITIES Statkraft is exposed to significant market risk in relation to the generation and trading of power. Revenues from power generation are exposed to volume and power price risk. The company has an advanced energy management process and aims to have production capacity available in periods with high demand. Statkraft manages market risk in the energy markets by trading physical and financial instruments in multiple markets. The production revenues are optimised through financial power trading. Risk management in energy trading in Statkraft focuses on total portfolios rather than individual contracts. Internal guidelines controlling the level of market exposure have been established for all portfolios. Responsibility for the continuous monitoring of granted mandates and frameworks lies with independent organisational units. The frameworks for trading in both financial and physical contracts are continuously monitored. The Group has trading offices located in Oslo, Trondheim, Stockholm, London, Amsterdam, Düsseldorf, Istanbul, Tirana, Rio de Janeiro, San Francisco, New Delhi, Lima, Madrid, Santiago and Lyon. STATKRAFT AS A further description of the risks within the relevant line items in the profit and loss statement can be found below: Sales revenues Generation Statkraft has entered into bilateral physical power sales agreements with industrial customers. The most significant part is related to contracts in Norway. These contracts stabilise Statkraft’s revenues as they normally have fixed prices and volume, although with different durations. A substantial part of the contracted volume is settled in euro, and is therefore subject to a foreign exchange risk. Some of the contracts are indexed to raw materials. Customers This revenue category mainly consists of market access activities. Statkraft purchases power from smaller energy generators and sells the power to power exchanges, which includes handling volume and imbalance risk. Gains and losses from market activities Risk reducing activities In addition to bilateral physical contracts, Statkraft enters into financial contracts, normally forwards and futures, in order to hedge SUSTAINABILITY prices on a certain volume of future spot sales. Statkraft has one Nordic and one Continental dynamic asset management portfolio, managed in Oslo and in Düsseldorf, respectively. The objective of these portfolios is to optimise revenues and reduce the risk levels in Statkraft as a whole. Statkraft performs financial trades in order to generate values from futures and forward markets, in addition to physical production and trading. Mandates to enter into financial contracts are based on volume thresholds related to available production. The risk is quantified using simulations of various scenarios for relevant risk factors. The Nordic and Continental dynamic asset management portfolios consist mainly of financial contracts for power, CO2, coal, gas and oil products. The contracts are traded on energy exchanges and by bilateral contracts. In general, the time horizon for these contracts is less than five years. In addition to risk reducing activities, Statkraft has various trading and origination portfolios that are managed independently of the Group’s expected power generation. Statkraft has allocated risk capital to these activities. Clear guidelines have been established limiting the types of products that can be traded. The mandates are adhered to by applying specified limits for value-at-risk and profit-at-risk. Both methods calculate the maximum potential loss a portfolio can incur, with a given probability factor over a given period of time. The credit risk and operational risk are also quantified in relation to the allocated risk capital. Trading activities The trading activities involve buying and selling standardised and liquid products, such as power, gas, oil, CO2 products and energyrelated metals. The activities also include trading of transportation capacity across borders. The contracts in the trading portfolio have maturities ranging from zero to five years. The aim is to realise profit on changes in the market value of energy and energy-related products. The market risk in these contracts is mainly related to future commodity prices. Origination activities The origination activities include buying and selling both standard and structured products. Structured products are typically environmental certificates or power contracts with tailor made profiles entered into in different currencies. Further, Statkraft enters into long term power purchase and power sales agreement with the aim to provide route to market for renewable energy producers and longterm renewable energy supply to corporate consumers. Depending of the price mechanisms in the power purchase and sales agreements Statkraft may be exposed to a price risk. The price risk is mitigated by entering into financial contracts, mainly forwards and futures, with third parties. Quoted, liquid contracts pertaining to system price, area prices and foreign currency are primarily used to reduce the risk involved in trading structured products and contracts. The majority of the contracts in the portfolio have duration of up to five years, though some contracts run until 2035. FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK Statkraft is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Statkraft uses interest rate and foreign currency derivatives in addition to debt in foreign currency to mitigate these risks. Funding, forwards and swaps in foreign currency in combination with interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired currency and interest structure of the company’s debt portfolio. Statkraft’s methods for managing these risks are described below: Foreign exchange risk Statkraft incurs currency risk in the form of transaction risk, mainly in connection with energy sales revenues, investments and dividends in foreign currency. Translation risk is related to shareholdings in foreign subsidiaries, joint operations and equity accounted investments. Statkraft’s settlement currency at the Nordic power exchange Nord Pool is euro and power contracts traded in the Nordic power exchange Nasdaq are denominated in euro. In addition, most of Statkraft’s bilateral power purchase agreements in Norway and all power purchase and sales abroad are denominated in foreign currency. The objective of Statkraft’s currency hedging is to secure the Norwegian kroner value for future cash flows exposed to exchange risk. Hedging of foreign currency risk is primarily done by allocating appropriate volumes of currency debt to the relevant cash flows. The foreign ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 78 Note 7 continued exchange risk is subject to continuous assessment and treated in accordance with the Group Treasury strategy. Few of these hedging relationships fulfil the requirements of hedge accounting. Interest rate risk Statkraft’s interest rate exposure is related to the Group’s debt portfolio. The Group’s debt portfolio includes all external interest-bearing bonds and loans, commercial papers and external interest rate derivatives in Statkraft AS and its subsidiaries owned more than 50%, according to its pro-rata share. The management of interest rate risk is based on a balance between keeping interest cost low over time and contributing to stabilise the Group’s cash flows with regards to interest rate changes. The interest rate risk is monitored by having duration as measure. Statkraft shall at all times keep the average duration of its debt portfolio within the range of two to five years. Compliance with the limit for currency and interest rate risk is followed up continuously by the middle office function. Responsibility for entering into and following up the various positions has been separated and is allocated to separate organisational units. GROUP Statkraft has established a project to assess the potential economic and accounting consequences of the transition from IBORs to ARRs which is expected to take place in 2021. At the current stage it is too early to draw any conclusions about the potential consequences. STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 79 Note 8 Analysis of market risk GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft follows up market risk within energy optimisation, trading and origination portfolios, currency and interest rate positions, revenues from grid activities and district heating. The Group quantifies risk as deviations from expected net results with a given confidence level (value-at-risk). Market risk is included in these calculations, which are used both in the follow-up of the business areas and business portfolios as well as at Group level as part of reporting to Corporate management and the Board of Directors. Statkraft’s targets for market risk shall in general have a 95% probability of covering all potential losses, i.e deviations from expected results, connected with the market risk of positions at the reporting date during the course of one year. Uncertainty in the underlying instruments/prices and their interrelatedness is calculated using statistical methods. GROUP For contracts in the energy optimisation with exposures beyond one year, only the uncertainty relating to the current year is reflected in the calculations. The market risk in the Trading and Origination portfolios is based on allocated risk capital, which is designed to cover risk at >95% confidence level and exposure beyond one year. The analysis also takes into account correlation, both within the individual areas and between the areas. The diversification effect emerges as the difference between total market risk in the specified areas and total market risk, where the correlation between e.g. power prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates is taken into account. STATKRAFT AS Specification of market risk NOK million 2019 2018 Market risk in energy optimisation (volume risk, spot price risk and hedging) 2 915 2 749 Market risk in trading and origination portfolios 1 100 1 659 Market risk in interest rates and currency positions 37 35 Market risk in distribution grid revenues 30 30 Market risk in district heating 30 30 Total market risk before diversification effects 4 112 4 503 Diversification effects -420 -534 SUSTAINABILITY Total market risk 3 692 3 969 Diversification effect as a percentage 10% 12% Specification of debt by currency 1) 2) NOK million 2019 2018 Debt in NOK 3) -1 903 4 447 Debt in EUR 24 100 23 790 Debt in USD 4 184 3 561 Debt in GBP 556 423 Debt in BRL 1 199 1 737 Debt in INR 664 437 Total 28 801 34 394 1) Includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities (excluding lease liabilities), first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, commercial papers, the currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and the currency effect of combined interest rate and currency swaps. Specifications of debt by currency includes effects from allocated forward exchange rate contracts and combined interest rate and currency swaps since Statkraft uses these derivatives to achieve the desired currency structure for the Group’s debt portfolio. 2) Management of foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk are presented in note 7. 3) The negative figure in NOK reflects the effects from the use of allocated forward exhange contracts and combined interest rate and currency swaps. Specification of interest by currency 1) 2) 2019 2018 Nominal average interest rate NOK 3) n.a 3.30% Nominal average interest rate EUR 1.10% 2.10% Nominal average interest rate USD 3.40% 4.10% Nominal average interest rate GBP 1.60% 0.70% Nominal average interest rate BRL 7.30% 7.80% Nominal average interest rate INR 8.80% 8.80% 1) Includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities (excluding lease liabilities), first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, commercial papers, allocated forward exchange rate contracts, interest rate swaps and combined interest rate and currency swaps. 2) Management of foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk is presented in note 7. 3) Nominal average interest rate in NOK is not applicable to specify because the figure is negative in the above table Specification of debt by currency. See above. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 80 Note 9 Credit risk and liquidity risk GENERAL INFORMATION ON CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that Statkraft incurs losses due to the failure of counterparties to honour their financial obligations. Statkraft is facing credit risk when entering into transactions with financial institutions and providers of clearing services. Credit risk against financial institutions arises from cash or current accounts, deposits, investment of interest bearing securities, derivative transactions and incoming guarantees. Credit risk against providers of clearing services arises from margin requirements settled as cash payments. Statkraft also assumes credit risk when providing loans to associates and joint ventures. In addition, Statkraft assumes credit risk in connection with energy trading and physical sales contracts. Historically, Statkraft’s credit losses have been limited. Statkraft has entered into agreements under which collateral is transferred or received based on the mark-to-market value of interest rate and foreign GROUP exchange derivatives with counterparties. Collateral is transferred or received on a weekly basis. Counterparty credit risk is significantly mitigated by collateral under these agreements. Similar agreements have been established for individual counterparties for financial energy contracts. The credit risk for financial energy contracts which are settled through an energy exchange is considered to be very low. For all other bilateral energy contracts entered into, the counterparty is assigned an internal credit rating and limits are stipulated for the individual counterparty based on the internal credit rating. Statkraft has netting agreements with several of its energy trading counterparties. In the event of default, the netting agreements give a right to a final settlement where all future contract positions are netted and settled. See note 10 for more information. Excess liquidity is managed in a conservative manner considering credit risk, diversification and duration. Management of excess liquidity is handled at Group STATKRAFT AS level. Statkraft’s excess liquidity is mainly held in NOK and invested across various short-term financial instruments such as commercial papers, time deposits and bank deposits. The Group also invest excess liquidity in environmental certificates. Credit and duration limits are stipulated for each counterparty based on credit ratings and total assets. As of 31 December 2019, approximately 16% of the Group’s excess liquidity were held in time deposits, 24% in commercial paper and 60% in overnight bank deposits. In order to reduce credit risk in connection with energy trading and physical sales contracts, bank or parent company guarantees are sometimes requested when entering into such contracts. The bank which issues the guarantee must be an internationally rated commercial bank which meets minimum rating requirements. When parent company guarantees are received, the parent company is assessed by using ordinary internal credit assessments. The individual counterparty exposure and limit are monitored continuously and reported regularly to the CFO. An overall counterparty exposure is reported for all relevant legal entities, in addition to being consolidated at Group level and included in the Group risk management. In accordance with the expected credit loss model introduced by IFRS 9, Statkraft records lifetime expected credit losses on receivables. The loss provision is SUSTAINABILITY based on the Group’s assessment of the expected credit losses, and Statkraft does not expect to incur material losses on its receivables. Statkraft’s gross credit exposure corresponds to the recognised value of financial assets, which are found in the various notes to the statement of financial position. The extent to which relevant and significant collaterals have been provided, is presented below. NOK million Note 2019 2018 Gross exposure credit risk: Other financial assets, non-current 27 3 597 3 986 Derivatives 10 11 446 12 044 Receivables 29 13 348 12 831 Financial investments, current 1 470 604 Cash and cash equivalents 30 15 203 23 175 Gross exposure credit risk 45 065 52 640 Exposure reduced by cash collateral: Cash collateral 32 -1 383 -1 510 Net exposure credit risk 43 682 51 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 81 Note 9 continued GENERAL INFORMATION ON LIQUIDITY RISK The Group’s liquidity risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient funds to meet its payment obligations. The purpose of Statkraft’s liquidity management is to secure fulfilment of payment obligations at all times. Statkraft has incorporated a separate target figure for short term liquidity to ensure that Statkraft has a satisfactory level of liquidity sources, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, short-term financial investments and unused committed credit facilities. The liquidity risk is further mitigated through liquidity forecasts, access to different borrowing sources and markets. The Group plans for an evenly distributed debt redemption profile to keep refinancing risk low. Statkraft issues debt primarily under its Euro Medium Term Note Programme (EUR 6.0 billion), where the programme is listed on the London and Irish Stock Exchange. In addition, the Group has a backup facility of NOK 9.2 billion supported by the Group’s core banks. The back up facility is maturing in 2023. GROUP The main cash outflows include the annual dividend payment, tax payments in addition to planned investments. Maturity schedule, external long-term liabilities NOK million 0-1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years and later Instalments on bond loans from the Norwegian market 2 445 800 1 500 750 Instalments on loans raised in non-Norwegian markets 6 898 4 927 9 778 Instalments on external loans in subsidiaries and other loans 130 1 127 278 243 86 317 STATKRAFT AS Interest payments 518 493 477 225 151 537 Total maturity schedule 2019 3 093 2 421 9 153 5 395 237 11 381 Total maturity schedule 2018 5 429 3 848 2 399 9 355 5 554 12 136 Allocation of derivatives with negative market values The Group has a significant number of financial derivatives, which are presented as derivatives in the balance sheet. In the table below derivatives with negative market value are included. The non-discounted values are allocated to the time intervals based on the contractual due dates. The contractual due dates decide the maturity date and timing of the cash flow for the derivatives. NOK million 0-1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years and later Energy derivatives 6 504 1 190 601 340 305 690 SUSTAINABILITY Interest rateand foreign currency derivatives 124 9 90 30 30 56 Total derivatives 2019 6 628 1 199 691 370 336 746 Total derivatives 2018 9 362 2 508 961 550 475 1 444 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 82 Note 10 Financial instruments GENERAL INFORMATION Financial instruments account for a significant part of Statkraft’s statement of financial position and are of material importance for the Group’s results. Most of the financial instruments can be placed into three main categories; energy trading, hedging of future revenues from generation and financial activities. In addition, Statkraft has other financial instruments such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, cash, short-term financial investments and equity investments. Financial instruments in energy trading Financial instruments are used within in the trading and origination activities. The trading and origination activities are managed independently of the Group’s energy production. Their main objectives are to achieve profit from changes in the market value of energy and energy-related financial products, as well as profit from non-standard contracts. Financial instruments in energy trading mainly consist of financial and GROUP physical agreements relating to purchase and sale of power, gas, oil, coal, carbon quotas and environmental certificates. Financial instruments in hedging of future revenues from generation Financial instruments are also used as part of the Group’s financial hedging strategy for continuous optimisation of future revenues from the expected generation from own assets. Derivatives recognised in the statement of financial position are shown as separate items and are measured at fair value with changes in value recognised in the profit and loss statement. Due to hedging of future income, the effect of changes in value of financial energy derivatives may have major effects on the profit and loss statement without necessarily reflecting the underlying business activities. Financial instruments in financial activities Financial instruments used in financial activities primarily consist of bonds, commercial papers, loans, interest rate swaps, combined interest rate and currency swaps and forward exchange contracts. To mitigate currency and interest rate risks, Statkraft applies interest rate and foreign currency derivatives in addition to debt in foreign currency. Hedge accounting is reflected in the financial statements for selected loan STATKRAFT AS arrangements where the interest rate has been changed from fixed to floating (fair value hedging), and hedging of some net investments in foreign units. Because not all financial hedging relationships are reflected in the financial statements, changes in value for financial instruments may result in volatility in the profit and loss statement without necessarily reflecting the underlying business activities. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial instruments are recognised when Statkraft becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are classified on the basis of the nature and purpose of the instruments into the categories “financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss”, “financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income” and “financial instruments at amortised cost”. Initial measurement is fair value for all categories. The content of the categories and subsequent measurement are described below. SUSTAINABILITY Financial instruments measured at fair value through profit and loss  Physical power sales contracts which are considered to be ready convertible to cash and are not entered into for own use.  Financial contracts to purchase and sell energy-related products classified as derivatives.  Embedded derivatives are separated and treated as derivatives when the risks and characteristics of the derivative are not closely related to the host contract, and the host contract is not measured at fair value.  Currency and interest rate derivatives.  Long-term shares, were Statkraft does not have control or significant influence, are measured at fair value through profit and loss, unless Statkraft applies the option to recognise changes in fair value through other comprehensive income.  Other short-term financial assets held for trading. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Long-term shares, were Statkraft does not have control or significant influence, are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income when this option is applied. The changes in fair value will not be recycled to profit and loss. Dividends are recognised in the profit and loss statement as part of Other financial items. Financial instruments at amortised cost Asset debt instruments are classified in this category when the cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest and Statkraft intends to hold the asset to the maturity date. Liability debt instruments are classified in this category unless they are held for trading. The instruments, both assets and liabilities, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, where the effective interest remains the same over the entire term of the instrument. Financial assets at amortised cost are adjusted for provision for impairment in accordance with the expected credit loss model. Credit losses are deducted from the carrying value and recognised in the profit and loss statement. ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENT Statkraft has a significant volume of energy contracts. A characteristic with energy contracts is that they can be accounted for as financial instruments or as contracts with customers, depending on the terms and conditions. Certain energy contracts are no longer considered as lease contracts, but are now within scope of IFRS 9. See note 13 for more information. “Own use” contracts Energy contracts that are entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the power in accordance with Statkraft’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements are accounted for as own use contracts. These contracts do not qualify for recognition in the statement of financial position in accordance with IFRS 9 but are accounted for as contracts with customers after IFRS 15 and energy purchase. “Own use” contracts will typically have a stable customer base e.g. bilateral industry contracts, and are always settled by physical delivery. Energy contracts that can be settled net and that are not within the own use exemption, shall be accounted for as derivatives (financial instruments). Management has applied their best judgement when determining the classification of energy contact as financial instruments or own use contracts. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 83 Note 10 continued ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Fair value hierarchy Financial assets and financial liabilities measured and held at fair value are classified into one of three categories, known as hierarchy levels which are defined according to the inputs used to determine fair value: Level 1: Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2: Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be directly observable inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. Level 3: Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management’s best estimate of fair value. GROUP Level 3 consists of investments in shares and energy derivatives where observable data is not available or does not cover the whole contract period. Observable data (quoted futures) for energy derivatives will normally be available for two to five years ahead of time. If the duration of the contract is longer than the period where observable data exists, the entire contract is a level 3 contract. Energy contracts within the level 3 category mainly consists of physical and financial energy contracts and embedded derivatives from bilateral power sales contracts. A significant part of the embedded derivatives consists of foreign exchange derivatives. These are not affected by estimated future power prices. The discounted cash flow method is used. Valuation of energy derivatives within level 3 is based on observable market data or estimated with reference to published quotations for the short-term where this is available. For periods observable market data is not available fair value is based on valuation techniques the input of which include data that is not based on or derived from observable market data. For certain contracts, a rebate is included in fair value due to factors such as area prices, contract length, volume, quality factor or other contract specific risks. Where the calculated fair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price a day one gain or loss arises. STATKRAFT AS Such gains and losses are deferred, not recognized, and amortized to the profit and loss based on the purchased or delivered volumes over the contractual period until observable market data becomes available. Any gains and losses arising from subsequent changes in the fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss and are presented on a net basis if these are entered into for trading purposes. Exchange traded contracts are normally discounted with a risk-free rate. For most bilateral contracts, a credit spread is included in the discount rate. Valuation of investments in shares within level 3 is based on management’s best knowledge of market conditions within the relevant industry. Changes in fair value of these investments are not considered to have any material effects on the Group’s financial statements. DESCRIPTION OF CONTRACTS AND ASSUMPTIONS Energy contracts Energy exchange contracts are valued at official closing rates on the reporting date. SUSTAINABILITY For other bilateral energy contracts, the expected cash flow is stipulated on the basis of a market price curve on the reporting date. The market price curve is stipulated on the basis from official closing rates quoted on energy exchanges. Several energy contracts refer to area prices. These contracts are valued using the official closing rates on energy exchanges, where such exist. Separate models are used for regional prices where official closing prices are unavailable. Statkraft has energy contracts where the contract price is indexed against raw materials such as metal, paper, gas, petroleum products and coal. These are valued using forward prices from relevant commodity exchanges and major financial institutions. Several energy contracts have prices in different currencies. Quoted foreign exchange rates from The European Central Bank (ECB) are used in the valuation of contracts denominated in foreign currency. If there are no quotes for the entire period, then the interest parity is used to calculate exchange rates. The market interest rate curve e.g. swap interest rate, is used as the basis for discounting derivatives. The market interest rate curve is stipulated on the basis of the publicised swap interest rates. A credit surcharge is added to the market interest rate curve in cases where the credit risk is relevant. This applies to all external bilateral contracts classified as assets and liabilities. Environmental certificate derivatives  CO2 contracts are priced based on the forward price of European Union Allowance (EUA) quotas and Certified Emission Reduction (CER) quotas.  Green certificate derivatives are valued at forward price. Currency and interest rate derivatives The fair value of interest rate swaps and combined interest rate and currency swaps, is determined by discounting expected future cash flows to present value through the use of observed market interest rates and quoted exchange rates from ECB. The valuation of forward currency exchange contracts is based on quoted exchange rates from which the forward exchange rate is extrapolated. Estimated net present value is subject to a test of reasonableness against calculations made by the counterparties to the contracts. Commercial papers and bonds held for trading are valued at listed prices. Shares and shareholdings are valued at quoted prices when available. Other securities are valued by discounting expected future cash flows. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 84 Note 10 continued Fair value hierarchy 2019 Fair value measurement at period-end using: NOK million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss Energy derivatives, non-current assets 4 1 296 196 1 497 Energy derivatives, current assets 921 5 186 2 541 8 647 GROUP Energy derivatives, non-current liabilities -3 -774 -777 Energy derivatives, current liabilities -679 -5 444 -3 239 -9 362 Energy derivatives, net 246 1 036 -1 277 5 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current assets 1 197 1 197 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current assets 104 104 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current liabilities -206 -206 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current liabilities -133 -133 Currency and interest rate derivatives, net 963 963 Other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss STATKRAFT AS Shares 345 345 Financial investments, current 1 082 389 1 470 Commercial papers and other interest-bearing securities 3 707 3 707 Total 1 082 4 096 345 5 522 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Shares 133 133 2018 Fair value measurement at period-end using: NOK million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss Energy derivatives, non-current assets 1 315 336 1 651 SUSTAINABILITY Energy derivatives, current assets 105 5 204 3 244 8 553 Energy derivatives, non-current liabilities -449 -179 -628 Energy derivatives, current liabilities -237 -8 658 -3 721 -12 616 Energy derivatives, net -132 -2 587 -320 -3 039 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current assets 1 275 1 275 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current assets 565 565 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current liabilities -625 -625 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current liabilities -509 -509 Currency and interest rate derivatives, net 706 706 Other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Shares 207 207 Financial investments, current 524 81 604 Commercial papers and short term bonds 7 880 7 880 Total 8 404 81 207 8 691 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Shares 109 109 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 85 Note 10 continued Assets and liabilities measured at fair value based on Level 3 NOK million Assets Liabilities Total Opening balance 01.01.2019 3 895 -3 900 -5 Unrealised changes in value recognised in profit and loss -841 -51 -892 Changes in value recognised in other comprehensive income 27 27 Additions or derecognitions 118 118 Transfers into or out of Level 3 45 -88 -43 Currency translation effects -31 25 -6 Closing balance 31.12.2019 3 214 -4 014 -800 GROUP Net realised gain (+)/loss (-) recognised in profit and loss 2019 46 Opening balance 01.01.2018 1 674 -2 105 -431 Unrealised changes in value recognised in profit and loss 1 943 -1 815 128 Changes in value recognised in other comprehensive income -33 -33 Additions or derecognitions 40 40 Transfers into or out of Level 3 239 64 303 Currency translation effects 33 -44 -11 Closing balance 31.12.2018 3 895 -3 900 -5 STATKRAFT AS Net realised gain (+)/loss (-) recognised in profit and loss 2018 -19 Sensitivity analysis of factors classified to Level 3 NOK million 10% reduction 10% increase Net effect from power prices -789 495 The effects are not symmetrical due to volume flexibility in the contracts. Assets and liabilities recognised at amortised cost Amortised cost Fair value 1) Amortised cost Fair value 1) NOK million Note 2019 2019 2018 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Financial assets at amortised cost Loans to equity accounted investments, non-current 27 1 463 2 244 Bonds and other long-term receivables 27 770 932 Accounts receivable 29 8 024 7 439 Loans to equity accounted investments, current 29 55 75 Cash collateral and margin calls 29 3 035 3 351 Other receivables 2) 29 965 917 Cash and cash deposits 30 11 496 15 295 Total 25 810 30 253 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 32 -3 050 -3 150 -6 050 -6 192 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 32 -21 603 -23 177 -21 770 -22 911 Lease liabilities (non-current) 32 -1 457 External debt in subsidiaries and other debt 32 -2 051 -2 055 -2 535 -2 468 Cash collateral 32 -1 383 -1 510 First year’s instalment on long-term debt 32 -2 575 -2 576 -4 440 -4 546 Lease liabilities (current) 32 -217 Other interest-bearing short-term debt 32 -304 -397 Accounts payable 33 -1 593 -1 115 Accrued interest-free liabilities 33 -5 812 -5 658 Other -1 519 -2 364 Total -41 564 -45 837 1) Fair value is not disclosed when the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 2) Amount differs from note 29 since prepaid expenses and indirect taxes are not included in note 10. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 86 Note 10 continued NETTING AGREEMENTS 2019 Financial assets Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount Amount offset amount balance sheet received Net value Energy derivatives 22 102 11 958 10 144 1 382 8 762 Currency and interest rate derivatives 1 302 1 302 1 348 -46 Total derivatives (current and non-current) 23 404 11 958 11 446 2 729 8 716 GROUP Receivables 20 426 7 078 13 348 33 13 315 Financial liabilities Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount Amount offset amount balance sheet pledged Net value Energy derivatives -22 097 -11 958 -10 139 -2 818 -7 322 Currency and interest rate derivatives -339 -339 -218 -121 Total derivatives (current and non-current) -22 436 -11 958 -10 478 -3 035 -7 443 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current -28 160 -28 160 -28 160 STATKRAFT AS Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed -16 798 -7 078 -9 720 -33 -9 687 2018 Financial assets Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount 1) Amount offset 1) amount balance sheet received Net value Energy derivatives 28 077 17 872 10 205 97 10 107 Currency and interest rate derivatives 1 840 1 840 1 412 427 Total derivatives (current and non-current) 29 917 17 872 12 044 1 510 10 534 Receivables 21 505 8 674 12 831 12 831 SUSTAINABILITY 1) The figures for Energy derivatives are restated to reflect a gross amount measured to fair value. Financial liabilities Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount 1) Amount offset 1) amount balance sheet pledged Net value Energy derivatives -31 116 -17 872 -13 244 -2 834 -10 410 Currency and interest rate derivatives -1 134 -1 134 -518 -616 Total derivatives (current and non-current) -32 250 -17 872 -14 377 -3 351 -11 026 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current -30 354 -30 354 -15 -30 339 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed -18 416 -8 674 -9 742 -9 742 1) The figures for Energy derivatives are restated to reflect a gross amount measured to fair value. The tables show a reconciliation of gross amounts, booked amounts and net value (net exposure) of financial instruments where there are netting agreements or similar. A financial asset and a financial liability are presented net in the statement of financial position when Statkraft has a legally enforceable right to offset the asset and the liability, and intends to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and the liability simultaneously. For energy derivatives, futures and spot transactions, Statkraft has agreements with counterparties based on various types of master agreements setting the standard terms and conditions between the two parties. In general, the master netting agreements permit netting of payments and involve offsetting cash flows between the two parties when certain conditions are met, such as same currency and maturity. The master agreements further serve to mitigate exposure to credit loss by allowing off-setting when an agreement is terminated, provided that such offsetting is permitted within the jurisdiction of the counterparty. Termination can occur for instance if a party is bankrupt or has defaulted on the agreement. Such close-out netting does not in itself meet the criteria of offsetting in the statement of the financial position. Currency and interest rate derivatives are booked net for each contract in the statement of financial position. Financial collateral is typically cash collateral and margin payments to/from counterpart, usually a bank or a clearing house. Financial collateral can also be cash set a side on a restricted bank account to cover forthcoming interest payments and instalments on a loan. In the tables, the energy, currency and interest rate derivatives are separated in assets and liabilities. Cash collaterals received or pledged are booked net per counterpart and presented as current assets/liabilities, regardless of the maturity of the corresponding derivative. The derivatives, both current and noncurrent, are therefore presented on the same line item in the table above. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 87 Note 11 Hedge accounting GENERAL INFORMATION For information about how Statkraft manages interest rate and foreign exchange risks, see note 7. Statkraft is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risks and use financial instruments to mitigate these risks. Statkraft often manages the risk on a net basis, where few of the hedging relationships fulfil the requirement of hedge accounting. The main objective of the hedge accounting strategy is to reduce the volatility in the profit and loss statement. Fair value hedging Two loan arrangements are treated as fair value hedges. Issued bonds have been designated as hedging items in the hedging relationships, and the associated interest rate swaps have been designated as hedging instruments. The hedging items are fixed-interest rate bonds with a total nominal value of EUR 750 million. The hedging instruments are interest rate swaps with a nominal value of EUR 750 million, entered into with major banks as the counterparties. The agreements swap interest rate from fixed to floating 3-month EURIBOR. The objective of the economic hedging arrangements is to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of the borrowings, which are issued at a fixed rate (interest rate risk). GROUP EUR 100 million in issued bond and the corresponding interest rate swap of EUR 100 million were discontinued in 2019 due to repayment of the debt. Critical terms of the hedging items and hedging instruments are deemed to be approximately the same and there was no significant impact in profit and loss resulting from ineffectiveness. Hedging of net investments in foreign operation It was not established any hedging contracts of net investments in foreign operations in 2019, and there were no hedging of net investments in foreign operations in 2019. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES STATKRAFT AS Financial instruments designated as hedging instruments Financial instruments that are designated as hedging instruments or hedged items in hedge accounting are identified based on the intention with entering into a financial instrument. In a fair value hedge the value change will meet the corresponding change in value of the hedged item and presented in the same line item in the profit and loss and statement of financial position. The value changes from hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on debt entered into to hedge net investments in a foreign entity are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and recycled to profit and loss upon disposal of the foreign entity. The ineffectiveness from the hedges is recognised in profit and loss. We refer to the amendments to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 as a response to the IBOR reform. Statkraft made an early adoption of the amendments in the standards and the amendments are effective from 2019. The amendments modified some specific hedge accounting requirements and provided relief from any potential effects of the uncertainty caused by the IBOR reform. For Statkraft the IBOR reform has no effects related to fair value hedging in 2019 and it is not necessary to discontinue any of the hedging relationships. SUSTAINABILITY Hedging instruments Nominal amount Line item in the statement of financial Changes in fair value used for of the hedging Carrying amount of the hedging position where the hedging calculating hedge ineffectiveness instrument instrument 1) instrument is located during the period NOK million Assets Liabilities 2019 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps MEUR 750 267 Interest-bearing liabilties 95 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Forward exchange rate contracts 2018 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps MEUR 850 172 Interest-bearing liabilties 36 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Forward exchange rate contracts 47 1) Accrued interest is not a part of the carrying amount. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 88 Note 11 continued Hedging instruments timing profile NOK million 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years and later 2019 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps MEUR 500 MEUR 250 2018 Fair value hedges GROUP Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps MEUR 100 MEUR 500 MEUR 250 Hedged items Line item in the STATKRAFT AS statement of Changes in value Accumulated amount of fair value financial position used for Nominal amount hedge adjustment on the hedged item where in which calculating hedge of the hedged included in the carrying amount of the the hedged item ineffectiveness for Net investment item Carrying amount of the hedged item1) hedged item1) is included the period hedge reserve NOK million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2019 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: InterestFixed rate borrowing MEUR 750 -7 633 -267 bearing -90 liabilties Net investment SUSTAINABILITY hedges Foreign exchange risk: Discontinued net investments hedges in foreign operations 2018 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: InterestFixed rate borrowing MEUR 850 -8 593 -177 bearing -33 liabilties Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Discontinued net investments hedges in MGBP 220 -47 -321 foreign operations 1) Accrued interest is not a part of the carrying amount. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 89 Note 11 continued Hedging effectiveness Change in the value of the hedging Amount instrument reclassified from Line item affected recognised in Hedge Line item in profit net investment in profit and loss other ineffectiveness and loss (that hedge reserve to statement comprehensive recogniced in includes hedge profit and loss because of the NOK million income profit and loss ineffectiveness) statement reclassifications 2019 GROUP Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Other financial items Fixed rate borrowing 5 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Net investments in foreign operations 2018 STATKRAFT AS Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Other financial items Fixed rate borrowing 2 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Net investments in foreign operations 47 SUSTAINABILITY Hedging reserves Foreign NOK million exchange risk 2019 Net investment hedge reserve Balance at 01.01 -321 Hedging gain or loss Balance at 31.12 -321 2018 Net investment hedge reserve Balance at 01.01 -368 Hedging gain or loss 47 Balance at 31.12 -321 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 90 Note 12 Sales revenues and energy purchase GENERAL INFORMATION The Group’s sales revenues and energy purchase are divided into three categories: Generation includes sales revenues and energy purchase related to Statkraft’s physical power generating assets and district heating. The category includes spot sales, bilateral industry contracts, concessionary sales contracts and certain environmental certificates. Customers includes sales revenues and energy purchase related to market access activities, mostly related to the German market. Grid and other mainly consists of grid activities in Norway and Peru, a subsea interconnector between Sweden and Germany, rental of power plants in Norway and downstream market services in the UK. The revenues from rental of power plants in Norway have been reclassified from Other operating income to Sales revenues in the category Grid and other. GROUP Comparable figures have been restated. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The main principle under IFRS 15 is to recognise revenue at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. To achieve this, IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model to account for revenues arising from contracts with customers. STATKRAFT AS Generation The revenues from Generation bear the characteristic of delivering power at a certain price. The performance obligation is to deliver a series of distinct goods (power) and the transaction price is the consideration Statkraft expects to receive, at either spot price, regulated price or contract price. The performance obligation is satisfied over time which entails that revenue should be recognised for each unit delivered at the transaction price. Statkraft applies a practical expedient under IFRS 15 whereby the revenue from power for most of the contracts is recognised at the amount of which the entity has a right to invoice. The right to invoice power arises when power is produced and delivered and the right to invoice the consideration will normally correspond directly with the value to the customer. In arrangements where Statkraft sells power on an exchange (e.g. Nord Pool), the exchange is determined to be the customer. This is based on the fact that Statkraft has enforceable contracts with the exchanges. In certain jurisdictions, Statkraft is required by law to cede a share of the power generation to counties and municipalities where the power is generated. Statkraft has concluded that income from delivery of concessionary power does not arise from a contract with a customer under IFRS 15. However, Statkraft SUSTAINABILITY applies the principles and policies in IFRS 15 by analogy and presents income from sale of concessionary power as revenues. Government grants are conditional to own generation of power from certain technologies. The right to receive the grants are obtained at the time of generation, and at the point of generation there is a reasonable assurance that Statkraft complies with the conditions related to the government grants and that the grants will be received. The grants are closely connected to the generation and the income is therefore presented as sales revenues and revenue category generation. The recognised amount from government grants was NOK 531 million for 2019 (NOK 881 million). With regards to district heating, the Group receives monetary contributions from customers related to infrastructure assets. Refer to Grid and other for further description. Customers When other parties are involved in providing goods or services to Statkraft’s customers, Statkraft has to determine whether its performance obligation is to provide the good or service itself (i.e. Statkraft is a principal) or to arrange for those goods or services to be provided by another party (i.e. Statkraft is an agent). In assessing whether Statkraft is agent or principal, Statkraft considers its contractual rights to direct the use of the electricity, balancing risk, discretion prices of the deliveries and whether Statkraft acts as the primary obligor of the deliveries. If Statkraft is a principal, the remuneration received from the customer is presented gross as sales revenues. The corresponding energy purchase is presented gross on a separate line item in the profit and loss statement. If Statkraft is an agent, the compensation for the service delivered is presented net as revenues. With the transition to IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019, certain contracts are no longer presented gross as lease contracts, but are within the scope of IFRS 9. See note 13. The impact of changing accounting principles was a decrease in sales revenues and energy purchase compared with the 2018 presentation. In 2018 Statkraft recognised sales revenues of approximately NOK 9 billion from these power purchase agreements. Comparable figures for 2018 have not been restated. Grid and other Revenues from grid activities have the same characteristics as those described under Generation. Statkraft applies a practical expedient under IFRS 15 whereby the revenues from transportation of power is recognised at the amount to which the entity has a right to invoice. The Group receives monetary contributions from customers in different jurisdictions in aid of construction of infrastructure connecting the customers to the grid for electricity or to district heating. Contributions to infrastructure assets represent payments which are to be evaluated together with pricing of future deliveries by Statkraft to the customer (one performance obligation) and revenue is therefore recognised over time. Statkraft has considered that it is appropriate to recognise these revenues over the expected useful life of the infrastructure assets. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 91 Note 12 Continued Specification per revenue category European European Statkraft flexible Market International wind and District Industrial Other NOK million AS Group generation operations power solar heating ownership activities Group items 2019 Generation sales revenues 26 138 19 323 22 2 791 1 260 902 2 095 -254 Generation energy purchase -2 139 -1 662 -22 -250 -266 -51 113 Generation net 24 000 17 660 2 542 1 260 636 2 044 -141 GROUP Customers sales revenues 13 588 14 575 3 -990 Customers energy purchase -13 515 -14 505 1 990 Customers net 73 70 4 Grid and other sales revenues 3 724 1 168 1 127 256 13 1 192 18 -50 Grid and other energy purchase -829 -642 -47 -187 47 Grid and other net 2 894 526 1 080 69 13 1 192 18 -3 Sales revenues total 43 450 20 490 15 725 3 048 1 260 915 3 289 18 -1 295 Energy purchase total -16 483 -2 305 -14 575 -437 -266 -50 1 150 STATKRAFT AS Sales revenues adjusted for energy purchase 26 967 18 186 1 149 2 611 1 260 649 3 239 18 -144 2018 Generation sales revenues 26 973 20 092 185 2 387 1 267 881 2 451 -290 Generation energy purchase -1 334 -925 -167 -166 -258 -47 228 Generation net 25 638 19 167 18 2 221 1 267 623 2 404 -62 Customers sales revenues 1) 26 946 26 153 1 183 -390 Customers energy purchase 1) -25 606 -25 671 -1 002 1 067 Customers net 1 340 482 181 677 Grid and other sales revenues 2) 2 969 1 286 319 214 12 1 189 -50 SUSTAINABILITY Grid and other energy purchase -917 -739 -45 -156 -23 45 Grid and other net 2 052 547 273 58 12 1 166 -4 Sales revenues total 56 888 21 378 26 657 2 601 1 267 893 4 822 -731 Energy purchase total -27 858 -1 664 -25 884 -322 -258 -1 071 1 340 Sales revenues adjusted for energy purchase 29 030 19 714 774 2 279 1 267 635 3 752 610 1) Sales revenues and energy purchase were reported NOK 1 050 million too low in 2018, and have been restated. This was related to market access activities in Germany. 2) NOK 488 million in revenues from rental of power plants in Norway have been reclassified from Other operating income to Sales revenues in 2018. Specification per geographical area External sales revenues are allocated on the basis of the geographical origin of generating assets or activities. Geographical areas Statkraft NOK million AS Group Norway Germany Sweden UK Other 2019 Sales revenues external 43 450 22 464 12 042 3 188 2 423 3 334 Generation 26 138 18 077 2 635 2 650 187 2 589 Customers 13 588 2 764 9 190 1 141 493 Grid and other 3 724 1 622 217 538 1 094 252 2018 Sales revenues external 56 888 24 859 14 681 3 092 10 780 3 475 Generation 26 973 19 929 1 610 2 881 218 2 335 Customers 26 946 3 264 12 447 19 10 296 920 Grid and other 2 969 1 667 624 192 266 221 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 92 Note 12 Continued Further specification of sales revenues for revenue category Generation: Generation sales revenues NOK million 2019 2018 Spot sales 16 102 17 257 Long term contracts 8 085 7 470 Concessionary power 397 378 District heating 1 024 987 Environmental certificates 531 881 Generation sales revenues 26 138 26 973 GROUP The Customers category mainly relates to market access activities in Europe. Statkraft offers market access services to small producers of renewable energy. These services include wind forecasting, nomination, balancing, settlement and necessary IT systems in order to market the power. The main objective is to achieve low imbalance costs. The market access business is a low margin activity combined with large scale, where the power is sold through the power exchanges. The most significant revenues are in Germany, see specification per geographical area on previous page. Further specification of sales revenues for revenue category Grid and other: Grid and other sales revenues NOK million 2019 2018 Distribution grid 1 446 1 369 STATKRAFT AS Subsea cable 722 798 Revenues from rental of power plants 1) 445 488 Downstream market services in the UK 1 080 271 Miscellaneous 30 44 Grid and other sales revenues 3 724 2 969 1)Revenues from power plants that are leased to third parties are presented as sales revenues, while expenses related to the operations of the power plants are recognised under operating expenses. SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 93 Note 13 Gains/losses from market activities GENERAL INFORMATION Risk reducing activities consist of financial power contracts that mitigate price risk related to power generation. The activities also include the dynamic asset management portfolios. Trading activities include buying and selling standardised and liquid products, such as power, oil and gas contracts. Origination activities include buying and selling both standardised and structured energy-related products and services. It also includes certain market access activities. GROUP Embedded derivatives are related to long-term power sales agreements with industrial customers in Norway, where the contracts are nominated in euro and/or where the pricing is linked to certain commodity prices. For more information on the categories above, see note 7. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Derivatives Risk reducing derivatives and most of the contracts within trading and origination are recognised as derivatives at fair value through profit and loss (see note 10). The gains and losses consist of both realised and unrealised items and are presented net. Embedded derivatives The foreign exchange exposure Statkraft takes on by nominating power sale contracts with Norwegian industrial customers in euro is STATKRAFT AS considered to be an embedded derivative. In addition, some of these contracts are linked to the development of commodity prices. These derivatives are separated from its host contract and recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position. See note 10. Certain contracts were prior to 1 January 2019 recognised under IAS 17 Leases, and the power purchase from the generators and power sales to the exchange were presented gross in the statement of profit and loss in line items energy purchase and sales revenues respectively. Statkraft is providing market access to renewable energy producers by entering into long-term power purchase agreements, handling the volume and balancing risk and selling the power to the exchange. Depending on the price mechanisms in the power purchase agreements with the producers, Statkraft is exposed to a price risk. The price risk is mitigated by entering into financial contracts, mainly futures and forwards, with third parties. In addition, risk reduction measures are taken to secure future margins from the portfolio. The contracts are not considered to meet the requirements to be classified as contracts held for normal purchase or sale (own use). Statkraft accounts for the contracts as derivatives measured at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with IFRS 9. At the settlement date, Statkraft physically settles the contracts by taking delivery of the power and selling the power to the exchange. The contracts are presented net under the line item “Gains/losses from market activities” in the statement of profit and loss. SUSTAINABILITY The impact of changing accounting principles was a decrease in sales revenues and energy purchase compared with the 2018 presentation. In 2018 Statkraft recognised sales revenues of approximately NOK 9 billion from these power purchase agreements. Comparable figures for 2018 have not been restated. The impact from measuring these contracts at fair value at 1 January 2019 was an increase in equity of NOK 380 million. Gains/losses from market activities NOK million 2019 2018 1) Risk reducing activities 1 278 -1 236 Trading activities 1 884 266 Origination activities 1 355 -394 Embedded derivatives in energy contracts -801 -333 Total 3 716 -1 696 1) NOK -252 million was incorrectly reported as trading activities in 2018, this should have been reported as Risk reducing activities. Figures have been restated. Note 14 Other operating income Other operating income NOK million Note 2019 2018 Gains from divestments of business activities 5 55 1 449 Miscellaneous other operating income 1) 712 643 Total 767 2 092 1) Includes income from an insurance settlement related to a hydropower plant in Turkey and income related to sale of a wind power project. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 94 Note 15 Impairments SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the end of every quarter. When there are indicators that future earnings cannot justify the carrying value, the recoverable amount is calculated to consider whether an allowance for impairment must be made. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not depreciated, but are considered for impairment once every year and when there are circumstances or indicators implying an impairment test should be performed. Previously impaired non-financial assets, except goodwill, are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. For the purposes of assessing impairment losses, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units (CGUs)). CGUs in Statkraft are identified as follows: Hydropower Power plants sharing the same water flow and/or being subject to the same infrastructure limitation are managed together to optimise power GROUP generation. Wind farms The individual wind farm. Gas-fired power plants A gas-fired power plant normally constitutes a CGU unless two or more plants are controlled and optimised together so that revenues are not independent of each other. District heating Each plant together with associated infrastructure including distribution networks. STATKRAFT AS Biomass power plants The individual biomass power plants. Goodwill Segment is the lowest CGU level used when testing goodwill for impairment. Equity accounted investments are tested for impairment when there are indications of possible loss in value. An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount, estimated as the higher of fair value less cost to sell or value in use, is below the carrying value. Impairments in equity accounted investments are presented as a part of share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments in the profit and loss statement. ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Indicator assessment In accordance with the ordinary reporting procedures, impairment of the carrying value of an asset is reviewed on a quarterly basis. SUSTAINABILITY Indicators that might give rise to an impairment loss are analysed and discussed by the segments and the Group’s specialists. If indicators are identified, calculations will be made and if the carrying value is higher than the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the financial statement. Analogue procedures are performed regarding reversal of earlier impairment. The Audit committee is informed of any impairment issues on a quarterly basis. Special attention is given to assets where one or more of the following situations are present:  The difference between carrying value and recoverable amount is marginal.  Regulatory environment are unclear or project execution is uncertain.  Structural changes in market conditions that lead to changes in the expected long-term power prices.  Impairment loss has been assessed in earlier periods. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Value in use is calculated as future expected cash flows discounted by using a required rate of return equal to the market’s required rate of return for corresponding assets in the same industry. The operating expenses are derived from the current year’s expenses and next year’s budget. Restructuring activities that the Group has not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance in the CGU being tested, are not included. Expected maintenance investments are included for commissioned power plants. Provision for decommissioning is not usually included in the value in use calculation. When determining the value in use for property, plant and equipment under construction, remaining investments approved by Statkraft’s management are included. Assumptions applied when assessing value in use The recoverable amount is sensitive to the long-term price forecast for power, expected production volumes and the discount rate. Power prices:  For the short-term period, typically the first five years, observable market prices are applied as a basis for estimating future revenues.  For the long-term period, typically ten years subsequent of the balance sheet date, estimated revenues are based on Statkraft’s long-term price forecast for power, as described in note 2.  For the period between short-term and long-term period the prices are interpolated. Production volumes The production volume used in the discounted cash flow analyses is the long-term expected production volume for any given site, taking into account all expected technical, hydrological and wake losses. The volume estimate is a combination of information from turbine suppliers, third-party consultants and Statkraft’s internal estimates. Discount rate Calculated value in use is based on nominal discount rates after tax, whereas the tax effects are considered in the calculated cash flows. This means that the recoverable amount calculated is consistent with before-tax calculations. The discount rates applied take into account the risk profile of the asset or asset class in the relevant market. Assumptions applied when assessing fair value less cost to sell A fair value less cost to sell approach is applied for assets operating in a market where observable transactions for comparable assets exist. This is applied for onshore wind assets in the UK, where the fair value of the CGUs was derived from comparable onshore wind transactions in the UK market. The valuation model applied is based on multiples for annual power production. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 95 Note 15 continued Impairment losses recognised in the profit and loss statement NOK million 2019 2018 Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 900 167 Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -1 035 Total impairment losses/reversal of impairment in consolidated business -136 167 Equity accounted investments 115 Total impairment losses/reversal of impairment -21 167 GROUP IMPAIRMENT IN 2019 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Gas-fired power in Germany Improved outlook for future gas to power margin has led to a reversal of previous years’ impairments for gas-fired power plants in Germany of NOK 1035 million. The assets are part of the segment European flexible generation. Calculated value in use is based on a nominal discount rate after tax of 6.1% (representing 8.8% before tax). The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future gas to power margins and cost of capital. An increase in future gas to power margins of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 442 million. A decrease in the future gas to power margins of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK -445 million. A decrease in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK 255 million. An increase in the STATKRAFT AS discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK -227 million. Wind power in Sweden The growth in generation capacity in the Nordic region is expected to lead to decreased income for certain assets. As a result, an impairment of wind power assets in Sweden amounting to NOK 333 million has been recognised. The assets are part of the segment European wind and solar. Calculated value in use is based on a nominal discount rate after tax of 6.1% (representing 7.7% before tax). The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future power prices and cost of capital. An increase in the future power price of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 426 million. A decrease in the future power price of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK -426 million. A decrease in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK 250 million. An increase in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK -219 million. Hydropower in Chile Reduced long-term price expectations led to impairments of hydropower assets in Chile of NOK 209 million. The assets are part of the segment International power. Calculated value in use is based on a nominal discount rate after tax of 6.5% (representing 8.9% before tax). SUSTAINABILITY The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future power prices and cost of capital. An increase in the future power price of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 618 million. A decrease in the future power price of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK -173 million. A decrease in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK 737 million. An increase in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK -536 million. Hydropower in Nepal At the expiry date of the current power purchase agreement, the subsidiary Himal Power Ltd (HPL) in Nepal is obliged to arrange for the transfer of 50% of its ownership interest in the hydropower plant Khimti. The transfer will be made to a new established company jointly owned by Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) and HPL. Revised assumptions indicate that the jointly owned company will not qualify for continued consolidation. This led to an impairment of NOK 254 million. The assets are part of the segment International power. Calculated value in use is based on a nominal discount rate after tax of 11.6%. The remaining impairment loss of NOK 104 million was related to goodwill from previous acquisitions in Brazil, Sweden and Chile of NOK 76 million in total, in addition to an impairment loss recognised in Peru of NOK 28 million. Equity accounted investments Hydropower in India An impairment of NOK 115 million (Statkraft’s share) was recognised in the joint venture Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd. in India. The impairment was related to hydropower assets, mainly as a result of reduced long-term price expectations. The assets are part of the International power segment. IMPAIRMENT IN 2018 Hydropower plants in Peru Two hydropower plants in Peru were impaired by NOK 132 million. The assets are part of the International power segment. The remaining impairment loss of NOK 35 million was related to goodwill from previous acquisitions in Brazil and Sweden. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 96 Note 16 Payroll costs and number of full-time equivalents NOK million 2019 2018 Salaries 2 618 2 425 Employers' national insurance contribution 469 417 Pension costs 1) 240 380 Other benefits 645 393 Total 3 971 3 615 1) Pension costs are described in further detail in note 17. 2019 2018 GROUP Average number of full-time equivalents Group 3 415 3 270 Number of full-time equivalents as of 31.12. 3 601 3 229 STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 97 Note 17 Pensions GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft’s pension benefit schemes have been established in accordance with local statutes, and cover both defined contribution schemes and defined benefit schemes. Defined contribution schemes A defined contribution scheme is a retirement benefit scheme where the Group pays fixed contributions to a fund manager without incurring further obligations once the payment has been made. The payments are expensed as salaries and payroll costs. Statkraft’s pension scheme for new employees in wholly owned companies in Norway from 1 January 2014 is a defined contribution scheme. The contributions are 6% of the pensionable salary up to 7.1 of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G), and 18% of the pensionable salary between 7.1G and 12G. In addition to retirement pensions, the contribution scheme also entails risk coverage. GROUP Defined benefit schemes A defined benefit scheme is a retirement benefit scheme that defines the retirement benefits that an employee will receive on retirement. The retirement benefit is normally set as a percentage of the employee’s salary. To be able to receive full retirement benefits, contributions will normally be required to be paid over a period of between 30 and 40 years. Employees who have not made full contributions will have their retirement benefits proportionately reduced. Funded defined benefit schemes Norwegian companies in the Group have organised their pension schemes in the National Pension Fund (SPK), own pension funds as well as in insurance companies. Employees in the Group’s Norwegian companies participate in public service occupational pension schemes in accordance with the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund Act, the Norwegian Public Pension Service Pension Fund Transfer Agreement and the regulatory framework governing public service pensions. The defined benefit schemes cover retirement, disability and survivor pensions. The majority of the companies also offer early retirement from the age of 62 under the Norwegian early retirement pension scheme. Pension scheme benefits are coordinated with the benefits provided by the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme. At maximum accrual, the retirement schemes provide pension benefits STATKRAFT AS amounting to 66% of pensionable salary, up to 12G. Employees who leave before retirement age receive a deferred pension entitlement provided they have at least three years’ pension entitlements. National Pension Fund (SPK) Companies with schemes in the SPK pay an annual premium and are responsible for the financing of the scheme. Pension benefits from the SPK are guaranteed by the Norwegian state. The SPK scheme is not asset-based, but management of the pension fund assets is simulated as though the assets were invested in bonds with 1, 3, 5 or 10-year duration. In this simulation it is assumed that the bonds are held to maturity. The pension benefit scheme in the National Pension Fund (SPK) was closed for new employees 1 January 2014. Pension funds and insurance companies The pension funds and insurance companies have placed the pension assets in a diversified portfolio of Norwegian and foreign interest-bearing securities, Norwegian and foreign shares, secured loans to members, hedge funds and properties through external asset managers. Unfunded defined benefit schemes Some Group companies in Norway have entered into an additional pension agreement that provides all employees SUSTAINABILITY whose pensionable incomes exceed 12G with a retirement and disability pension equivalent to 66% of that portion of their pensionable income exceeding 12G. This agreement was closed for new employees 30 April 2012. Existing members of the closed agreement who leave before pensionable age receive a deferred pension entitlement for the scheme above 12G, based on the accrued share, provided they have at least three years’ pension entitlements. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The liability recognised in the balance sheet which relates to the defined benefit scheme is the present value of the future retirement benefits that are reduced by the fair value of the plan assets. Net pension fund assets for overfunded schemes are classified as non-current assets and recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Net retirement benefit liabilities for underfunded schemes and non-funded schemes that are covered by operations are classified as non-current liabilities. The net retirement benefit cost for the period is included under salaries and other payroll costs, and comprises the total of the retirement benefits accrued during the period, the interest on the estimated liability and the projected yield on pension fund assets. Gains and losses attributable to changes in actuarial assumptions or base data are recognised in other comprehensive income. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The calculation of pension liabilities involves the use of judgement and estimates across a range of parameters. Present value of accrued pension entitlements for defined benefit schemes and present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year are calculated using the accrued benefits method. Net pension liabilities in the balance sheet are adjusted for expected future salary increases until retirement age. Calculations are based on staff numbers and salary data at the end of the year. The discount rate The discount rate is based on high-quality corporate bonds (covered bonds OMF). Statkraft is of the opinion that the market for covered bonds represents a deep and liquid market with relevant durations that qualify as a reference interest rate in accordance with IAS 19. Changes in the public sector pension scheme in Norway Statkraft has recognised a reduced pension cost in 2019 related to changes in the public sector pension scheme in Norway. The changes mainly entail new regulations for how the public benefit schemes shall be coordinated with the benefits provided by the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme, and a new pension scheme for employees born in 1963 or later. Actuarial gains Actuarial gains recognised in other comprehensive income in 2019 are mainly due to increased value of pension assets. The following assumptions are used 1) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Discount rate and expected return 2.30% 2.60% Salary adjustment 2.25% 2.75% Adjustment of current pensions in public schemes 1.25% 1.75% Adjustment of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G) 2.00% 2.50% Demographic factors for mortality and disability K2013/IR73 K2013/IR73 1) The assumptions apply for Norwegian entities. Foreign entities apply assumptions adapted to local conditions. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 98 Note 17 continued Members of defined benefit schemes 2019 2018 Employees 1 460 1 511 Pensioners and people with deferred entitlements 2 779 2 699 Breakdown of net defined benefit pension liability NOK million 2019 2018 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for funded defined benefit schemes 6 978 6 915 Fair value of pension assets 6 232 5 744 Net pension liability for funded defined benefit schemes 746 1 171 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for unfunded defined benefit schemes 765 694 GROUP Employers' national insurance contribution 288 297 Net pension liabilities in the balance sheet 1 799 2 161 Of which net pension assets see note 27 886 494 Of which net pension liabilities 2 685 2 655 Movement in defined benefit pension liability NOK million 2019 2018 Defined gross benefit pension liabilities 01.01 7 609 7 433 Net change in liabilities due to additions/disposals -243 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year 225 229 Interest expenses 190 165 STATKRAFT AS Scheme changes -161 Actuarial gains/losses 79 199 Paid benefits -194 -184 Currency translation effects -4 10 Gross defined benefit pension liabilities 31.12 7 744 7 609 Movement in the fair value of pension assets for defined benefit pension schemes NOK million 2019 2018 Fair value of pension assets 01.01 5 744 5 653 Net change in assets due to additions/disposals -150 Expected return on pension assets 144 127 SUSTAINABILITY Actuarial gains/losses 224 -13 Total contributions 279 274 Paid benefits -160 -151 Currency translation effects 2 5 Fair value of pension assets 31.12 6 232 5 744 Pension assets comprise 2019 2018 Equity instruments 1 572 1 303 Interest-bearing instruments 4 126 3 878 Other 534 563 Fair value of pension assets 31.12 6 232 5 744 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income NOK million 2019 2018 Accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 31.12 2 470 2 604 Pension cost recognised in the income statement Defined benefit schemes NOK million 2019 2018 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year 225 229 Interest expenses 190 165 Expected return on pension assets -144 -127 Scheme changes -161 Employee contributions -18 -17 Employers' national insurance contribution 37 47 Net pension cost defined benefit schemes 127 297 Defined contribution schemes Employer payments 113 83 Total pension cost see note 16 240 380 Discount rate Salary adjustment Adjustment of G Sensitivity analysis upon changes in assumptions 1% -1 % 1% -1 % 1% -1 % Increase (+)/decrease (-) in net pension cost defined benefit schemes for the period -22% 23% 14% -16% 13% -15% Increase (+)/decrease (-) in gross defined pension liability as of 31.12. -16% 21% 4% -4% 16% -13% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 99 Note 18 Property tax and licence fees NOK million 2019 2018 Property tax 736 987 Licence fees 404 364 Total 1 139 1 352 Note 19 Other operating expenses GROUP NOK million 2019 2018 Purchase of third-party services 1) 2 053 1 656 Materials 417 362 Power plants operated by third parties 268 287 Compensation payments 152 202 IT 391 335 Marketing 65 67 Travel 160 154 STATKRAFT AS Insurance 90 56 Rental costs 2) 43 243 Miscellaneous -1 77 Total 3 638 3 439 1) Purchase of third-party services includes mainly consultants and other services. 2) Rental costs have decreased due to implementation of IFRS 16. See note 25. Note 20 Financial items SUSTAINABILITY NOK million 2019 2018 Interest income 440 404 Interest expenses Interest expenses external debt -671 -969 Other interest expenses -68 -55 Interest expenses from lease liabilities -52 Capitalised borrowing costs 123 119 Total -669 -905 Net currency effects 132 -464 Other financial items Unrealised gains/losses on interest rate derivatives and securities 415 27 Gains/losses from divestments of equity accounted investments 1) 737 5 449 Other -323 -98 Total 829 5 377 Net financial items 733 4 412 1) See note 5. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 100 Note 21 Unrealised effects recognised in the statement of profit and loss GENERAL INFORMATION The table below discloses the effects on the profit and loss from unrealised value changes from inventories and financial instruments measured at fair value and currency gains and losses on financial instruments measured at amortised cost. 2019 2018 GROUP NOK million Unrealised Realised Total Unrealised Realised Total Generation 26 138 26 138 290 26 683 26 973 Customers 13 588 13 588 -115 27 060 26 946 Grid and other 3 724 3 724 2 969 2 969 Total sales revenues 43 450 43 450 175 56 713 56 888 Gains/losses from market activities 3) 1 250 2 467 3 716 -4 897 3 201 -1 696 STATKRAFT AS Generation -2 139 -2 139 -1 334 -1 334 Customers -13 515 -13 515 165 -25 771 -25 606 Other purchase -829 -829 -917 -917 Total energy purchase -16 483 -16 483 165 -28 023 -27 858 Unrealised effects included in Operating profit (EBIT) 1) 1 250 -4 557 Net currency effects 2) 562 -430 132 606 -1 070 -464 Other financial items 415 414 829 27 5 350 5 377 Unrealised effects included in Net financial items 977 633 SUSTAINABILITY Total unrealised effects 2 227 -3 924 1) Total sales revenues + Gains/losses from market activities + Total energy purchase. 2) Losses for 2019 from internal loans were NOK -42 million, of which NOK -33 million was realised. The corresponding figures for 2018 were NOK -103 million and NOK -161 million, respectively. 3) Figures for 2019 include a correction between realised and unrealised related to 2018. Realised was overstated with NOK 782 million, with the opposite effect in unrealised. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 101 Note 22 Income taxes GENERAL INFORMATION Group companies that are engaged in energy generation in Norway are subject to the special rules for taxation of energy companies. The Group’s tax expense therefore includes, in addition to ordinary income tax, natural resource tax and resource rent tax. Income tax is calculated in accordance with ordinary tax rules and by applying the adopted tax rate. The tax expense in the income statement comprises taxes payable and changes in deferred tax liabilities/assets. Taxes payable are calculated on the basis of the taxable income for the year. Deferred tax liabilities/assets are calculated on the basis of temporary differences between the accounting and tax values and the tax effect of losses carried forward. Natural resource tax is a profit-independent tax that is calculated on the basis of the individual power plant’s average output over the past seven years. The GROUP tax rate is NOK 13/MWh. Income tax can be offset against the natural resource tax paid. Resource rent tax is a profit-dependent tax levied on the net resource rent revenue generated by each power plant. Resource rent revenue is calculated on the basis of the individual power plant’s production hour by hour, multiplied by the spot price for the corresponding hour. The actual contract price is applied for deliveries of concessionary power and power subject to physical contracts with a term exceeding seven years. Income from green certificates is included in gross resource rent revenue. Actual operating expenses, depreciation and a tax-free allowance are deductible. The tax-free allowance is set each year on the basis of the taxable value of the power plant’s operating assets, multiplied by a normative interest rate. Negative resource rent revenues per power plant from the 2006 fiscal year or earlier years can only be carried forward with interest offset against future positive resource rent revenues from the same power plant. From 2007 onwards negative resource rent revenues per power plant can be pooled with positive resource rent revenues for other power plants. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES STATKRAFT AS Tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income is also recognised in other comprehensive income. Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are recognised net provided that these are expected to reverse in the same period. The same applies to deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets connected with resource rent tax. Deferred tax positions connected with income tax payable cannot be offset against tax positions connected with resource rent tax. Any natural resource tax that exceeds income tax can be carried forward with interest to subsequent years, and is recognised as prepaid tax. The tax-free allowance deductible for resource rent tax is treated as a permanent difference in the year it is calculated for, and therefore does not affect the calculation of deferred tax connected with resource rent. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Recognition of deferred tax assets involves judgment. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be utilised. Deferred tax SUSTAINABILITY assets relating to resource rent revenue carryforwards are recognised in the balance sheet with the amount expected to be utilised within a period of ten years. The period over which negative resource rent revenues can be used is estimated on the basis of expectations related to normal production and price curves. Other deferred tax assets are recognised in the balance sheet if they are expected to be utilised within a period of five years. For uncertain tax positions see note 34. Nominal Norwegian tax rates in the income statement 2019 2018 Income tax rate 22% 23% Resource rent tax rate 37.0% 35.7% Nominal Norwegian tax rates in the balance sheet statement (deferred tax) 2019 2018 Income tax rate 22% 22% Resource rent tax rate 37.0% 37.0% The tax expense in the income statement NOK million 2019 2018 Income tax payable (including natural resource tax payable) 3 249 3 181 Resource rent tax payable 3 407 3 678 Withholding tax payable 10 23 Previous years payable tax expense -10 87 Change in deferred tax net of group contributions 977 289 Tax expense in the income statement 7 632 7 258 Taxes payable in the balance sheet NOK million 2019 2018 Income tax payable 2 470 2 443 Natural resource tax payable 625 634 Resource rent tax payable 3 407 3 678 Previous years taxes payable 606 635 Taxes payable in the balance sheet 7 109 7 391 Tax included in receivables NOK million 2019 2018 Prepaid tax 89 107 Tax included in receivables see note 29 89 107 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 102 Note 22 continued Reconciliation of nominal Norwegian tax rate and effective tax rate NOK million 2019 2018 Profit before tax 18 959 20 649 Expected tax expense at a nominal rate of 22% (23%) 4 171 4 749 Effect on taxes of Resource rent tax 3 670 4 122 Foreign tax rate differences 259 -245 GROUP Change in tax rates -0 -108 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments -275 -182 Tax-free income 1) -269 -1 392 Changes relating to previous years 227 -5 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 2) -235 198 Other permanent differences 3) 85 121 Tax expense 7 632 7 258 Effective tax rate 40.3% 35.2% 1) Tax free income is mainly related to sale of shares in BKK and Fjordkraft, and unrealised gain on remaining investment in Fjordkraft. 2) Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets is mainly related to Germany. STATKRAFT AS 3) Other permanent differences are mainly non-deductible expenses and items included in the profit and loss statement without tax effect. Items included in the profit and loss statement without tax effect entail depreciation of assets with no initial deferred tax recognised. Breakdown of deferred tax Tax expense Other Acquisitions Implementation in the income comprehensive and sale of NOK million 01.01.19 of IFRS 16 statement income companies 31.12.19 Current assets/current liabilities -110 233 -6 -0 117 Property, plant and equipment not part of resource rent tax regime 1) 4 031 288 163 -35 47 4 494 Property, plant and equipment part of resource rent tax regime 7 667 2 346 0 8 016 Pension liabilities -776 85 46 0 -645 Derivatives 826 47 -21 -13 838 SUSTAINABILITY Other long-term items -66 -290 -135 8 -25 -508 Tax loss carryforward/compensation 1) -179 -30 8 -26 -228 Negative resource rent tax carryforward 2) -2 241 337 -1 904 Total net deferred tax liability 9 151 47 977 8 -4 10 178 Of which presented as deferred tax assets 676 614 Of which presented as deferred tax liabilities 9 826 10 792 Tax expense Other Acquisitions Implementation in the income comprehensive and sale of NOK million 01.01.18 of IFRS 16 statement income companies 31.12.18 Current assets/current liabilities -173 81 -4 -14 -110 Property, plant and equipment not part of resource rent tax regime 1) 3 794 145 0 93 4 031 Property, plant and equipment part of resource rent tax regime 7 495 167 5 7 667 Pension liabilities -725 18 -94 24 -776 Derivatives 1 489 -682 4 15 826 Other long-term items 3 -31 -71 32 -66 Tax loss carryforward/compensation 1) -423 202 42 -1 -179 Negative resource rent tax carryforward 2) -2 630 388 -2 241 Total net deferred tax liability 8 830 289 -122 154 9 151 Of which presented as deferred tax assets 962 676 Of which presented as deferred tax liabilities 9 792 9 826 1) The Group also has deferred tax assets not recognised in the balance sheet. This mainly relates to Germany with estimated unrecognised deferred tax assets of NOK 1961 million as of 31.12.2019 (NOK 1805 million as of 31.12.2018). 2) The Group also has deferred tax assets not recognised in the balance sheet related to negative resource rent tax carryforward. This is estimated to NOK 435 million as of 31.12.2019 (NOK 503 million as of 31.12.2018). Deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income NOK million 2019 2018 Remeasurement of pension obligations 45 -95 Currency translation effects -36 -36 Changes in fair value of financial instruments -1 9 Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 8 -122 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 103 Note 23 Intangible assets SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs relating to intangible assets, including goodwill, are recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the costs can be measured reliably. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortised and are tested annually for impairment. Research expenditures are expensed as incurred. Development costs are capitalised to the extent that a future economic benefit can be identified from the development of an identifiable intangible asset. GROUP NOK million Goodwill Other 1) Total 2019 Balance at 01.01 1 351 2 558 3 909 Additions 290 290 Additions from business combinations 307 342 649 Reclassifications -95 167 72 STATKRAFT AS Transfer between asset classes 70 -70 Amortisations -159 -159 Impairments -76 -76 Reversal of impairments 33 33 Disposals -22 -22 Currency translation effects 4 -68 -64 Balance at 31.12 1 561 3 072 4 633 Cost 31.12 2 598 4 057 6 655 Accumulated amortisation and impairments as of 31.12 -1 037 -985 -2 022 Balance at 31.12 1 561 3 072 4 633 SUSTAINABILITY 1) Mainly related to acquisitions in the segments International power and European wind and solar. In addition to rights in connection with leasehold improvements for power plants in Norway. NOK million Goodwill Other Total 2018 Balance at 01.01 1 051 2 262 3 313 Additions 48 48 Additions from business combinations 339 630 969 Reclassifications -28 -28 Amortisations -143 -143 Impairments -35 -35 Derecognition from divestments -95 -95 Disposals -1 -1 Currency translation effects -5 -115 -120 Balance at 31.12 1 351 2 558 3 909 Cost 31.12 2 299 3 592 5 891 Accumulated amortisation and impairments as of 31.12 -948 -1 034 -1 982 Balance at 31.12 1 351 2 558 3 909 Expected useful life 10–22 years RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group’s research and development activities are focused on investigating potential new energy sources and developing existing plants and technologies. Research activities relating to new energy sources include general research projects. These projects are intended to provide further knowledge on technologies or other areas that could provide a basis for future activities/projects. In order to gain new knowledge and develop new methods within the fields of energy optimisation and preservation, the Group also performs research and development activities in connection with existing plants/energy sources. Research and development activities carried out in 2019 and 2018 are expensed with NOK 40 million and NOK 36 million, respectively. Capitalised development costs in 2019 and 2018 were NOK 5 million and NOK 10 million respectively. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 104 Note 24 Property, plant and equipment SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. The cost includes expenditures incurred to bring the assets into the location and condition to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. In addition, the cost includes directly attributable borrowing costs. Subsequent expenditures related to ordinary repair and maintenances are recognised in the statement of profit and loss when incurred. Expenditures that involve replacing parts of the assets or expansions are capitalised. The estimated decommissioning obligation is included in the carrying value of the relevant assets. Depreciation commence when the asset is available for its intended use and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the asset’s expected useful life. The depreciation period is adapted to the licence period. Expected useful life, depreciation methods and residual values are assessed annually. Waterfall rights that are considered to have perpetual life and with no obligation of reversion to the authorities, are presented as property, plant and GROUP equipment and are not depreciated. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over its expected useful life. Expected useful life is estimated based on the Group’s technical expertise and is adjusted in the event of any changes to the expectations. Residual values are estimated and included in the carrying value when applicable and depreciated over the asset’s useful lifetime. Estimates of decommissioning obligations, which are included as part of the plant’s carrying amount, are subject to annual review. The decommissioning STATKRAFT AS obligation is Statkraft’s best estimate of the present value of the cost of removing an item of property, plant and equipment as well as restoring the site at the date when the operation ceases. Properties, mountain halls, Turbines, buildings, roads, Plants RightRegulation generators Waterfall bridges and under of-use NOK million plants etc. rights quay facilities construction Other Sum assets Total SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Balance as of 31.12.2018 28 855 26 321 23 130 8 797 7 099 11 541 105 744 105 744 Implementation of IFRS 16 see note 25 1 584 1 584 Balance as of 01.01.2019 28 855 26 321 23 130 8 797 7 099 11 541 105 744 1 584 107 328 Additions 110 228 97 5 045 409 5 889 146 6 035 Remeasurements and other changes (IFRS 16) 2 2 Additions from business combinations 278 5 90 373 137 510 Capitalised borrowing costs 1) 47 76 123 123 Reclassifications -3 -68 -1 -72 -72 Transfer between asset classes 265 2 223 -200 750 -3 899 861 Depreciations -779 -1 440 -478 1 -782 -3 478 -187 -3 665 Impairments -427 -212 -164 -7 -8 -818 -5 -823 Reversal of impairments 814 125 63 1 002 1 002 Disposals -2 -18 -9 -12 -31 -72 -72 Currency translation effects -168 -226 62 -196 33 -23 -518 3 -515 Balance at 31.12 28 281 27 797 22 780 8 922 8 336 12 056 108 172 1 680 109 852 Carrying value 31.12 of assets with infinite useful life n/a n/a 22 780 67 n/a 37 22 885 n/a 22 885 Cost 31.12 44 073 54 797 23 387 16 332 9 000 25 279 172 868 1 873 174 741 Accumulated depreciations and impairments as of 31.12 -15 792 -27 000 -607 -7 410 -664 -13 223 -64 696 -193 -64 889 Balance at 31.12 28 281 27 797 22 780 8 922 8 336 12 056 108 172 1 680 109 852 1) The average interest rate applied during the year was 1.64%. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 105 Note 24 continued Properties, mountain halls, Turbines, buildings, roads, Plants Regulation generators Waterfall bridges and under NOK million plants etc. rights quay facilities construction Other Total 2018 Balance at 01.01 28 694 24 183 18 123 14 930 4 813 12 450 103 193 Additions 72 271 5 45 3 713 847 4 953 Additions from business combinations 323 777 85 420 6 1 611 Capitalised borrowing costs 1) 119 119 Reclassifications -13 5 32 4 28 GROUP Transfer between asset classes 2) 819 2 834 4 877 -5 498 -2 229 -803 Depreciations -786 -1 340 -457 -841 -3 424 Impairments -76 -32 -18 -7 -132 Derecognition from divestments -101 -1 -4 -106 Disposals -59 -29 25 -36 -74 -173 Currency translation effects -119 -247 125 -314 267 -38 -326 Balance at 31.12 28 855 26 321 23 130 8 797 7 099 11 541 105 744 Carrying value 31.12 of assets with infinite useful life n/a n/a 23 130 67 n/a 38 23 235 STATKRAFT AS Cost 31.12 43 794 52 640 24 495 15 812 7 815 24 399 168 955 Accumulated depreciations and impairments as of 31.12 -14 939 -26 319 -1 365 -7 015 -716 -12 858 -63 212 Balance at 31.12 28 855 26 321 23 130 8 797 7 099 11 541 105 744 1) The average interest rate applied during the year was 2.55%. 2) Transfer between asset classes Properties, mountain halls, buildings, etc. (MNOK -5425), Waterfall rights (MNOK 4877), Turbines, generators, etc. (MNOK 263) and Regulation plants (MNOK 285) due to incorrect classification of asset classes within PP&E. INVESTMENTS IN 2019 SUSTAINABILITY The additions in 2019 of NOK 6035 million in property, plant and equipment (excluding capitalised borrowing costs of NOK 123 million) and of NOK 290 million in intangible assets, consisted of investments in new generating capacity, maintenance investments and other investments. Maintenance investments and other investments amounted to NOK 2712 million (NOK 2067 million). The investments were primarily related to hydropower plants in Norway. Investments in new capacity amounted to NOK 3738 million (NOK 3053 million). The largest projects were hydropower plants in Albania and India, and wind farms in Norway. ASSETS PLEDGED AS SECURITY TO COUNTERPARTIES Statkraft has pledged property, plant and equipment as security to counterparties. For more information, see note 35. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT PER COUNTRY 2019 2018 NOK million Intangibles PP&E Total Intangibles PP&E Total Norway 1 062 61 704 62 766 799 58 011 58 810 Sweden 68 20 331 20 399 76 21 353 21 428 Germany 145 3 525 3 670 39 2 508 2 547 UK 426 1 334 1 760 67 1 218 1 285 Turkey 1 1 146 1 147 2 1 294 1 295 Albania 1 5 381 5 382 2 4 999 5 001 Peru 110 9 231 9 341 114 9 231 9 345 Brazil 1 687 3 678 5 365 1 919 3 612 5 531 Chile 499 1 961 2 460 450 2 071 2 521 Other 634 1 561 2 195 443 1 448 1 891 Total 4 633 109 852 114 485 3 909 105 744 109 653 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 106 Note 24 continued EXPECTED USEFUL LIFE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT A more detailed specification of the expected useful life of the various assets is provided below. Depreciation period (years) Depreciation period (years) Properties, mountain halls, buildings, Regulation plants roads, bridges etc. riprap dams, concrete dams 75 land perpetual other dams 30 underground facilities 90 GROUP tunnel systems 90 roads, bridges and quays 75 control equipment 20 Turbines, generators etc. operating centre 20 pipe trenches 75 communication equipment 10 generators (turbine, valve) 40 other mechanical installations 15 Other transformer/generator 40 transformer (grid) 25-50 wind turbines 20-25 switchgear, high voltage (grid) 35-40 gas and steam generators 20-25 buildings 25-50 STATKRAFT AS gas power plant transformers 20-25 other fixed installations 10-20 miscellaneous fixtures 5 Waterfall rights perpetual office and computer equipment 3 furnishings and equipment 5 vehicles 8 construction equipment 12 small watercraft 10 water cooling systems 20-25 SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 107 Note 25 Leases GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft’s leases mainly involve the following type of assets: The contracts that have largely affected the recognition of the lease debt and right-of-use asset under the new standard are contracts for renting of office premises. In addition, contracts for lease of land, cars and equipment are identified. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES In current year Statkraft has applied IFRS 16 that is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 introduces new or amended GROUP requirements with respect to lease accounting. It introduces significant changes to lessee accounting by removing the distinction between operating and finance lease and requiring the recognition of a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at commencement for leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets when such recognition exemptions are adopted. The impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 on the Group’s consolidated financial statements is described below. Statkraft has applied IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach which:  Requires Statkraft to recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying IFRS 16 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of initial application.  Does not permit restatement of comparatives, which continue to be presented under IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. At the commencement date of a lease, Statkraft as the lessee recognised a liability at the present value of future lease payments with a corresponding asset representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term ( right-of-use asset ). The standard includes a number of optional practical expedients STATKRAFT AS related to initial application and recognition. Statkraft is required to recognise the interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset separately. Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from previous accounting under IAS 17. Lessors will continue to classify all leases using the similar classification principle as in IAS 17. Determining whether a contract is or contains a lease under IFRS 16 The change in definition of a lease mainly relates to the concept of control. IFRS 16 determines whether a contract contains a lease on the basis of whether the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. This is in contrast to the focus on “risks and rewards” in IAS 17 and IFRIC 4. At the date of initial application of IFRS 16, the Group recognised a lease liability for leases previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17 in accordance with the transition requirements. The Group measured the lease liabilities at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at 1 January 2019. Stakraft has not been applying the practical expedient to rely on previous assessments of whether a contract is or contains a lease and has therefore performed a reassessment of the contract portfolio. Further, the right-of-use assets on a lease-by-lease basis are SUSTAINABILITY measured at the amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments. Depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. The total amount of cash paid is separated into a principal portion and an interest portion in the statement of cash flow (both presented within financing activities). Power purchase agreements: Statkraft is providing market access to renewable energy producers by entering into long-term power purchase agreements. Some of these agreements were defined as operating leases in accordance with IFRIC 4. After transition to IFRS 16, these agreements are considered not to contain a lease. It is concluded that the agreements are in scope of IFRS 9 Financial instruments when such contracts can be net settled and not held for own use. Under IAS 17 the rent paid to the power producers is presented as energy purchase. When preparing the financial statements for 2019, power purchase agreements assessed to be derivatives are recognised at fair value with value changes through profit and loss. See note 13. The following practical expedients and recognition exemptions to leases previously classified as operating leases at the date of initial application are applied:  Recognition exemption for short-term leases (defined as 12 months or less) and for low value assets (defined as less than TNOK 50). These expenses are presented within Other operating expenses.  Excluded any initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset.  Relied on previous assessment of whether a lease is onerous applying IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, and not performed an impairment review. For such leases, the right-of-use assets have been adjusted by the amount of such provisions recognised in the statement of financial position.  Intangible assets have also been chosen to be excluded from IFRS 16, hence leased concessions or payments for power production licenses, for instance, are not treated within IFRS 16. Measurement Statkraft has evaluated whether the Group is reasonably certain to exercise an option to renew a lease, not terminate a lease or to purchase the underlying asset. All relevant factors that can create an economic incentive for Statkraft to exercise options e.g. contract-, asset-, entityand market-based factors are evaluated. Contracts to rent office premises are in most occasions not considered to be customised to Statkraft’s use and options to renew leases are not included in the estimated lease liability. Contracts to rent production facilities are in most cases customised to meet Statkraft’s requirements, and material expenses will incur if moving from the existing premises. Hence, for such options to extend the lease period contracts are included in the estimated lease liability. A lease liability will be remeasured upon the occurrence of certain events e.g., a change in the lease term, a change in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those payments. Generally, the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability will be recognised as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are not presented separately in the statement of financial position, but are disclosed separately in the notes. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The incremental borrowing rates are calculated as a sum of currency dependant market rates and entity specific credit spreads for each relevant year on an asset-by-asset basis. The incremental borrowing rate applied as discount rate is an average of these yearly borrowing rates for each individual leased asset, depending on the length of each contract. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 108 Note 25 continued TRANSITION Statkraft implemented IFRS 16 in accordance with the modified retrospective approach. The weighted average yearly discount rate applied at 1 January 2019 was 3.22% and the effect of discounting the nominal values was approximately NOK 427 million. The following reconciliation to the opening balance for the lease liabilities as of 1 January 2019 is based upon the operating lease obligations as of 31 December 2018. Reconciliation of IAS 17 lease commitments to IFRS 16 lease liabilities NOK million IAS 17 off balance sheet operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 1 890 GROUP Options 1) 42 Practical expedient related to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets -7 Other differences 41 Nominal lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 1 966 Discounting effect using the incremental borrowing rate -427 Lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 under IFRS 16 1 539 Right-of-use assets at 1 January 2019 under IFRS 16 2) 1 584 1) Options include extension options and purchase options reasonably certain to be exercised and termination options reasonably certain not to be exercised. STATKRAFT AS 2) The difference between right-of-use assets and liabilities is related to prepaid leases. The implementation of IFRS 16 had no direct effect on the equity as of 1 January 2019, and the difference between the opening balances of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability is due to prepayments. However, following the reclassification of certain power purchase agreements, the equity as of 1 January was increased by NOK 380 million. See also note 13. STATKRAFT AS A LESSEE Right-of-use assets Vehicles, Land and other equipment and NOK million Office buildings property other Total SUSTAINABILITY 2019 Balance at 01.01 Additions due to implementation of IFRS 16 at 01.01.2019 1 258 306 20 1 584 Additions 85 15 46 146 Additions from acquisitions 137 137 Depreciation -158 -16 -13 -187 Impairments -5 -5 Remeasurement and other changes 2 3 5 Balance at 31.12 1 187 308 185 1 680 Amounts recognised in profit and loss NOK million 2019 Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets 1) 18 Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities 2) -4 Expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets 2) -38 Depreciation from right-of-use assets 3) -187 Interest expenses from lease liabilities 4) -52 Total -263 1) Presented as Other operating income 2) Presented as Other operating expenses 3) Presented as Depreciations and amortisations 4) Presented as Interest expenses Amounts recognised in the statement of cash flow NOK million 2019 Principal portion of lease payments on lease liabilities 1) -164 Interest portion of lease payments on lease liabilities 1) -52 Total payments on lease liabilities -216 1) Presented as cash flow from financing activities ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 109 Note 25 continued Lease liabilities NOK million 2019 Interest-bearing liabilities, current Lease liabilities 217 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current Lease liabilities 1 457 GROUP Total lease liabilities 1 673 Maturity schedule lease liabilities contractual undiscounted cash flows NOK million 2019 0-1 year 248 1-5 years 891 5 years and later 906 Total undiscounted lease liabilities as of 31.12 2 045 STATKRAFT AS Future cash flows not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities Extension options: Several leases of office buildings contain extension options exercisable by Statkraft, where the lease of the head-quarter in Oslo is the most significant one. This lease agreement expires in 2028, with options to prolong for ten plus ten years, and the annual lease payment is NOK 102 million. The buildings included in this lease agreement are considered to be standardised office buildings, not particularly customised to Statkraft or Statkraft’s business. With several years left of this contract, it is not considered reasonably certain that these extensions option will be exercised, and thus no period after 2028 has been included in the measurement of the lease liability. Similar assessment is applied to other leases as well. SUSTAINABILITY STATKRAFT AS A LESSOR Operating lease Statkraft has sub-leases office buildings, and has classified the sub-leases as operating leases. Statkraft leases out power plants to third parties. The revenues from rental of power plants are based on a fixed and a variable part, and the income are presented as sales revenues (see note 12). Maturity schedule lease payments contractual undiscounted cash flows NOK million 2019 0-1 year 20 1-5 years 40 Total undiscounted lease payments as of 31.12 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 110 Note 25 continued 2018 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Operating leases are mainly recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. For leased production plants where use is closely connected with the production, lease payments are measured by consumption and presented as energy purchases. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS GROUP Power purchase agreements Judgement is made when determining whether a power purchase agreement contains a lease. A power purchase agreement contains a lease if its fulfilment depends on a specific asset and the arrangement conveys a right to control the use of the underlying asset and Statkraft takes a significant amount of the output at a price that is neither fixed nor equal to the current market price. The total of future minimum lease payments in relation to non-cancellable leases for each of the following periods was: STATKRAFT AS 2018 Within 1 year of Between 1 and 5 years More than 5 years after NOK million the end of the period after the end of the period the end of the period Total Property rental agreements 170 625 1 001 1 797 Vehicles 8 9 17 Other leases 5 33 40 78 Total 183 667 1 041 1 890 Lease-related rent recognised in the period and specified in the following manner: Lease and sublease NOK million Minimum lease expense Variable lease expense income SUSTAINABILITY Property rental agreements 184 5 21 Vehicles 7 Other leases 11 Total 202 5 21 Total future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases was NOK 100 million at 31 December 2018. The majority of Statkraft`s lease expenses and future lease commitments was related to rent of premises and land. Statkraft is offering market access to smaller renewable energy producers. Some of these contracts are defined as operating leases, due to a fixed element in the lease payments, and are presented as energy purchases, see note 12. The lease agreements have durations ranging up to 20 years and the rent paid for 2018 was NOK 10 286 million. Statkraft had no significant financial lease agreements at the end of 2018. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 111 Note 26 Associates and joint arrangements SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The gain/loss from a transaction where the investment changes from being classified as a joint operation to be classified as a joint venture or associated company are recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statement only to the extent of other parties interest in the joint operation. Hence, the carrying value of Statkraft’s remaining ownership is booked at continuity. In addition changed contractual rights and obligations relating to the underlying asset or debt and changes in the shareholders agreement might lead to a change in the accounting method. ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS GROUP The degree of control over the investee is one of the key elements in the assessment to whether the investment should be accounted for as subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture or associate. The assessment of control is judgmental and entails that all facts and circumstances are evaluated. The decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the return of the investments are the elements that require the highest degree of judgement. In order to conclude on the degree of control, Statkraft has systematically defined the relevant activities and value drivers for each of its main type of technologies, in addition to an individual assessment per investment to reflect other facts and circumstances. Judgement is required in assessing whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint venture. Rights and obligations arising from a joint arrangement, including other facts and circumstances, are evaluated in order to classify the joint arrangement. For investments structured through a legal entity, other facts and circumstances, such as agreements between shareholders and agreements between shareholders and the investee, must override its legal form for a joint operation to exist. Entities established to produce power and where the owners are committed to purchase all the power produced, as well as being responsible for settling of short term and long term financing of the company, are normally classified as joint operations. When Statkraft has rights to the net assets of the STATKRAFT AS arrangement, the arrangement is a joint venture. Co-owned power plants in which Statkraft has joint control are recognised as joint operation. SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 112 Note 26 continued Based on size and complexity, the following associated companies and joint ventures are considered material: 2019 Agder Hidroelectrica La Wind UK Fjordkraft NOK million BKK AS Energi AS Higuera S.A Invest Ltd. Holding ASA 1) Other Total Opening balance 01.01. as previously reported 5 556 3 474 939 879 1 001 1 255 13 105 Changes in accounting principle 2) 174 628 802 Balance as of 01.01. 5 556 3 474 1 113 879 1 001 1 883 13 906 Additions 4 4 Divestments 1) -535 -992 -27 -1 554 Share of profit/loss 990 423 6 14 46 -19 1 460 GROUP Depreciation of excess value -13 -66 -2 -11 -5 -97 Impairment 3) -115 -115 Dividends -368 -269 -50 -37 -11 -736 Currency translation effects -2 9 36 -13 30 Items recorded in other comprehensive income 60 16 -48 -6 -7 1 16 Closing balance 31.12. 5 691 3 577 1 080 871 1 698 12 917 Excess value 31.12. 1 782 1 737 396 43 134 4 092 Of which unamortised waterfall rights 1 553 314 370 2 237 1) See note 5 for more information about the transactions. STATKRAFT AS 2) Following an amendment to IAS 28, two former loans to the equity accounted investments Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A and Hidroelectrica La Confluencia S.A were reassessed. The impact was a decreased in carrying value of other financial assets and an increse in carrying value of Eguity accounted investments. See note 1. 3) Impairment in the Indian joint venture, Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd, was recognised as Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments in the profit and loss. See note 15. 2018 Agder Fjordkraft Hidroelectrica La Wind UK NOK million BKK AS Energi AS Holding ASA 1) Higuera S.A 2) Invest Ltd. Other Total Opening balance 01.01. 5 417 3 935 844 876 2 264 13 335 Additions 1) 108 967 1 075 Divestments 1) -250 -4 -1 066 -1 320 Deconcolidation -60 -60 SUSTAINABILITY Share of profit/loss 730 26 59 43 33 102 993 Depreciation and impairment of excess value -62 -110 -25 -2 -4 -203 Capital increases 111 111 Dividends -258 -276 -24 -49 -607 Currency translation effects -84 -4 53 3 -56 -88 Items recorded in other comprehensive income -45 -97 4 -1 -6 14 -131 Closing balance 31.12. 5 556 3 474 1 001 939 879 1 255 13 105 Excess value 31.12. 1 976 1 803 845 392 44 148 5 208 Of which unamortised waterfall rights 1 711 314 370 2 395 1) See note 5 for more information about the transactions. 2) Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A was previously included in Other . ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 113 Note 26 continued DESCRIPTION OF THE ACTIVITIES IN SIGNIFICANT ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES BKK AS has operations mainly in Western Norway, with its core activities being production, sale and transmission of electric power. BKK also develops, builds, owns and operates infrastructure for electrification, and offer customers fibre internet access and district heating. Agder Energi AS has operations mainly in Southern Norway, with its core activities being production, trading and transmission of electric power, as well as other energy-related services. Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A has operations in Chile and contains the La Higuera hydropower plant. Wind UK Invest Ltd. (WUKI) owns the land-based wind farms Alltwalis, Baillie and Berry Burn in the UK. GROUP Fjordkraft Holding ASA is a national electricity supplier in Norway, which serves private households and companies with electricity. See note 35 for information regarding bank guarantees and parent company guarantees related to associates and joint arrangements. FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR SIGNIFICANT ASSOCIATED COMPANIES The following table presents summarised financial information for significant associated companies. The figures apply to 100% of the companies’ operations in accordance with IFRS 12. 2019 STATKRAFT AS Agder Hidroelectrica La Wind UK NOK million BKK AS 1) Energi AS 1) Higuera S.A 1) Invest Ltd. 1) Current assets 2 465 3 077 216 240 Non-current assets 22 751 19 124 4 525 3 091 Current liabilities 4 098 5 482 217 201 Non-current liabilities 11 357 12 638 3 333 1 496 Gross operating revenues 5 439 13 532 632 374 Net profit 2 134 1 121 168 27 Total comprehensive income 2 003 1 110 90 15 1) Figures are preliminary and unaudited. SUSTAINABILITY 2018 Agder Fjordkraft Hidroelectrica La Wind UK NOK million BKK AS 1) Energi AS 1) Holding ASA 1) Higuera S.A 1) Invest Ltd. 1) Current assets 3 270 3 072 2 918 328 265 Non-current assets 20 285 18 283 530 4 350 3 038 Current liabilities 6 588 5 967 2 282 439 206 Non-current liabilities 8 391 11 736 296 3 145 3 302 Gross operating revenues 5 155 13 980 6 721 631 428 Net profit 1 729 57 254 86 64 Total comprehensive income 1 661 -158 255 84 52 1) Figures as shown in the Statkraft's annual report 2018. JOINT VENTURES, JOINT OPERATIONS AND ASSOCIATES Shares in companies classified as joint ventures and associates are recognised using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. Statkraft recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of companies classified as joint operations on a line-by-line basis in the group financial statements. Name Registered office Ownership Voting share JOINT VENTURES Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd. New Delhi 43.12% 43.12% Dugar Hydro Power Ltd New Delhi 50.00% 50.00% Hidroelectrica La Confluencia S.A Santiago 50.00% 50.00% Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A Santiago 50.00% 50.00% KraftCERT AS Bærum 33.33% 33.33% Malana Power Company Ltd. New Delhi 49.00% 49.00% Silva Green Fuel AS Oslo 51.00% 51.00% Silva Green Fuel DA Oslo 51.00% 51.00% Vattenkraftens Miljöfond Sverige AB Stockholm 9.06% 9.06% Windpark Kollweiler GmbH & Co Billerbeck 20.00% 20.00% Wind UK Invest Ltd. London 51.00% 51.00% Glencloosagh Energy Ltd Cork 50.00% 50.00% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 114 Note 26 continued Name Registered office Ownership Voting share JOINT OPERATIONS Aktieselskabet Tyssefaldene 1) Tyssedal 60.17% 60.17% Fosen Vind DA Oslo 52.10% 52.10% Harrsele AB Stockholm 50.57% 50.57% Kraftwerksgesellschaft Herdecke, GmbH & Co. KG Hagen 50.00% 50.00% Sira-Kvina Kraftselskap DA Sirdal 46.70% 46.70% Grytten Rauma 88.00% 88.00% Gäddede Stockholm 70.00% 70.00% Kobbelv Sørfold 82.50% 82.50% GROUP Kraftverkene i Orkla Rennebu 48.60% 48.60% Sima Eidfjord 65.00% 65.00% Solbergfoss 2) Askim 33.33% 33.33% Stegaros Tinn 50.00% 50.00% Svartisen Meløy 70.00% 70.00% Svorka Surnadal 50.00% 50.00% Vikfalli Vik 88.00% 88.00% Volgsjöfors Stockholm 73.10% 73.10% Ulla-Førre Suldal 73.48% 73.48% STATKRAFT AS ASSOCIATES Agder Energi AS Kristiansand 45.50% 45.50% BKK AS Bergen 43.44% 43.44% Nape Kraftverk AS Grimstad 49.00% 49.00% Passos Maia Energética S.A. Caçador City 50.00% 50.00% Laugstol AS Porsgrunn 33.40% 33.40% Røldal-Suldal Kraft AS 3) Suldal 4.79% 4.79% Air Liquide Skagerak AS Porsgrunn 49.00% 49.00% Aursjøvegen AS Sunndalsøra 17.00% 17.00% 1) Statkraft controls 71.4% of the production from the Tysso II power plant. SUSTAINABILITY 2) Statkraft owns 33.3% of Solbergfoss, but controls 35.6% of the production. 3) Statkraft owns 8.74% of the shares in Røldal-Suldal Kraft AS, which in turn owns 54.79% of the Røldal-Suldal plants. Statkraft’s indirect shareholding in the power plant is thus 4.79%. None of the companies have observable market values in the form of listed market prices or similar. Note 27 Other non-current financial assets SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES An amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, effective from 1 January 2019, clarifies that IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, including its impairment requirements, applies to long-term interests in an associate or joint venture that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture, for which the equity method is not applied. The implementation of this amendment had limited impact on the presentation in Statkraft’s statement of profit and loss and statement of equity. See note 26. NOK million 2019 2018 Loans to equity accounted investments 1 463 2 244 Bonds and other long-term receivables 770 932 Net pension assets 886 494 Other shares and securities 478 316 Total 3 597 3 986 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 115 Note 28 Inventories GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft’s inventories are mainly related to environmental certificates, such as green certificates in the Nordics, Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) in the UK and European Union Allowances (EUAs). Green certificates and ROCs are obtained from trading, origination and market access activities and in addition from own generating assets that are eligible for receiving these government grants. The most significant part of the environmental certificate inventories is related to trading, origination and market access activities. In addition to the environmental certificates Statkraft also has some inventories which are directly related to the tangible assets, whereof spare parts are the most GROUP significant part. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statkraft holds environmental certificates both for own-use and for trading. Inventories measured at fair value less costs to sell Purchased environmental certificates classified as inventory when they are received, and measured at fair value less costs to sell. Changes in fair value of inventories related to trading activities are presented as Gains/losses from market activities in the profit and loss statement. Certificates held for trading are acquired with the purpose of taking advantage of short-term fluctuations in the market. Such certificates are measured at fair value less cost to sell and consist mainly of ROCs STATKRAFT AS received through power purchase agreements with wind power producers in UK. Inventories measured at the lower of cost price and net realisable value Environmental certificates held for own-use include EUAs and GoOs (guarantees of origin). EUAs held for own use is related to the generation of gas-fired power in Germany. GoOs are related to the generation of power, mainly from generation of hydropower in the Nordics. These GoOs are recognised with a cost price of zero. Other inventory is directly related to the tangible assets and is recognised at the lowest of cost price and net realisable amount. SUSTAINABILITY 2019 2018 NOK million Recognised value Cost price Recognised value Cost price Inventories measured at fair value less costs to sell Environmental certificates 3 817 3 948 6 002 4 925 Total 3 817 3 948 6 002 4 925 Inventories measured at the lower of cost price and net realisable value Environmental certificates 391 109 Spare parts 176 151 Other 85 54 Total 652 313 Total 4 468 6 316 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 116 Note 29 Receivables NOK million 2019 2018 Accounts receivable 1) 8 024 7 439 Loans to equity accounted investments 2) 55 75 Prepaid tax 89 107 Cash collateral and margin calls 3 035 3 351 Other receivables 2 145 1 859 Total 13 348 12 831 1) Mainly related to trading activities and Nordic hydropower generation. See note 9. 2) Interest-bearing receivables. GROUP Maturity analysis of receivables Receivables overdue by Receivables 2019 Less than More than overdue NOK million Not yet due 90 days 90 days and impaired Total Accounts receivable 7 186 799 66 -27 8 024 Other receivables 5 159 45 119 5 324 Total 12 345 844 186 -27 13 348 STATKRAFT AS Recognised as loss for the year -34 Receivables overdue by Receivables 2018 Less than More than overdue NOK million Not yet due 90 days 90 days and impaired Total Accounts receivable 7 396 18 89 -65 7 439 Other receivables 5 266 7 119 5 392 Total 12 661 25 209 -65 12 831 Recognised as loss for the year 62 SUSTAINABILITY Note 30 Cash and cash equivalents SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cash and cash equivalents includes commercial papers and other interest-bearing securities which normally are due within a period of three months. The item also includes restricted cash. Classification of cash deposit to cover margin calls related to trading activities depends on the characteristics of the exchange clearing service. If the service provider is neither a financial institution, nor part of Statkraft’s daily cash management and holds no bank accounts in the name of Statkraft, the cash deposit is classified as other receivables. Market settlements for derivatives connected with financial activities (cash collateral) are recognised in the statement of financial position as either receivables or liabilities. Bank deposits, cash and similar from joint operations are also presented under this line item. The table below shows transactions with related parties classified as associates or joint ventures. NOK million 2019 2018 Cash and cash deposits 1) 11 496 15 295 Commercial papers and other interest-bearing securities 3 707 7 880 Total 15 203 23 175 1) Includes NOK 328 million and NOK 357 million respectively in 2019 and 2018 from companies reported as joint operations. Book value of cash and cash equivalents pledged as security to counterparties (restricted cash) NOK million 2019 2018 Deposit account related to power sales on energy exchanges 30 54 Other restricted cash 5 7 Total 36 61 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 117 Note 31 Provisions SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities Provisions are only recognised when there is an existing obligation as a result of a past event, and when it is more than 50% probable that an obligation has arisen. It must also be possible to reliably measure the provision. Provisions are recognised with an amount that is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date. If the probability is lower than 50%, the conditions will be stated in note 35, if significant. Onerous contracts Obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract. GROUP Concessionary power Each year, concessionary sales are made to local authorities at statutory prices stipulated by the Norwegian Parliament. The supply of concessionary power is recognised as revenues on an ongoing basis in accordance with the established concessionary price. In the case of certain concessionary power contracts, agreements have been made regarding financial settlement in which Statkraft is invoiced for the difference between the spot price and the concessionary price. Such concessionary contracts are not included in the financial statements. The capitalised value of future concessionary power obligations is estimated and disclosed in note 35. Decommissioning Provisions related to decommissioning typically arise when Statkraft has the right to time-limited concessions. STATKRAFT AS NOK million 2019 2018 Provisions allocated to capital employed 1) 2 315 2 552 Decommissioning 2) 718 637 Total provisions 3 033 3 189 1) Mainly related to annual compensations and free power, long-term power agreements and equity instruments. 2) Mainly related to gas-fired power plants and wind farms. SUSTAINABILITY Reconciliation of movements during the period NOK million 2019 2018 Carrying value 01.01. 3 189 3 492 Additions during the year 208 278 Additions due to company acquisitions 127 80 Provisions used/reversed during the year -505 -485 Reclassifications -123 Other movements 32 6 Currency translation effects -17 -60 Carrying value 31.12 3 033 3 189 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 118 Note 32 Interest-bearing liabilities NOK million 2019 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities, current First year’s instalment on non-current debt 2 575 4 440 Cash collateral 1 383 1 510 Lease liabilities 217 Debt to Statkraft SF 179 218 Other short-term debt 125 179 Total 4 479 6 346 GROUP Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 3 050 6 050 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 21 603 21 770 Lease liabilities 1 457 External debt in subsidiaries and other debt 2 051 2 535 Total 28 160 30 354 Total interest-bearing liabilities 32 639 36 700 STATKRAFT AS NOK million 2019 2018 Cash flows from interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives allocated to the debt portfolio Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives allocated to the debt portfolio 01.01 as previously reported 1) 35 994 39 867 Addition of lease liabilities due to implemenation of IFRS 16 at 01.01 (no cash effect) 1 539 Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives allocated to the debt portfolio as of 01.01. 37 533 39 867 Addition from lease liabilities (no cash effect) 146 Addition from lease liabilities related to business combination (no cash effect) 137 New debt (cash inflow) 261 759 Repayment of debt (cash outflow) -5 924 -5 535 Cash collateral (cash in-/outflow) -125 188 SUSTAINABILITY Interest rate derivatives realised before maturity (cash in-/outflow) -220 Addition from business combinations (no cash effect) 81 720 Changes in foreign exchange rates (no cash effect) -501 -545 Changes in fair value (no cash effect) 340 355 Other (no cash effect) -52 185 Interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives allocated to the debt portfolio 31.12 2) 31 675 35 994 1) In 2019, the derivatives included in the opening balance amounted to NOK -706 million. In 2018 the corresponding amount was NOK -112. 2) In 2019, the derivatives included in the closing balance amounted to NOK -963 million. In 2018 the corresponding amount was NOK -706. Note 33 Other interest-free liabilities Other interest-free liabilities NOK million 2019 2018 Accounts payable 1 593 1 115 Indirect taxes payable 1 124 1 108 Accrued interest-free liabilities 1) 5 812 5 658 Accrued interest related to long-term debt 256 433 Other 1 263 1 931 Total 10 049 10 245 1) Mainly related to trading activities, external power producers (market access activities) and subcontractors in construction projects. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 119 Note 34 Disputes, contingencies and uncertain tax positions DISPUTES AND CONTINGENCIES The Group is involved in a number of legal proceedings in various forms. Whilst acknowledging the uncertainties of litigation, the Group is of the opinion that based on the information currently available, these matters will be resolved without any adverse material effect, individually or collectively on the Group's financial position. For legal disputes, in which the Group assesses it to be probable that an economic outflow will be required to settle the obligation, provisions have been made based on management’s best estimate. For significant cases with uncertainty, see details below. Brazil On 13 July 2015, Statkraft acquired a controlling interest in the Brazilian company Desenvix Energias Renováveis S.A., which subsequently changed name to Statkraft Energias Renováveis (SKER). Over the past years, Brazil has experienced several severe corruption cases. On this background, Statkraft initiated an internal investigation related to the subsidiary acquired in 2015. Based on the investigation, the company has contacted Brazilian authorities. It is at this stage GROUP not possible to predict the final outcome. The Brazilian Federal Prosecutor has been investigating potential crimes committed by representatives of the four main pension funds in Brazil and representatives of companies in which the pension funds invested, as well as any other individual who may have been involved in the alleged scheme, related to historical investments made by the pension funds, including FUNCEF, which invested in Desenvix (now SKER) in 2009 and 2010, and now owns 18.7% of SKER. The Prosecutor has concluded the investigation in relation to FUNCEF and filed the criminal lawsuit against the individuals, including the shareholders of Jackson and former officers of FUNCEF. In August 2017, the Federal Judge in charge of the criminal investigation issued a resolution stating that no information had been found relating SKER with the alleged illicit activities and therefore decided to release guarantees and other precautionary measures imposed on SKER. Additionally, a civil lawsuit has been filed against the pension funds and companies and individuals related to the pension fund’s investments, including SKER. It is at this stage not possible to predict if the outcome of the case could have potential negative effects on SKER. STATKRAFT AS UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS The Group is subject to income taxes in several jurisdictions. There is uncertainty related to the final tax liability for many transactions and calculations. A dispute or examination of a particular tax treatment by taxation authorities may affect the accounting for current or deferred taxes. When assessing the recognition of uncertain tax assets or liabilities, it is considered if the asset or liability is probable. If the final outcome of the tax disputes deviates from the amounts recognised in the balance sheet, the deviations will impact the income tax expense in the income statement for the applicable period. The Group’s recognised taxes payable as of 31.12.2019 included NOK 890 million relating to management estimate of uncertain tax treatments in Norway and Germany. The amounts represent the most likely amounts due to expecting binary outcome of final tax treatment. No uncertain tax asset has been recognised in the balance sheet. The Group’s estimate of accumulated uncertain tax treatments being expensed and paid as of 31.12.2019 amounted to NOK 371 million. SUSTAINABILITY The Group estimated that the potential tax payable including associated interests related to unrecognised uncertain tax treatments as of 31.12.2019 amounted to NOK 3.2 billion. Of this, NOK 2.5 billion NOK is related to Statkraft Treasury Centre SA. See details below. Statkraft Treasury Centre SA On 9 October 2017, Statkraft AS received a draft decision of a tax reassessment from the Norwegian tax authorities. On 11 September 2019, Statkraft AS received a revised draft. The revised draft decision regards the income tax returns for the fiscal years 2010-2014 related to the investment in the Statkraft Treasury Centre SA (STC) in Belgium. The main issue relates to STC’s capital structure and its compliance with the arm’s length principle. Statkraft strongly disagrees that there is a legal basis for any reassessment and has made no provisions related to this case. If all arguments from the Norwegian tax authorities would prevail, the financial exposure for the period 2010-2017 is estimated to NOK 2.5 billion as additional payable tax and interest expenses. On 24 April 2017, the major business activities in STC were transferred to Statkraft AS. All business activities in STC have been closed down. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 120 Note 35 Pledges, guarantees and obligations PLEDGES Under certain circumstances local authorities and publicly owned energy companies are entitled to a share of the output from power plants belonging to Statkraft in return for paying a share of the construction costs. To finance the acquisition of such rights, the local authorities/companies have been granted permission to pledge the power plant as security. The mortgage debt raised by the local authorities under this scheme totals NOK 255 million. In addition, other subsidiaries have a total of NOK 1401 million in pledged debt. As of 31 December 2019, the carrying value of the pledged assets in Statkraft Energi AS totalled NOK 850 million, and a total of NOK 3558 million in other subsidiaries, mainly in the Statkraft IH Invest Group. Pledged assets in Statkraft IH Invest Group consist of property, plant and equipment to ensure compliance of long-term debt. GROUP GUARANTEES The Statkraft Group has the following off-balance-sheet guarantees: NOK million 2019 2018 STATKRAFT AS Parent company guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries 1) 17 470 16 790 Parent company guarantees on behalf of associates and joint arrangements 828 451 Other 801 876 Total guarantees in Statkraft AS 19 099 18 118 1) Whereof the most material guarantees are regarding energy purchase of NOK 16 094 million and liabilities to suppliers of NOK 1 675 million. Guarantees issued by subsidiaries 3 614 2 710 Guarantees issued by associates and joint arrangements 194 158 Total guarantees in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements 3 808 2 868 Total guarantees 22 907 20 986 SUSTAINABILITY CONTRACT OBLIGATIONS The Statkraft Group has the following significant off-balance-sheet obligations:  Statkraft is obliged to pay licence fees related to hydropower plants, mainly in Norway. The present value of the Group’s future licence fee obligations, not recognised in the statement of financial position, is estimated to NOK 12 696 million. The estimated amount is based on a regulated discount rate of 3.2%, annual compensation and funds etc. In 2018, the corresponding amount was NOK 9560 million with a discount rate of 3.8%.  A power purchase agreement with an estimated 16-year horizon. The purchase obligation is NOK 1425 million.  Obligation regarding service agreements related to gas-fired power plants of NOK 575 million.  A licence agreement relating to the development, construction and operation of one hydropower plant which involves a responsibility estimated to NOK 294 million. CONCESSIONARY POWER CONTRACTS The Group recognises concessionary power as normal buying and selling in accordance with stipulated concessionary power prices upon delivery, regardless of whether the settlement takes place upon physical delivery or financial settlement. Concessionary power contracts are normally regarded as indefinite. The parties can however agree on financial settlement for a period of time. At the end of 2019, the contracts with financial settlement had a total volume of around 18.7 GWh and an average price from the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy of 11.3 øre/kWh. For the remaining contracts with financial settlement, the estimated fair value at 31 December 2019 was NOK 289 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 121 Note 36 Fees paid to external auditors Deloitte AS is the Statkraft Group’s auditor and audits all subsidiaries subject to auditing requirements. The total fees (excluding VAT) paid for auditing and other services were as follows: NOK thousand 2019 2018 Statutory auditing 16 942 13 992 Other attestation services 1 041 809 Tax consultancy services 907 1 302 Other services 1) 536 6 181 Total 19 426 22 284 GROUP 1)The main items in fees for other services in 2019 relate to attestation of the sustainability report. The corresponding figure for 2018 relates to assistance in a due dilligence process and the attestation of the sustainability report. STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 122 Note 37 Benefits paid to executive management and the Board of Directors Statkraft is organised into business units and support functions. The managers of these units report to the Group management, which comprises the executive vice presidents (EVPs) and the President and CEO. Salary and other benefits – executive management 2019 Salaries NOK Salary Bonus 1) Benefits in kind and other benefits Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, President and CEO 5 490 637 921 000 201 883 6 613 520 GROUP Anne Harris, Executive Vice President and CFO 2) 1 769 563 586 000 141 737 2 497 300 Hallvard Granheim, Executive Vice President 3 603 927 650 000 209 901 4 463 828 Steinar Bysveen, Executive Vice President 2 879 584 453 000 208 686 3 541 270 Hilde Bakken, Executive Vice President 2 958 516 615 000 213 169 3 786 685 Jürgen Tzschoppe, Executive Vice President 3 686 726 589 000 161 534 4 437 260 Jon Vatnaland, Executive Vice President 2 610 410 533 000 209 193 3 352 603 1) Bonus earned in 2019, but disbursed in 2020. 2) Anne Harris was appointed Executive Vice President on 2 May 2019. STATKRAFT AS 2018 Salaries NOK Salary Bonus 1) Benefits in kind and other benefits Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, President and CEO 5 288 570 664 000 196 054 6 148 623 Irene Egset, Executive Vice President and CFO 2) 2 569 843 198 239 2 768 082 Hallvard Granheim, Executive Vice President 3 318 523 442 000 199 592 3 960 115 Steinar Bysveen, Executive Vice President 2 812 461 445 000 208 940 3 466 401 Hilde Bakken, Executive Vice President 2 788 684 432 000 206 193 3 426 877 Jürgen Tzschoppe, Executive Vice President 3 553 969 473 000 159 992 4 186 961 Jon Vatnaland, Executive Vice President 2 332 114 429 000 199 025 2 960 139 1) Bonus earned in 2018, but disbursed in 2019. SUSTAINABILITY 2) Irene Egset resigned from her position as Executive Vice President and CFO on 31 December 2018. The Group management has not received any compensation or financial benefits from other companies in the same Group other than those shown above. No additional compensation for special services beyond normal managerial functions has been provided, nor have any loans or surety been granted. For 2019, total salaries and other benefits paid to the executive management amounted to NOK 28 692 467. The corresponding amount in 2018 was NOK 26 917 198. Pension costs – executive management NOK 2019 2018 Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, President and CEO 2 217 459 2 495 232 Irene Egset, Executive Vice President and CFO 1) 1 394 708 Anne Harris, Executive Vice President and CFO 2) 97 228 Hallvard Granheim, Executive Vice President 289 451 289 049 Steinar Bysveen, Executive Vice President 1 180 345 1 203 229 Hilde Bakken, Executive Vice President 1 355 548 1 474 632 Jürgen Tzschoppe, Executive Vice President 144 545 140 832 Jon Vatnaland, Executive Vice President 1 001 963 948 879 1) Irene Egset resigned from her position as Executive Vice President and CFO on 31 December 2018. 2) Anne Harris was appointed Executive Vice President on 2 May 2019. The year’s accounting cost for the pension scheme reflects the period during which the individual has been an executive employee. For 2019, the total pension costs for executive management were NOK 6 286 539. In 2018 the corresponding amount was NOK 7 946 561. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 123 Note 37 continued Remuneration to the Board, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee as well as participation in Board meetings 2019 Board Audit Compensation Participation in NOK remuneration Committee Committee board meetings Thorhild Widvey, chair 524 000 54 200 10 Peter Mellbye, deputy chair 370 000 33 550 10 Hilde Drønen, director 304 000 101 400 9 Mikael Lundin, director 304 000 73 400 10 Ingelise Arntsen, director 304 000 73 400 10 Bengt Ekenstierna, director 304 000 10 GROUP Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes, employee-elected director 304 000 10 Thorbjørn Holøs, employee-elected director 304 000 73 400 9 Asbjørn Sevlejordet, employee-elected director 304 000 33 550 10 2018 Board Audit Compensation Participation in NOK remuneration Committee Committee board meetings Thorhild Widvey, chair 501 000 51 650 9 Peter Mellbye, deputy chair 323 000 32 050 9 STATKRAFT AS Hilde Drønen, director 290 500 83 700 9 Mikael Lundin, director 1) 150 000 36 150 6 Halvor Stenstadvold, director 2) 170 500 46 650 4 Ingelise Arntsen, director 290 500 69 950 9 Bengt Ekenstierna, director 290 500 9 Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes, employee-elected director 290 500 10 Thorbjørn Holøs, employee-elected director 290 500 69 950 10 Asbjørn Sevlejordet, employee-elected director 290 500 32 050 9 1) Was appointed board member in June 2018. 2) Left the Board in June 2018. SUSTAINABILITY The Board has no remuneration agreements other than the directors’ fee and remuneration for participation in committee work, nor have any loans or surety been granted to directors of the Board. Total remuneration paid to the Board, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee in 2019 was NOK 3 022 000, NOK 321 600 and NOK 121 300, respectively. The respective amounts in 2018 were NOK 2 887 500, NOK 306 400 and NOK 115 750. THE BOARD’S STATEMENT REGARDING SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATIONS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES – 2019 The board of Statkraft will contribute to a moderate, but competitive development of executive pay in Statkraft. The principles and guidelines for executive salary and other remunerations are formed accordingly. There were no significant policy changes with regard to salaries and other remunerations in 2019. Statkraft AS and fully owned subsidiaries follows the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries’s guidance for salary and other benefits to corporate management in state owned companies. Statkraft’s policy is to offer competitive terms, but not take a leading position. Upon deciding salaries and other remunerations in Statkraft, an external position assessment system delivered by Korn Ferry Hay Group that ranks positions according to a recognized and widely used methodology is utilised. This company conducts an annual survey, evaluating how similarly ranked positions in the Norwegian labour market are compensated. The survey contains compensation data from a wide range of Norwegian companies representing the Norwegian total market and is not limited to single sectors. This information, together with the general salary development in Statkraft, forms the basis for determining compensation. Organisation The board of Statkraft has established a separate Compensation Committee. The mandate of the committee is as follows:  Once a year prepare the board’s treatment of items relating to the CEO’s salary and conditions of employment.  Prepare the Board’s statement on executive pay and other compensation paid to senior executives.  Prepare the Board’s treatment of all the fundamental issues relating to salary, bonus systems, pension and employment agreements and similar for the executive management in Statkraft.  Deal with specific issues related to compensation for employees in the Statkraft Group to the extent that the Committee deems that these concern matters of particular importance for the Group’s reputation, competitiveness and attractiveness as an employer.  The CEO shall consult the Compensation Committee regarding the salaries for the corporate executives and head of Corporate Audit before they are decided upon. Report on executive remuneration policy The CEO and corporate executives receive both a fixed salary and a variable payment. Fixed salary The fixed salary is determined based on an assessment of the specific position and the market – as well as an assessment against Statkraft’s policy of offering competitive terms, but not take a leading position. Statkraft apply the Korn Ferry Hay Group methodology for position and market evaluations. When deciding the annual salary regulation, the average salary increases of other employees are also considered. Variable salary Base salary is the primary compensation element in Statkraft. In addition, the company has a variable remuneration scheme for the senior executives based on key performance indicators and individual goals. The purpose is to drive operational performance and manage risks to achieve the objectives in the strategy. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 124 Note 37 continued Statkraft has established a performance management process to ensure clear relationship between the Group’s overall Strategic platform and defined targets. Performance is reported and followed up through key performance indicators (KPIs) in the Group scorecard. The key performance indicators are based on the most relevant value drivers and strategic ambitions for the group. The targets are set to ensure value creation. The variable remuneration scheme for Statkraft’s senior executives is developed to support the performance management process, establishing a clear link between value-creating activities and individual variable remuneration. Below is a description of relevant categories of KPIs included in the variable remuneration scheme. The measurement is weighted on the individual’s area of responsibility: i) Care for people and environment Within this category Statkraft monitors that required legal, environmental, social and ethical standards in the industry are followed. A main focus is on health, safety and security risks for employees and reduction of negative environmental impact. Common health and safety targets are included for all members of executive management. ii) Financial indicators GROUP Statkraft’s financial performance from market activities is measured through profitability KPIs, where Statkraft’s added value from energy management and other market activities are measured against the market. The main focus is to enhance value creation for Statkraft, measured by different KPIs with stretch targets. iii) Operational indicators There are several KPIs to follow up operational performance. Statkraft measures the utility-adjusted availability of the power plants, i.e. the availability in times where Statkraft benefits from available plants. Moreover Statkraft follows up costs by measuring the development of the cost base. Also for these indicators, the main focus is on enhanced value creation for Statkraft; measured by different KPIs with stretch targets For the CEO and corporate management, the variable remuneration has a maximum potential of 25 per cent of gross base salary. Calculation of variable remuneration is based on level of goal achievement ranging from 0 to 100% for specific, defined sub targets. Sub targets are defined at three levels:  Expected level; results in range with goal achievements on this level reflect expected delivery and is not rewarded with variable pay. STATKRAFT AS  Stretch goals; defined results above expected delivery level that represent 50% goal achievement.  Outstanding; defined results high above expected delivery level that represent 100% goal achievement. For the CEO and corporate management, targets are defined for strategic objectives as well as financial and operational performance. The CEO’s variable pay is fully based on these targets while the variable pay for the executive vice presidents has a combined weighting of 70% of these targets and a 30% weighting of individual targets on leadership and organisational development. Assessment of variable remuneration level for the executive vice presidents is conducted in consultation with the compensation committee of the Statkraft board. The assessment of variable remuneration level for the CEO is conducted by the compensation committee and decided by the board. Main targets for 2019 encompassed the areas security (TRI), total measurable cost per kWh, market adjusted availability for all power production, market operations, specific targets for hydro power, international power and European wind and solar, as well as business development and other organizational targets. All targets were supported by comprehensive plans and measures. Other variable elements SUSTAINABILITY Other variable elements include arrangements with a company car, newspapers, phone and coverage of broadband communication in accordance with established standards. Pension plans For wholly owned Norwegian subsidiaries, Statkraft has established a defined contribution plan in Gjensidige Pensjonsforsikring AS and has a closed defined benefit plan in the Government Pension Fund (SPK). The CEO, Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, has a retirement age of 67 years, and will receive a pension of 66% of his annual salary, provided that he has been part of SPK during the entire 30-year vesting period. The other corporate executives have a retirement age of 65 years at the earliest, with the right to 66% of their annual salary, provided that they have been part of SPK during the entire 30-year vesting period. Statkraft established a pension scheme funded out of current income for income above 12G in 2003. The scheme included all employees with an annual salary over 12G, including the CEO and corporate executives. This scheme was closed to new employees in 2012. There is no established new retirement pension scheme for annual salary over 12G, but an additional salary system has been established that can be used for supplementary private pension savings. Additional salary is set at 18% of ordinary salary over 12G. Group disability coverage relating to salaries over 12G has also been established. Employees with a salary above 12 G and date of hire prior to April 30 2012 kept their pension agreements in the closed pension scheme. This practice was also applied for internal promotions to corporate management. Members of the closed scheme for income above 12G included in 2018 the CEO and four members of corporate management. Statkraft will for future internal promotions assume that the 12G restraint for pension schemes shall be made applicable for new members of corporate management regardless of hire date in the company. Position change agreements The CEO and one member of corporate management have agreements regarding change of position after the age of 62. These are agreements where, at any time after the employee has reached 62 years of age, the executive or the company has a mutual right to request to resign, or be requested to resign, from his executive position without further justification. If any of the parties exercise this right, the executive should be offered another position with a salary of 75% of the executive’s pay – and working hours of up to 50% until the agreed-upon retirement age. The policy regarding executive remuneration has been amended and the arrangement is closed to new employees. Severance arrangements The mutual period of notice for the CEO is 6 months. For corporate executives, there is a mutual notice period of 3 months. After more than 2 years of employment, the employer’s period of notice is 6 months. For the CEO, and two members of corporate management, agreements have been signed guaranteeing a special severance pay from the employer if notice is given by the employer with a shorter deadline than mentioned above. The agreement waives the employee’s rights in the Work Environment Act (Arbeidsmiljøloven) for protection against dismissal. If the employer uses this right of termination, the employee is entitled to a severance payment of up to 12 months’ salary in excess of agreed notice period. The amount shall be paid monthly. Severance pay shall be reduced according to established rules if the employee receives other income within the payment period. These agreements are entered into in accordance with the guidelines for the employment conditions of managers in state owned enterprises and companies of 28 June 2004. The policy regarding executive remuneration has been changed, and the arrangement is closed to new employees. Terms for the CEO Fixed salary paid to the CEO for 2020 is NOK 5 500 000, with other terms as set out in this statement. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 125 Note 38 Related parties GENERAL INFORMATION All subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements stated in note 26 and note 39 are related parties of Statkraft. Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated companies are eliminated in Statkraft’s consolidated financial statements and are not presented in this note. The individuals stated in note 37 are members of the executive management or the Board of Directors and are also related parties of Statkraft. The table below shows transactions with related parties classified as associates or joint ventures. GROUP NOK million 2019 2018 Revenues 136 92 Expenses 184 314 Receivables at the end of the period 1 576 2 394 Liabilities at the end of the period 10 34 STATKRAFT AS Significant transactions with the owner and companies controlled by the owner The shares in Statkraft AS are all owned by Statkraft SF, which is a company wholly owned by the Norwegian State. NOK million 2019 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income includes: Concessionary sales at statutory prices 397 378 Net operating revenues and other income includes: SUSTAINABILITY Energy purchases from Equinor 1 178 390 Transmission costs to Statnett 1 385 1 498 Operating expenses includes: Property tax and licence fees to Norwegian authorities 977 1 052 Financial expenses includes: Interest expenses to Statkraft SF 30 33 Tax expenses includes: Taxes payable to Norwegian authorities 5 954 6 706 Dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF 6 500 8 510 Transmission costs to Statnett are mainly grid tariff. The prices in this market are stipulated by the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate. Other transactions with related parties are conducted at commercial terms and conditions. Except for interest-bearing debt covered in note 32, there are no other significant items between Statkraft AS and Statkraft SF in the statement of financial position. Statkraft also has transactions and balances with other enterprises controlled by the Norwegian state, but their size, neither individually nor combined, have significance for Statkraft’s financial statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 126 Note 39 Consolidated companies Shareholding Registered and voting Name Segment 1) Country office Parent company share Hitra Vind AS EW Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Kjøllefjord Vind AS EW Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Smøla Vind 2 AS EW Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA EW Norway Kristiansand Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS EW Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Zonneakker De Doorbraak B.V EW The Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Hydrogen Sweden AB OA Sweden Stockholm Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Biofuel Holding AS OA Norway Oslo Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS 100.00% GROUP Statkraft Italia S.R.L EW Italy Milan Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Asset Holding AS EF,OA Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Baltic Cable AB EF Sweden Malmö Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft France SAS EF France Lyon Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Markets BV MO The Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Renewables Albania SHPK IP Albania Tirana Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Devoll Hydropower Sh.A. IP Albania Tirana Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Statkraft Solar Solutions Pte Ltd IP India New Delhi Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Statkraft (China) Energy Ltd. MO China Beijing Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Statkraft Sverige AB EF, EW Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Gidekraft AB EF Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Sverige AB 90.10% Statkraft US Holding AS MO Norway Oslo Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% STATKRAFT AS Statkraft US LLC MO USA San Francisco Statkraft US Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Värme AB DH Sweden Kungsbacka Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Vind AB EW Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Leasing AB EW Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Sverige Vind AB EW Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Sverige Vind Elnät AB EW Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Sverige Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Sverige Vind II AB EW Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Ireland Limited EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Winter Winds Limited EW Ireland Limerick Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Boolyvannanan Renewable Energy Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Cloncant Renewable Energy Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% North Irish Sea Array Windfarm Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% JBM Solar Developments Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Coole Wind Farm Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% SUSTAINABILITY Greenwire Transmission Pentir Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Greenwire Transmission South Wales Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Jupiter Energy Supply Company Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Moanvane Wind Farm Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% North Kildare Wind Farm Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% North Meath Wind Farm Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Behy Renewables Energy Limited EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Fossy Wind Farm Limited EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Asset Management Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Development Projects Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Ireland Projects Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Kilsallaghan Solar Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Tomsallagh Solar Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Clonfad Solar Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Meath Solar Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Featherbed Lane Solar Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Dungeeha Solar Ltd. EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Sronagh Solar Ltd. EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Rathleague Solar Ltd. EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Dernacart Wind Farm Ltd. EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Kilsallaghan Solar Ltd EW Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Carbon Invest AS MO Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satis Ltd. Sti MO Turkey Istanbul Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Energi AS MO, EF, EW Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Tofte AS OA Norway Oslo Statkraft Energi AS 100.00% Statkraft Varme AS DH Norway Trondheim Statkraft Energi AS 100.00% Stjørdal Fjernvarme AS DH Norway Trondheim Statkraft Varme AS 85.00% Statkraft Enerji A.S. IP Turkey Istanbul Statkraft AS 100.00% Çakıt Enerji A.S. IP Turkey Istanbul Statkraft Enerji A.S. 100.00% Kargi Kizirlmak Enerji A.S. IP Turkey Istanbul Statkraft Enerji A.S. 100.00% Statkraft Financial Energy AB MO Sweden Stockholm Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Forsikring AS OA Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Germany GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft AS 100.00% eeMobility Gmbh OA Germany München Statkraft Germany GmbH 69.60% E-Wald GmbH OA Germany Teisnach Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Zonnepark Wenumse Veld BV EW The Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Markets GmbH MO, EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Holding Herdecke GmbH EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Holding Knapsack GmbH EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Knapsack Power GmbH & Co KG EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Holding Knapsack GmbH 100.00% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 127 Note 39 continued Shareholding Registered and voting Name Segment 1) Country office Parent company share Knapsack Power Verwaltungs GmbH EF Germany Düsseldorf Knapsack Power GmbH & Co KG 100.00% Statkraft Markets Financial Services GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Trading GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Ventures GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Solar Deutschland GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Wenumse Veld B.V. MO Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Statkraft IH Invest AS IP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Brasil AS IP Norway Oslo Statkraft IH Invest AS 100.00% Statkraft Investimentos Ltda. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Brasil AS 100.00% Statkraft Energia do Brasil Ltda. IP, MO Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Investimentos Ltda. 100.00% Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Investimentos Ltda. 81.31% Esmeralda S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% GROUP Enex O&M de Sistemas Elétricos Ltda. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Laura S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Rosa S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Moinho S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Macaúbas Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Novo Horizonte Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Seabra Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Energen Energias Renováveis S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Monel Monjolinho Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Fé Energia S.A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Sierra de Mangabeira SA IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% STATKRAFT AS Oslo I S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo II S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo III S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo IV S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo V S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo VI S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo VII S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo VIII S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo IX S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Oslo X S/A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Eugênia Energias Renováveis S.A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Ventos de São Vitorino S.A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Statkraft IH Holding AS IP Norway Oslo Statkraft IH Invest AS 100.00% SUSTAINABILITY Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. IP The Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft IH Holding AS 100.00% Himal Power Ltd. IP Nepal Kathmandu Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 57.07% Statkraft Holding Chile Pte. Ltd. IP The Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Holding Chile Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Eólico S.A. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Holding Chile Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Market Services Chile S.A. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. 100.00% Empresa Eléctrica Pilmaiquén S.A. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. 99.62% Empresa Eléctrica Rucatayo S.A. IP Chile Santiago Empresa Eléctrica Pilmaiquén S.A. 100.00% Transrucatayo S.A IP Chile Santiago Empresa Eléctrica Rucatayo S.A. 100.00% Statkraft Chile Tinguiririca SCC IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Holding Peru Pte. Ltd. IP The Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Peru Holding S.A.C. IP Peru Lima Statkraft Holding Peru Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Peru S.A. IP Peru Lima Statkraft Peru Holding S.AC. 100.00% Inversiones Shaqsa S.A.C. IP Peru Lima Statkraft Peru S.A. 100.00% Tidong Power Generation Private Ltd IP India Shimla Statkraft IH Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft India Pvt. Ltd. IP India New Delhi Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Markets Pvt. Ltd. MO India New Delhi Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Industrial Holding AS IO Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Skagerak Energi AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 66.62% Skagerak Kraft AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Grunnåi Kraftverk AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Kraft AS 55.00% Sauland Kraftverk AS IO Norway Hjartdal Skagerak Kraft AS 67.00% Gjuvåa Kraftverk AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Kraft AS 100.00% Skagerak Nett AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Skagerak Varme AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Skien Fjernvarme AS IO Norway Skien Skagerak Varme AS 51.00% Hjartdalskraft AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Statkraft Brussel Sprl OA Belgium Brussels Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Treasury Centre SA OA Belgium Brussels Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft UK Ltd. EW, MO United Kingdom London Statkraft AS 100.00% Bylgja Energy Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Logi Energy Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Artfield Forrest Wind Farm Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Knockronal Wind Farm Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Energy Isles Shetland Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Airvolution Clean Energy Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Gnoc Nam Muc Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Slickly Wind Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% LyG SPV Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Ackron Wind Farm Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Windy Rig Wind Farm Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Keith Storage Solutions Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 128 Note 39 continued Shareholding Registered and voting Name Segment 1) Country office Parent company share Twentyshilling Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Andershaw Wind Power Ltd. EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Energy Ltd. EF United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Rheidol 2008 Trustees Ltd. EF United Kingdom London Statkraft Energy Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Pure Energy Ltd. MO United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 85.00% Bryt Energy Storage MO United Kingdom London Statkraft Pure Energy 100.00% Bryt Energy Ltd MO United Kingdom London Statkraft Pure Energy 100.00% BB2 Wind Farm Ltd EW United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Vind Holding AS EW Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Grønn kontakt AS OA Norway Kristiansand Statkraft AS 95.72% GROUP Grön kontakt AB OA Sweden Stockholm Grønn kontakt AS 100.00% 1) EF: European flexible generation, MO: Market operations, IP: International power, EW: European wind and solar, DH: District heating, IO: Industrial ownership, OA: Other activities. STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 129 Statkraft AS Financial Statements Income statement Statkraft AS parent company GROUP NOK million Note 2019 2018 Operating revenues 23 1 221 1 009 Salaries and payroll costs 5, 6 -829 -797 Depreciations 10 -37 -48 Other operating expenses 7, 20, 23 -979 -805 Operating expenses -1 845 -1 650 STATKRAFT AS Operating profit (EBIT) -624 -641 Income from investments in subsidiaries and associates 8, 23 7 030 17 674 Financial income 8, 23 778 850 Financial costs 8, 23 -670 -969 Net realised and unrealised securities 8, 23 2 193 704 Net realised and unrealised currency and derivatives 8 603 -465 Net financial items 9 934 17 794 Profit before tax 9 310 17 153 Tax expense 9 -205 -161 Profit for the year 9 105 16 992 SUSTAINABILITY Appropriation of profit for the year and equity transfers Dividends payable 15 6 362 8 500 Transfer to/from retained earnings 15 2 743 8 492 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 130 Statement of Financial Position Statkraft AS parent company GROUP NOK million Note 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Assets Deferred tax asset 9 241 424 Property, plant and equipment 10 200 222 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 11 93 212 92 828 Derivatives 19, 23 99 12 Other non-current financial assets 12, 23 9 995 15 654 STATKRAFT AS Non-current assets 103 747 109 140 Receivables 13, 23 13 965 10 451 Derivatives 19, 23 247 301 Cash and cash equivalents 14 11 779 19 954 Current assets 25 991 30 706 Assets 129 738 139 846 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Paid-in capital 15 56 402 56 402 SUSTAINABILITY Retained earnings 15 24 582 21 794 Equity 80 984 78 196 Provisions 16 940 995 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 3, 17, 23 24 654 27 822 Derivatives 19, 23 208 472 Non-current liabilities 25 802 29 289 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 3, 17, 23 15 958 22 494 Taxes payable 9 27 20 Derivatives 19, 23 189 700 Other interest-free liabilities 18, 23 6 778 9 147 Current liabilities 22 952 32 361 Equity and liabilities 129 738 139 846 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 131 Statement of Cash Flow Statkraft AS parent company NOK million Note 2019 2018 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 9 310 17 153 Depreciations 10 37 48 Write-downs/reversal of write-downs from previous years 8 -2 226 -708 Gain/loss on sale of shares 5 GROUP Unrealised changes in value -808 -698 Changes in long-term items -121 18 Changes in other short-term items -199 701 Booked income from dividend and group contribution with no cash effects -7 014 -8 162 Group contribution and dividend received 13 115 12 259 Taxes paid -28 -7 Cash flow from operating activities (A) 12 066 20 609 STATKRAFT AS CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment -15 -20 Loans to subsidiaries and associates -3 400 Repayment of loans from subsidiaries and associates 625 15 262 Investments in subsidiaries and associates -2 980 -13 992 Capital reduction in subsidiaries and associates 67 Divestments of shares 15 360 Cash flow from investing activities (B) -2 355 -1 723 SUSTAINABILITY CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Changes in cash pool -4 690 -1 074 New debt 65 358 Repayment of debt -4 761 -4 161 Dividend paid -8 500 -6 040 Cash flow from financing activities (C) -17 886 -10 917 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (A)+(B)+(C) -8 175 7 969 Cash and cash equivalents 01.01 14 19 954 11 985 Cash and cash equivalents 31.12 14 11 779 19 954 Unused commited credit lines 9 167 9 167 Unused overdraft facilities 1 000 1 000 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. The statement starts with the company’s result for the year in order to show cash flow generated by regular operating, investing and financing activities respectively. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 132 Notes Statkraft AS parent company Index of notes to Statkraft AS parent company financial statement Page Page Note 1 Significant accounting policies 133 Note 13 Receivables 143 Note 2 Market risk 134 Note 14 Cash and cash equivalents 143 Note 3 Analysis of market risk 135 Note 15 Equity 144 GROUP Note 4 Hedge accounting 136 Note 16 Provisions 144 Note 5 Payroll costs and number of full-time equivalents 136 Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities 145 Note 6 Pensions 137 Note 18 Other interest-free liabilities 145 Note 7 Other operating expenses 138 Note 19 Derivatives 146 Note 8 Financial items 139 Note 20 Fees paid to external auditors 147 Note 9 Income Taxes 140 Note 21 Obligations and guarantees 147 Note 10 Property, plant and equipment 141 Note 22 Disputes 147 Note 11 Shares in subsidiaries and Note 23 Related parties 147 associates 142 Note 24 Transactions 149 Note 12 Other non-current financial assets 143 Note 25 Subsequent events 149 STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 133 Note 1 Significant accounting policies GENERAL INFORMATION The annual accounts for Statkraft AS have been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Act and generally accepted accounting principles in Norway (Norwegian GAAP). The descriptions of accounting policies in the statements and notes form part of the overall description of accounting policies:  Statement of cash flow  Hedge accounting Note 4  Pensions Note 6  Research and development costs Note 7 GROUP  Income taxes Note 9  Property, plant and equipment Note 10  Investments in subsidiaries and associates Note 11  Other non-current financial assets Note 12  Receivables Note 13  Cash and cash equivalents Note 14  Long-term liabilities Note 17  Derivatives Note 19 VALUATION AND CLASSIFICATION PRINCIPLES Uncertainties in estimates The accounts are based on assumptions and estimates that affect the book value of assets, liabilities, income and costs. The STATKRAFT AS best estimate at the time when the accounts are rendered form the basis, but the actual figures may deviate from the initial estimates. Principles for recognition of income and expensing of costs Recognition of revenues from sale of goods and services takes place when earned, whilst expensing of costs takes place in accordance with the accrual principle. Gains/losses from sale of property, plant and equipment are treated as operating revenues or expenses. Classification and valuation of assets and debt Assets intended for lasting ownership or use are classified as fixed assets. Other assets are classified as current assets. Receivables that will be repaid within 12 months are classified as current assets. Corresponding criterias are used to classify current and longterm liabilities. Fixed assets are valued at cost, but are impaired when the reduction in value is not expected to be transitory. Impairment is reversed when the basis for the impairment no longer exists. Fixed assets with limited useful economic life are depreciated according to schedule. SUSTAINABILITY Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and fair value. Short-term loans are recognised in the balance sheet at the nominal received amount at the time of establishment. Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are recognised if settlement is more likely than not. Best estimates are used when calculating settlement value. Foreign currency Monetary items denominated in foreign currency are valued at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Realised and unrealised currency effects are presented as net in the financial statements. Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the transaction date. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 134 Note 2 Market risk RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IN GENERAL The risk management policy is based upon assuming the right risk based on the Group’s ability and willingness to take risks, expertise, financial strength and development plans. The purpose of risk management policy is to identify threats and opportunities for the Group, and to manage the risk within an acceptable level. The central Treasury function in Statkraft AS coordinates and manages the financial risks relating to currency, interest rates, credit and liquidity of the Group. A more detailed explanation of how these are managed will be provided in the following. FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK GROUP Statkraft is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Statkraft uses interest rate and foreign currency derivatives in addition to debt in foreign currency to mitigate these risks. Funding, forwards and swaps in foreign currency in combination with interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired currency and interest structure of the company’s debt portfolio. Statkraft’s methods for managing these risks are described below: Foreign exchange risk Statkraft AS manages the Group’s currency risk. Statkraft incurs currency risk in the form of transaction risk, mainly in connection with energy sales revenues, investments and dividends. Translation risk is related to shareholdings in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint operations. Statkraft’s settlement currency at the Nordic power exchange Nord Pool is euro, and all power contracts traded in the Nordic power exchange Nasdaq are denominated in euro. In addition most of Statkraft’s bilateral power purchase agreements in Norway and all power purchase and sales abroad are denominated in foreign currency. The objective of Statkraft’s currency hedging is to secure the value in Norwegian kroner for future cash flows exposed to foreign exchange STATKRAFT AS risk. Hedging of foreign exchange risk is primarily done by allocating appropriate volumes of currency debt to the relevant cash flows. The foreign exchange risk is subject to continuous assessment and treated in accordance with the Group strategy. Few of these hedging relationships fulfil the requirements of hedge accounting. Interest rate risk Statkraft’s interest rate exposure is related to its debt portfolio. The management of interest rate risk is based on a balance of keeping interest cost low over time and contributing to stabilise the Group’s cash flows with regards to interest rate changes. The interest rate risk is monitored by having duration as the measure. Statkraft shall at all times keep the average duration of its debt portfolio within the range of two to five years. Compliance with the limit for currency and interest rate risk is followed up continuously by the middle-office function. Responsibility for entering into and following up the various positions has been delegated and allocated to separate organisational units. Statkraft has established a project to assess the potential economic and accounting consequences of the transition from IBORs to ARRs which is expected to take place in 2021. At the current stage it is too early to draw any conclusions about the potential consequences. SUSTAINABILITY LIQUIDITY RISK The purpose of Statkraft’ s liquidity management is to secure fulfilment of payment obligations at all times. Statkraft has incorporated a separate target figure for short term liquidity to ensure that Statkraft has a satisfactory level of liquidity sources, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, short term financial investments and unused committed credit facilities. The liquidity risk is further mitigated through liquidity forecasts, access to different borrowing sources and markets. Statkraft plans for an evenly distributed debt redemption profile to keep refinancing risk low. Statkraft issues debt primarily under its Euro Medium Term Note Programme (EUR 6.0 billion) listed on the London and Irish Stock Exchange. In addition, Statkraft has a backup facility of NOK 9.2 billion supported by the Group’s core banks. The backup facility is maturing in 2023. Statkraft has an unused overdraft facility of NOK 1.0 billion which is renewed on an annual basis too. The main cash outflows include the annual dividend payment, tax payments in addition to planned investments. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that Statkraft incurs losses due to the failure of counterparties to honour their financial obligations. Statkraft is facing credit risk when entering into transactions with financial institutions. Credit risk against financial institutions arises from cash or current account, deposit, investment of interest bearing securities, derivative transactions and incoming guarantees. Statkraft also assumes credit risk when providing loans to associates and joint ventures. Excess liquidity is managed in a conservative manner considering credit risk, diversification and duration. Statkraft’s excess liquidity is mainly held in Norwegian kroner and invested across various short-term financial instruments such as commercial papers, time deposits and bank deposits. Credit and duration limits are stipulated for each counterparty based on credit ratings and total assets. As of 31 December 2019, approximately 21% of Statkraft’s excess liquidity (including cash in subsidiaries participating in the cash pool) were held in time deposits, 31% in commercial paper and 48% in overnight bank deposits. Statkraft AS has entered into agreements under which collateral is transferred or received based on the mark-to-market value of interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives between counterparties. Collateral is transferred or received on a weekly basis. Counterparty credit risk is significantly mitigated by collateral under these agreements. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 135 Note 3 Analysis of market risk Specification of debt by currency 1) NOK million 2019 2018 Debt in NOK 2) -2 088 4253 Debt in EUR 23 970 23 635 Debt in USD 4 182 2 824 Debt in BRL 361 Debt in GBP 556 423 Total 26 621 31 496 GROUP 1)The specification includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities, the first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, the currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and the currency effects of combined interest rate and currency swaps. Specifications of debt by currency includes effects from allocated forward exchange rate contracts and combined interest rate and currency swaps, since Statkraft uses these derivatives to achieve the desired currency structure for the company's debt portfolio. 2) The negative figure in NOK reflects the effects from allocated forward exhange contracts and combined interest rate and currency swaps. Specification of interest by currency 2019 2018 Nominal average interest rate, NOK 1) n.a 3.30% Nominal average interest rate, EUR 1.10% 2.10% Nominal average interest rate, USD 3.10% 3.30% Nominal average interest rate, BRL 7.10% 8.50% STATKRAFT AS Nominal average interest rate, GBP 1.60% 0.70% 1) Nominal average interest rate in NOK is not applicable because the figure is negative in the above table Specification of debt by currency Fixed interest rate debt portfolio 1) Future interest rate adjustments NOK million 0-1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years 5 years and later Total Debt in NOK -1 470 -5 118 500 4 000 -2 088 Debt in EUR 14 451 1 217 -25 8 328 23 970 Debt in USD 1 203 2 979 4 182 Debt in BRL Debt in GBP 2 875 -2 319 556 SUSTAINABILITY Total fixed interest 2019 17 058 -922 475 10 009 26 621 Total fixed interest 2018 16 694 1 208 -53 13 648 31 496 1)The specification includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities, first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, the currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and the currency effect of combined interest rate and currency swaps. The split between years also take into account maturity of allocated forward exchange rate contracts, interest rate adjustments in interest rate swaps and combined interest rate and currency swaps. Negative figures reflect that Statkraft AS receives fixed interest from interest rate swaps. Repayment schedule NOK million 0-1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years and later Total Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 2 445 800 1 500 750 5 495 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 6 888 4 907 9 807 21 603 Other debt 1 1 Currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and currency effects of combined interest -5 19 -45 -447 -478 rate and currency swaps Total repayment schedule 2019 2 440 820 8 343 4 460 10 557 26 621 Total repayment schedule 2018 4 031 3 037 872 7 979 4 943 10 635 31 496 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 136 Note 4 Hedge accounting GENERAL INFORMATION Fair value hedging Statkraft AS treats a loan arrangement as a fair value hedge. Issued bond has been designated as hedging object in the hedging relationship, and the associated interest rate swap has been designated as a hedging instrument. The hedging object is an issued fixed-interest bond with a total nominal value of NOK 1500 million. The hedging instrument is an interest rate swap with a nominal value of NOK 1500 million, entered into with a major bank as the counterparty. The agreement swaps interest rate from fixed to floating 3-month NIBOR. The critical terms of the hedging object and hedging instrument are deemed to be approximately the same. The inefficiency is recognised in the income statement. The hedge expires in 2022. GROUP SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Hedging The accounting treatment of financial derivatives designated as hedging instruments is recorded in line with the principles for fair value hedging. In the event of hedging of assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, the derivative is recognised at fair value. The carrying value of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted for the value of the financial derivative’s change in value which is related to hedged risk. Fair value of hedging instruments STATKRAFT AS NOK million 2019 2018 Hedging instruments used in fair value hedging 86 185 Other information on fair value hedging NOK million 2019 2018 Net gain (+)/loss (-) in income statement on hedging instruments -122 -260 Net gain (+)/loss (-) in income statement on hedging objects, in relation to the hedged risk 122 261 SUSTAINABILITY Hedge inefficiency 1 Note 5 Payroll costs and number of full-time equivalents NOK million 2019 2018 Salaries 545 495 Employers' national insurance contribution 101 100 Pension costs 1) 118 113 Other benefits 66 89 Total 829 797 1) Pension costs are described in further detail in note 6. Remuneration to the Chairman and the Board of Directors is disclosed in note 37 in the Group accounts. 2019 2018 Average number of full-time equivalents 480 455 Number of full-time equivalents as of 31.12 502 458 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 137 Note 6 Pensions GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft AS is obligated to and fulfills the requirements of the act regarding mandatory occupational pension scheme (“Lov om obligatorisk tjenestepensjon”). Defined contribution schemes A defined contribution scheme is a retirement benefit scheme where Statkraft AS pays fixed contributions to a fund manager without incurring further obligations for the company once the payment has been made. The payments are expensed as salaries and payroll costs. Statkraft AS’ pension scheme for new employees from 1 January 2014 is a defined contribution scheme. The contributions are 6% of the pensionable salary up to 7.1 of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G), and 18% of the pensionable salary between 7.1G and 12G. In addition to retirement pensions, the contribution scheme also entails risk covers. GROUP Defined benefit schemes A defined benefit scheme is a retirement benefit scheme that defines the retirement benefits that an employee will receive on retirement. The retirement benefit is normally set as a percentage of the employee’s salary. To be able to receive full retirement benefits, contributions will normally be required to be paid over a period of between 30 and 40 years. Employees who have not made full contributions will have their retirement benefits proportionately reduced. Funded defined benefit schemes Statkraft AS has organised their defined benefit scheme in the National Pension Fund (SPK). The defined benefit schemes cover retirement, disability and survivor pensions. The retirement schemes provide pension benefits amounting to 66% of pensionable income, up to 12G, with maximum accrual. Statkraft AS also offers early retirement from the age of 62 under the Norwegian early retirement pension scheme. Statkraft AS pays an annual premium and is responsible for the financing of the scheme in the National Pension Fund (SPK). Pension benefits from the SPK STATKRAFT AS are guaranteed by the Norwegian state (Section 1 of the Pension Act). The SPK scheme is not asset based, but management of the pension fund assets is simulated as though the assets were invested in Norwegian government bonds. In simulations it is assumed that bonds are held to maturity. The pension benefit scheme in SPK was closed for new employees 1 January 2014. Unfunded defined benefit schemes In addition to the above, Statkraft AS has entered into an additional pension agreement that provides all employees whose pensionable incomes exceed 12G with a retirement and disability pension equivalent to 66% of that portion of their pensionable income exceeding 12G. The agreement was closed 30 April 2012. Existing members of the closed agreement who leave the company before pensionable age receive a deferred pension entitlement for the scheme above 12G, provided they have at least three years’ pension entitlements. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES SUSTAINABILITY The liability recognised in the balance sheet which relates to the defined benefit scheme is the present value of the future retirement benefits that are reduced by the fair value of the plan assets. Net pension fund assets for overfunded schemes are classified as non-current assets and recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Net retirement benefit liabilities for underfunded schemes and non-funded schemes that are covered by operations are classified as long-term liabilities. Gains and losses attributable to changes in actuarial assumptions or base data are recognised directly against equity. The net retirement benefit cost for the period is included under salaries and payroll costs, and comprises the total of the retirement benefits accrued during the period, the interest on the estimated liability and the projected yield on pension fund assets. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Present value of accrued pension entitlements for defined benefit schemes and present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year are calculated using the accrued benefits method. Net pension liabilities in the balance sheet are adjusted for expected future salary increases until retirement age. Calculations are based on staff numbers and salary data at the end of the year. The discount rate is based on high-quality corporate bonds (covered bonds – OMF). The actuarial gain recognised directly in equity during the year is mainly due to changes in assumptions for discount rate and salary adjustments. Changes in the public sector pension scheme Statkraft AS has recognised a reduced pension cost of NOK 7 million in 2019 related to estimated effects of changes in the public sector pension scheme in Norway. The changes mainly entail new regulations for how the public benefit schemes shall be coordinated with the benefits provided by the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme, and a new pension scheme for employees born in 1963 or later. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 138 Note 6 continued The following assumptions are used 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Discount rate and expected return on pension assets 2.30% 2.60% Salary adjustment 2.25% 2.75% Adjustment of current pensions 1.25% 1.75% Adjustment of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G) 2.00% 2.50% Demographic factors for mortality and disability K2013/IR73 K2013/IR73 Members of defined benefit schemes 2019 2018 GROUP Employees 270 285 Pensioners and people with deferred entitlements 466 459 Pension cost recognised in the income statement Defined benefit schemes NOK million 2019 2018 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year 70 69 Interest costs 43 36 Expected return on pension assets -21 -18 STATKRAFT AS Scheme changes -7 Employee contributions -5 -5 Employer's national insurance contribution 11 12 Net pension cost defined benefit schemes 91 94 Defined contribution schemes Employer's payments 27 19 Total pension costs 118 113 Breakdown of net defined benefit pension liability NOK million 2019 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Present value of accrued pension entitlements for funded defined benefit schemes 1 309 1 270 Fair value of pension assets 910 827 Net pension liability for funded defined benefit schemes 399 443 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for unfunded defined benefit schemes 417 412 Employers' national insurance contribution 115 121 Net pension liabilities 930 976 Actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity NOK million 2019 2018 Accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity before tax 31.12 294 352 Note 7 Other operating expenses SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principles for expensing of costs Expensing of costs takes place in accordance with the accrual principle, whilst own research and development expenses are expensed as incurred NOK million 2019 2018 Purchase of third-party services 1) 467 379 Materials 27 17 Rent 105 103 IT expenses 198 150 Marketing 15 12 Travel expenses 26 31 Insurance 23 10 Miscellaneous expenses 118 103 Total 979 805 1) Purchase of third-party services mainly includes consultants and other services. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 139 Note 8 Financial items Income from investments in subsidiaries and associates NOK million 2019 2018 Dividend from group companies 6 430 15 874 Group contribution 600 1 800 Total 7 030 17 674 Financial income NOK million 2019 2018 Interest income from group companies 446 607 GROUP Interest income 227 170 Other financial income 105 73 Total 778 850 Financial costs NOK million 2019 2018 Interest expenses to group companies -179 -158 Interest expenses external debt -470 -792 Other financial costs -21 -19 STATKRAFT AS Total -670 -969 Net realised and unrealised securities NOK million 2019 2018 Write-downs/reversal of write-downs from previous years 1) 2 226 708 Gains and losses on securities, realised and unrealised -33 -4 Total 2 193 704 1)Write-downs/reversal of write-downs from previous years are related to the shares in Statkraft Germany GmbH, Statkraft Enerji A.S., Statkraft Western Balkans d.o.o. and Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA (previously SAE Vind DA). Based on an assessment of impairment considerations of German gas-fired power plants, valuation of trading activities and currency effects, previous years write-downs of NOK 2360 million have been reversed in 2019. In 2018, NOK 270 million of previous years write-downs were reversed. Shares in Statkraft Enerji A.S. have SUSTAINABILITY been written down with NOK 121 million due to an updated valuation of underlying assets and currency effets. In 2018, previous years write-downs of NOK 522 million were reversed. In 2019 the susbsidiary Statkraft Western Balkans d.o.o. was liquidated, giving a loss in share value of MNOK 13. The shares in Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA were in 2018 impaired with NOK 85 million, based on a valuation of the assets in the company. Net realised and unrealised currency and derivatives NOK million 2019 2018 Currency gains and losses, realised -408 -1 073 Currency gains and losses, unrealised 965 439 Gains and losses derivatives, realised 1) -206 -54 Gains and losses derivatives, unrealised 251 223 Total 603 -465 1)In 2019 termination of interest rate swaps, resulted in NOK 220 million loss. In 2018 prepayment of EUR 219 million debt (bonds), resulted in NOK 148 million loss. Novation of loans to equity accounted investments and novation of interest rate swaps, resulted in NOK 90 million gain in 2018. Net financial items 9 934 17 794 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 140 Note 9 Income taxes SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statkraft AS is subject to tax on profits that is calculated in accordance with ordinary tax rules. The tax charge in the income statement comprises taxes payable and changes in deferred tax liabilities/assets. Taxes payable are calculated on the basis of the taxable income for the year. Deferred tax liabilities/assets are calculated on the basis of temporary differences between the accounting and tax values and the tax effect of losses carried forward. Deferred tax assets are only recognised in the balance sheet to the extent it is probable that the assets will be realised in the future. Tax related to equity transactions is recognised in equity. GROUP The tax expense in the income statement NOK million 2019 2018 Income tax payable 27 9 Withholding tax 4 7 Previous years payable tax expense 4 11 Change in deferred tax 170 134 Tax expense in the income statement 205 161 Taxes payable in the balance sheet STATKRAFT AS NOK million 2019 2018 Income tax payable 27 9 Previous years taxes payable 11 Taxes payable in the balance sheet 27 20 Reconciliation of nominal tax rate and effective tax rate NOK million 2019 2018 Profit before tax 9 310 17 153 Expected tax expense at a nominal rate of 22% (23%) 2 048 3 945 Effect on taxes of SUSTAINABILITY Tax-free income -1 411 -3 651 Changes relating to previous years 4 1 Withholding tax 4 7 Impairment/reversal of impairment previous years -493 -182 Change in tax rates 15 Other permanent differences, net 52 26 Tax expense 205 161 Effective tax rate 2% 1% Breakdown of deferred tax NOK million 2019 2018 Current assets/current liabilities -162 -406 Derivatives 77 -463 Other long-term items 18 15 Property, plant and equipment -98 -98 Pension liabilities -930 -976 Total temporary differences and tax loss carry forward -1 095 -1 928 Total deferred tax (+)/deferred tax asset (-) -241 -424 Applied tax rate 22% 22% Deferred tax (+)/deferred tax asset (-) as of 01.01 -424 -540 Recognised in income 170 134 Recognised directly in equity 13 -18 Deferred tax (+)/deferred tax asset (-) as of 31.12 -241 -424 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 141 Note 10 Property, plant and equipment SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the balance sheet and depreciated on a straight-line basis from the time the property, plant or equipment starts regular operations. The acquisition cost consists solely of directly attributable costs. Indirect administration costs are excluded when recognising own hours in the balance sheet. GROUP Buildings, office Assets under NOK million equipment and other construction Total Balance at 01.01 212 10 222 Additions 7 8 15 Transferred from assets under construction 9 -9 Disposals Depreciations and impairments -37 -37 Balance at 31.12 191 9 200 Cost 31.12 585 9 594 STATKRAFT AS Accumulated depreciations and impairments as of 31.12 -394 -394 Balance at 31.12 191 9 200 Period of depreciation 3–75 years SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 142 Note 11 Shares in subsidiaries and associates SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Investment in subsidiaries and associated companies Subsidiaries are companies where Statkraft AS has controlling influence over financial and operational principles. Controlling influence is normally achieved when the company owns more than 50% of the voting shares. Associated companies are companies where Statkraft AS has significant influence. Significant influence is normally deemed to exist where the company owns or controls from 20 to 50% of the voting shares. The investment is valued at cost for the shares unless impairment has been necessary. Impairment is done when the reduction in value is due to reasons that cannot be considered transitory. Impairment is reversed when the basis for the impairment no longer exists. Dividends and group contributions received are recognised as income in the same year as allocated by the subsidiary, while dividends from other companies GROUP are recognised in accordance with the cash principle. If the dividend exceeds the share of retained profits after the purchase, the excess part represents repayment of invested capital and the disbursements received are deducted from the value of the investment in the balance sheet. Shareholding and NOK million Registered office voting share Equity 31.12.2019 1) Net profit 2019 1) Carrying value Shares in subsidiaries Grønn Kontakt AS2) Kristiansand 95.72% 55 -41 241 STATKRAFT AS Hitra Vind AS Oslo 100.00% 115 23 95 Kjøllefjord Vind AS Oslo 100.00% 111 11 102 Renewable Energies and Photovoltaics Spain S.L. Malaga 70.00% Smøla Vind 2 AS Oslo 100.00% 232 39 150 Statkraft Asset Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 29 947 996 24 248 Statkraft Brussels SPRL Brussels 99.90% 1 1 Statkraft Carbon Invest AS Oslo 100.00% 21 4 Statkraft Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satıs¸ Ltd. Sirketi Istanbul 100.00% 20 1 53 Statkraft Energi AS Oslo 100.00% 15 840 5 510 14 295 Statkraft Enerji A.S. Istanbul 100.00% 1 781 27 2 260 SUSTAINABILITY Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 38 -34 72 Statkraft Financial Energy AB Stockholm 100.00% 27 2 1 Statkraft Forsikring AS Oslo 100.00% 444 40 80 Statkraft Germany GmbH Düsseldorf 100.00% 7 469 -507 10 211 Statkraft IH Invest AS Oslo 100.00% 16 183 3 17 781 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 13 301 1 308 17 613 Statkraft Treasury Centre SA Brussels 100.00% 21 -1 1 Statkraft UK Ltd. London 100.00% 3 264 25 1 546 Statkraft Vind Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 4 782 76 4 450 Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA3) Oslo 62.00% 4 -10 9 Total subsidiaries 93 212 1) Based on preliminary unaudited financial statements 2019. 2) Statkraft AS bought 47.5% of the shares in Grønn Kontakt AS in 2019. Grønn Kontakt AS is now a subsidiary. 3) Statkraft Asset Holding AS owns the remaining 38% of Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 143 Note 12 Other non-current financial assets SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Long-term share investments and shareholdings All long-term investments are treated in accordance with the lowest value principle. GROUP NOK million 2019 2018 Loans to group companies 9 973 15 632 Other shares and securities 22 22 Total 9 995 15 654 Note 13 Receivables STATKRAFT AS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounts receivable and other receivables are recognised at nominal value after the deduction of expected loss. Loss allocations are made on the basis of individual evaluations of each receivable. NOK million 2019 2018 Accounts receivable 13 11 SUSTAINABILITY Receivables related to cash collateral 218 518 Group cash pooling receivable 77 15 Short-term receivables from group companies 1) 13 531 9 775 Other receivables 125 132 Total 13 965 10 451 1) Comprise short-term loans, dividends and group contribution from subsidiaries. As of 31 December 2019 no provision for bad debt has been identified. Note 14 Cash and cash equivalents SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The line item cash and cash equivalents also includes commercial papers and bonds with short residual terms at the time of acquisition. Cash pool deposits and loans to subsidiaries are reported as net values, and the corresponding items are classified gross either as cash pool receivable or cash pool debt (note 13 and 17). NOK million 2019 2018 Cash and cash deposits 8 072 12 074 Commercial papers and other interest-bearing securities 3 707 7 880 Total 11 779 19 954 Statkraft AS has unused committed credit lines of NOK 9167 million and unused overdraft facilities of NOK 1000 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 144 Note 15 Equity Paid-in capital Share premium Retained Total NOK million Share capital account earnings equity Equity as of 01.01.18 33 600 22 802 13 375 69 777 Profit for 2018 16 992 16 992 Actuarial gains/losses pensions -74 -74 Dividends 2018 -8 500 -8 500 Equity as of 31.12.18 33 600 22 802 21 794 78 196 Profit for 2019 9 105 9 105 GROUP Actuarial gains/losses pensions 45 45 Dividends 2019 -6 362 -6 362 Equity as of 31.12.19 33 600 22 802 24 582 80 984 The parent company has a share capital of NOK 33.6 billion, divided into 200 million shares, each with a par value of NOK 168. All shares have the same voting rights and are owned by Statkraft SF, which is a Norwegian state-owned company, established and domiciled in Norway. Statkraft SF is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, through the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries. STATKRAFT AS Note 16 Provisions NOK million 2019 2018 Pension liabilities 1) 930 975 Other provisions 10 20 Total 940 995 1) Pension liabilities are described in further detail in note 6. SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 145 Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Long-term liabilities Funding costs and premiums or discount are recognised in accordance with the effective interest rate method (amortised cost) for fixed interest debt. The first year’s repayments relating to long-term debt are presented as short-term liabilities. Short-term liabilities Market settlements for derivatives connected with financial activities (cash collateral) are recognised in the balance sheet as receivable or short-term liabilities. Cash collateral is a transfer to/from counterparties as security for the net unrealised gains and losses that Statkraft AS has on interest rate swaps, combined interest rate and currency swaps and forward exchange contracts (see also note 13). GROUP Repurchase of debt Repurchase of issued bonds are recognised as repayment of debt and any gain or loss is recognised up front in the net financial items. NOK million 2019 2018 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities First year’s instalment of long-term debt 2 445 4 195 Group cash pooling debt 11 900 16 528 Debt related to cash collateral 1 348 1 412 Short-term debt to Statkraft SF 179 218 STATKRAFT AS Other short term debt 86 141 Total 15 958 22 494 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 3 050 6 050 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 21 603 21 770 Other debt 1 2 Total 24 654 27 822 Total interest-bearing liabilities 40 612 50 316 SUSTAINABILITY Note 18 Other interest-free liabilities NOK million 2019 2018 Accounts payable 48 76 Indirect taxes payable 44 44 Dividends payable 6 362 8 500 Debt to group companies 25 26 Other interest-free liabilities 299 501 Total 6 778 9 147 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 146 Note 19 Derivatives GENERAL INFORMATION Statkraft trades in financial derivatives for different purposes, and the accounting treatment will depend on the purpose as described below. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Interest rate derivatives Statkraft AS uses interest rate derivatives to balance interest rate exposure to the Group’s debt portfolio. Recognition of gains and losses depends on whether the interest rate derivative has been classified as a hedging instrument. Interest rate derivatives that are not hedging instruments GROUP are recorded in accordance with the lowest value principle, while interest rate derivatives that are defined as hedging instruments are recognised at fair value. Interest rate derivatives are classified as non-current assets or long-term liabilities if the remaining duration is longer than one year, and as long-term interestbearing liabilities if classified as hedging instrument irrespective of remaining duration. Currency derivatives In order to hedge against fluctuations in the foreign currency rates, Statkraft uses currency derivatives in line with approved treasury strategy. Forward exchange rate contracts are valued at fair value. Changes in value are recorded in the income statement as net realised and unrealised currency and derivatives. Combined interest rate and currency swaps are recorded in accordance with the lowest value principle. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The fair value of interest rate swaps, as well as combined interest rate and currency swaps, is determined by discounting expected future cash flows to STATKRAFT AS present value through use of observed market interest rates and quoted exchange rates from ECB. The valuation of forward currency exchange contracts is based on quoted exchange rates, from which the forward exchange rate is extrapolated. Estimated present value is subject to a test of reasonableness against calculations made by the counterparties to the contracts. The interest rate swaps, including the interest portion of combined interest rate and currency swaps, are part of risk management and are accounted for as hedging or at the lowest value principle, depending on whether the requirements for hedge accounting are achieved. Currency and interest rate agreements SUSTAINABILITY Carrying value and fair value of currency and interest rate derivatives: 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Derivatives – non-current assets Carrying Fair Carrying Fair NOK million Value value 1) Value value 1) Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 854 735 Forward exchange rate contracts 99 99 12 12 Combined interest rate and currency swaps 499 527 Total 99 1 451 12 1 274 Derivatives – current assets NOK million Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 4 Forward exchange rate contracts 247 247 301 301 Combined interest rate and currency swaps 408 Total 247 251 301 709 Derivatives – non-current liabilities NOK million Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 102 102 328 328 Forward exchange rate contracts 61 61 91 91 Combined interest rate and currency swaps 45 45 53 53 Total 208 208 472 472 Derivatives – current liabilities NOK million Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 9 9 27 27 Forward exchange rate contracts 180 180 673 673 Total 189 189 700 700 1) Fair value does not include accrued interests. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 147 Note 20 Fees paid to external auditors Deloitte AS is the Statkraft Group’s auditor. The total fees paid for auditing and other services for Statkraft AS (excluding VAT) were as follows: NOK thousand 2019 2018 Statutory auditing 2 089 2 109 Other attestation services 284 196 Tax consultancy services 352 758 Other services 1) 351 6 143 Total 3 076 9 206 1) Themain items in the fees for other services in 2019 relate to the attestation of the sustainability report. The corresponding figure for 2018 relates to assistance in a due dilligence GROUP process and the attestation of the sustainability report. Note 21 Obligations and guarantees Statkraft AS has guarantees and off-balance-sheet obligations totaling NOK 19 099 million. Of this, NOK 18 298 million concerns parent company guarantees. STATKRAFT AS Statkraft AS leases office buildings in Lilleakerveien 4 and 6 in Oslo and Sluppenveien 17B in Trondheim. The lessors are Mustad Eiendom AS and Sluppenvegen 15 AS respectively. The lease agreements in Oslo expire in 2028 with an option to prolong for ten plus ten years. The annual lease totals NOK 102 million for the Oslo premises. The lease agreement in Trondheim expires in 2030 with an option to prolong for 5 years. The annual lease totals NOK 8 million for the Trondheim premises. Note 22 Disputes Statkraft AS received in 2017 a draft decision of a tax reassessment from the Norwegian tax authorities. On 11 September 2019, Statkraft AS received a revised SUSTAINABILITY draft. The revised draft decision regards the income tax returns for the fiscal years 2010-2014 related to the investment in the Statkraft Treasury Centre SA (STC) in Belgium. See note 34 in the Group consolidated Group financial statement for further information. Note 23 Related parties The Company’s related parties are considered to be:  Directly owned subsidiaries, see specification in note 11  Other group companies, see specification in note 26 and 39 to the Consolidated Financial Statements  The parent company of the Group, Statkraft SF  Associated companies and joint arrangements, see specification in note 11  Group management and the board of directors, see specification in note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Transactions with subsidiaries, associated companies and joint arrangements mainly relate to the following:  Statkraft AS sells intra-group services from centralised service centres  Dividends and group contributions are accrued through Statkraft AS’ own shareholdings  Statkraft AS is also the borrower for the majority of the Group’s external debts and is the owner of the cash pooling facilities. The central treasury function in Statkraft AS coordinates and manages the financial risks relating to currency, interest rates and liquidity of the Group.  Statkraft AS finances subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements through loans. All intra-group transactions are conducted at market terms. Guarantees related to group companies are listed in note 21. The share capital of Statkraft Enerji A. S. was in 2019 reduced by TRY 170 million and thereby reducing the cost price of the shares in the company. In 2018 the share capital was reduced by TRY 50 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 148 Note 23 continued Transactions and balances within the Group are presented below: Income statement NOK million 2019 2018 Operating revenues Statkraft Energi AS 584 467 Fosen Vind DA 103 90 Statkraft Markets GmbH 87 67 Statkraft Sverige AB 37 36 Statkraft Varme AS 31 32 Statkraft Peru S.A. 28 45 GROUP Other 240 218 Total 1 110 955 Other operating expenses Statkraft Energi AS 51 48 Statkraft Markets GmbH 13 11 Other 25 18 Total 89 77 STATKRAFT AS Dividend and group contribution from group companies (recognised as financial income) Statkraft Energi AS 4 627 5 783 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 1 305 1 090 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 1 000 1 220 Statkraft UK Ltd. 16 9 233 Other 82 348 Total 7 030 17 674 Financial income from group companies Statkraft Energi AS 287 232 Skagerak Energi AS 120 140 SUSTAINABILITY Statkraft Markets GmbH 67 54 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 1 169 Other 75 82 Total 550 677 Financial costs to group companies Statkraft Energi AS 70 30 Statkraft SF 30 33 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 6 28 Statkraft UK Ltd. 11 21 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 13 3 Other 121 45 Total 251 160 Balance sheet NOK million 2019 2018 Non-current assets Loan to Statkraft Energi AS 6 800 10 800 Loan to Skagerak Energi AS 2 786 3 350 Loan to Baltic Cable AB 387 398 Loan to Statkraft Varme AS 1 016 Other Other non-current financial assets 9 973 15 564 Statkraft Energi AS 17 5 Statkraft Markets GmbH 175 106 Derivatives 192 111 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 149 Note 23 continued Current assets Baltic Cable AB 75 4 Statkraft Varme AS 2 11 Group cash pooling receivable 77 15 Statkraft Energi AS 8 721 5 874 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 1 631 1 701 Statkraft Varme AS 1 023 106 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 1 000 1 357 Skagerak Energi AS 624 557 GROUP Other 532 181 Short-term receivables group companies 13 531 9 776 Statkraft Markets GmbH 93 238 Statkraft Energi AS 56 31 Derivatives 149 269 Long-term liabilities Statkraft Markets GmbH 20 11 STATKRAFT AS Statkraft Energi AS 1 2 Derivatives 21 13 Current liabilities Statkraft Energi AS 2 460 3 441 Statkraft Markets GmbH 2 426 2 088 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 1 067 1 013 Statkraft Sverige AB 426 540 Statkraft UK Ltd 214 4 482 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 11 1 064 Other 5 296 3 900 SUSTAINABILITY Group cash pooling debt 11 900 16 528 Debt to Statkraft SF 179 618 Current interest-bearing liabilities to group companies 179 618 Statkraft Markets GmbH 33 236 Statkraft Energi AS 33 43 Derivatives 66 279 Statkraft SF 6 362 8 502 Other 24 24 Current interest-free liabilities to group companies 6 386 8 526 Note 24 Transactions 2019: Statkraft Western Balkans d.o.o. 100% owned by Statkraft AS has been liquidated in 2019. The remaining cash of NOK 15 million has been distributed to Statkraft AS. The remaining share value of NOK 13 million was impaired and booked as loss on shares. Statkraft AS bought for 47.5% of the shares inn Grønn Kontakt AS and now owns 95.72% of the shares. 2018: Naturkraft AS that was 50% owned by Statkraft AS has been liquidated in 2018. The remaining cash of NOK 354 million has been distributed to Statkraft AS with a gain of NOK 279 million booked as dividend. Note 25 Subsequent events There have been no significant subsequent events. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 150 Auditor’s Report GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 151 GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 152 GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 153 GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 154 GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 155 Sustainability statement Social disclosures Health and safety GROUP Fatalities Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Consolidated operations 1) Employees Number 0 1 0 Third party Number 0 0 0 Associates 2) Employees Number 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 0 Third party Number 0 0 0 STATKRAFT AS 1) Activities where Statkraft has > 50% ownership. 2) Activities where Statkraft has 20 50% ownership Serious incidents 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Serious injuries Number 7 7 4 Incidents with, or with potential for, serious consequences Number 53 31 48 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) Incidents include accidents and near misses. Injuries 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Employees Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 23 30 40 SUSTAINABILITY Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 2.1 2.9 3.4 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 42 57 78 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 3.8 5.4 6.6 Contractors Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 31 29 27 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 3.1 3.0 2.2 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 59 50 46 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 5.9 5.2 3.8 Third parties Injuries 4) Number 1 0 0 Statkraft, total Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 2.6 2.9 2.8 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 4.8 5.3 5.2 1) Includesactivities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) Work-related injuries which have resulted in absence extending beyond the day of the injury. 3) Work-related injuries, with and without absence. Includes injuries which resulted in absence, medical treatment or need for alternative work assignments. 4) Recorded injuries requiring treatment by a doctor. Sick leave 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Sick leave, total % 2.7 3.3 3.5 Of which short-term absence (16 days or less) % 1.2 1.5 1.5 Of which long-term absence (more than 16 days) % 1.5 1.8 2.0 1) Sick leave due to illness or injuries, as percentage of normal working hours. Judicial sanctions and fines, health and safety Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 0 1 1 non-compliance with health and safety legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with health and safety NOK million 0 0 0 legislation Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with health and safety NOK million 0 0.02 1) 0.05 2) legislation 1) Fine to Devoll Hydropower Moglicë related to fatal accident in 2018. 2) Fine to District Heating related to safety incident. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 156 Labour practices Employees Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Employees 31.12 Number 3 973 3 557 3 593 Of which in Norway Number 2 173 2 040 2 241 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 210 212 213 Of which in other European countries Number 889 713 661 Of which in the rest of the world Number 701 592 478 Full-time employees 31.12 % 95 95 96 Staff turnover rate 1) % 4.3 4.2 5.7 Service time Average service time Years 10.5 11.6 12.0 GROUP Average service time for employees resigned or dismissed 1) Years 10.2 12.4 8.3 Apprentices employed 31.12 Number 89 77 77 Trainees employed 31.12 Number 13 3 7 Nationalities represented among Statkraft's employees Number 61 57 51 1) Excluding retirements. Gender equality Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of women Total % 26 25 25 STATKRAFT AS In Norway % 26 25 27 In other Nordic countries % 18 18 19 In other European countries % 27 24 23 In the rest of the world % 29 25 22 In management positions % 23 21 22 In Norway % 27 25 26 In other Nordic countries % 9 11 9 In other European countries % 19 18 18 In the rest of the world % 24 17 18 In Corporate Management % 29 29 29 In Statkraft's Board of Directors % 44 44 44 SUSTAINABILITY Among employees recruited in the reporting year % 38 31 22 Among managers recruited in the reporting year % 32 24 20 Among full-time employees % 25 23 23 Among part-time employees % 50 53 57 Equal salary Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Salary ratio among employees 1) Ratio 0.93 0.94 0.93 In Norway Ratio 0.99 0.97 0.97 In other Nordic countries Ratio 1.04 1.03 1.00 In other European countries Ratio 0.78 0.85 0.81 In the rest of the world Ratio 0.88 0.88 0.92 Salary ratio among managers 1) Ratio 0.92 0.87 0.92 In Norway Ratio 0.99 0.95 0.99 In other Nordic countries Ratio 0.90 0.83 0.90 In other European countries Ratio 0.72 0.78 0.74 In the rest of the world Ratio 1.02 0.83 1.04 1) Average salary for women in relation to average salary for men. Statkraft as employer Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Organisation and leadership evaluation 1) Employee engagement Scale 0-100 84 78 72 Response rate % 92 91 92 Employees who have completed the performance and career development review % 88 87 97 Ranking as preferred employer 2) among Business students Ranking 57 65 58 Engineering students Ranking 14 11 6 Business professionals Ranking 38 45 22 Engineering professionals Ranking 20 10 13 1) From Statkraft’s internal annual organisation and leadership evaluation survey. Statkraft’s score can be compared with the Merces Sirota Global Benchmark which was 77 in 2019. 2) Ranking among final-year students and professionals, as defined and measured in the annual Universum Graduate Survey for Norway and the Universum Professional Survey for Norway. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 157 Human rights Training on human rights 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Number of hours devoted to training on human rights Hours 600 300 200 Employees that have received training on human rights % 20 13 13 Senior management that have received training on human rights % 40 100 100 1) Includes training and awareness on human rights topics. This number does not cover trainings on human rights aspects such as health and safety, or our report of concern procedures (that are part of our implementation of Pillar 3 of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights) for which 100% of employees received training. 2) The reported figures for 2017 and 2018 cover training completed in the last two years, and includes only specific training on human rights. Consultations with indigenous peoples Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Number of projects with ongoing consultations involving rights of indigenous Number 15 14 8 GROUP peoples Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Total number of confirmed incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous Number 0 0 0 peoples during the reporting period Judicial sanctions and fines, human rights 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 0 0 0 non-compliance with human rights legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with human rights legislation NOK million 0 0 0 STATKRAFT AS Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with human rights NOK million 0 0 0 legislation 1) Material judicial sanctions for discrimination, forced labour, child labour or violations of the freedom of association, indigenous peoples rights or labour rights. Environmental disclosures Climate SUSTAINABILITY Greenhouse gas emissions Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Emissions of CO2 equivalents, consolidated activities 1) Tonnes 1 493 100 485 400 818 000 Of which from gas power plants (scope 1) Tonnes 1 443 100 439 000 763 900 Of which from district heating plants 2) (scope 1) Tonnes 28 900 28 500 23 500 Of which from SF6 emissions (scope 1) Tonnes 2 500 200 900 Of which halon emissions (scope 1) Tonnes 0 0 0 Of which from fuel consumption 3) (scope 1) Tonnes 14 900 14 900 26 900 Of which from electricity consumption 4) (scope 2) Tonnes 0 0 0 Of which from business travel 5) (scope 3) Tonnes 3 700 2 800 2 800 Emissions of CO2 equivalents from affiliated gas power plants 6) (scope 1) Tonnes 96 900 105 000 94 500 Emissions of CO2 equivalents from Heimdal incineration plant 2) Tonnes 74 200 74 400 79 800 Emissions of biogenic CO2 from district heating plants Tonnes 224 800 306 500 317 300 SF6 emissions kg 112 28 40 Halon emissions kg 0 0 0 1) Statkraft’s ownership is >50%. 2) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, according to established reporting practice for the district heating industry. 3) CO2 from fuel consumption from the Group’s machinery and vehicles. 4) 100% of Statkraft'selectricity consumption is certified renewable. 5) Comprises travel by air and car in the Norwegian operations. 6) Statkraft’s share. Greenhouse gas emissions per scope Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Scope 1: Direct emissions 1) Tonnes 1 586 300 587 600 909 700 Scope 2: Indirect emissions, related to electricity consumption Tonnes 0 0 0 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions Tonnes 3 700 2 800 2 800 1) Includes Statkraft’s share of emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). Relative greenhouse gas emissions Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, total 1) kg/MWh 26 9 14 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, gas power 1) kg/MWh 342 363 390 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh district heating production 2) kg/MWh 26 26 19 1) Includes Statkraft’s share of production and emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). 2) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, according to established reporting practice for the district heating industry. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 158 Biodiversity and impact on nature Impact on watercourses 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Impacted river courses with: Anadromous fish Number 47 47 46 Catadromous fish Number 8 8 6 Impacted national salmon rivers Number 13 13 13 Impacted protected rivers Number 8 8 8 1) Impact entails change of waterflow, water levels or other living conditions for fish. 2) More detailed information related to impact on watercourses is presented in the table Impact on watercourses . Fish cultivation Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 GROUP Restocking of fish and smolt 1) Number 624 800 658 900 2 188 400 Of which in Norway Number 315 000 325 200 1 614 700 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 309 800 323 000 543 700 Of which in other European countries Number 10 700 30 000 Restocking of juveniles 2), 3) Number 909 300 1 168 800 Of which in Norway Number 598 900 923 900 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 310 400 244 900 Stocking of fish roe 4) Number 1 101 800 1 332 800 568 200 1) Includes salmon, inland trout, sea trout, grayling and eel. 2) Includes salmon, inland trout, sea trout, grayling and eel. Juveniles is defined as startfed fry, one-year old fry and two-summer old fry. 3) Reporting on restocking of juveniles was introduced in 2018. STATKRAFT AS 4) Includes salmon in Norway and eel in Sweden. Red list species (fauna) 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Red list species with habitat in areas impacted by Statkraft's operations in: Norway Number 33 33 32 Other Nordic countries Number 6 6 6 Other European countries Number 13 13 13 Rest of the world Number 83 83 83 1) More detailed information on red list species is presented in the table Red list species (fauna) . 2) Includes species defined as red list species by either International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) or national authorities. Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 SUSTAINABILITY Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas Number 34 29 27 Of which in Norway Number 19 18 16 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 9 6 6 Of which in other European countries Number 6 5 5 1) Limited to natural parks and nature or wildlife reserves. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 159 Consumption Electricity consumption Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Electricity consumption GWh 1 041 1 067 944 Of which pumped-storage power GWh 665 709 633 Of which electric boilers for district heating GWh 72 89 65 Of which other operations GWh 304 269 246 Fuel consumption Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Fossil fuel consumption Natural gas, gas power plants Mill. Nm3 699 258 354 GROUP Fuel gas, district heating plants Tonnes 8 670 7 918 5 750 Fuel oil, district heating plants Tonnes 1 117 1 674 1 813 Engine fuel 1) Tonnes 7 993 4 707 8 493 Other fuel consumption Waste for district heating plants Tonnes 206 100 206 800 221 800 Waste for bio power plants Tonnes 14 000 262 300 265 400 Bio fuel Tonnes 470 200 188 500 183 900 1) Includes consumption of fuel for vehicles and machinery (for example generators). STATKRAFT AS Use of water Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Cooling water, gas power plants m3 1 030 900 1 731 000 1 900 000 Process water 1) m3 387 300 177 800 251 000 Of which used in gas power plants m3 225 000 32 000 185 000 Of which used in bio power plants m3 96 600 83 300 Of which used in district heating plants m3 65 700 62 500 66 000 District heating pipe leakages m3 40 100 30 200 24 600 1) Used for treatment of gas emissions. Waste SUSTAINABILITY Waste Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Hazardous waste Tonnes 22 600 21 200 15 400 Of which from waste incineration plants 1) Tonnes 5 400 4 500 6 900 Of which from bio power plants Tonnes 14 000 15 800 7 900 Of which other hazardous waste Tonnes 3 200 900 600 Non-hazardous waste Tonnes 40 600 46 400 51 400 Of which non-hazardous waste separated at source Tonnes 36 600 45 100 49 800 Of which non-hazardous waste from biopower plants Tonnes 300 800 Of which non-hazardous waste from waste incineration plants Tonnes 36 400 36 500 Of which residual non-hazardous waste Tonnes 4 000 1 300 1 600 1) Consists of filter dust and filter cake. Environmental incidents Environmental incidents Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Serious environmental incidents 1) Number 0 0 0 Less serious environmental incidents 2) Number 288 283 187 1) An incident that causes serious or irreversible environmental impact on critical or protected resources. 2) An incident that causes minor or moderate negative environmental impact. Most of the less serious environmental incidents in 2019 were related to minor discharges to ground and water and emissions to air. Some incidents were also related to short-term breaches of the concession terms for water flow and water levels. Judicial sanctions and fines, environment Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 0 4 1 non-compliance with environmental legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with environmental legislation NOK million 0 0 0 Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with environmental NOK million 0 0.2 1) 0.2 2) legislation 1) Breach of concession terms at four hydropower plants in Sweden (occurred in the period 2015-2017). 2) Breach of the concessional terms at Alta hydropower plant. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 160 Economic disclosures Power generation and district heating production Installed capacity per technology and geography Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Installed capacity power generation MW 18 445 17 831 17 478 Of which hydropower MW 14 399 14 190 14 099 Of which wind power MW 1 607 1 203 947 Of which gas power 1) MW 2 390 2 390 2 390 Of which other 2) MW 49 49 43 Installed capacity, district heating MW 828 836 835 GROUP Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway MW 12 513 12 127 11 857 Other Nordic countries MW 1 813 1 813 1 813 Other European countries MW 3 181 2 974 2 974 Rest of the world MW 937 917 834 Installed capacity per geography, district heating Norway MW 669 673 671 Other Nordic countries MW 159 164 164 STATKRAFT AS Installed capacity per technology and geography Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Installed capacity per technology, power generation Hydropower % 78.1 79.6 80.7 Wind power % 8.7 6.7 5.4 Gas power 1) % 13.0 13.4 13.7 Other 2) % 0.3 0.3 0.2 Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway % 67.8 68.0 67.8 Other Nordic countries % 9.8 10.2 10.4 Other European countries % 17.2 16.7 17.0 Rest of the world % 5.1 5.1 4.8 SUSTAINABILITY Installed capacity per geography, district heating Norway % 80.8 80.5 80.4 Other Nordic countries % 19.2 19.6 19.6 Capacity under development per technology and geography 3) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Capacity under development, power generation MW 750 865 718 Of which hydropower MW 386 292 184 Of which wind power 4) MW 364 574 520 Of which solar power MW 0 0 14 Capacity under development, district heating MW 0 0 0 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway 4) MW 364 559 520 Other Nordic countries MW 0 0 0 Other European countries MW 184 23 198 Rest of the world MW 202 282 0 Capacity under development per geography, district heating MW 0 0 0 Capacity under development per technology and geography 3) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Capacity under development per technology, power generation Hydropower % 51.5 33.7 25.6 Wind power 4) % 48.5 66.3 72.4 Solar power % 0 0 1.9 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway 4) % 48.5 64.6 72.4 Other Nordic countries % 0 0 0 Other European countries % 24.5 2.7 27.6 Rest of the world % 26.9 32.7 0 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 161 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Power generation, total TWh 61.1 61.7 62.6 Of which hydropower TWh 53.4 57.2 57.4 Of which wind power TWh 3.0 2.7 2.7 Of which gas power 1) TWh 4.5 1.5 2.2 Of which other 2) TWh 0.3 0.3 0.3 District heating TWh 1.1 1.1 1.1 Renewable power generation 5) % 92.6 97.6 96.5 Renewable district heating 5) % 89.5 89.2 91.6 Power generation per geography Norway TWh 44.9 48.6 48.6 Other Nordic countries TWh 6.2 6.0 6.6 Other European countries TWh 5.6 2.8 3.2 GROUP Rest of the world TWh 4.4 4.3 4.2 District heating per geography Norway TWh 0.9 0.9 0.9 Other Nordic countries TWh 0.2 0.2 0.2 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Power generation per technology Hydropower % 87.3 92.7 91.7 Wind power % 4.9 4.4 4.3 STATKRAFT AS Gas power 1) % 7.4 2.4 3.6 Other 2) % 0.5 0.5 0.4 Power generation per geography Norway % 73.5 78.8 77.6 Other Nordic countries % 10.1 9.7 10.5 Other European countries % 9.2 4.5 5.1 Rest of the world % 7.2 7.0 6.8 District heating per geography Norway % 81.8 81.8 79.5 Other Nordic countries % 18.2 18.2 20.5 1) Includes Statkraft's share of the jointly controlled Herdecke (Germany) power plant. SUSTAINABILITY 2) Includes bio power and solar power. 3) Includes projects with an investment decision. 4) Includes Statkraft's share of the Fosen project. 5) Non-renewable production consists of gas power and share of district heating based on fossil fuel. Production at Heimdal, the incineration plant in Trondheim, is counted as 100% renewable district heating production (alligned with SSB, Statistics Norway, reporting practice). Contribution to society Value creation Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Gross operating revenues NOK million 48 679 56 623 52 883 Unrealised changes in the value of energy contracts NOK million -801 -789 1 289 Paid to suppliers for goods and services 1) NOK million 22 157 33 137 33 349 Gross value added NOK million 25 722 22 698 20 823 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments NOK million 3 689 3 734 4 162 Net value added NOK million 22 033 18 964 16 661 Financial income NOK million 1 401 5 781 7 122 Gain or loss from divestments NOK million 55 1 449 315 Share of profit from associates NOK million 1 249 790 -79 Minority interests NOK million 416 680 -94 Values for distribution NOK million 24 323 26 303 24 113 1) Includes energy purchases, transmission costs and operating expenses. Distribution of value created Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Employees Gross salaries and benefits NOK million 3 503 3 198 3 262 Lenders/owners Interest NOK million 669 1 369 3 303 Dividend 1) NOK million 6 500 8 500 6 100 Taxes 2) NOK million 9 241 9 027 5 743 The company Change in equity NOK million 4 411 4 210 5 705 Total wealth distributed NOK million 24 323 26 303 24 113 1) Includes dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF. 2) Includes taxes, property tax, licence fees and employers’ contribution. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 162 Taxes 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Total NOK million 7 109 7 391 4 010 Of which in Norway NOK million 6 029 6 857 3 603 Of which in other Nordic countries NOK million 246 113 50 Of which in other European countries NOK million 820 364 333 Of which in the rest of the world NOK million 14 57 23 1) Taxes payable in the statement of financial position. Business ethics and anti-corruption GROUP Training on anti-corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Employees that have received training on anti-corruption in the last three years Percentage 100 100 100 Employees in senior management positions that have received training on antiPercentage 100 100 100 corruption in the last two years Statkraft's Board members have received training on anti-corruption in the last two Yes/No Yes Yes Yes years 1) This indicator covers the Group, excluding Skagerak Energi. Incidents of corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 Confirmed breaches of Statkraft's Code of Conduct related to corruption Number 0 0 STATKRAFT AS Public legal cases regarding corruption 2) Number 0 0 1) This indicator was introduced in 2018. 2) Cases brought against the organisation or its employees. Judicial sanctions and fines, business ethics 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 0 0 0 non-compliance with business ethics legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with business ethics NOK million 0 0 0 legislation Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with business ethics NOK million 0 0 0 legislation 1) Material judicial sanctions for accounting fraud, corruption, anti-competetive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices. SUSTAINABILITY Reported concerns covering the scope of the Code of Conduct Reported concerns (whistleblowing) 1) Unit of measurement 2019 2018 2017 Total number of reported concerns Number 60 55 57 Of which related to business ethics and anti-corruption Number 28 32 40 Of which related to discrimination 2) Number 8 2 na Investigations initiated by Corporate Audit in the reporting year Number 3 3 5 1) The scope of the whistleblowing procedures relates to the full scope of Statkraft's Code of Conduct, e.g. human rights, environment, health and safety, business ethics and anticorruption. 2) This indicator was introduced in 2018. When a reported concern is received, a risk assessment is done in order to decide how to follow up the concern. Most of the reported concerns are handled by the respective business areas according to Statkraft’s procedures for handling of reported concerns. Concerns with potentially high consequences for the Statkraft Group are handled by Corporate Audit. In cases where a formal investigation is required, this is the responsibility of the Head of Corporate Audit. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 163 Impact on watercourses Protected rivers and rivers with migrating fish impacted by Statkraft's activities River with eel River with population National salmon NORWAY anadromous fish (catadromous fish) river Protected river Region North Norway Altaelva X X Beiarelva X X Bjerkaelva X Engabrevassdraget X Kobbelvvassdraget X Målselvvassdraget X X X Ranaelva X X Røssåga X GROUP Skjoma X Vefsna X X Glomdalselva X Region Mid Norway Auravassdraget X Bævra X Daleelva X Dalselva X Hopra X Indredalselva X STATKRAFT AS Isa/Glutra X Jostedalselva X Litledalselva X Nærøydalselva X X Rauma X X X Surna X X Vikja X X Ytredalselva X Nidelva X X X Region South Norway Austdøla/Norddøla X Austrepollelva X Bondhuselva X SUSTAINABILITY Førreåna X Eio/Bjoreio X Jondalselva X Sima X Suldalslågen X X X Ulla X Øyreselva X Årdalselva X Klebastølåi X Gaularvassdraget X Eidselva X Numedalsågen X X X Austbygdåi X Dagali X Skagerak Energi AS Daleelven X Kragerøvassdraget X Skienselva X X SWEDEN Skellefteåälven X Gideälven X Moälven X Nätraälven X Lagan X X Nissan X X Ljungan X GERMANY Weser X X UK Rheidol X ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 164 Red list species (fauna) Red list species (fauna) with habitat in areas affected by Statkraft’s activitities Vulnerability Level of vulnerability: Level of vulnerability: Red list species not known IUCN list National list Critically EndanVulneNear Least Critically EndanVulneNear Least NORWAY endangered gered rable threatened concern endangered gered rable threatened concern Eagle owl X X Goshawk X X Red-throated diver X X Black-throated diver X X Willow grouse X X Rough-legged buzzard X X Eel X X GROUP Pearl mussel X X Osprey X X Mycetochara obscura (beetle) X Arctic warbler X X Stagetus borealis (beetle) X Dolichocis laricinus (beetle) X Mycetophagus multipunctatus (beetle) X Acerbia alpina (moth) X Exodontha dubia (fly) X Trypophloeus alni (beetle) X Phiaris heinrichana (butterfly) X STATKRAFT AS Dune tiger beetle X Hypnoidus consobrinus (beetle) X Denticollis borealis (beetle) X Fleutiauxellus maritimus (beetle) X Bledius denticollis (beetle) X Hare X X Little bunting X X Great snipe X X Common reed bunting X X Northern lapwing X X Northern shoveler X X Black-headed gull X X Sand martin X X SUSTAINABILITY Gyrfalcon X X Crayfish X SWEDEN Sea lamprey X X Crayfish X X Otter X X Golden eagle X X Eel X X Pearl mussel X X GERMANY Eel X Pearl mussel X UK Red kite X TURKEY Dalmatian pelican X Wild Goat X Lesser horseshoe bat X Mediterranean Horseshoe Bat X Egyptian vulture X Greek tortoise X Euphrates softshell turtle X Central Anatolian Spined Loach X Orontes Spotted Bleak X European sea or Atlantic sturgeon X ALBANIA Dalmatian pelican X NEPAL Chinese pangolin X Asian small-clawed otter X East Himalayan Yew X Himalayan Musk Deer X Western Tragopan X PERU Sechuran fox or zorro X BRAZIL Puma, Mountain Lion X Araucaria Tit-spinetail X Azure Jay X ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 165 Red list species (fauna) with habitat in areas affected by Statkraft’s activitities (continued) Vulnerability Level of vulnerability: Level of vulnerability: Red list species not known IUCN list National list Near Critically EndanVulneLeast Critically EndanVulneNear Least threate endangered gered rable concern endangered gered rable threatened concern BRAZIL ned Black Spiny-necked Swamp Turtle Brazilian Dwarf Brocket X Brazilian Three-banded Armadillo X Canebrake Groundcreeper X Green-throated Euphonia X Helmeted Woodpecker X Black-fronted Piping-guan or Jacutinga X Jaguar X Margay X Neotropical Otter X Ochre-breasted Pipit X GROUP Northern Tiger Cat or Oncilla X Pampas Deer X Red Myotis X Sharp-tailed Tyrant X Southern Bristle-tyrant X Southern Long-Nosed Armadillo X Southern Tiger Cat X Straight-billed Reedhaunter X Swallow-tailed Cotinga X Vinaceous-breasted Parrot X White-browed Guan X STATKRAFT AS Wild Common Carp X William’s South-American Side-necked X Turtle Yellow-browed Woodpecker X Yellow-legged Timanou X Mottled Piculet X Black-capped Piprites X Pinheiro-bravo X Creamy-bellied Gnatcatcher X Argintine Horned Frog (Sapo-de-chifres) X Bare-throated Bellbird X Mantled Hawk X Saffron Toucanet X Black-horned Capuchin X Coypu or Rato-do-banhado X SUSTAINABILITY Marsh Tapaculo X Ornate Hawk-eagle X Sporophila melanogaster X Rusty Barred Owl (Strix hylophila) X Solitary Tinamou X Saffron-cowled Blackbird X Black-and-white Monjita X CHILE Puye Chico / Inanga X Pejerrey Cauque X Bagre Pintado X Tollo de Agua Dulce X Puye X Pocha del Sur X Pouched Lamprey X Carmelita Común X Peladilla X Perca Trucha X Brown Trout X Atlantic Salmon X Chiloe Island Ground Frog X Rosy Ground Frog X Grey Wood Frog X Chile Four-eyed Frog X Yellow-billed Pintail X Chiloé wigeon X Great White Egret X Cocoi Heron X Churrete X Chacoan Peccary or Tagua X Amazon Kingfisher or Martin Pescador X Neotropic Cormorant or Pato Yeco X Great Grebe or Huala X Pied-billed Grebe or Picurio X White-tufted Grebe or Pimpollo /Hualita X Tollo, Bagre, Tollo de Agua Dulce X Torrent Duck X Andean condor X Guanaco X Puma, Mountain Lion X ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 166 Statkraft’s GRI index The GRI Standards represent the global best practice for sustainability reporting. The standards comprise both general disclosures, as well as economic, environmental and social disclosures. Companies can report according to two reporting levels Core or Comprehensive. Statkraft’s sustainability reporting is based on the GRI Standards, at reporting level Core. Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review to provide a limited level of assurance on the company’s sustainability information in Statkraft’s Annual Report 2019. The review is based on the assurance standard ISAE 3000, and the auditor’s conclusion is presented in the Auditor’s report. Explanations for the GRI index Reported = The disclosure is reported according to the GRI Standards. Partly = The disclosure is partly reported according to the GRI Standards. GRI alignment in process = A reporting process aligned with the GRI Standards is under development. GROUP EU = Specific disclosure for the energy utilities sector. DISCLOSURES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation Statkraft AS Reported 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Statkraft at a glance Reported Report from the Board of Directors 102-3 Location of headquarters Oslo, Norway Reported 102-4 Location of operations Statkraft at a glance Reported 102-5 Ownership and legal form State-owned limited company Reported STATKRAFT AS 102-6 Markets served Statkraft at a glance Reported Report from the Board of Directors 102-7 Scale of the organisation Key figures Reported Statkraft at a glance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability statement: Labour practices Reported 102-9 Supply chain Sustainability management Reported 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Report from the Board of Directors Reported Note 5: Business combinations and other transactions 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Sustainability management Reported Economic disclosures: Water management Environmental disclosures: Climate SUSTAINABILITY change 102-12 External initiatives Corporate governance Reported Sustainability management 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability management Reported GENERAL DISCLOSURES: STRATEGY 102-14 Status from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO Reported Report from the Board of Directors GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Report from the Board of Directors Reported Corporate governance Sustainability management Economic disclosures: Business ethics GENERAL DISCLOSURES: GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance Reported GENERAL DISCLOSURES: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability management Reported 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social disclosures: Labour practices Reported 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability management Reported 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability management Reported 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability management Reported Social disclosures: Human rights GENERAL DISCLOSURES: REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Note 39: Consolidated companies Reported 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Sustainability management Reported 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability management Reported 102-48 Restatements of information Sustainability statement Reported 102-49 Changes in reporting Sustainability statement Reported 102-50 Reporting period 2019 Reported 102-51 Date of most recent report Statkraft’s Annual Report 2018 Reported 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Reported 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report info@statkraft.com Reported 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The sustainability information has been Reported prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index Statkraft’s GRI index Reported 102-56 External assurance Sustainability management Reported Auditor’s statement ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 167 GRI G4 GUIDELINES: UTILITIES SECTOR G4-EU1 Installed capacity Sustainability statement: Power Reported generation and district heating production G4-EU2 Net energy output Sustainability statement: Power Reported generation and district heating production G4-EU3 Number of different customer accounts See customer related information under: Partly www.statkraft.com www.skagerakenergi.no www.statkraftvarme.no G4-EU25 Injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets Sustainability statement: Health and Reported safety ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103: 1-3 Management approach for economic disclosures Report from the Board of Directors Reported Corporate governance GROUP Sustainability management 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Sustainability statement: Contribution to Reported society 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate Report from the Board of Directors Partly change Environmental disclosures: Climate change Economic disclosures: Water management 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Note 17: Pensions Reported ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Social disclosures: Human rights Partly STATKRAFT AS 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Statkraft’s contribution Partly ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported Sustainability statement: Business ethics and anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported Sustainability statement: Business ethics and anti-corruption ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: ENERGY 103: 1-3 Management approach for environmental disclosures Report from the Board of Directors Reported Sustainability management SUSTAINABILITY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainability statement: Consumption Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Sustainability statement: Consumption Partly 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Economic disclosures: Water Reported management Sustainability statement: Biodiversity and impact on nature Sustainability statement: Impact on watercourses ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: BIODIVERSITY 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Sustainability statement: Biodiversity and Reported areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas impact on nature 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Environmental disclosures: Biodiversity Reported Economic disclosures: Water management Sustainability statement: Biodiversity and impact on nature 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in Sustainability statement: Biodiversity and Reported areas affected by operations impact on nature Sustainability statement: Red list species (fauna) ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) Sustainability statement: Climate Reported 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) Sustainability statement: Climate Reported 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) Sustainability statement: Climate Reported 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability statement: Climate Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability statement: Waste Reported 306-3 Significant spills Sustainability statement: Environmental Reported incidents ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Sustainability statement: Environmental Reported incidents ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criterias Sustainability management Reported ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 168 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: EMPLOYMENT 103: 1-3 Management approach on social disclosures Report from the Board of Directors Reported Sustainability management Social disclosures: Health and safety Social disclosures: Security Social disclosures: Human rights Social disclosures: Labour practices 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability statement: Labour practices Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker heath and safety Social disclosures: Health and safety Partly committees Social disclosures: Labour practices 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Social disclosures: Health and safety Reported absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Sustainability statement: Health and GROUP safety SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social disclosures: Labour practices Partly 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Social disclosures: Labour practices Reported development reviews Sustainability statement: Labour practices SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability statement: Labour practices Reported 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Sustainability statement: Labour practices Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: NON-DISCRIMINATION 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Sustainability management Reported STATKRAFT AS Sustainability statement: Reported concerns covering the scope of the Code of Conduct SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: FREEDOM OF ASSICIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Sustainability management GRI alignment collective bargaining may be at risk Social disclosures: Labour practices in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: CHILD LABOUR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Sustainability management GRI alignment in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Sustainability management GRI alignment SUSTAINABILITY compulsory labour Social disclosures: Labour practices in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Social disclosures: Human rights Reported Sustainability statement: Human rights SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Sustainability management Partly assessments Social disclosures: Human rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Social disclosures: Human rights Reported Sustainability statement: Human rights 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights Sustainability management Partly clauses or that underwent human rights screening Social disclosures: Human rights SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and Social disclosures: Human rights Partly development programs Economic disclosures: Water management 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local Social disclosures: Human rights Partly communities Economic disclosures: Water management SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Sustainability management Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the socioeconomic area Sustainability statement: Business ethics Reported and anti-corruption Sustainability statement: Human rights ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 169 Statkraft’s Global Compact index Global Compact comprises ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and combating corruption. Companies that endorse Global Compact commit to support and respect the principles and report their performance in the various areas annually. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of Report from the Board of Directors internationally proclaimed human rights, and Sustainability management Social disclosures, Human rights 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Sustainability management GROUP Social disclosures, Human rights LABOUR PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 3 Business should uphold the freedom association and the Sustainability management effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Social disclosures, Labour practices 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, Sustainability management Social disclosures, Labour practices 5 the effective abolition of child labour, and Sustainability management STATKRAFT AS Social disclosures, Labour practices 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Sustainability management occupation. Social disclosures, Labour practices ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to Report from the Board of Directors environmental challenges, Sustainability management Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity Environmental disclosures, Climate change Economic disclosures, Water management SUSTAINABILITY 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity responsibility, and Environmental disclosures, Climate change Economic disclosures, Water management 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Statkraft’s contribution friendly technologies. Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity Environmental disclosures, Climate change Economic disclosures, Water management ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Report from the Board of Directors extortion and bribery. Sustainability management Economic disclosures, Business ethics ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 170 Auditor’s statement GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 171 GROUP STATKRAFT AS SUSTAINABILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS Statkraft has been making clean energy possible for over a century, long before climate change was a crisis. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS Declaration 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 176 Declaration from the Board of Directors and the President and CEO We confirm to the best of our knowledge that:  the consolidated financial statements for 2019 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, as well as additional information requirements in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act,  the financial statements for the parent company for 2019 have been prepared in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and generally accepted accounting practice in Norway,  the information presented in the financial statements gives a true and fair view of the company’s and group’s assets, liabilities, financial position and result for the period viewed in their entirety,  the board of directors report, the chapters on corporate governance and corporate responsibility including the corporate responsibility statement, gives a true and fair view of the development, performance and financial position of the company and group, and includes a description of the key risks and uncertainties the companies are faced with. The Board of Directors of Statkraft AS Oslo, 12 February 2020 Thorhild Widvey Peter Mellbye Hilde Drønen Chair of the Board Deputy chair Director Mikael Lundin Ingelise Arntsen Bengt Ekenstierna Director Director Director Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes Thorbjørn Holøs Asbjørn Sevlejordet Director Director Director Christian Rynning-Tønnesen President and CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 177 Renewable energy is sustainable and profitable. Statkraft employees prove that a fully clean energy world can happen today not just because it’s right, but because it’s better business. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 178 Key figures and Alternative Performance Measures 2019 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 179 Key Figures FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Income statement Gross operating revenues and other income underlying NOK mill 48 679 56 623 52 883 48 351 n/a Net operating revenues and other income underlying NOK mill 30 161 26 925 23 350 21 400 n/a EBITDA, underlying NOK mill 21 412 18 520 14 486 12 230 n/a Operating profit (EBIT) underlying NOK mill 17 587 14 953 10 824 8 673 n/a Operating profit (EBIT) IFRS NOK mill 16 978 15 446 11 928 2 612 3 814 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments NOK mill 1 249 790 -79 474 683 Net financial items NOK mill 733 4 412 3 818 2 137 -5 318 Profit before tax NOK mill 18 959 20 649 15 668 5 223 -821 Net profit NOK mill 11 327 13 390 11 710 -179 -2 369 Items excluded from underlying business Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives* NOK mill -801 -789 1 289 -1 270 n/a Gains/losses from divestments of business activities* NOK mill 55 1 449 315 16 n/a Impairments/reversal of impairments* NOK mill 136 -167 -500 -4 808 n/a Balance sheet Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets NOK mill 114 485 109 653 106 506 107 161 115 730 Equity accounted investments NOK mill 12 917 13 105 13 335 19 438 19 388 Other assets NOK mill 50 147 58 955 48 305 39 357 40 488 Total assets NOK mill 177 548 182 388 169 108 166 630 176 905 Equity NOK mill 100 764 98 004 91 627 83 519 88 340 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities NOK mill 11 961 15 286 8 865 8 371 8 639 Dividend paid to owners (incl. non-controlling interests) NOK mill 8 632 6 093 3 089 -226 5 157 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) NOK mill 15 203 23 175 14 217 7 308 9 056 Investments Maintenance investments 1) NOK mill 2 712 2 067 1 820 1 763 1 970 Investments in increased capacity, fixed assets 2) NOK mill 3 738 3 053 1 964 3 736 7 797 Investments in shareholdings 3) NOK mill 972 1 862 111 158 3 790 Financial metrics ROACE 4) % 16.3 14.7 10.5 n/a n/a ROAE 5) % 9.5 5.9 -0.5 n/a n/a Ratio/Rating Net Interest-bearing debt ratio 6) % 13.7 11.6 21.3 28.0 28.4 Equity ratio 7) % 56.8 53.7 54.2 50.1 49.9 Long-term rating Standard & Poor’s A/ Stable A/ Stable AAALong-term rating Fitch Ratings BBB+ / Stable BBB+ / Stable n/a n/a n/a Statkraft has amended the definitions of its underlying operating profit and capital employed with effect from 2017. * See section regarding Alternative Performance Measures (APM) 1) Book value of maintenance investments to sustain current generating capacity. 2) Book value of investments to expand generating capacity. 3) Purchase of shares as well as equity increase in other companies. 4) Operating profit (EBIT) underlying (rolling 12 months) * 100 Average capital employed (rolling 12 months) 5) Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments (rolling 12 months) * 100 Average equity accounted investments (rolling 12 months) 6) Net interest-bearing debt * 100 Net interest-bearing debt + equity 7) Total equity * 100 Total assets ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 180 POWER GENERATION AND DISTRICT HEATING PRODUCTION Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Installed capacity, power generation MW 18 445 17 831 17 478 17 418 16 778 Of which hydropower MW 14 399 14 190 14 099 14 075 13 464 Of which wind power MW 1 607 1 203 947 703 647 Of which gas power 1) MW 2 390 2 390 2 390 2 600 2 600 Of which other 2) MW 49 49 43 40 67 Installed capacity, district heating MW 828 836 835 820 838 Capacity under development, power generation 3) MW 750 865 718 729 909 Of which hydropower MW 386 292 184 207 873 Of which wind power 4) MW 364 574 520 522 36 Of which solar power MW 0 0 14 0 0 Capacity under development, district heating 3) MW 0 0 0 0 21 Production capacity 5) TWh 59.4 59.6 61.9 61.3 58.7 Power generation, actual TWh 61.1 61.7 62.6 66.0 56.3 Of which hydropower TWh 53.4 57.2 57.4 61.2 53.1 Of which wind power TWh 3.0 2.7 2.7 2.3 2.5 Of which gas power 1) TWh 4.5 1.5 2.2 2.2 0.5 Of which other 2) TWh 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 District heating production TWh 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 Renewable power generation 6) % 92.6 97.6 96.5 96.7 99.1 Renewable district heating 6) % 89.5 89.2 91.6 91.8 94.7 1) Includes Statkraft's share of the jointly controlled Herdecke (Germany) power plant. 2) Includes biopower and solar power. 3) Includes projects with an investment decision. 4) Includes Statkraft's share of the Fosen project. 5) Excluding gas-fired power and district heating. Annual mean generation. 6) Non-renewable production consists of gas power and share of district heating based on fossil fuel. Production at Heimdal, the incineration plant in Trondheim, is counted as 100% renewable district heating production (alligned with SSB, Statistics Norway, reporting practice). EMISSIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Emissions of CO2 equivalents, consolidated activities Tonnes 1 493 100 485 400 818 000 773 400 258 600 Greenhouse gas emissions per scope 1) Scope 1: Direct emissions 2) Tonnes 1 586 300 587 600 909 700 Scope 2: Indirect emissions, related to electricity consumption Tonnes 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions Tonnes 3 700 2 800 2 800 Relative greenhouse gas emissions CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, total 2) kg/ MWh 26 9 14 12 5 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh district heating production 3) kg/ MWh 26 26 19 23 12 Environmental incidents Serious environmental incidents Number 0 0 0 0 0 Less serious environmental incidents Number 288 283 187 233 228 1) Reporting of greenhouse gas emissions per scope was introduced in 2017. 2) Includes Statkraft’s share of production and emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). 3) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, according to established reporting practice for the district heating industry. CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Distribution of value created 1) Dividend 2) NOK mill 6 500 8 500 6 100 0 1 604 Taxes 3) NOK mill 9 241 9 027 5 743 7 581 3 665 Interest NOK mill 669 1 369 3 303 -1 757 5 740 Employees NOK mill 3 503 3 198 3 262 3 202 3 107 The company NOK mill 4 411 4 210 5 705 -117 -3 376 1) New reporting format for distribution of value created from 2017 due to changed income statement format. 2) Includes dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF. 3) Includes taxes, property tax, licence fees and employer's contribution. REPORTED CONCERNS COVERING THE SCOPE OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total number of reported concerns (whistleblowing) 1), 2) Number 60 55 57 46 Of which related to business ethics and anti-corruption Number 28 32 40 23 Of which related to discrimination Number 8 2 n/a n/a n/a 1) The scope of the whistleblowing procedures relates to the full scope of Statkraft's Code of Conduct, e.g. human rights, environment, health and safety, business ethics and anti-corruption. 2) The format for this indicator was changed in 2016, but historical data related to whistleblowing is available and has been published in Statkraft's annual reports since 2008. The indicator for discrimination was introduced in 2018. EMPLOYEES AND GENDER EQUALITY Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Employees per 31.12 Number 3 973 3 557 3 593 3 804 4 119 Percentage of women Total % 26 25 25 25 23 In management positions % 23 21 22 22 23 Among new employees % 38 31 22 24 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 181 HEALTH AND SAFETY Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Fatalities, consolidated operations 1) Employees Number 0 1 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 0 1 3 Third parties Number 0 0 0 0 0 Fatal accidents, associated activities 2) Employees Number 0 0 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 0 0 0 Third parties Number 0 0 0 0 0 Seious incidents 3), 4) Serious injuries Number 7 7 4 5 6 Incidents with, or with potential for, serious consequences Number 53 31 48 40 12 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked 3) TRI rate 4.8 5.3 5.2 4.9 5.9 Sick leave, total % 2.7 3.3 3.5 3.0 3.0 1) Activities where Statkraft has > 50% ownership. 2) Activities where Statkraft has 20-50% ownership. 3) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 4) Incidents include accidents and near misses. MARKET VARIABLES Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 System price, Nord Pool EUR/MWh 39.0 44.0 29.4 26.9 21.0 Spot price, European Energy Exchange EUR/MWh 37.7 44.4 34.2 29.0 31.7 Electricity consumption in the Nordic market TWh 387 395 388 386 379 Electricity generated in the Nordic market, actual TWh 388 397 397 389 394 Statkraft's share of Nordic electricity production % 13.2 13.8 13.9 15.1 13.1 Pro-rata1) Consolidated plants POWER PLANTS No. of plants Capacity (MW) No. of plants Capacity (MW) Hydropower 335 15 881 271 14 399 Norway 226 12 829 170 11 631 Sweden 59 1 267 59 1 267 Germany 10 262 10 262 UK 3 49 3 49 Albania 2 256 2 256 Turkey 2 122 2 122 Brazil 18 269 14 252 Peru 9 442 9 442 Chile 3 213 1 57 Nepal 1 34 1 60 India 2 136 Wind power 19 1 347 16 1 607 Norway 6 577 6 882 Sweden 4 546 4 546 Brazil 4 98 4 120 UK 4 103 1 36 Ireland 1 23 1 23 Solar power 2 6 2 6 India 2 6 2 6 Gas 5 2 390 5 2 390 Germany 5 2 390 5 2 390 Bio 2 43 2 43 Germany 2 43 2 43 Total, power generation 363 19 666 296 18 445 Pro-rata1) Consolidated plants DISTRICT HEATING PLANTS No. of locations Capacity (MW) No. of locations Capacity (MW) Norway 24 623 24 669 Sweden 4 159 4 159 Total, district heating 28 782 28 828 1) Statkraft equity share in all power plants (pro-rata share of direct and indirect ownership), including those in partly-owned companies ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 182 Alternative Performance Measures As defined in ESMAs guideline on alternative performance measures (APM), an APM is understood as a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in the applicable financial reporting framework. Statkraft uses the following APMs: EBITDA underlying is defined as underlying operating profit before depreciations and amortisations. The APM is used to measure performance from operational activities. EBITDA underlying should not be considered as an alternative to operating profit and profit before tax as an indicator of the company’s operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Nor is EBITDA underlying an alternative to cash flow from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Operating profit (EBIT) underlying is an APM used to measure performance from operational activities. Items excluded from Operating profit (EBIT) underlying: Statkraft adjusts for the following three items when reporting operating profit (EBIT) underlying: 1. Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives Embedded derivatives are excluded from underlying operating profit since they only represent part of an energy contract and the other parts of these energy contracts are not reported based on fair market values. Derivatives entered into for risk reduction purposes were excluded from underlying figures in 2018. This was done where the related item was either carried at cost or not recognised in the statement of financial position. From 2019, certain energy contracts and the related derivatives are recognised at fair value. Thus, the unrealised value changes of these derivatives are from first quarter 2019 presented as part of the underlying figures. 2. Gains/losses from divestments of business activities are eliminated from the measure since the gains or losses do not give an indication of future performance or periodic performance from operating activities. Such gains or losses are related to the cumulative value creation from the time the asset is acquired until it is sold. 3. Impairments/reversal of impairments are excluded from underlying operating profit since they affect the economics of an asset for the useful life of that asset; not only the period in which it is impaired or the impairment is reversed. The same items as above are also excluded from Gross operating revenues and other income underlying and Net operating revenues and other income underlying, see note 4 in the Group financial statements. ROACE is defined as Operating profit (EBIT) underlying divided by capital employed. ROACE is calculated on a rolling 12 month average and is used to measure return from the operational activities as well as benchmarking performance. ROAE is defined as share of profit in equity accounted investments, divided by the average book value of the Group’s equity accounted investments. ROAE is calculated on a rolling 12 month average. The financial metric is used to measure return from the Group’s equity accounted investments as well as benchmarking performance. Capital employed is the capital allocated to perform operational activities and is presented in a table on the next page. Net interest-bearing debt is used to measure indebtedness. The components are presented in a table on the next page. Net interest-bearing debt-equity ratio is calculated as net interest-bearing debt relative to the sum of net interestbearing debt and equity. Operating profit (EBIT) margin underlying (%) is calculated as operating profit (EBIT) underlying relative to gross operating income underlying. Cost of operations, Nordic hydropower generation (øre/kWh) is an APM that is used to measure the cost of operations per kWh for Nordic hydropower assets in the segment European flexible generation. Total operating expenses for these assets are divided by the sevenyear average output from Nordic hydropower plants under own management in the segment. Total operating expenses include salaries and payroll costs, depreciation and amortisation, property tax and licence fees and other operating expenses. Net financial items and taxes related to these assets are not included. In addition, the costs related to both hydropower assets outside the Nordics and other technologies in the segment are not included in this APM. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 183 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES NOK million 2019 2018 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT) UNDERLYING TO EBITDA UNDERLYING Operating profit (EBIT) underlying, see note 4 in the Group Financial Statements 17 587 14 953 Depreciations and amortisations 3 824 3 567 EBITDA underlying 21 412 18 520 Operating profit (EBIT) margin underlying (%) 34.8 26.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENT LINE ITEMS INCLUDED IN CAPITAL EMPLOYED Intangible assets 4 633 3 909 Property, plant and equipment 109 852 105 744 Other non-current financial assets 3 597 3 986 Loans to equity accounted investments 1) -1 463 -2 244 Bonds and other long-term investments 1) -203 -232 Pension assets 1) -886 -494 Other shares and shareholdings 1) -478 -316 Inventories 4 468 6 316 Receivables 13 348 12 831 Receivables related to cash collateral 2) -3 035 -3 351 Short-term loans to equity accounted investments 2) -55 -75 Other receivables not part of capital employed 2) -245 -8 Provisions allocated to capital employed (x) -2 308 -2 552 Taxes payable (x) -7 109 -7 391 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed (x) 3) -9 720 -9 742 Capital employed 110 396 106 380 Average capital employed 4) 107 997 102 020 RECONCILIATION OF CAPITAL EMPLOYED TO TOTAL ASSETS Capital employed 110 396 106 380 Deferred tax assets 614 676 Equity accounted investments 12 917 13 105 Other non-current financial assets 1) 3 031 3 286 Derivatives, long term 2 694 2 926 Receivables 2) 3 335 3 434 Short-term financial investments 1 470 604 Derivatives, short term 8 752 9 118 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) 15 203 23 175 Liabilities allocated to capital employed, see lines marked with (x) above 19 137 19 685 Total assets as of the statement of financial position 177 548 182 388 RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROACE) Operating profit (EBIT) underlying, rolling 12 months 17 587 14 953 Average capital employed 107 997 102 020 ROACE 16.3 % 14.7% RETURN ON AVERAGE EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS (ROAE) Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments, rolling 12 months 1 249 790 Average equity accounted investments 4) 13 107 13 359 ROAE 9.5 % 5.9% NET INTEREST-BEARING DEBT Long-term interest bearing liabilities 28 160 30 354 Short-term interest bearing liabilities 4 479 6 346 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) -15 203 -23 175 Short-term financial investments -1 470 -604 Net interest-bearing debt 15 965 12 921 NET INTEREST-BEARING DEBT-EQUITY RATIO Net interest-bearing debt 15 965 12 921 Equity 100 764 98 004 Sum of net-interest bearing debt and equity 116 729 110 926 Net interest-bearing debt equity ratio 13.7 % 11.6% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS 184 COST OF OPERATIONS, NORDIC HYDROPOWER GENERATION IN SEGMENT EUROPEAN FLEXIBLE GENERATION (EF) Net operating revenues and other income underlying (EF) 18 028 18 765 operating profit (EBIT) underlying (EF) 12 247 12 943 Operating expenses, underlying (EF) 5 780 5 822 items in EF not related to Nordic hydropower generation 5) 1 280 1 180 = Cost of operations, Nordic hydropower generation (EF) 4 500 4 642 7 year average generation, Nordic hydropower (GWh) 6) 49 613 48 191 = Cost of operations, Nordic hydropower generation in EF (øre/kWh) 9.1 9.6 1) The item is a part of other non-current financial assets in the statement of financial position, but not a part of capital employed. 2) The item is a part of receivables in the statement of financial position, but not a part of capital employed. 3) Accrued interest liability of NOK 256 million and other current liability of NOK 73 million are part of interest-free liabilities in the statement of financial position, but not part of capital employed. See note 33. 4) Average capital employed and average equity accounted investments are based on the average for the last four quarters. 5) Includes all operating expenses related to hydropower generation outside the Nordics and other technologies. 6) Basis for figures for 7 year average generation has been slightly adjusted and comparable figures have been restated accordingly. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | STATKRAFT AS Statkraft AS PO Box 200 Lilleaker NO-0216 Oslo Tel: +47 24 06 70 00 Visiting address: Lilleakerveien 6 Organisation no: Statkraft AS: 987 059 699 www.statkraft.com
