2019 Corporate Activity Report 2019 Corporate Activity Report 2 Contents 2019 in figures | 4 Major milestones of 2019 | 6 Closer to our customers: listening to their needs so we can be better every day | 8 Letter from the Chairman | 10 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer | 12 01 Value creation model and strategy | 16 1.1 A strategy suited to the new challenges of the future | 16 1.2 Business model | 19 1.3 Crèdit Andorrà, the pioneering services bank | 20 1.4 A national driving force | 21 1.5 Social commitment | 23 02 Focused on our customers | 24 2.1 Andorra Banking Business Division | 24 2.1.1 Commercial Banking | 25 2.1.2. Private Banking | 28 2.1.3. Key Account Unit | 30 2.1.4. Equity Planning | 30 2.2 International Banking Business Division | 31 2.3 Investment Division | 33 2.4 Insurance Group | 35 2.5 Constant product and service innovation | 37 2.6 Digital transformation and omni-channel banking | 44 2.7 Quality and excellence in banking practices | 46 2.8 Financial education and inclusion | 48 2019 Corporate Activity Report 3 03 Appendix Sound, responsible management | 52 3.1 Corporate governance | 52 Materiality | 98 3.2 Comprehensive risk management | 58 Report scope and criteria | 98 3.3 Integrity and ethics | 61 Materiality analysis | 98 3.4 Relationship with our stakeholders | 62 Methodology and results | 98 3.5 Information security and confidentiality | 64 Material topics and coverage | 99 04 Crèdit Andorrà and the Sustainable Development At the service of the team | 66 4.1 Diversity and employment | 66 Goals | 101 4.2 Training and professional development | 68 4.3 Quality working environment | 70 Global Reporting Initiative content index | 104 05 Table of contents of Committed to society | 72 5.1 Fundació Crèdit Andorrà | 73 the Global Compact | 125 5.1.1 At the service of education | 74 5.1.2 At the service of society | 75 5.1.3 At the service of culture | 77 5.2 Crèdit Andorrà, committed to the country and to people | 80 5.2.1 Supporting the economic and business fabric | 80 5.2.2 Multifaceted promotion of tourism | 80 5.2.3 Sport for personal development | 81 5.2.4 Culture, within everyone’s reach | 83 06 Committed to the environment | 84 6.1 Environmental management system | 84 6.2 Fight against climate change | 88 6.3 Sustainable travel | 89 6.4 Products with environmental benefits | 90 07 Financial statements of the Crèdit Andorrà Group | 92 7.1 Statement of financial position | 92 7.2 Statements of profit and loss | 94 08 Goals achieved and challenges for 2020 | 96 4 2019 in figures 2019 in figures Management focused on sound and responsible growth Balance sheet (in thousands of euros) Assets Net equity 5,255,033 469,665 Customer funds Customer deposits Customer loans 14,647,215 3,830,248 2,417,134 Profit/loss (in thousands of euros) Business volume Pre-tax profit/loss Net profit 17,064,349 53,932 46,244 Financial margin(*) Net profit from operations(**) Operating income(***) 43,530 203,256 56,093 Profitability and efficiency (%) Efficiency ratio RoE RoA RoTE(****) 61.47% 10.92% 0.87% 14.22% RoE: return on equity. RoA: return on assets. RoE: return on tangible equity. Solvency (%) Solvency ratio Liquidity ratio NPL ratio 16.79% 147.04% 7.45% NPL coverage ratio 32.9% (*) Interest income interest expenditure expenditure for share capital refundable on demand (****) Income after tax on average equity, excluding intangible assets. See the corresponding table + dividend income. See the corresponding table in the income statement in the audited in the income statement in the audited financial statements. financial statements. (**) Total net operating profit/loss + share in profit or loss of investments in subsidiaries, joint Note: The information set out in the tables is an extract from Crèdit Andorrà’s consolidated ventures and associates. See the corresponding table in the income statement in the financial statements, approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of 29 June 2020 and audited financial statements. available at informeanual.creditandorragroup.com (***) Total net operating profit/loss + share in profit or loss of investments in subsidiaries, joint In the event of any discrepancy between the two, the version of the consolidated financial ventures and associates administration expenses depreciation. See the corresponding statements approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting of 29 June 2020 will prevail. table in the income statement in the audited financial statements. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 5 Comprehensive commitment to society 471 people 52% 31.3% Digital banking Staff in Andorra Women in the workforce Retail banking customers 66% Retail customers 429 people 81% 13.1% 14% International staff Workforce who have Corporate banking Corporate customers customers received training 94% 55.6% Permanent contracts €528 Private banking Average investment customers in training A team of professionals ...to whom we offer committed to the Bank’s high-quality products values, who are proactive and services, meaning and motivated to serve our they recognise us as customers... Employees Customers the leading bank in the Andorran marketplace... ...because we are committed ...a world we want to be to the country’s economic more sustainable, because and social growth, and we we are committed to the act responsibly wherever future. we are present, around the world... Environment Community Investment in CSR 84.51% Initiatives to boost the economy 12.55% Initiatives to support 2.94% 1,327 and sports sponsorships the community investment in CSR tonnes of CO2 from energy consumption Sports sponsorships Education –9% (–3%) power consumption 64.99% 11.2% per employee Social support Institutional relations 21.27% 38.6% –3,563 kg Culture paper consumption Events 50.2% 13.74% 6 Major milestones of 2019 Major milestones of 2019 January >  February > The Crèdit Andorrà GSeries start with more competition > A new corporate profile for the Crèdit Andorrà Financial days, three new categories and a new lines of boxes Group is launched on Twitter @creditandorra > Organisation of the first 2019 Crèdit Andorrà Financial > Talk The current situation in the financial markets and Institutions Event outlook for the year 2019 by David Macià, director of investments at Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management > L’espai, the Crèdit Andorrà Foundation’s social centre for activities for over 60s, begins its annual programming > The 27th edition of the Borrufa Trophy youth ski competition begins September July-August > Andorran Banking agrees to close bank branches > Mountain Bike World Cup in Vallnord Pal-Arinsal on Friday afternoons > Scale Lab Andorra, Crèdit Andorrà’s business hyperacceleration programme aimed at start-ups, is launched > Crèdit Andorrà signs an agreement with Mútua General de Catalunya i Caravela to become shareholders in CA Life Insurance Experts > The e-Crèdit app offers fingerprint access for Android devices > The Investment division and the management company retain the ISO 9001 quality standard > 33 young people start their summer internships > Crèdit Andorrà updates its capital structure by issuing new subordinated financial instruments October November > New Crèdit Andorrà Visa Infinite, the highest-end > New structure for the Investment division, managed by Visa card Eduard Galceran Cerqueda > 41st edition of the Andorra la Vella Fair > Best bank in Andorra in private banking in the magazines > The Crèdit Andorrà Foundation launches its own The Banker and PWM, from the Financial Times Group profiles on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and > Crèdit Andorrà Global Fòrum: talk The magic formula YouTube following the success of Silicon Valley by Mar Hershenson, > Ara Malikian opens the second edition of Ordino co-founder and managing partner of Pear VC, a Palo AltoClàssic based venture capital firm that invests in start-ups > The Crèdit Andorrà Foundation awards a new grant for excellence in postgraduate studies > Crèdit Andorrà and Caser Seguros sign an agreement under which the Spanish company enters the Group’s life insurance business in Andorra > Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management renews its international GIPS certification for another year > The EFA holds its 18th forum, focused on climate change 2019 Corporate Activity Report 7 March April > Finals of the women’s and men’s Alpine Ski World > Crèdit Avui, the monthly news bulletin, is digitalised Cup in Soldeu-El Tarter (Grandvalira) into a news blog and newsletter format > New WhatsApp customer service channel, creditavui.ad/ +376 320 888 > Global Banking & Finance Review recognises Crèdit Andorrà as the best bank in Andorra in private banking and in CSR > ONCA presents its 26th season June May > 30th Trobada Empresarial al Pirineu (Business > Fitch guarantees the strength of the Crèdit Andorrà Group Meeting in the Pyrenees), ‘Defining the business by confirming its BBB rating with a stable outlook agenda’ > Crèdit Hipoteca and Crèdit Cotxe launch two online > Crèdit Andorrà Global Fòrum with Marc Vidal, simulators to calculate loan instalments economic disseminator and consultant on digital > 6th Jornada de Mobilitat Elèctrica (electric mobility strategy and transformation conference) > The Environmental Management System gets > The new Global Risks division is created, managed by ISO 14001:2015 certification Xavier Soro Ventura, within the company’s management > 21st Quality and Family Business Series structure > 6th Casamanya Extrem Vertical Race Crèdit > The Crèdit Andorrà Ordinary General Shareholders’ Andorrà Trophy meeting approves the 2018 accounts and management report December > Crèdit Andorrà and Crowe Andorra host the talk The challenges for family business in Andorra: generational handover or divestment? > Collaboration between Crèdit Andorrà employees and the Càritas Andorrana food bank 8 Closer to our customers: listening to their needs so we can be better every day Closer to our customers: listening to their needs so we can be better every day Personalised service in our branch network hello! Messaging Text messaging by email info@creditandorra.ad and WhatsApp service Card technical support Telephone customer service +376 88 88 88 +376 88 87 00 (24 hrs) From Monday to Friday, 8:30 am to 6 pm Online customer service Forms ‘El meu gestor’ (‘My manager’) customer service through e-Crèdit 2019 Corporate Activity Report 9 Supporting Research 3,959 2,376 271 followers followers followers 225 486 followers followers 6,667 1,696 followers followers 311 43 followers followers WhatsApp channel El meu gestor +376 320 888 900 customers 250+ 4,800+ customer users messages 350+ chats recorded Data from 31/12/2019 10 Letter from the Chairman Letter from the Chairman We leave behind a year in which we embarked on a path in a new direction marked by the foundations of a strategic vision that aims to act as a route map to cement the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s presence in an increasingly demanding and complex financial scenario. 2019 turned out to be even more demanding than initial macro-economic forecasts suggested. The ECB’s stimulus policy has continued to keep interest rates low and geopolitical tensions – with the US-China trade war and the Brexit process at the fore – have brought uncertainty to the markets. This global situation comes in addition to the major adaptation process the Andorran sector is currently engaged in to adopt international banking regulations, with more requirements in terms of provisions and significant technological investment considering the business challenges. At the Crèdit Andorrà Group, however, we are ready to meet these challenges. We have continued working to adapt to this market environment, concentrating on the company’s internal reorganisation, the focusing of the international banking business, improved operational efficiency and the search for valuable alliances, along with the strengthening of corporate governance. © Eduard Comellas The results achieved are a reflection of this prudent and careful management, a model that year after year shows us that we are on the right track. Profits at the end of year totalled €46.24 million, 28.45% more than in 2018, consolidating Antoni Pintat Mas Crèdit Andorrà’s leading position in the country in terms of results. This positive Chairman of the Board of Directors figure is reinforced by the 10.51% increase in business volume, rising to €17,064 of Crèdit Andorrà million, and an operating margin of €56.09 million (48.62% more than in 2018, despite the 7.75% decrease in financial margin as a result of the low interest rates mentioned above). The return on investment (RoE) (10.92% compared to 9.25% in 2018) confirms the soundness of the organisation, along with the regulatory solvency ratio (16.79%) and liquidity ratio (147.04%) that enable us to enjoy the trust of international rating agencies. In 2019, in fact, Fitch Ratings again gave us a BBB rating with a stable outlook. The Board of Directors are convinced of the Group’s robust nature, demonstrated by both the financial results and the business management initiatives. We have also been recognised for the third time in a row with a new award for best bank in Andorra in private banking, given by the Financial Times Group. Unwavering in our commitment to ethics and transparency, we have continued to focus significant efforts on corporate governance, always with the aim 2019 Corporate Activity Report 11 of ensuring Group sustainability as well as the protection and security of our customers, investors, shareholders and employees. This is our commitment to all of them and to Andorra, which means we believe in them and we invest in them. This is reflected in the €2,417 million in credit granted, €1,843 million of which was earmarked for economic stimulation in our country. We work alongside business owners, self-employed people and entrepreneurs, as well as families and individuals. For us, the customer is and always has been at the core of our business and the main challenge that we have going forward is keeping their trust. We can only achieve this goal with a team of talented professionals who are committed, eager to grow with the organisation and keen to be part of the Group’s development. At the close of 2019, the company was made up of 900 people who share a common goal and to whom, on behalf of the Board of Directors, we would like to give our sincere thanks. Thank you for everything that you have done and continue to do. Now, in June 2020, we find ourselves in one of the most critical situations in modern history. Your determination and professionalism have contributed to keeping the Bank operational in the face of a global health crisis with as yet unknown economic, political and social repercussions. From the very first day and across all geographical regions and countries, you have all been working to ensure that the Crèdit Andorrà Group maintains the dedication to service with which it was founded more than 70 years ago. This dedication to service towards individuals and the country gives us a huge sense of responsibility beyond our business activity. We show this mainly through the educational, social and cultural projects that the Crèdit Andorrà Foundation is involved in, as well as through our corporate social responsibility policy, which includes important sponsorship programmes such as the Alpine Ski World Cup finals and our commitment to the environment, with an ISO 14001:2015-certified management system. We are firmly committed to Andorra, investing year after year, with a figure in 2019 that totalled €3 million. For the fifth year in a row, we have also been recognised as the best bank in Andorra for CSR by the Global Banking & Finance Review. We close 2019 satisfied, solidly established on our path, reaffirming our leadership in results in the Andorran financial market and maintaining the firm commitment to the companies in which we operate, without losing the essence of what defines us and what gives us our real competitive advantage: capacity for service. Given times as difficult as the ones we are currently experiencing, staying strong in our values allows us to face the future of a more sustainable world in which the Crèdit Andorrà Group wants to be present. We will achieve this by counting on you, our shareholders, customers and employees. On this note, I would again like to reiterate my appreciation for the trust you place in us each and every day. 12 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 2019 has been a particularly significant year for the Crèdit Andorrà Group. The good results achieved reaffirm our leading position in Andorra in terms of the financial business as well as our commitment to shareholders, customers, employees and society as a whole. They are the result of a conscious and thorough effort to lay the foundations that will allow us to face with more determination a future that seems uncertain, complex and challenging, yet also full of opportunities. We have created the pillars of a business vision that rests on five basic axes as the main driver of change. Our expansion as a Group is focused on establishing strategic alliances that can guarantee us future growth, with the best partners in each business area. We can only do this if we are also the best. We have continued to pursue excellence through specialised management of differentiated and value-added products and services for customers, accompanied by a © Eduard Comellas determined push for digitalisation and an open attitude towards innovation, in order to be more efficient every day, but above all to maintain what has set us apart for more than 70 years: being pioneers in Andorra in banking services and Xavier Cornella Castel products, as well as in business, social and financial initiatives for the whole of Chief Executive Officer society. This is one of our competitive advantages, which has made the Crèdit Andorrà Group the benchmark for Andorran banking, and our hope for the future is to continue being what we are currently. The Group’s results for 2019 reflect this leading position within our country, with total income (net operating profit/loss) of €200.9 million and a net profit of €46.24 million, 12.54% and 28.45% more, respectively, than in 2018. These figures are backed up by solid figures confirming the adequate capitalisation and strength of the Bank, with a regulatory solvency ratio of 16.79% (CET1 is 15.13%) and a liquidity ratio of 147.04%, above the 60% required by the Andorran regulator. 2019 was the first year in which we presented the solvency ratio according to the European Basel III criteria, after the entry into force of the law on solvency, liquidity and prudential supervision of banking entities and investment companies. In this regard, I would like to highlight the relevant and pioneering operation to update the structure of the Bank’s capital base. Subordinated financial instruments are being issued for the first time in Andorra, supported by the Basel III banking regulation, allowing us to improve the diversification of sources of funding. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 13 The strategy of growth through strategic alliances has contributed in part to achieving these results, which confirms that the initiatives promoted are headed in the right direction. Two operations stand out in the corporate business field that we have implemented within the Insurance Group, one of the strategic pillars of the Crèdit Andorrà Group. Firstly, the arrival of Caser Seguros as a strategic partner to maintain the leading position in Andorra in the banking and insurance segment, in a pioneering corporate operation for the country in this sector. The other operation involved CA Life Insurance Experts, our subsidiary in Spain, with two leading life insurance companies, Mútua General de Catalunya, also Spanish, and the Portuguese Caravela, becoming shareholders. By adding capabilities and talent, these operations should allow us to guarantee and lead the Group’s future growth, which also involves technological, operational and human adaptation to an environment of global transformation of the financial sector, both in terms of digitalisation of processes, products and services and a European and global regulatory framework that is increasingly demanding and has an increasing impact on the business. These are operations that, in the medium and long term, should allow us to further consolidate our strategic position in the insurance business. From this perspective, we continue to work on the digital transformation of our business, with a global vision covering both internal operations and customer services. This is confirmed by the penetration figures for e-Crèdit, our online banking service, among individuals, freelancers and companies: 45% of our customers are digital and 75% of the transfers made to the Bank are already through e-Crèdit. We were pioneers in digitalising part of our services to meet the demands of a context that we saw as here to stay. At the Crèdit Andorrà Group, we are ready to offer our customers a service proposal that is appropriate for now and that will also meet new needs. This is our challenge, synonymous with present and future growth for the organisation. It is thanks to digital transformation that we have opted for new ways of doing things, new ways of relating to customers and new value-generating projects. This is how we define innovation: a desire to adapt to change and turn potential business opportunities into a reality. 14 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer We have shown this with our own initiatives, such as Merkaat, Andorra’s leading digital investment advisory service, and the development of CrèditBroker, the investment portal integrated into online banking, as well as by supporting future projects. One example is Scale Lab Andorra, the business hyper-acceleration programme aimed at budding entrepreneurial projects that combines financing and advisory actions, bringing investors together with businesses with high growth potential. Until recently, supporting innovative projects seemed like a risk. Today, the real risk is being left out. The decisive commitment to innovation and the digitalisation of the banking business has accompanied the process of improving the Group’s operational efficiency, an essential factor in consolidating the pillars of our growth. To do all of this, we have the most important asset: people. The Crèdit Andorrà Group is currently made up of a team of 900 professionals committed to a shared project, in a more demanding organisation, just like the environment in which we find ourselves. At the same time, this team is also committed to a fairer organisation that looks for talent, with attention given the personal and professional needs of its employees, and that seeks to be flexible, with an organisational structure connected to change. Individuals, both customers and employees, are at the core of our banking model. It is with this in mind that we have extended our commitment beyond our business activity. We are an organisation with a profound sense of responsibility towards Andorran society and with a real desire to contribute to the common good through initiatives developed by the Bank that come in addition to the work that the Crèdit Andorrà Foundation has been doing for over 30 years in the educational, social and cultural spheres. I would particularly like to mention a milestone that we have supported in 2019. The men’s and women’s Alpine Ski World Cup in Soldeu placed Andorra at the centre of international elite sport. The presence of Crèdit Andorrà was essential, because we understand that snow is a backbone of the country and a vector for economic growth, just as it was understood half a century ago by the pioneers who set up the ski resort in Canillo and whom Crèdit Andorrà also supported by becoming a shareholder in Ensisa as a founding partner. We have the desire to continue to be a driver of change for development and progress within our industry and country. We will continue working to cement our position as a global bank, a leader, with capacity for service and a strong commitment to Andorran society and its development, and we want to achieve this with the active participation of our shareholders, customers and employees. For our part, we are convinced that we play an active part in transforming the world we want, a world that, at the time of writing these words, is facing one of the biggest social, economic and business challenges ever seen. The health crisis resulting from COVID-19 has forced us all to rethink the way we have lived together in this world up to now. At the Crèdit Andorrà Group, we will act responsibly and with dedication, putting people at the centre of our actions, because this is the number one lesson we have learnt from the current circumstances. But that is not the only lesson, and our duty is to forge ahead with them together with the participation of everyone. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 15 16 Value creation model and strategy 01. Value creation model and strategy 1.1 A strategy suited to the new challenges of the future The new strategic vision must be accompanied by growth for the Crèdit Andorrà Group in the 2020-2023 period and it must ensure that the goals set are achieved, with the priority objective of maintaining the organisation’s leadership in the Andorran financial market, both in terms of business creation and results generation. We have thus defined a new mission, giving rise to the values on which this new roadmap will be based. Mission To contribute to the financial development of shareholders, customers and employees, and to the progress of Andorran society. Values Empathy and closeness Pioneering Capacity for service Social commitment 2019 Corporate Activity Report 17 The business fundamentals of the new strategy are focused international growth through private banking and asset management in key geographical areas in which we have an established presence: Spain, through Banco Alcalá; Luxembourg, with Banque de Patrimoines Privés; and the United States, with Beta Capital Wealth Management. The five pillars of the business strategy Product and Strategic Digital Innovation Efficiency service alliances transformation specialisation We want to strengthen the Group’s expansion starting from these three locations, seeking to build strategic alliances that will enable us to accelerate and develop these lines of business, and with a differentiated value offer based on product and service specialisation. Personalisation and adaptation to our customers’ needs remains a foundation of the Group. Digital transformation is one of the main levers of change that continues to help us keep our position as the pioneering bank in Andorra in the implementation of service initiatives with real added value for our customers. We were the first to open up new business opportunities that have since been implemented in the market for the benefit of the whole country, and were able to do so because part of our essence is working with a culture of wanting to do new things, with a desire to innovate. To innovate to grow and improve. This has been our raison d’être throughout our history and has allowed us to consolidate a leading position in Andorra with a solid business model focused on commercial banking services (retail and corporate), private banking and asset management, as well as insurance. ‘With Andorra as the centre of corporate services and a service provider for the Group, we have designed an organisational strategy adopting a model that guarantees us agility and accessibility Our culture is key to our competitive advantage, providing service to customers and to the country.’ Xavier Cornella, Chief Executive Officer 18 Value creation model and strategy Highlighted project Crèdit Andorrà, a pioneer issuing subordinated bonds for Operation details the international market with a value of €50 million Issuing of subordinated bonds The Group has updated its capital base structure by issuing new subordinated financial instruments. The offer is aimed at international institutional clients who, Tier 2 under MiFID II regulations, are professional clients and eligible counterparties, such as banks, insurers, investment funds, pension funds, etc. Amount These subordinated financial instruments, supported by the Basel III banking €50M regulations, will allow the Bank to improve the diversification of funding sources. Securities are listed on the Dublin Stock Exchange. Maturity With this initial issue, Crèdit Andorrà has become the first entity in Andorra to issue 10 years (with early this type of product on the wholesale market and on an international scale under redemption clause by the MiFID II parameters, thus joining the trend of many other renowned financial issuer after five years (call) institutions. and then each year). 2019 Corporate Activity Report 19 1.2 Business model The Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group offers financial products and services belonging to private banking, retail banking and corporate banking, focused on three geographic areas: Andorra, Europe and the Americas. Private banking and wealth management Asset management We provide customers and investors the support of a global financial brand in the field of wealth management and asset We offer our customers a wide range of financial asset management, with made-to-measure service and personalised management services: managed accounts, personal attention. advice and execution of purchase agreements. Our geographical presence gives us access to a wide range of products. Commercial banking We offer financing, savings and investment services and products to individuals and businesses. We use new technologies, with automated branches open 24 hours a day, Social activity online banking through e-Crèdit and telephone customer service through Fundació Crèdit Andorrà, founded in 1987, is one Línia Directa Crèdit, among others. of the biggest private foundations in the country, both in terms of the number of programmes carried out and the amount of resources Insurance Group dedicated to responding to the social needs of Andorran market leader in life insurance, Andorra as a country. specialising in risk, health, savings and pension plan products. Crèdit Andorrà’s activity around the world United States – Miami Andorra Insurance Investee companies Crèdit Assegurances Ensisa/Nevasa Asset management Financera (Grandvalira) and wealth management Banking and financial d’Assegurances Semtee (Caldea/ Beta Capital Wealth CA Vincles Actuarial Inúu) Management services Crèdit Andorrà Consulting Crèdit Iniciatives CA Vida Asset management Assegurances and wealth Crèdit Andorrà Spain management Social Crèdit Andorrà Asset Banking and financial services Management Fundació Crèdit Banco Alcalá Andorrà Mexico Asset management and wealth management Asset management Gesalcalá, SGIIC Switzerland and wealth management CA México Asesores Insurance Asset management Patrimoniales ERSM Insurance Brokers and wealth management CA Vincles Actuarial Consulting Private Investment CA Life Insurance Experts Management Panama Banking and financial services Banco Crèdit Andorrà Luxembourg (Panama) Banking and financial services Banque de Patrimoines Privés Chile Asset management and wealth management Crediinvest SICAV/Investcredit SICAV Insurance CA Asset Management Luxembourg CA Vincles Actuarial Consulting 27/12/2019 20 Value creation model and strategy 1.3 Crèdit Andorrà, the pioneering services bank An attitude of leadership and a real dedication to service have allowed us to lead the digital transformation of Andorran banking and of the country as a whole, taking shape in various projects and initiatives throughout our history. Online banking e-Crèdit > In web and mobile versions >S  ign-in using fingerprint and facial recognition Help in decision-making Merkaat Andorra’s first digital investment advisory service e-Broker Online investment service Payment methods through e-Crèdit and security El meu gestor Crèdit Wallet (My manager) Online customer service Contactless cards > Secure e-commerce (3D secure) > SMS alert service Social commitment Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Environmental Management One of the country’s main System Operation and functionality private foundations and the only First and only bank in bank that has one Andorra to have an ISO Electronic certificate from the Government 14001:2015-certified of Andorra integrated in operations Global Compact – SDGs environmental management Biometric signature for transactions First bank in Andorra to sign system in branch the principles of the Global Compact and the first private company to take on the SDGs 2019 Corporate Activity Report 21 1.4 A national driving force The Crèdit Andorrà Group’s contribution to the country’s economic and social development is defined through the impacts of its business activity, both directly and indirectly. Its activity generates economic value that has a direct impact on the region and benefits its main stakeholders and society as a whole: Employees 45% Employee remuneration (wages, other remuneration and bonuses) Suppliers Customers Economic value created: 28% 17% 230.11 million euros Purchases and services contracted from third Interest paid for products taken out by customers parties (deposits, pension funds, retirement plans, etc.) Public administrations Community 8% 2% Duty and tax payments Investment in social action, internal environmental improvements Aware of the socio-economic impact of tourism and commerce for Andorra’s development, we invest in projects that boost these sectors, and therefore indirectly promote the international image of the country. This is how we see our shareholding in Caldea and Ensisa (Grandvalira), in addition to supporting the country’s three snowfields and value-added initiatives that contribute to positioning Andorra as a key destination on the international tourist scene. 22 Value creation model and strategy A national driving force Skiing, a strategic commitment for the country #CrèditAndorràWithTheSnow Crèdit Andorrà has always supported the snow industry as one of the key activities for the country’s economic development. Our involvement goes beyond one-off support and revolves around three main areas: > Strategic shareholding: Crèdit Andorrà was present from the beginning in founding and launching the Soldeu-El Tarter resort, currently part of Ensisa, in which the Bank holds 49% of the shares. > The competitive side: our presence in high-level alpine skiing takes shape through sponsorship with the Andorran Ski Federation (FAE), both in terms of the FAE competition team and in supporting major international events, such as the Alpine Ski World Cup. > From the ground up: we promote alpine skiing from the grassroots, supporting the local ski clubs Esquí Club d’Andorra (ECA), Esquí Club Ordino-Arcalís (ECOA) and Esquí Club Arinsal-Pal (ECAP) year after year. As a result of this desire to promote sport in the training categories, we have been long-term sponsors of the Borrufa Trophy, which brings together young athletes ages 14 to 16. Finals of the 2019 Alpine Skiing World Cup The Àliga and Avet slopes in the Soldeu-El Tarter sector of Grandvalira hosted the finals of the 2019 Alpine Ski World Cup from 11-17 March, with some of the best skiers in the world competing in the international contest. Crèdit Andorrà was there from the very start, when, in October 2015, the International Ski Federation (FIS) announced its decision to award Andorra the biggest sporting event the country has hosted to date. Xavier Cornella, Chief Executive Officer of Crèdit Andorrà, remembers the day the announcement was made, ‘We have been supporting skiing for over half a century. Our commitment to these finals comes from a conviction that goes back a long way and time has proven that this commitment was spot on’. © Oriol Molas. The World Cup in figures 25,000+ 60 700 350 150 members of the public television stations million potential volunteers competitors over five competition days with broadcasting television rights (35 viewers broadcast the events live) 350 130 600 certified people from the people on the journalists organisation teams 2019 Corporate Activity Report 23 1.5 Social commitment Fundació Crèdit Andorrà The Fundació Crèdit Andorrà was formed in 1987 with the creation of a grant programme designed to offer the country’s young people the possibility of training in order to cope with the progress of the Andorran economy. Currently, it is one of the main private foundations in the country both in terms of earmarked resources as well as in the number of programmes carried out in the fields of education, culture and social action. Commitment to Andorra, training for the future and dedication to service are the three axes on which a business that has been at the service of people for over 30 years is built. The Sustainable Development Goals: Our route map for the future Adhering to the United Nations Global Compact in 2016 and the incorporation of the SDGs into our business offer a route map for future initiatives that will contribute to positioning Crèdit Andorrà as an organisation that is also committed to the overall development of our planet, responding to major challenges such as climate change, access to education and health and well-being. 17 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS 3 GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 4 QUALITY EDUCATION 13 CLIMATE ACTION 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH PRODUCTION 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 24 Focused on our customers 02. Focused on our customers At Crèdit Andorrà, we work constantly to gain robust, proactive and comprehensive knowledge of our customers’ needs. Our customer focus takes shape in a value offer that emphasises our efforts in terms of innovation and digital transformation to provide leading products and services, as well as in the specialisation of our teams, to maintain the pioneering spirit that has characterised us throughout our history. 2.1 Andorra Banking Business Division Crèdit Andorrà structures its Andorran banking business into two broad areas of activity, commercial banking and private banking, with a value proposition focused on service, innovation in products and services and commitment to the country, all of which have allowed us to continuously retain our leading position within the country. 45% 55% Commercial Private banking banking The division is functionally complemented by two further units, focused on advice and service personalisation: Key Accounts and Equity Planning. Andorra Banking Business Division Commercial Banking Private Banking Andorra Private Banking Key Equity Planning Accounts 2019 Corporate Activity Report 25 2.1.1 Commercial banking Retail: 70% During 2019, we committed to the development of commercial banking, strengthening our leadership in the Principality by expanding of our offer with new products and services Corporate: 30% responding to the interests and expectations of our new customer profiles, in particular younger customers. This year of change leaves us with new challenges to overcome that will allow us to continue the trend of maintaining and increasing our customer base in the country. Our aim is to reach out to younger customers by improving remote banking and our online services, adapting them to the needs of the new generations. Retail Banking We offer banking adapted to our customers’ needs and expectations, based on multi-channel services and a wide range of financial and insurance products, whilst maintaining Andorra’s most extensive commercial network. 11 26 102 €2,605M branches cash machines professionals business volume 5 9 9 automated cash machines change branches for deposits dispensers Within the Retail Banking service operations, the Foreign Investment Unit serves foreign companies that, as a result of the economic opening process being promoted in Andorra since 2012, wish to begin a business project or, for those that are already established, wish to expand their activity by setting up in our country. The unit is dedicated solely and exclusively to providing services to these companies, with a wide range of banking services adapted to their needs, having its own entity and operations. 26 Focused on our customers Corporate Banking The Corporate Banking unit fulfils the more specific needs of the national business network with a team of specialised managers through which we offer financial solutions for customers who have more complex operational requirements due to the nature of their activity or business. Focusing on technology and efficiency, we work to offer products and services that are adapted to changing market conditions. 16 €1,074M professionals business volume Customer types Business Institutions Public groups administrations and semi-public bodies Products and services Financing tailored to Secure online solutions business needs International commerce Investments and (support for all types optimisation of the liquid of international activity assets and capital of for businesses in the companies country) Reverse factoring Advisory services for (payment management companies undertaking for purchases from new projects suppliers) 2019 Corporate Activity Report 27 Personal Banking With the aim of extending our services to all customer segments, the Personal Banking unit provides service for to customers with their own and individual needs, offering management solutions and investment products, beyond those provided by Retail Banking. e S vic er pe 7 s In-branch customer ry cia service Adv lise iso managers d team Sp ec ific solutions Tailored service Highlighted project Young Banking In April 2019, the Young Banking project was implemented as the result of work that began in 2018 with the Innovation and Digital Projects department. The business objective was to introduce a new concept of banking service aimed at young people aged 18 to 30, adapted to their needs and using new communication tools, with a WhatsApp channel enabled for this purpose. We also gave a major boost to financial education by creating informative snippets explaining concepts that young people should become familiar with, such as what a loan is, why to start planning savings from a young age or the requirements to apply for a mortgage, among other topics. 1,394 514 1 customers customers specific contacted took part space (company headquarters) 28 Focused on our customers 2.1.2 Private Banking This unit offers specialist and personalised advice in asset and investment management, open architecture, multi-booking, including online advice, through the pioneering Merkaat platform. The international expansion of the business takes shape in private banking with the New Geographies department. Highlighted service Merkaat closes 2019 with record high yields Merkaat, the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s digital investment advisory service, closed 2019 with its best returns. These returns have also been achieved with less volatility than the market average for each. The good results are the product of a careful selection of the best funds by applying a quantitative methodology under the open architecture concept, as well as flexible management that adapts the positioning of portfolios to market developments at all times. Dynamic 21.70% Balanced 15.02% Moderate 9.76% Conservative 6.63% Defensive 4.96% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 2019 Corporate Activity Report 29 Private Banking Andorra Private banking activity in our country is characterised by service specialisation through teams exclusively dedicated to serving customers, with a focus based on close relationships and constant monitoring of our customers’ needs. 61 4 €4,405M professionals specialised business volume teams New Business Bringing the Andorran financial marketplace in line with international standards allows us to respond to the needs of customers outside Andorra (mainly within the European Union) from within this unit. The service we offer is adapted to the fiscal reality of the country of origin, with products that are defined by specialisation and optimisation. Sports&Business Specialisation in customer service and care led us to create the Sports&Business Development team, with a product range that is pioneering in our country, focused on responding to a very specific type of profile: elite athletes, entrepreneurs and businesspeople interested in establishing themselves in the country, taking advantage of the benefits of the economic opening. Equity management service Financial planning Equity advice Investment portfolio management Personal assistance Personal asset management Lifestyle advice External teams 30 Focused on our customers 2.1.3 Key Account Unit Focused on serving customers with outstanding equity interests with the aim of offering them management and advisory services to help them make their investments profitable, both from the point of view of financial profitability and optimisation through tax planning. A team of expert professionals is responsible for monitoring the evolution of portfolios, designing appropriate investment proposals and, above all, maintaining a continuous and close relationship with the customer. 2.1.4 Equity Planning As a result of the internal reorganisation to make Crèdit Andorra’s management structure more efficient, the Andorra Banking Business Division incorporated the Equity Planning unit, which helps to optimise and protect customers’ assets based on a comprehensive understanding of their needs. Retirement succession Identification of risks and diversification planning Equity protection Relocation Family governance International fiscal optimisation 2019 Corporate Activity Report 31 2.2 International Banking Business Division The growth of the international business has been a strategic commitment of the Crèdit Andorrà Group, dedicating efforts to strengthening our presence in each of the priority locations (Spain, Miami and Luxembourg), as well as resizing and focusing teams to consolidate activity around the world. Americas We are keeping the focus of the business on the Group’s strategic divisions, improving our offer and looking for the specialisation that will meet our customers’ needs. Miami is becoming established as the launchpad through which the Group’s growth in the Latin American and Mexican area can be developed, focusing on domestic private banking, broker-dealer and securities safekeeping services, as well as providing advisory services to third-party funds. Beta Capital Wealth Management 38 employees €950M business volume Beta Capital Wealth Management With a business volume of €950 million and base in Miami, this is the financial benchmark for the development of the private banking market in Latin America, as well as for commercial development in institutional clients, both domestic and international, thanks to the selfclearing licence obtained in 2018. Beta Capital is the Group’s strategic spot for growth in the region, through innovative advisory services for each of its customers. Safekeeping Security IT SERVICES and Cash management We have world-renowned We protect our clients’ operations We manage our clients’ partners in the safekeeping, financial assets We entrust our most liquid assets by liquidation and distribution (Securities Investor communications seeking to optimise of financial securities Protection Corporation to the world leader their performance with (Euroclear, Depository Trust (SIPC)). (Broadridge). renowned managers & Clearing Corporation (Blackrock and Invesco). (DTCC) and Allfunds Bank). In 2019, Beta Capital’s was activity reorganised to prioritise any geographical areas with the greatest growth potential and to gain efficiency by concentrating all its activity in the Miami office. 32 Focused on our customers Europe The European Private Banking division manages it activity through the Banque de Patrimoines Privés, with headquarters in Luxembourg, and the Banco Alcalá, with branches in Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia. We also work in asset management through the fund managers CA Asset Management Luxembourg, Gesalcalá in Spain, and PIM, Private Investment Management, in Switzerland. Banque de Patrimoines Privés 93 employees €5,098M business volume Banque de Patrimoines Privés Banco Alcalá We are a benchmark in the provision of services to corporate clients in tailor-made investment packages, both regulated and non-regulated, thanks to our team, who are highly spe82 employees cialised in our wide range of products and services. We have also improved sizing to respond €2,043M business volume to our clients’ needs, mainly following Brexit. In 2019, we managed almost €5,100 million and for 2020 we have a range of new products that will cement Luxembourg as an driver of growth for our corporate market within the Group. The product range is divided into: > Discretionary investment management. > Advice: personalised investment proposals adapted to the client’s risk profile. > Alternative assets: Private Equity, HF, Commodities, Real Estate, etc. Banco Alcalá With a strategic positioning as boutique private banking focused on advising clients through three branches (Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia), the year closed with an asset volume over €2,000 million, maintaining the growth seen in the Agents and EAM division, as well as the good evolution in the uptake of collective investment instruments. The range of socially responsible investment products particularly stands out and is of huge interest to corporate clients, whilst the launch of the Merkaat platform for offering advice to clients digitally combines the benefits of management and advisory services in a much more dynamic digital environment. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 33 2.3 Investment Division The Group’s Investment division focuses its efforts on offering the best range of investment and financing services available. Our specialised management is tailored to the customer, meeting their investment needs thanks to a working method based on continuous interaction with our investors and the financial markets. This constant assessment and communication with our customers helps us to understand their needs and aims, and to look for the financial assets that best fit those needs. Asset management Treasury and capital Financial Management and advice markets Institutions companies We manage and advise the We develop structured We are establishing and We manage and advise the Group’s Group’s customers in their products, in terms of both maintaining constructive lines funds in its investments through investments. investment and financing, and of negotiation for mutual three managers: provide the Group’s customers collaboration with other financial Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management, with access to financial entities to guarantee our CA Asset Management markets. customers operational service. Luxembourg and Gesalcalá. > Discretionary investment > Operation in all international A unique meeting point for > Investment funds, SICAVs, management. financial markets and all types financial institutions to sell our SIF, etc. > Advice, tailored portfolio of assets. abilities and identify mutual > Pension plans. management. > Structured products: design, collaboration points. With > Other collective investment > Private equity and origin, restructuring, access to leverage in the international vehicles. alternative investments. secondary market. dimension of the Crèdit > Andorra/Spain/Luxembourg > Cash management. Andorrà Group (Spain, platform, with the latter > Risk management and hedging: Luxembourg and Latin geographical area acting currency, interest rates, raw America). as a hub for the distribution materials. of investment funds for the > Asset and liability management. entire Group. > Prop trading. The division has kept its commitment to protecting investors, consolidating the adaptation process to the MiFID II directive since 2018. This has particular relevance for the Group entities in Spain and Luxembourg, as well as for the markets, ensuring greater transparency, safety and efficiency in operations and information, providing customers with greater protection and prior and subsequent information. In corporate governance, on the other hand, it ensures protection against possible conflicts of interest, defining the responsibility and control mechanisms of the Board of Directors. 34 Focused on our customers As a Group, we respond to customers’ investment needs through specialised management and financial advice based on personalising financial advisory services and discretionary investment management through investment fund management, as well as offering structured products and access to a distribution table for VIP customers. Global team: €3,600M > €300M 60+ AuM average annual volume of structured products issued professionals in Andorra/Europe/the > €1,700M in 100+ funds and sub-funds Americas > €7,500M > €900M with 500+ customers volume executed on markets advised > €1,000M in 800+ discretionary management portfolios Highlighted product Active Allocation funds The Active Allocation funds remain at the forefront of their category, both among Andorran funds and on an international scale. Defined as collective investment undertakings (CIU), they invest in other funds around the world through active management adapted to the environment to locate opportunities, giving our customers the best and most diversified portfolios, guaranteeing them access to a broad range of investment funds. During 2019, Crediinvest SICAV Active Allocation Dynamic was situated among the top 10% of funds* in the Morningstar ranking in the category ‘EUR Aggressive Allocation – Global’ and closed 2019 with a return of 23.90%. Crediinvest SICAV Active Allocation Flexible, meanwhile, with a return of 15.29% at the close of 2019, finished among the top 25% of funds in the Morningstar ranking in its category, ‘EUR Flexible Allocation – Global’. These results are from applying the open architecture principle, selecting the best third-party funds in each asset category and in each geographical area, as well as active management, adapting to the environment to design optimised, diversified portfolios in line with the investment aims of our customers’ different profiles. Crediinvest SICAV Active Allocation Dynamic 23.90% Crediinvest SICAV Active Allocation Flexible 15.29% Crediinvest SICAV Active Allocation Conservation 3.24% *Average annual data obtained from the list of funds assessed by Morningstar in the respective categories. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 35 2.4 Insurance Group The Insurance Group is a benchmark in the sector in Andorra, with a business strategy based on customer focus, a broad range of products and services, as well as strategic partnerships that have allowed us to consolidate our position both on the Andorran market and on the international market. The Group is made up of six leading companies comprising a team of more than 200 people. This structure allows sustained growth, with a contribution to the Financial Group of a recurring profit of €9.4 million. International Group Soundness Team of 6 3 €218M €9.4M 207 companies countries volume of risk premiums recurring profit professionals who (Andorra, Spain and intermediaries for contributed to the make up the and Chile) 100% of the business Group (pre-tax) Insurance Group ‘The insurance business is and will continue to be a strategic pillar for the Group. These agreements will allow us to develop a shared project with benchmark companies, where we will join capabilities and talent to ensure and lead future growth’. Xavier Cornella, Chief Executive Officer of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 36 Focused on our customers Highlighted operations Growth with leadership vision In 2019 there were two strategic operations within the Insurance Group that particularly stood out. The main corporate operation involved Crèdit Andorrà and Caser Seguros, with the Spanish company becoming part of the insurance business of the Andorran financial group. Both companies want to pave the way in Andorra when it comes to insurance banking, maintaining the range of products and services, as well as the commercial structure through the branch network of the Bank, the insurance company and external brokers. As a result of the agreement, the Crèdit Assegurances portfolio has been divided into two newly formed companies. CA Vida Assegurances Crèdit Assegurances With shares held by Caser Seguros (51%) 100% owned by Crèdit Andorrà, with and Crèdit Andorrà (49%), specialising in business centred around savings products, life risk. retirement plans and pension plans. This strategic partnership, the first of its kind in the country in this sector, aims to promote the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s insurance business and contribute to its growth and expansion, whilst also creating added value for customers and competitively facing long-term business challenges. The other corporate operation was the agreement with the Spanish company Mútua General de Catalunya and the Portuguese company Caravela through which they became shareholders in CA Life Insurance Experts, the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s life insurance company in Spain. CA Life Insurance Experts Mútua General de Catalunya Crèdit Andorrà 51% Caravela 5% 44% The operation should make it possible to boost the respective insurance businesses and guarantee their future growth, in the face of an environment of global transformation in the financial sector – and insurance in particular – both due to the digitalisation of products and services and the European regulatory framework. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 37 2.5 Constant product and service innovation Our universal banking model, based on innovation, quality, inclusion and specialisation, offers a wide range of products and services adapted to the needs of various customer profiles through a commercial platform that combines branches and digital channels. Our challenge is to consolidate Crèdit Andorrà’s leading position, contributing to the financial development of our customers in all segments. Commercial banking for retail customers > With the collaboration and sponsorships of the Club Piolet children’s club in Andorra, we are bringing a savings culture to the youngest members of the family. The products and services in this segment are all themed around the Club characters (Piolet account, Piolet card, Piolet savings, etc.). We have also made the Crèdit Escola (School Loan) available to parents, a tailored loan to cover the various expenses at the beginning of their children’s school year. 1,509 Piolet cards > With the 16PUNT30 young person’s card programme, we bring our younger customers exemptions from cash machine fees, constant benefits and discounts on products and services, and a huge range of financing facilities to access training and university studies. Thanks to agreements with the University of Andorra (UdA), Crèdit Andorrà offers all the university’s students a credit policy aimed at funding any type of training and education. 6,866 16PUNT30 young person’s card holders > Open collaborations with the Automobile Club of Andorra (ACA) and UNICEF. ACA members (whether they are customers of ours or not) have access to exclusive benefits and services. 2,709 ACA Mastercards Users of Crèdit Andorrà’s UNICEF Card contribute through an annual personal donation, and Crèdit Andorrà gives UNICEF 50% of any fees paid for international purchases made using a UNICEF Card. 725 UNICEF cards 38 Focused on our customers > All the institution’s customers benefit from products, services and insurance adapted and suited to their needs at all times. The Crèdit Salut Plus was created with this in mind, offering a health care product for persons registered with CASS (the Andorran social security system) as salaried employees or insured persons who regularly use the medical services that have an agreement with CASS, both in Andorra and abroad, and who do not want to be linked to the Via Preferent (a means of accessing primary health care). An e-mail and SMS notification system aimed at PIAM life insurance policyholders has also been launched. These periodic notifications are generated whenever a payment is made by the insurance company to the current account and are sent automatically to the customer to inform them that the payment has been made, as well as all the details thereof. We have also incorporated new online functions to allow easy and quick management of insurance documents, including medical bills, illness sheets (‘yellow sheets’), sick leave and others. These new functions allow customers to easily upload files and images and send them to the company quickly for management and processing. Highlighted project New loans In parallel with the adaptation of new credit simulators and the improvement of the online application process through new forms, we have introduced the new Crèdit Reformes remodelling loan, a tailor-made loan for home renovations, whether it be buying new furniture, decorating or even improving energy efficiency, and Crèdit Cotxe, a loan to make our customers’ dreams of the new car they always wanted come true, with very favourable terms and conditions. 55% of retail banking customers in Andorra bank with Crèdit Andorrà, scoring it 7.6 on average in terms of overall satisfaction with the organisation’s banking service quality. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 39 Commercial banking for companies Supporting the country’s business fabric and contributing to its economic growth is one of our raisons d’être. In addition to offering top-quality financial services adapted to the needs of the moment by combining services and technology, we also offer current meetings with experts who are able to provide new knowledge and experiences and fresh perspectives to help companies with financial and operations development. We stand side by side with companies through sponsorships and collaborations. The Andorra la Vella Trade Fair is one example, as part of which we sponsor the Associació d’Importadors de Vehicles d’Andorra (Andorra Vehicle Importers Association), we take part with a stand, we promote Crèdits Cotxe for the sale of vehicles and Crèdits Ràpids to encourage the sale of consumer goods from the other industry sectors in attendance. 69% of corporate banking customers in Andorra bank with Crèdit Andorrà, giving it a score of 7.30 on average in terms of overall satisfaction with the organisation’s service quality. Andorra la Vella Fair. © ANA 40 Focused on our customers Private banking We base our relationship with private banking customers on closeness, trust and discretion. We transform market complexity into practical, personalised ideas, basing our management model on the principle of prudence, so that investments offer returns and sustainability over time. >T hroughout 2019, thanks to a team of professionals highly qualified in asset and wealth management, we have been able to offer customers a new flexible discretionary investment portfolio. Through this service, the customer entrusts the Bank with management of their money and the entity, in line with the Bank’s view of the markets at any given time, actively manages this money through shares, bonds, investment funds and structured products. >T he launch of the SIO Strategic Investment Opportunities SICAV – Scale Lab sub-fund that acquires stakes in early stage companies with business models based on a differential technology and with high growth potential, is another example of the Bank’s desire to offer new investment products to customers and at the same time contribute to the economic development of Andorra through the impact that these companies (start-ups) can generate. >N ew programme of exclusive services attached to the Visa Infinite card. Designed to satisfy the most demanding needs of the Bank’s most exclusive customers. This card, together with the accompanying programme of services, was designed to convert customers’ trips into unique, personalised experiences. Overall satisfaction with the organisation = 7.95% (2017 indicator) 2019 Corporate Activity Report 41 Easy, expert and secure banking Our aim is to meet the customer’s expectations and promote a digital offer adapted to the user’s profile. We are working on digital transformation in a systemic manner, with a structure that entails the entire organisation across the board being able to put the best solutions forward to our customers. Card Crèdit Wallet, the New e-Crèdit login Integration of the payment country’s first direct using fingerprint and new electronic payment service facial recognition certificate from the We are working to continue through mobile Government being pioneers in Andorra phones We have incorporated of Andorra in the use of cards as a biometric login through payment method thanks We are the first Andorran digital fingerprint We are the first private to the expansion of financial entity to offer recognition to e-Crèdit entity in the country digital banking services. customers with a credit online banking on devices to integrate a new Payment methods is one or debit card (Visa or with an Android operating electronic certificate of the pillars of digital Mastercard) the option to system. from the Government of transformation and its pay with a smartphone, as Andorra into our online development has been if it were another card. This The service adds to the platform, e-Crèdit. It marked by constant is a free service accessed digital fingerprint (Touch allows users who have it innovation and a desire through the Crèdit Wallet ID) and facial identification to sign operations such to meet customers’ travel application. The operation (Face ID) already available as transfers, purchase needs. is the same as when on iOS devices. or sale of securities, and using a traditional credit to submit remittances card with contactless and files through the new technology and therefore authentication system. has the same security and protection guarantees. Implementation of biometric signature e-Broker Customers can electronically sign their most frequent A digital platform integrated into e-Crèdit which makes transactions conducted in the commercial network the most relevant information on the markets available to branches with the same level of trust and security users so that they can invest in equity instruments and as with a traditional signature. investment funds in an easy, visual and intuitive manner. 42 Focused on our customers e-Crèdit, the largest Crèdit Andorrà branch For Crèdit Andorrà’s online banking service, continuous improvement of its functionalities and processes is a priority, in order to adapt to new times and offer customers a better service adapted to their needs. + customer experience and new functionalities 2,000 leads/forms received from digital channels > 60% of online banking > 75% logins are via mobile phones > 45% of transfers are made of Crèdit Andorrà’s through online banking customers are already digital 2019 Corporate Activity Report 43 Strategic project Scale Lab Andorra Crèdit Andorra’s business hyper-acceleration programme aimed at start-ups, combining up to €500,000 funding with consultancy to help establish and/or expand the companies selected. More than 300 companies applied for this first edition and a team made up of experts in business and innovation selected 15 projects to submit to the advisory committee, which prioritised between five and seven companies to receive funding and support to promote their growth. The programme is aimed at start-ups, innovative and technology-based companies in sectors that are strategic to Andorra, such as health and well-being, sustainability, mobility, financial services and leisure and sports, among others. They must also have a documented, scalable business model. Crèdit Andorrà offers its customers the option to invest in a financial product connected to companies with high growth potential that allows them to access qualified innovative proposals and take part in follow-up actions. The programme also aims to facilitate concept testing and the implementation of new solutions in the region in order to position Andorra as a suitable place for the development of entrepreneurial projects with an international outlook. Press conference introducing the Scale Lab Andorra project. © ANA 44 Focused on our customers 2.6 Digital transformation and omni-channel banking In recent years, Andorran banking has undergone a far-reaching transformation process as a result of adapting to international standards, the persistence of a widespread environment of low interest rates, the increase in global competition and the disruption generated by the arrival of fintech. All of these factors together have accelerated the digital transformation towards the future. Digitalisation is a process that started a long time ago, but in recent years it has become particularly relevant on account of changing consumer habits, technological development and its democratisation, as well as users becoming more mobile. Digitalisation is one of the key lines in the Group’s operational and business strategy in order to gain a competitive advantage by maximising efficiency, focused on achieving maximum differentiation in the market. The most recent phase of this strategy focuses on increasing business obtained through digital channels by improving our commercial range, increasing operations through these channels, improving the omni-channel range with new applications for mobility and mobile payments, and establishing areas that allow remote customer service. The Customer Digital Transformation unit is leading projects for transferring digitalisation into customers’ everyday lives and continuously improving the user experience. With the aim of maintaining our leading role and remaining the top bank in pioneering initiatives in the digital sphere, we are basing our digital transformation strategy on four action areas: Key aspects of the Crèdit Andorrà digital transformation strategy 01 03 Omni-channel Profitable banking banking Increasing the bank’s Offering the customer a online business through comprehensive banking commercial initiatives and experience through all channels. new processes. 02 04 The customer at Digital culture the centre Promoting the digitalisation Meeting the customer’s of the entire Group by expectations with easy, developing digital tools. expert and secure banking. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 45 The Crèdit Andorrà Group has identified digital transformation as the true value challenge. It has always been one of our defining features, which has distinguished us as a pioneering bank in terms of products, services and processes at the service of the customer. Digital transformation takes into account two fundamental factors: usability, to facilitate and improve the customer’s user experience, and security, key for offering a trusted service. Digitalisation has also changed the methods for addressing projects, which are now more cross-cutting, since it affects all divisions of the Bank. The methods must now allow for greater flexibility, agility and speed, as this is what we are seeing among the new market players. In 2019, our Innovation and Digital Projects department promoted the following activities: 17 9 workshops: outreach exercises: investments, marketing, community manager in environmental WeCrèdit communities, management system, blockchain, ICN private banking, etc. challenge platform, etc. 6 15 partnerships: UNIQ Salesforce actions and Ventures, Vesto, Verse, Merkaat: improvements Zenoquantum, Octans to Merkaat, business and Fondos.com. transfer, blog, social media and developments in Salesforce, productive relationship, life time 6 value, ratings, etc. prototypes: Young People’s Banking, chatbot, WhatsApp, private streaming of live courses, development of portfolios with Markov chains and Web-toLeads. 46 Focused on our customers 2.7 Quality and excellence in banking practices Crèdit Andorrà has been ranked best private bank in Andorra by the financial publications The Banker and PWM, both part of the Financial Times Group, for the third consecutive year. The award recognises the strategy to consolidate competitive, digital, innovative and responsible private banking aimed specifically at offering the best personalised customer service. The award underlines Crèdit Andorrà corporate governance action plan with the reorganisation of its corporate structure, maintenance of its leadership of the Andorran market and a strategy based on focused and efficient international growth. It also highlights the customer-focused digital transformation and the Group’s widespread corporate social responsibility actions. The financial publication Global Banking & Finance Review has also ranked Crèdit Andorrà the best bank in Andorra in private banking for the seventh year in a row, and best bank in CSR in the Principality for the fifth year in a row. Best bank in Andorra in private banking PWM/The Banker. Financial Times Group Best bank in Andorra in private banking for the last three years, 2017-2019 2019 Global Private Banking award ceremony. From left to right: Yuri Bender, Editor-in-Chief of the publication PWM, Martí Alfonso, Head of the Andorra Banking Business division of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group and Joan R. Mas, Head of Corporate Communication, Marketing and Customer Digital Transformation of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. © Financial Times Live Global Banking & Finance Review Best bank in Andorra in private banking, 2013-2019 2019 Corporate Activity Report 47 Best Andorran Bank in corporate social responsibility Best bank in Andorra in CSR, 2015-2019 The award recognises Crèdit Andorrà’s commitment to focusing on customers and on society in general through its corporate social responsibility policy. It recognises the entity’s good governance, as well as educational, social, cultural and environmental initiatives, and those in support of the country’s economy and business fabric, carried out by the Bank and its Foundation. Crèdit Andorrà has joined the United Nations Global Compact and has adopted the 2030 Agenda to contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Quality in procedures and management Investment division Crèdit Andorrà’s Treasury and Capital Markets, and Market Administration and Control divisions, along with the Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management unit, all have ISO 9001:2008 certification, guaranteeing customers high management quality standards. Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management has GIPS certification, a standard adopted to ensure the use of ethical and transparent processes when it comes to calculating and publishing customers’ returns on investment. The standard also certifies that the data published is fair to other international investment fund management entities. Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management forms part of the board of directors of the Spanish association that promotes GIPS. Environmental management Crèdit Andorrà has obtained ISO 14001:2015 environmental management system certification from the certification firm TÜV Rheinland. This certification guarantees the quality and correct implementation of the entity’s environmental management system, which covers all banking and financial services in Andorra, and shows the Bank’s commitment to minimising the environmental impact of its business. High levels of solvency and financial strength Fitch Ratings In 2019, credit rating agency Fitch Ratings awarded Crèdit Andorrà a ‘BBB’ long-term rating with a stable outlook and an ‘F3’ short-term rating, a rating that reflects the financial stability of the Bank and its leading position in the Andorran market. In May 2020, as a result of the health crisis due to COVID-19, Fitch revised Crèdit Andorrà’s rating to BBB– and a negative outlook, in line with the recent position shown in the assessments of entities in the national and international financial system. 48 Focused on our customers 2.8 Financial education and inclusion Supporting the country’s business fabric beyond the strictly business sphere is one of Crèdit Andorrà’s priorities. The priority objective of the various training initiatives we promote is to provide individuals with the tools, knowledge and experiences to allow them to continue to grow as well as to promote and consolidate the entrepreneurial spirit that has traditionally characterised the country. Created in 2006 and under the direction of Professor Josep Maria Rosanas, the Crèdit Andorrà IESE Chair in Markets, Organisations and Humanism aims to foster interaction between the business world and universities, as well as to encourage research, corporate social responsibility and corporate governance. Research blog We contribute to financial education through the Research blog, an online platform of financial content and up-to-date economic information open to the whole of society and bringing together the knowledge generated by the Group. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 49 Crèdit Andorrà Global Forum Crèdit Andorrà Global Forum is an annual lecture series with leading speakers in diverse spheres of knowledge, from current economic issues to social issues, education, new technologies and innovation, social responsibility or commerce. The aim is to provide a space for knowledge and the generation of ideas, debate and opinions on issues that will help the country and the world make progress in the medium and long term. Mar Hershenson, co-founder and Managing Partner of Pear VC, a Palo Alto early-stage fund. The magic formula behind Silicon Valley’s success The speaker addressed issues such as the success model of what is considered the 18th largest economy on the planet, practical ideas for starting a business and how the Silicon Valley model can be adapted and replicated. 185 attendees Mar Hershenson. © ANA Marc Vidal, economic educator and digital strategy and transformation consultant ReThinking: digitalisation and digital transformation are not the same thing How to tackle digital transformation and the technological advances of Industry 4.0 was the main theme of the discussion. The outreach expert spoke about how to rethink a company in a context of new business models and customer profiles and presented real case studies, along with the method used by those who have completed their own transformation. 165 attendees Marc Vidal. © ANA 50 Focused on our customers Talks Antoni Bisbal and Gerardo Roca The challenges of family business in Andorra: generational handover or divestment Crèdit Andorrà and Crowe Andorra put on the talk The challenges of family business in Andorra: generational handover or divestment, by Gerardo Roca, lawyer and partner in charge of the legal department of Crowe Spain and specialist in advising on M&A operations and business reorganisation, and Antoni Bisbal, managing partner of Crowe Andorra and specialist in the field of taxation. 126 attendees Antoni Bisbal. © ANA David Macià The current situation of the financial markets and prospects for 2019 Financial market volatility was outlined as the general trend that would characterise 2019. A circumstance that, on the other hand, could be used as an opportunity for investors to buy. This is what David Macià, Investment Director of Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management had to say in the talk he gave on the financial market situation and the prospects for this year. 102 attendees David Macià. © Eduard Comellas Clément Rozant and Vincent Cohen Master your taxation in a Franco-Andorran context The two experts addressed the most significant tax aspects affecting economic relations between Andorra and France, especially the most recent tax changes in France, the main aspects to consider in changes of tax residence and the advantages of the agreement to avoid double taxation between the two countries. Clément Rozant, a partner at Rozant & Cohen, is a specialist in French and international taxation, and Vincent Choen, a partner at Rozant & Cohen, is a specialist in wealth taxation. 50 attendees 2019 Corporate Activity Report 51 Events to boost the local economy 30th Trobada Empresarial al Pirineu (Business Meeting in the Pyrenees), ‘Defining the business agenda’ The debate in this edition focused on digitalisation and sustainable development in the current environment of internationalisation and climate change. Various experts spoke on how the future can be approached in the face of these challenges. The presentations took place in La Seu d’Urgell for two days and the Meeting concluded with a talk by the acting Spanish Minister of Development, José Luis Ábalos, and the Head of the Government of Andorra, Xavier Espot. 30th Trobada Empresarial al Pirineu (Business Meeting in the 607 attendees Pyrenees). © ANA Family business in Andorra 18th Andorran Family Business Forum, ‘The challenges of climate change’ Sílvia Calvó, Minister of the Environment, Agriculture and Sustainability, gave the opening speech of the day, in which experts from different business sectors presented their approaches and projects to address the issue of climate change. Among the participants were Alfonso Líbano Daurella, Chairman of Equatorial Coca-Cola Bottling Company, and Carlos Moro Gónzalez, Chairman and founder of Bodegas Familiares Matarromera. The round table was presented by Antoni Pintat, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Crèdit Andorrà. 150 attendees Alfonso Líbano, Deputy Chairman of Cobega S.A. and Chairman of Equatorial Coca-Cola Bottling Company, and Carlos Moro, Chairman and founder of Bodegas Familiares Matarromera. © ANA 21st Quality and Family Business Series, ‘Commerce in Andorra: a sector in need of revitalisation’ The reflection in this edition revolved around the Andorran commercial sector and was attended by commercial expert José Luis Nueno, a law professor at the University of Barcelona, who gave the opening speech. The topics covered during the traditional round table revolved around the commerce conducted by family businesses. The closing speech by Xavier Fernandez, a professor of international law at the University of Barcelona, who spoke about the impact that the disappearance of customs might have on the country’s commerce, was of particular note. 90 attendees José Luis Nueno. © ANA 52 Sound, responsible management 03. Sound, responsible management 3.1 Corporate governance Corporate governance is one of the fundamental pillars that sustain the strategy of the Crèdit Andorrà Group. In this regard, and in compliance with the provisions of the legislation applicable to financial institutions, Crèdit Andorrà has implemented the necessary measures to strengthen the entity’s corporate governance and align the Bank with the best international practices in relation to transparency and banking ethics. Shareholder structure The share capital of Crèdit Andorrà SA is represented by two types of shares, Class A shares and Class E shares. Both classes of shares have the same financial and political rights, although Class E shares are syndicated, with regard to transfer and policy-making rights. As at 31 December 2019, the share capital of Crèdit Andorrà SA amounted to €63,102,130 (€63,462,070 as at 31 December 2018) distributed into 901,459 shares, spread across 894,396 Class A and 7,063 Class E shares. Shareholder distribution of Crèdit Andorrà SA (31/12/2019) Class A Class E 0.78% 99.22% 2019 Corporate Activity Report 53 Corporate governance structure Board of Directors of Crèdit Andorrà Chairman Vice-chairman Antoni Pintat Mas Jaume Casal Mor Chief Executive Officer Board member Xavier Cornella Castel Rosa Pintat Santolària Board member(*) Independent Board member Gilles Dregi Alfons Casanova Martí de Fontcuberta Independent Board Secretary (non-Board member)(*) member Daniel Arqués Tomàs André Roelants Crèdit Andorrà’s corporate governance system is based on committees that assist the Board More transparency in various matters, including strategic decision-making. and closer relationships with shareholders The incorporation of independent Board members in 2018 as the heads of these committees From 2018, we have responds to professionalism, suitability and experience criteria, and it fosters adequate been strengthening our performance of the managerial, supervisory and monitoring roles that are assigned to them. commitment to shareholders with a direct communication This guarantees the objectivity and independence of criteria in the Bank’s decisive governing platform. bodies, in accordance with the recommendations and best international practices on the subject. The Shareholder Area has the primary objective of providing shareholders with all the relevant information on corporate matters, good governance and the Shareholders’ Meeting, as well as facilitating intermediation of shares with sale and purchase of (*) With effect from 1 January 2020, they have ceased to hold their respective positions on the Crédit Andorrà Board of Directors. securities transactions. 54 Sound, responsible management Governing and control bodies General Shareholders’ Meeting Made up of all the entity’s shareholders, it adopts the final decisions on relevant topics for the entity. Board of Directors A fully representative body, it is responsible for the Bank’s governmental powers. It approves the basic guidelines for acting as well as the risk policies and strategy, those for internal monitoring and regulatory compliance, with the dual role of managing and supervising the entity. Board regulatory activity during 2019 Group Internal Audit Policy Works execution policy Service outsourcing policy Remuneration policy for the supervised group 8 sessions Delegated Committees They have the role of assisting the Board in making strategic decisions. Audit and Risk Committee Appointments and Preparatory Committee Remunerations Committee Assumes, by delegation of the Prepares the agenda and the Board of Directors, the key function Assumes, by delegation of the matters to be discussed at Board of determining and overseeing the Board of Directors, the key function meetings. Conducts an initial internal control framework of Crèdit of establishing and overseeing the detailed review of corporate Andorrà, ensuring that it is adequate remuneration policy and succession documents, projects and processes, and effective, that it includes the plans for people with particularly without exercising decision-making establishment of risk, compliance key roles within the entity. Also powers. and internal audit functions assumes the function of establishing which are competent, robust and and overseeing the long-term independent and that it provides remuneration framework of the main an adequate environment for the directors and members of the Board preparation of accounting and of Directors in line with the interests financial information. of the entity and its shareholders and with the Bank’s risk strategy. 4 sessions 6 sessions 7 sessions 2019 Corporate Activity Report 55 Management bodies Crèdit Andorrà has continued to adapt its managing structure, with a focus on decisionmaking efficacy criteria, efficiency in management and suitability to the new demands and needs which the financial sector must fulfil, both in Andorra and in the rest of the world. The new structure will be tasked with executing the Bank’s strategic principles and responding to the desire to maintain Crèdit Andorrà’s position as the leading Andorran bank. Management reorganisation Efficiency-orientated management structure The main changes introduced in the structure and organisational chart of the company’s management are: > The Regulatory Compliance and Internal Control division is renamed Money Laundering Prevention and Regulatory Compliance, headed by Arpine Abgaryan Ghazaryan. > The Global Risks division, under the management of Xavier Soro Ventura, becomes part of the Loans division. > The Investment division expands its function and is renamed the Investment, Innovation and Strategic Projects division, under the direction of Eduard Galceran Cerqueda. 56 Sound, responsible management The Executive Committee is the body responsible for managing and coordinating the Crèdit Andorrà Group, which is responsible for implementing the strategy, policies and management systems, the controls and risks for the Bank’s proper operation. Chaired by the Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, it is made up of eight members, one of whom also serves as secretary. Operational chart Chief Executive Officer Xavier Cornella Castel Business Finance and monitoring Director of Andorran Banking Chief Financial Officer / Director Business Division of Operations and Resources Martí Alfonso Simón Divison Francesc Jordà Blanes Director of International Director of Global Risk Division Banking Business Division Xavier Soro Ventura Esteban J. Estévez Zurita Chief Investment Officer / Director of Money Laundering Director of Innovation and Prevention and Regulatory Strategic Division Compliance Division Eduard Galceran Cerqueda Arpine Abgaryan Ghazaryan Insurance Group Director Group Internal Audit Director Josep Brunet Niu Ramon Lladós Bernaus(*) Strategic support and social commitment(*) Corporate Human Resources Fundació Crèdit Communication, Francesc Obiols Andorrà Marketing and Argerich Francesca Ros Client Digital Pascuet Transformation Joan R. Mas Navarro Organisation chart as at 31 December 2019. (*) Not a member of the Executive Committee. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 57 Senior Management Decision-making committees has established various committees for decisionmaking, aimed at a model Assets, Liabilities and Risks Committee based on transparency, legal compliance and proper risk management according to Investment Strategy Committee international standards. Senior Loans Committee Product Committee Prevention of Money Laundering Committee Customer Acceptance Committee Ethics Committee Efficiency Committee 58 Sound, responsible management 3.2 Comprehensive risk management Crèdit Andorrà believes that in order to carry on investment business with a conservative and low/moderate level risk profile, it is fundamental to have a risk culture throughout the organisation, founded on these principles: Involvement of the Board Establishment of risk Creation of specialist Development of risk of Directors by means of management and control departments in the management training the approval of policies frameworks for each management and control plans for all levels of the on the subject of risk type of risk with defined of each type of risk, organisational structure, management. responsibilities and to ensure appropriate according to the needs of clearly established risk segregation of functions each level of responsibility, assumption limits. between business divisions with the aim of making and risk control. everyone aware of the inherent risk of their activity, as well as the existing internal limits, procedures and policies. Our corporate governance system is structured within a framework that defines responsibilities in risk management following the model of the three lines of defence(1). These lines of defence are divided by hierarchy and work in coordination while being independent of each other, in order to reach the objectives set out in the policies approved by the Board. During 2019, the Group Internal Audit division functions were consolidated, with the Board of Directors approving a new Group Internal Audit Policy, unifying the working method of the entire Group, aligning and standardising the company’s auditing plans and strengthening the mechanism for monitoring and reporting of all the improvement recommendations issued. 1) Following the recommendations of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and its ‘Corporate governance principles for banks’. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 59 First line Business units Second line Global Risk and Money Laundering Prevention and Regulatory Compliance divisions Third line Internal Audit The first line of defence is made The second line of defence is made Internal Audit, the third line of up of the business units and support up of the Global Risk division and defence, regularly checks that the divisions (including those specialising the Money Laundering Prevention policies, methods and procedures in risks), which ensure that the and Regulatory Compliance division, are suitable and monitors effective management and exposure by risk which ensure that risks are effectively implementation thereof. To guarantee type are adequate. monitored and managed in accordance its impartiality, it reports hierarchically with the level of risk appetite defined to the Board of Directors through the by the Board of Directors. The head Audit and Risk Committee. of Global Risk and the head of Money Laundering Prevention and Regulatory Compliance have direct access to the Board of Directors through the executive director. Within this organisational structure with local and corporate risk management units specialised by type of risk, the Global Risk division and Money Laundering Prevention and Regulatory Compliance division have the function of making available to senior management and specifically the Audit and Risk Committee a comprehensive view of the profile of risks to which the Group is exposed, with a global scope of action, both regarding risk type and geographical location. For 2020, the Group’s Internal Audit division plans to update its internal operating procedures and implement an internal control system and a system for continuous improvement of its activity in order to ensure that its work is performed efficiently, effectively and reliably. 60 Sound, responsible management Regulatory compliance The Group’s objectives in terms of compliance and conduct risks are to minimise the likelihood of irregularities occurring and to identify any irregularities that may occur. The Regulatory Compliance Department is the permanent body responsible for providing identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting of non-compliance risks within the Group. It thus reports results of the non-compliance risk assessment regularly to senior management of the company, expressing the most important aspects that may have occurred, indicating in particular whether appropriate action has been taken in the event that shortcomings have been detected. The division’s scope includes the following, among others: Investor protection in the provision of investment and ancillary services The Code of Conduct in the securities markets Automatic exchange of tax information The complaints service Personal data protection The division has promoted the adoption of the policy on personal data protection, as well as the automatic exchange of tax information standard to comply with requirements in the Law on automatic exchange of tax information, which came into force on 1 January 2017. It has also set up an e-learning platform with content and training information on regulatory compliance matters managed entirely by the division and has promoted coordination with the Internal Control division in relation to operational risk incidents to identify sources of regulatory compliance and conduct risk. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 61 3.3 Integrity and ethics The Crèdit Andorrà Group is committed to integrity and ethics, both in its business and in the day-to-day of the organisation, through an established set of values, codes and procedures: Code of Ethics of the Code of ethics and Code of conduct in Global Compact Andorran Banking conduct securities markets As a signatory member Association Aims to establish and Governs the requirements of the Global Compact, Establishes the standards enforce the ethical for transparency and the Group undertakes to of honesty, integrity, principles that govern the protection of investors’ respect the 10 guiding professionalism and Group’s business and interests and gathers principles, in the areas confidentiality that activities. The code of together the principles of human rights, labour Andorran banking entities ethics and conduct applies relating to financial standards, the environment must comply with in their to Crèdit Andorrà, SA and instrument markets and and anti-corruption relations with customers, to its subsidiaries, whatever the minimum international measures. third parties, supervisory country they operate in. standards in best banking bodies and regulators. practices. The Group also has the following policies to guarantee compliance with the principles of integrity and ethics: > Regulatory Compliance Policy. > Personal Data Protection Policy. > Conflicts of Interest Policy. (Amended in 2019) > Asset Protection Policy. > Information Security Policy. > Internal Audit Policy. (Amended in 2019) > Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. > FACTA Policy. (Amended in 2019) > Investor Protection Policy. > Policy for Prevention of Money or Asset Laundering > Investment and Risk Management Policy. and Terrorist Financing. > Internal Regulations Policy. > Cross-Border Policy. During 2019, the Group worked to implement the translation of the MiFID II regulation(the European Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), through the adaptation of Standards, Procedures, Documents and Systems for effective application thereof, from 1 January 2021 in the Principality of Andorra. Making the most of the Banco Alcalá and Banque de Patrimoines Privés experiences in their adaptation process, Crèdit Andorrà worked to continue improving the tasks required for its implementation, focusing on the optimum measures to protect investors’ interests, guaranteeing that investors are informed about the products and services they are purchasing and the associated risks, and increasing transparency and efficacy. Also during 2019, the Crèdit Andorrà Group investment manager, Crèdit Andorrà Asset Management, again obtained Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) international certification. GIPS standards are a benchmark in good governance practices for asset management and private banking companies. 62 Sound, responsible management 3.4 Relationship with our stakeholders The main stakeholders identified by the Crèdit Andorrà Group are as follows: customers, the focus of the business’ decisions and our raison d’être; shareholders, the Group’s owners; employees, the Group’s most important asset, essential for achieving objectives; the local community, where the Group wants to drive progress, and economic, social and environmental development; suppliers, for their importance in ensuring top-quality and reliable service; and the media, for their capacity to inform and influence society in an increasingly transparent world. For Crèdit Andorrà, achieving the Group’s innovation, efficiency and solvency aims would not be possible without establishing a good relationship with stakeholders, fostering dialogue, communication and especially trust with each and every one of them. This is why we are constantly working to improve the various channels we operate, promoting the company’s digitalisation and looking at achieving omni-channel banking, as well as establishing more continuous and dynamic communication, so that we can find out about the queries and expectations people have in relation to our business or service and thus adapt them quickly. Shareholders Employees Media Stakeholders Customers Community Suppliers (associations, foundations, academia, public bodies, etc.) 2019 Corporate Activity Report 63 Channels of communication and dialogue with stakeholders Shareholders Community > General Shareholders’ Meeting > Corporate website > Annual and quarterly reports > Press room (corporate website) > Meetings > Social media > Shareholder web page > Regular training talks and workshops > E-mail > Meetings with sector associations and associations from the region Employees Suppliers > WeCrèdit (intranet) > Hiring processes > Committees > Meetings > Meetings Customers Media > Corporate website, commercial > Corporate communications website and press room > Press releases and talks > Social media > Meetings with media > Branch/manager networks > Social media > Online banking > Press room (corporate website) > Customer service > Internal and external surveys > Regular training talks and workshops for businesspeople and the general public > Publicity and marketing communications > Contractual communications > E-mail and SMS 64 Sound, responsible management 3.5 Information security and confidentiality At Crèdit Andorrà, we are aware of the need to guarantee information security within the Group and with our customers. This is why we adopt the highest possible security measures to guarantee the protection and confidentiality of communications, both from a transactional and a relational point of view. Security in customer banking operations Practical tips 1234 We offer periodic reminders to customers about information ***** security and Crèdit Andorrà’s protocol when it comes to two-way communications: asking for a password to be entered, verification of secure connection, etc. Protecting devices Advice aimed at ensuring good practice, such as browser updates or avoiding connecting to public Wi-Fi networks. Secure e-commerce Free authentication system that allows more secure online shopping to avoid possible fraud in companies signed up to the Verified by Visa and Mastercard Secure Code payment systems. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 65 Phishing Phishing is fraudulent activity that seeks to illegally obtain personal details from third parties, impersonating the user’s identity to obtain confidential information from them, such as bank details or card number. Anti-phishing tips As$%? Do not reply to e-mails or Do not trust any text Check that the sender’s e-mail text messages requesting messages that seem strange address does not contain personal details or account or are poorly written unusual characters and or card details make sure it includes a trusted domain 66 At the service of the team 04. At the service of the team Managing our human resources team has continued to be a priority for the past year. The Crèdit Andorrà Group has conducted an internal reordering process of its divisions with the main aim of improving the organisation’s efficiency. It has also worked to adapt to the changes in the new Andorran labour regulations governing absenteeism, the requirements for written contracts and the presence of trade unions. The axes on which the coordination of people is based are: Continuous Encouragement of Introduction of new Incentivise Consolidation analysis of the size intra-group mobility flexibility criteria Group of WeCrèdit as of work teams by promoting in the organisation policies and a collaborative internal selection of the working day measures communication processes (Job (Friday afternoons off, tool Posting) for example) 4.1 Diversity and employment Crèdit Andorrà’s human resources policies guarantee respect for diversity, equality of opportunities and no discrimination on the basis of gender, sex, age, disability or any other characteristic. This equality principle is embodied in the relationship we have with our employees: hiring, training, promotion, working conditions, including remuneration, among others. A diverse, professional team 2017 2018 2019 Number of Crèdit Andorrà Group employees 840 939 900 Number of Crèdit Andorrà employees (companies based in Andorra) 475 469 471 2019 Corporate Activity Report 67 900 employees 34 different nationalities on staff 97 new hires 52% women in the workforce 28% 38% 22% 52% employees with Andorran employees hired women in executive employees from roles nationality in Andorra companies established in Andorra 61% 45% employees from the rest women in middle of Europe manager roles 11% employees from the rest 59% women in other of the world roles 94% workforce with 8.3% rate of workforce 90% retention rate after permanent contracts turnover maternity or paternity leave (88% for women and 93% for men) 96% workforce working 6.3% voluntary resignations full time in the workforce 50% staff between 36 12.79 average years at Crèdit Andorrà and 50 years old (13.94 years for men and 11.54 years for women) 61% directors from the local community of the country in which the subsidiary is located 68 At the service of the team Distribution of employees by country Andorra Spain Luxembourg Mexico USA Peru Switzerland Panama 471 226 101 13 38 6 1 44 52.3% 25.1% 11.2% 1.4% 4.2% 0.7% 0.1% 4.9% Total 900 100% 4.2 Training and professional development The people who work in the Crèdit Andorrà Group are the main asset for business transformation. Contributing to their professional development through training is key to responding efficiently and effectively to future challenges. We are committed to internal, external and future talent In the context of the Job Posting programme, we are working on a model that will guarantee the identification of key internal talent to cover the Group’s needs, alignment with the business and the professional development of individuals. Additionally, we are opening the doors of the Bank to young students. Thus, with the aim of promoting education, creating a link between university and the working world and identifying junior talent, we have welcomed a total of 33 young people in higher education (undergraduate degree or master’s degree in various disciplines) to work in several of the bank’s branches and departments. We are also offering students in the three educational systems the chance to visit our premises and be introduced to the various functional areas of the bank, the tasks performed by professionals in the banking sector and professional career opportunities on a national and international level, as well as helping them transition into the working world by offering them tools and advice to help guide their future. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 69 Almost 400 young Career talks to Participation in the people have taken part secondary school Forum des Métiers, in the summer internship students in Andorra organised by the programme since 2010 Lycée Comte de Foix Training plan Training employees is key for our activity, based on a business model that requires constant innovation and adaptation to the environment. Our training plan, in addition to developing technical knowledge and skills to help employees carry out their daily activities, is adapted to a changing environment and creates a positive impact on the quality of service to the customer. 81% staff who €528 average investment 41% training given during received training in training per employee working hours Type of training provided Crèdit Andorrà data (companies based in Andorra) in 2019 Financial and banking 35.3% Skills development 4.8% Organisation and applications 6.7% Legal 11.2% Languages 37.6% Commercial and 0.1% sales Prevention of occupational and other hazards 3.8% 70 At the service of the team Average training hours per employee according to gender and job category 2019 Men Women Both genders Senior Middle manager Senior Other staff Middle manager roles Other staff management roles management Andorra 30.94 19.89 32.38 31.18 40.55 28.95 30.25 Spain 13.75 17.65 8.60 18.00 14.00 9.53 10.54 Luxembourg 34.25 40.00 26.57 10.00 10.00 18.92 23.46 Mexico 0 1.00 0 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 Miami (USA) 18.00 16.00 14.40 23.00 14.00 13.83 15.53 Panama 36.17 22.83 9.67 29.30 19.17 15.03 18.24 Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.3 Quality working environment At Crèdit Andorrà, we aim to place people at the core of our management. We are demanding, fair, flexible and attentive to our employees, listening to both their personal and professional needs and at the same time offering them an organisation that adapts to internal and external strategic changes. Social benefits Our employees enjoy multiple social benefits, for both themselves and their families. These include preferential financial products, various insurance policies and company contribution to retirement plans. Team-building activities outside of work A Crèdit Andorrà team participated once again in the Jocs Interempreses – the business Olympic games for charity. Designed as an amateur competition between companies, the games are a platform for meeting employees of companies from various sectors, using sport as a tool for communication and cohesion. A total of 31 employees took part in the various disciplines: Pitch&Putt, 7-a-side football, indoor football and karting (coming second and winning the silver medal). 2019 Corporate Activity Report 71 WeCrèdit, the main internal communication channel The corporate network WeCrèdit has been strengthened since its launch in 2015 as the internal communication platform. As well as being the channel through which internal job opportunities are posted (Job Posting), it has become a tool for cohesion and promoting the Group’s values. From an operational point of view, the creation of communities allows information to be shared among work teams, document management, direct dialogue and the chance to form (functionally and geographically) multi-faceted internal groups for managing projects with a global scope. Channel usage data Visits Time spent (minutes) Bounce rate* 459,609 6.57 0.12% 2019 2019 2019 487,081 2018 6.11 2018 0.15% 2018 *Bounce refers to when a user opens a page on a website and then leaves without interacting. 72 Committed to society 05. Committed to society Being faithful to our philosophy, our commitment to Andorra is a commitment to the progress and well-being of its society. For 70 years, we have been working on a daily basis to construct the future by promoting initiatives that create a positive impact on the business fabric, the local economy, social progress and the environment. For over 30 years, with the Crèdit Andorrà Foundation, we have also promoted a range of initiatives on our own and in collaboration with third parties to comprehensively meet the needs of the people and the country. Consolidated overall investment in society Total investment Economic and institutional €3.00M Environment Community stimulation (+12.08%) 2.94% 12.55% 84.51% €2.67M €88,146 €376,919 €2,537,409 (+2.06%) (–28.51%) (+22.86%) 2019 2018 3.22% 19.68% 77.09% €86,368 €527,231 €2,065,246 Education Sports sponsorships 11.2% 64.99% Social support Institutional 38.6% relations 21.27% Events Culture 13.74% 50.2% 2019 Corporate Activity Report 73 5.1 Fundació Crèdit Andorrà The Fundació Crèdit Andorrà is one of the leading private foundations in Andorra, in terms of both the resources we invest and the number of programmes we promote, which are divided into three main areas: education, society and culture. We champion young people and teenagers, senior citizens at risk of exclusion and people affected by illnesses with a significant social impact. Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Investment 2019 Education 11.95% Other projects 2.96% Society 33.28% Culture 51.81% 74 Committed to society 5.1.1 At the service of education The professionals of tomorrow Postgraduate grant programme This year, Raquel Balboa Castells was awarded the excellence grant to study for a master’s degree in Neuropsychological Rehabilitation and Cognitive Stimulation at the Institut Guttman, affiliated with the Autonomous University of Barcelona. > 200 grant recipients Collaboration with the University of Andorra Refresher Higher Midwife courses: Professional training: Studies Cycle: 32 attendees 152 1 student attendees From left to right, Raquel Balboa, the 2019 grant recipient, and Francesc Rich, Winona Oliveros and Míriam Daravano, the 2018 grant recipients. © Eduard Comellas 2019 Corporate Activity Report 75 5.1.2 At the service of society The strength of senior citizens L’espai turns 20 In 1999, the Fundació Crèdit Andorrà opened the L’espai as a social centre for activities for those over 60 years old, offering IT workshops. A huge range of initiatives have since been added, from training courses to hiking trails, discussions, workshops and virtual tours. 1,565 members 1,226 teaching hours Up-to-date health One of the aims of the Fundació Crèdit Andorrà is to help society to achieve better quality of life. Through this programme, it helps deliver information to contribute to people’s well-being and prevent diseases with a significant social impact. Tània Estapé during the talk Cancer: how to deal with the different stages. 2 talks (cancer and 1 multiple © ANA cardiovascular sclerosis diseases) workshop 205 attendees 21 sessions 5 participants Ricard Ballester during the talk Cardiovascular diseases: how to prevent them. © Eduard Comellas 76 Committed to society Other partnerships Special Olympics Andorra Sports Foundation Provision of Alpine skiing equipment. © Jean-Luc Herbert Càritas Andorrana Concòrdia programme Food Bank We continue to support the programme to donate units of umbilical cord blood, saving more and more people’s lives each year. 68 beneficiary families 594 products In 2019, for the fifth time, a unit of umbilical cord given away blood from Andorra provided the chance to save a at Christmas life. > 2,000 kg of staple foods (2015-2019) 2019 Corporate Activity Report 77 5.1.3 At the service of culture Our music The dissemination of musical knowledge, through the Andorran National Classical Orchestra Foundation (ONCA) and the Ordino Festivals Association, is one of the Crèdit Andorrà Foundation’s three main areas of activity, both in Andorra and abroad. ONCA Foundation The ONCA Foundation, an institution created by the Andorran Government and the Fundació Crèdit Andorrà, presented its 26th season, structured 16,246 attendees across four areas: Andorran National Classical Orchestra (ONCA) New productions were presented in different formats and with high artistic value, whilst programmes were also developed seeking public contributions. 4,775 attendees Summer concert. © ANA Andorran Classical National Orchestra Youth Foundation (Jonca) Three annual events were programmed, two of which featured participation by students from music and theatre schools across the country. For the third event, we worked in a smaller format in chamber groups. 1,364 attendees Santa Cecília concert. © Àlex Tena 78 Committed to society Education programme A new education programme was designed to train the younger generations and introduce children and their families to the world of music through education workshops and family concerts. Joint programmes have been promoted with music schools to make the orchestra a musical point of reference open to all. 1,644 attendees Getting your body moving workshop. © ANA Social programme The ‘Music and creativity’ programme encourages the use of music as a tool for social inclusion, exploring new horizons and bringing artistic participation within everyone’s reach. 1,162 attendees ‘Music and creativity’ session at Nostra Senyora de Meritxell Specialised School. © ONCA Foundation The ONCA Foundation has also been asked to collaborate or perform in various formats as part of a host of events and programmes. 7,301 attendees Christmas concert at the Basilica of the Sagrada Família. © Sagrada Família 2019 Corporate Activity Report 79 Ordino Festivals Association 962 attendees Ordino Clàssic: Experience classical music The Comú d’Ordino and the Fundació Crèdit Andorrà presented the second edition of ORDINO CLASSIC (2019-2020), with programming that aimed to bring classical music closer to the public through a modern, current concept. Ara Malikian concert. © Rodrigo Mena 5AndCordes concert. © Jean-Luc Herbert Featured Greater social media presence In 2019, the Fundació Crèdit Andorrà made itself more visible through its own profile on various social media sites, in a great leap forward in terms of its main aim of informing people of the events, programmes and workshops it organises for them. Number Number Number of followers of followers of followers 197 563 102 +55 +27 +8 Data from 31/03/2020 (increase compared to the previous month). 80 Committed to society 5.2 Crèdit Andorrà, committed to the country and to people 5.2.1 Supporting the economic and business fabric We support the business world through ongoing involvement in private and public initiatives that contribute to the main business and association sectors in Andorra. >4 1st Andorra la Vella Trade Fair in 2019. > Collaboration with Family Business in >S ponsorship of the 30th Trobada Andorra and sponsorship. Empresarial al Pirineu (Business Meeting > Collaboration with Automobile Club of in the Pyrenees), ‘Defining the business Andorra. agenda’. > Third Conference on Innovation and New Technologies in Andorra (INNTEC). (For more information, see Chapter 2. Focused on our customers). 5.2.2 Multifaceted promotion of tourism The socio-economic impact of tourism and business is relevant for Andorra. We continue to invest in events that provide a strong boost to these sectors, as well as investing indirectly in Andorra’s international image. From a strategic point of view, at Crèdit Andorrà we hold shares in Caldea and Grandvalira. © Caldea 2019 Corporate Activity Report 81 5.2.3. Sports for personal development Supporting Channel Since 2018, we have offered detailed and up-to-date information on competitions and other events sponsored by Crèdit Andorrà through Supporting, our social media channel dedicated to sports sponsorships. #CreditAndorràAmbLaNeu We sponsor high-level sports events and support the Andorran Ski Federation, as well as having agreements in place with all the country’s ski schools, sponsoring a race and direct sponsoring the Esquí Club Andorra, Esquí Club Ordino-Arcalís and Esquí Club Arinsal-Pal ski clubs. > Sponsorship of the Andorran Ski Federation (FAE) and financial collaboration with the alpine skiers who meet the established requirements (6 skiers in 2019). > Sponsorship of a race at all ski clubs in the country. > Sponsorship of the Borrufa Trophy. (For more information, see page 22.) Borrufa Trophy. © Toni Grases 82 Committed to society Other partnerships We sponsor, on a yearly basis, various popular sporting events that promote values such as effort and personal drive and which encourage healthy and active lifestyles by practising various sporting disciplines. Golf Mountain sports >A  ssociació Club Esportiu > XI Andorra UltraTrail Vallnord de Pitch&Putt d’Andorra (Andorra > Crèdit Andorrà’s Casamanya Extrem Pitch&Putt Sports Association, AAPP) Vertical Race Cup >F  ederació de Golf d’Andorra (Andorra Golf Federation) >P  ro-Am Crèdit Andorrà 2019 >T  ournament sponsorship (XXVIII Trofeu Golf Master (Golf masters trophy), XXIX Other Trofeu Social Club de Golf del Principat > Mountain biking: downhill and (Andorra Golf Club Social Trophy), etc.) cross-country races at the World Cup and UCI Track Cycling World Masters Motor sports >C  rèdit Andorrà GSeries A vehicle taking part in the Crèdit Andorrà GSeries at the Pas de la Casa circuit. © Foto Esport 2019 Corporate Activity Report 83 5.2.4 Culture, within everyone’s reach Collaboration with the Cercle de les Arts i de les Lletres (Arts and Literature Circle) 25th edition of the Andorran Art Awards. The artist Evelí Adam received second prize in the Crèdit Andorrà Painting Award granted as part of the 25th edition of the Andorran Art Awards, organised by the Cercle de les Arts i de les Lletres. Second prize in the Sculpture Prize was awarded to Xavier Puente. 42nd Nit Literària Andorra (Andorran Literary Night). The Crèdit Andorrà 50th Anniversary Theatre Prize, awarded as part of the 42nd Literary Night from the Cercle de les Arts i de les Lletres, went to Amanita Fal·loide, by Francesc Puigpelat. Aureli Trujillo was awarded the Crèdit Andorrà Grandalla de Poesia poetry award for A l’ombra de les paraules (In the Shadow of Words). As an entity with a close relationship to and deeply rooted in the country, we also contribute to promoting Andorra’s popular and traditional culture. We sponsor various festivals celebrated in the country and entities that work to promote national folklore, such as groups of sardana dancers, as well as culture and knowledge, such as Societat Andorrana de Ciències (the Andorran Science Society). Antoni Pintat, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Crèdit Andorrà, presents the award to the winner, Francesc Puigpelat. © ANA 84 Committed to the environment 06. Committed to the environment 6.1 Environmental management system Efficient environmental management is part of the Bank’s responsibility commitment, in terms of minimising the most significant impacts on the environment and fighting climate change. In 2004, Crèdit Andorrà implemented an environmental management system (EGS) based on the directives established by the ISO 14001 standard. Since 1998, it has worked with the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP Fi). Crèdit Andorrà’s environmental management system obtained ISO 14001:2015 certification from TÜV Rheinland. The certification body positively assessed the measures conducted in terms of sustainability and endorsed compliance and adaptation to the principles of the standard, based on the continuous improvement of environmental performance and the coverage of the relevant processes. Obtaining the certification shows strict compliance with environmental legislation, proper management of consumption and waste, control and monitoring of internal processes and annual objectives, social awareness actions and continuous improvement of the System. The Group has promoted its commitment to protecting the environment and preventing pollution through its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, approved in 2003. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 85 Goals Improve environmental Efficiently manage resources and Reduce the generation of management, identify, get to know, minimise environmental impact greenhouse gas emissions prevent and permanently correct the through monitoring and control and support initiatives aimed at environmental aspects and impacts of consumption and continuous reduction, compensation and caused by the business activity improvement of processes and adaptation. within the framework of continuous internal operations. improvement of the management system. Optimise waste management Extend the environmental Commit to financing projects through selective waste commitment and foster responsible to encourage the use of cleaner collection, encouraging its attitudes through training and energy, improve energy efficiency enhancement whilst also minimising awareness-raising initiatives among and make progress in introducing its generation. employees, customers, suppliers environmental criteria into financing and society in general. policy and investment products. Highlighted project 3,563 kg of thanks Crèdit Andorrà has promoted various inter-departmental initiatives aimed at minimising the environmental impact of our activity, translating, among other things, into a reduction of 3,563 kg in paper consumption. We would particularly like to highlight the actions undertaken in terms of communicating with customers and society in general, banking operations through e-Crèdit and biometric signature for transactions in branch, a project that began in 2018. 86 Committed to the environment Crèdit Andorrà’s 2019 environmental footprint EGS coverage: Ròdol buildings and branches and Headquarters 2018 2019 2018-2019 variation MWh 2,941 2,708 –7.9% kWh/m of office space 2 808.5 647.5 –19.9% Power consumption kWh/employee 7,002.6 6,510.2 –7.0% Diesel consumed MWh 2,004 2,111 5.3% by air conditioning kWh/m 2 95.5 108.3 13.4% Total energy consumption MWh 4,945 4,819 –2.6% m 3 5,998 6,030 0.5% Water consumption m3/employee 14.3 14.5 1.5% tonnes 19.4 15.9 –17.8% Paper consumption kg/employee 46.2 38.3 –16.9% At Crèdit Andorrà, we want to extend our commitment to the environment and fighting climate change to employees and to society in general. In 2019, we therefore undertook various initiatives and consolidated others that were set up in previous years. Raising awareness >D  rafting of the Good environmental practice guidelines, aimed at making our stakeholders and particularly employees and suppliers aware of the EGS principles. >A  ndorra la Vella Trade Fair (in collaboration with La Moixera): children’s activities on environmental issues, with a focus on recycling, encouraging children’s creativity while raising awareness of reusing materials and preserving the environment. Responsible consumption > Installation of water fountains to replace the purchase of glass and plastic bottles, an action that has also allowed us to reduce the generation of waste and the consequent treatment of packaging. In order to make employees aware of responsible consumption, a reusable glass bottle was offered as a gift. >N  ew environmental sustainability criteria in the purchase of DIN A4 paper, which has meant gradually replacing the entire stock with recycled and chlorine-free paper (with the Blue Angel stamp). The aim is that by 2020 all DIN A4 paper used by the Bank will be environmentally responsible. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 87 Digitalisation of customer communications >T  he Crèdit Avui information bulletin has turned into a blog with an associated newsletter. (www.creditavui.ad) >T  he quarterly report on the markets, aimed at customers and published in three languages, has also been adapted to digital communication, thanks to the Salesforce marketing cloud tool. >e  -Crèdit: extension of the operations that customers can do through online banking, in addition to the electronic bank correspondence service. Valuable partnerships >U  NEP Fi: we have continued working alongside the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative, establishing international partnerships that add value to the work we do. >S  ustainable Development Goals: we are continuing to implement measures that strengthen our commitment to the 2030 Agenda through measures orientated towards more responsible consumption and tackling climate change. 88 Committed to the environment 6.2 Fight against climate change On 23 October 2019, the Government of Andorra approved the Proposal for an agreement recognising the climate crisis and declaring a state of climate and ecological emergency. It thus took on the climate crisis and the need to declare a state of emergency in order to mobilise the necessary resources to reduce the annual unabsorbed emissions of greenhouse gases in relation to the BaU scenario by a minimum of 37% per year by 2030, at the same time driving the transition to carbon neutrality in Andorra, in the context of SDG 13. At Crèdit Andorrà, in our commitment to tackling climate change, we have managed to progressively decrease our consumption by implementing environmental efficiency measures and awareness-raising initiatives among our employees. CO2 emissions 2018 2019 Var. 2018-2019 Direct CO2 emissions (magnitude 1) Diesel (t of CO2) 588.85 575.81 –2.21% Indirect CO2 emissions (magnitude 2) Electricity (t of CO2) 520.58 479.36 –7.92% Other indirect emissions (magnitude 3) Business trips (t of CO2) N/A 115.04 — Waste generation (paper, cardboard, newspapers, plastic and toners) N/A 1.93 — Paper consumption (internal and for customers) 22.58 18.57 –17.78% Water consumption 2.37 2.38 0.54% Toner consumption 7.84 9.06 15.56% Intensity of CO2 emissions 2018 2019 Var. 2018-2019 t of CO² stemming from energy consumption/100 m of office space 2 4.51 4.46 –1.05% t of CO² stemming from energy consumption/employee 2.64 2.54 –3.98% t of CO² stemming from business trips/total km travelled N/A 0.28 — 2019 Corporate Activity Report 89 6.3 Sustainable travel Also in the fight against climate change, we are supporting initiatives and projects to promote sustainable travel, which we are sure is one of the most effective solutions to combat CO2 emissions in order to best contribute to achieving the 2030 Agenda goals. Sponsorship of Cicland The new shared electric bicycle service has put around fifty shared bicycles into operation through the country’s seven parishes. The aim is for them to be used by both citizens as well as visitors, with the aim of encouraging more sustainable mobility habits. The initiative has been encouraged by the Ministry for the Environment, Agriculture and Sustainability and the seven parishes in the context of a more efficient and respectful energy model promoted by the Principality’s institutions, and it reflects the Bank’s commitment to projects that highlight our involvement in the social, economic and environmental well-being of Andorra. © ANA www.cicland.ad Jornada de Mobilitat Elèctrica (electric mobility conference) Our sponsorship of the 6th Electric Mobility Conference expresses our commitment to raising public awareness of the new challenges posed by sustainable travel. This talk, organised by FEDA (Andorra’s Electrical Forces) and the Automobile Club of Andorra, aims to disseminate and make the population aware of the wide variety of electric mobility options on the market for replacing vehicles with conventional combustion engines. The exhibition highlights the range of cars, Segways, motorcycles, scooters and bicycles, as well as offering visitors the opportunity to try out © ANA different electric vehicles. New this year, an electric bike ride was organised to the peak of Carroi. 90 Committed to the environment 6.4 Products with environmental benefits Sustainable investment Crediinvest Sustainability SICAV Creditinvest This makes it possible to invest in funds that meet corporate social responsibility criteria. The main areas of investment are companies linked to promoting a cleaner environment and producing alternative energies. It also include companies related to efficient management of water, the use of efficient materials in construction and environmentally friendly transport. Creditinvest Funds MSCI World Local 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% Funds MSCI World Local 30% 0% 25% -5% 31/12 20% 31/1 28/2 31/3 30/4 31/5 30/6 31/7 31/8 30/9 31/10 30/11 31/12 15% 10% Alcalá Flexible Sustainable Management 5% 0% Global equity fund in which socially responsible investment criteria are applied, both criteria Funds Euribor 12m (EUR12M Index) +150bp that exclude (not investing in companies whose activity may threaten human life and dignity) 10%-5% 31/12 31/1 28/2 and 31/3those that to values30/6 (fighting poverty 30/4 relate31/5 31/7 and inequality, 31/8 31/10 health, 30/9promoting well-being, 30/11 31/12 8% responsible consumption, environmental protection, and human and labour rights). 6% 4% 2% Funds Euribor 12m (EUR12M Index) +150bp 10% 0% 8% -2% 31/12 31/1 28/2 31/3 30/4 31/5 30/6 31/7 31/8 30/9 31/10 30/11 31/12 6% 4% 2% 0% -2% 31/12 31/1 28/2 31/3 30/4 31/5 30/6 31/7 31/8 30/9 31/10 30/11 31/12 2019 Corporate Activity Report 91 Responsible financing Préstec Regenera (Regeneration Loan) This loan makes tailor-made financing available to companies and individuals for constructing or refurbishing property using environmental sustainability and energy efficiency criteria. In 2019, the first Regenera loan was granted to the municipality of Andorra la Vella, enabling the refurbishment of the Avinguda Meritxell shopping hub and the attainment of the ‘Andorra Regenera’ seal in recognition of the project’s sustainability. Crèdit Cotxe Verd (Green Car Credit) Product with advantageous financing conditions to encourage the purchase of electric or hybrid cars. This financing is connected to the Engega plan promoted by the Government, which involves all seven parishes, FEDA, the Automobile Club of Andorra, the energy distribution companies and the Associació d’Importadors de Vehicles (vehicle importers association). © ANA 92 Financial statements of the Crèdit Andorrà Group 07. Financial statements of the Crèdit Andorrà Group 7.1 Statement of financial position Assets (thousands of euros) Note (**) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (*) Cash, cash balances in central banks and other sight deposits 8 303,009 343,553 Held-for-trading financial assets 9.1 30,047 12,560 Financial assets not held-for-trading required to be valued at fair value with changes through profit and loss 9.2 188,299 185,903 Financial assets at fair value with changes through profit and loss 10 – 1,865 Other financial assets at fair value with changes through another comprehensive profit and loss 11 330,785 365,996 Financial assets at depreciated cost 3,832,281 3,764,342 Derivatives – hedge accounting 14 – – Changes in fair value of hedged items of a portfolio with interest-rate risk hedging 14 21,890 21,711 Investments in joint ventures and associates 3 65,703 37,046 Assets used for insurance and reinsurance contracts 20 1 3,431 Tangible assets 15 183,686 122,832 Intangible assets 16 122,624 129,837 Tax assets 45 24,929 28,219 Other assets 17 45,628 52,908 Non-current assets and disposable groups of items classified as held for sale 18 106,151 112,028 Total assets 5,255,033 5,182,231 (*) Shown solely for purposes of comparison. (**) Notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the financial statements at 31 December 2019 and available at informeanual.creditandorragroup.com. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 93 Liabilities (thousands of euros) Note (**) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (*) Held-for-trading financial liabilities 9.3 16,107 10,405 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 10 49,331 71,411 Financial liabilities at depreciated cost 19 4,307,293 4,282,232 Derivatives hedge accounting 14 37,190 35,194 Changes in fair value of hedged items of a portfolio with interest-rate risk hedging 14 – – Liabilities used for insurance and reinsurance contracts 20 251,815 265,650 Provisions 21 28,563 31,299 Tax liabilities 45 5,355 3,085 Share capital refundable on demand – – Other liabilities 23 89,714 57,587 Liabilities included in disposable groups of items classified as held for sale 18 – – Total liabilities 4,785,368 4,756,863 (*) Shown solely for purposes of comparison (**) Notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the financial statements at 31 December 2019 and available at informeanual.creditandorragroup.com Net equity (thousand euros) Note (**) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (*) Capital 24 63,102 63,462 Issue premium 24 – – Issued equity instruments other than capital – – Other net equity items – – Other accumulated comprehensive profit and loss 26 2,678 4,222 Retained earnings – – Revaluation reserves – – Other reserves 24 347,002 311,581 (–) Treasury stock 25 – – Profit and loss attributable to owners of the parent company 4 46,244 36,001 (–) Interim dividends 4 – – Minority interests (non-controlling interest) 27 10,639 10,102 Total net equity 469,665 425,368 Total net equity and liabilities 5,255,033 5,182,231 (*) Shown solely for purposes of comparison. (**) Notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the financial statements at 31 December 2019 and available at informeanual.creditandorragroup.com. 94 Financial statements of the Crèdit Andorrà Group 7.2 Statements of profit and loss (thousand euros) Note (**) 2019 31/12/2018 (*) Interest income 34 70,082 72,932 (Interest expenditure) 34 –26,854 –26,447 (Expenditure for share capital repayable on demand) – – Dividend income 35 302 704 Fee income 36 112,671 124,376 (Fee expenditure) 36 –32,849 –31,081 Profit or loss due to retirement of financial assets and liabilities not valued at fair value through profit and loss, net 37 11,040 14,046 Profit or loss due to held-for-trading financial assets and liabilities, net 37 7,928 6,203 Profit or loss due to financial assets not held-for-sale compulsorily measured at fair value with changes through profit and loss 37 11,177 –12,462 Profit or loss due to financial assets and liabilities at fair value with changes through profit and loss, net 37 –1,356 11,092 Profit or loss resulting from hedge accounting, net 14 –1,883 –431 Exchange rate differences (profit or loss), net 37 1,582 3,016 Profit or loss due to retirement of non-financial assets, net 37 32,236 870 Other operating income and expenditure 38 12,974 12,039 Other income and expenses of assets and liabilities covered by insurance or reinsurance contracts 38 3,909 3,706 Total net operating profit/loss 200,959 178,563 (Administration expenses) –124,941 –129,595 (Depreciation) 41 –22,222 –15,323 (Provisions or reversal of provisions) 42 430 –2,760 (Impairment of the value or reversal of impairment of the value of financial assets not valued at fair value 43 –1,082 1,724 with changes to profit and loss or loss due to amendment) (Impairment of the value or reversal of the impairment of the value of investments in joint ventures and associates) – – (Impairment of the value or reversal of impairment of the value of non-financial assets) –2,164 –161 Negative goodwill recognised in the profit and loss 3.6 – 2,632 Share in profit or loss of investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 44 2,297 4,098 Profit or loss from non-current assets and disposable groups of items classified as held for sale not admitted as discontinued operations 18 655 –126 Profit and loss before tax from continuing operations 53,932 39,052 Profit or loss after tax from continuing operations 47,086 36,354 Profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations –213 – Profit or loss for the year 46,873 36,354 Earnings per share (basic) – in euros 4 51.75 40.35 Earnings per share (diluted) – in euros 4 51.75 40.35 (*) Shown solely for purposes of comparison. (**) Notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the financial statements at 31 December 2019 and available at informeanual.creditandorragroup.com. 2019 Corporate Activity Report 95 96 Goals achieved and challenges for 2020 08. Goals achieved and challenges for 2020 2019 goals Degree of achievement Challenges for 2020 Product Expand our value proposition to customers with > Continue to enhance our value offer and service the launch of new marketable investment products to customers with the launch of specialisation for the Group (Crèdit Andorrà, Banco Alcalá and products and services that provide Banque de Patrimoines Privés) differentiation and exclusivity Provide customers with payment solutions > Contribute to stimulating the country’s adapted to their needs business and commercial fabric Facilitate Merkaat access to a wider investing > Promote new coverage solutions audience between businesses Innovation Implement reporting procedures on investment > Explore the online channel for the services and products in Andorra to customers promotion of corporate events Increase the acquisition of products with ecolabels Commercial and Implement improvement in the Business > Improve efficiency of the commercial management Intelligence division focused on better customer network by applying AI data team knowledge and management > Continue the process of implementing Strengthen the direct customer contact channels new legislation in labour regulations Increase knowledge of the Supporting channel > Consolidate the performance evaluation system Suitability of internal regulations for new legislation > Enhance social media as a channel in the workplace to contribute to help spreading Group Changes to the performance evaluation system news and the main events organised > Define a new route map for corporate social responsibility Achieved In progress Not achieved 2019 Corporate Activity Report 97 2019 goals Degree of achievement Challenges for 2020 Digital Increase customers’ operations through digital > Develop digital projects aligned with transformation channels the Group’s strategic pillars and Align the Group’s web platforms integrate initiatives in the framework of business and technological trends Add innovative and pioneering functionalities to > Improve customers’ omnionline banking channel experience, focusing on complementing and synchronising all digital and remote customer service channels (Contact Centre) > Continue developing online/mobile banking and digital payment platforms geared towards the customer with new functionalities > Promote the monetisation of digital channels by improving the offer of online banking services > Strengthen the use of digital channels among customers Commitment Support the country through relevant sponsorships > Promote economic stimulation to Andorra through sponsorships and institutional Strengthen sponsorships related to the snow sector that are both strategic as well as competitive and participation in events of value to related to training Andorra Enhance social media as a channel to contribute to > Implement new L’espai activities to broadcasting the main events in the country promote healthy and active ageing in a holistic way Promote the Foundation’s digital communication through social media > Expand the social programme of the ONCA Foundation to reach new groups Offer training and provide tools for the businesses of Andorra, as well as other groups to improve their > Give tools to society to encourage good degree of understanding of various topics healthy habits Implement new L’espai activities for healthy and > Work with a view to managing active ageing problems that affect adolescents and young people Organisational Description, evaluation and establishment of the > Promote new corporate values (remote efficiency professional classification of Crèdit Andorrà working project, part days, etc.) Reduce paper consumption > Maintain Environmental Management System certification Reduce the consumption of returnable containers > Foster internal and external Conduct a study to evaluate the implementation of commitment to the environment more efficient lighting solutions at 24h cash machines > Reinforce consumption efficiency measures > Minimise waste > Introduce a calculation of ecological footprint into our activity Appendix Materiality Methodology and results To determine which issues are relevant for Crèdit Andorrà and its stakeholders, a tiered process has been conducted in accordance with the requirements of the GRI Standards: Report scope and criteria 1. Identification of topics: the identification of topics for Crèdit Andorrà began with a preliminary process of reviewing internal and external documentation to determine The 2019 Corporate Activity Report gathers together the financial and non-financial the list of aspects to analyse, which cover all the economic, social and environmental information most relevant to the Crèdit Andorrà Group on events occurring between 1 fields that interact with the Group’s activity and that of its stakeholders. The topics January and 31 December 2019. identified were divided into six categories: Company Profile, Corporate Governance and Compliance, Economic Aspects, Employment Aspects, Products and Services, The aim is to present information about Crèdit Andorrà’s management model and Responsible Supply Chain, the Environment and Customer Management. performance in the economic, financial, social, environmental and corporate governance fields. 2. Analysis of the topics: the organisation’s internal and external information sources were examined, conducting, among other things, a benchmark analysis in which public Crèdit Andorrà SA is the parent company of the invested companies listed in this report. information relating to sustainability aspects was analysed through the web pages and The information presented thus corresponds to the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group, annual sustainability reports of the selected companies, as well as a CSR and financial/ excluding the data collected in the environment section, which relates exclusively to the banking sector indicators through the most significant sustainability public information Group's companies located in the Principality of Andorra. The economic and financial sources for 2019. Finally, a press search was done with the aim of analysing the level of information included was obtained from the consolidated financial statements. notoriety and the impact of the different topics in the media throughout the financial year. Materiality analysis 3. Prioritisation of topics: to prioritise the topics, the relevance of the various Group stakeholders (internal and external) was taken into account when analysing the In line with that which is described in the GRI Standards in the Guidelines for Preparing topics described above, considering the influence each stakeholder has on Crèdit Sustainability Reports, the Crèdit Andorrà Group has conducted a process to update Andorrà’s economic, social and environmental performance and the extent to which its materiality analysis, with the aim of identifying the topics relevant to the Group and the stakeholder is affected by the entity’s economic, social and environmental practice. prioritising them according to the level of importance. Prioritising the topics analysed allows Through statistical analysis of this information, the level of relevance and importance of the Group to determine which content is most relevant in relation to its business activity each issue was determined from both and external and an internal perspective, shown and therefore worth including in the Corporate Activity Report. This document reports on in the materiality table below. Once the process was concluded and the topics and level the material topics resulting from the consultation process based on their economic, social of relevance determined, all topics with high and medium importance for the Group and or environmental impact on the value chain. its stakeholders were considered material or relevant: high-high, high-medium, mediumhigh and medium-medium (grey text in the table). The 2019 Corporate Activity Report has been written in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. 98 4. Validation: with the aim of ensuring that the materiality results offer a fair and balanced view of the Crèdit Andorrà Group’s corporate social responsibility (sustainability), the results obtained internally were analysed in detail by the directors, divisions and units most directly linked to strategic topics in the report, in order to validate the topics to be included in the Annual Activity Report and the associated GRI indicators. Information on material topics not related to GRI issues was also included: multi-channel services and digitalisation, as well as product and service innovation. Material topics and coverage • Direct and indirect economic impacts • Risk management • Financial education and inclusion • Corporate governance • Social action and investment* • Ethics, integrity and anti-corruption • Training, professional development and High employment • Multi-channel services and digitalisation* • Information security and confidentiality • Talent attraction and retention* • Market presence and impacts • Business model and strategy* External relevance (stakeholders) • Financial products with a social • Institutional involvement • Strategic alliances and environmental component • Unfair competition • Regulatory compliance* • Equal opportunities, diversity and non• Economic management and performance Medium discrimination • Customer satisfaction* • High-quality working conditions • Product and service innovation • Socially and environmentally responsible financing and investment • Emissions • Occupational health and safety • Investor relations* • Innovation applied to internal • Work-life balance and other employee processes and strategic projects benefits* • Environmental and social • Employee satisfaction* assessment of suppliers • Human rights* Low • Waste and wastewater • Environmental management systems management and certificates* • Efficient use of resources • Marketing and labelling (materials, water, energy, etc.) Low Medium High Internal relevance (Crèdit Andorrà) 99 Coverage and limit Internal External Asset management Partner companies Banking and Social activity and wealth financial services management Insurance Customers Society Suppliers The media Category and topics Corporate profile Business model and strategy Risk management Market presence and impacts Corporate governance and compliance Corporate governance Strategic alliances Ethics, integrity and anti-corruption Institutional involvement Regulatory compliance Economic aspects Economic management and performance Direct and indirect economic impacts Unfair competition Employment aspects Training, professional development and employment Equal opportunities, diversity and non-discrimination High-quality working conditions Products and services Product and service innovation Socially responsible financing and investment Social contribution Social action and investment Financial education and inclusion Environment Emissions Customer management Customer satisfaction Multi-channel services and digitalisation Information security and confidentiality 100 Crèdit Andorrà and the Sustainable Development Goals At the Crèdit Andorrà Group, our aim is to continue our efforts to act as a benchmark in Andorra in terms of excellence, responsibility and commitment in everything we do. In 2016, we signed the United Nations Global Compact, reinforcing our desire to take an active part in the growth of society through our corporate social responsibility actions. We have also taken on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), steering this commitment and acting as a route map towards active and committed participation in the challenges posed by the UN in the 2030 Agenda. Based on our business operations, we have thus identified seven SDGs that we consider to be relevant and a priority in focusing our actions, aligning our busines activity with social, economic and human initiatives to continue leading value generation in Andorran society. SDG Projects underway in 2019 > Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Healthy ageing programme, through L’espai, a social centre for activities and training for those over 60 years old La salut al dia (Up-to-Date Health) programme Sponsorship of the Special Olympics Andorra Sports Foundation Support for the Concòrdia programme to save lives using umbilical cord blood Collaboration with the Càritas Andorrana Food Bank Collaboration in biomedical research in the field of lymphoma and leukaemia Social programme through the ONCA Foundation > Crèdit Andorrà Sponsorship of popular sporting events Supporting channel Insurance and other health products (Pla Integral d’Assistència Mèdica (Comprehensive Medical Healthcare Plan), Crèditsalut) Support for the Biotech fund (private equities) Unicef Visa 101 SDG Projects underway in 2019 > Fundació Crèdit Andorrà Postgraduate grant programme Collaboration on University of Andorra training projects Education programme through the ONCA Foundation > Crèdit Andorrà Financial education initiatives: Piolet and Carnet Jove 16PUNT30 cards Research blog: financial content platform open to the public Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organisations and Humanism at IESE Crèdit Andorrà Global Forum series Regular training talks and workshops for business people and entrepreneurs in economics and finance Young Banking Project Student finance products (Crèdit Estudis (Study Loans), Crèdit Pla Estudiant Dinàmic o Assegurat (Dynamic or Insured Student Loan Plan), Estudiant Piolet Plans, University of Andorra loans) Esquí Estudi (Ski Study) programme Career days for students and pupils in the three different education systems Publications of interest on economics, law and other topics > Support and collaboration on initiatives linked to the country’s main economic drivers: tourism, commerce and snow > Sponsorship of the Grandvalira, Vallnord and Naturlandia resorts > Collaboration with the businesses and associations of Andorra > Agreement with the Agentas Employment Agency > Summer internships for students > Sponsorship of events to boost the local economy > e-Crèdit, the first online bank in Andorra Login using fingerprint and facial recognition e-Broker El meu gestor (my manager): online customer service > Payment methods: Crèdit Wallet > Contactless cards > Scale Lab Andorra business hyper-acceleration programme > Merkaat, the leading digital investment advisory service in Andorra > Biometric signatures for in-branch transactions > Collaboration with the Andorra clusters to create new economic sectors for the country > Partnerships with companies in the new digital economy: UniqVentures, Zenoquantum... 102 SDG Projects underway in 2019 > ISO 14001:2015 certified Environmental Management System > Crediinvest Sustainability SICAV and Alcalá Flexible Sustainable Management funds > New Crèdit Avui blog and newsletter > Environmental education workshops at the Andorra la Vella Fair > Guide to good environmental practices (Sustainable Banking Guide) > Préstec Regenera (Regeneration Loan) > Crèdit Cotxe Verd (Green car loan) > Sponsorship of Cicland > Sponsorship of the hybrid bus > Sponsorship of the Jornades de mobilitat elèctrica (Electric Mobility Conferences) > Participation in producing the UNEP FI guide on Greenhouse Gas Accounting for the Financial Sector > Member of the United Nations Global Compact > Adherence to the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) > Participation in the National Voluntary Report on Achievement of the SDGs, conducted by the Government of Andorra > Collaborations with economic, social and professional associations and entities 103 Global Reporting Initiative content index General content GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the 10 organisation 102-2 Activities brands, 19, 20, 24-42 products and services All products and services can be looked up on the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group's website. 102-3 Location of Avinguda Meritxell, 80, AD500 Andorra la Vella, Principality of Andorra headquarters 102-4 Location of operations 19, 25, 31-33, 35 102-5 Ownership and legal Crèdit Andorrà SA, authorised in 1949, is a limited company engaged in banking activities, which it performs as a commercial bank form and as a private bank, and is subject to the rules and regulations governing financial institutions operating in Andorra. On 11 April 2011, the Andorran National Institute of Finance, currently the Andorran Financial Authority, authorised the application for extension of the Bank’s corporate purpose to include investment and ancillary services. Crèdit Andorrà SA, the parent of the Group, and its invested companies make up the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. 102-6 Markets served 19, 25, 31-33, 35 For further information, see the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group's website. 102-7 Scale of the 4-5 organisation 104 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Workforce at 31 December employees and 2017 2018 2019 other workers Andorra 475 469 471 Spain 141 258 226 Luxembourg 76 87 101 Mexico 31 13 13 Miami (USA) 38 40 38 Peru 11 9 6 Switzerland 12 3 1 Panama 54 59 44 Chile 2 1 0 Portugal – – 0 Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 840 939 900 Workforce with permanent contracts 2017 2018 2019 Andorra 88% 89% 90% Spain 98% 97% 100% Luxembourg 96% 95% 96% Mexico 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% Peru 100% 100% 100% Switzerland 100% 100% 100% Panama 100% 100% 98% Chile 100% 100% Portugal – – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 92% 93% 94% 105 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Workforce working full time employees and other 2017 2018 2019 workers (cont.) Andorra 100% 100% 100% Spain 98% 97% 93% Luxembourg 91% 89% 84% Mexico 100% 100% 100% Miami (USA) 100% 100% 100% Peru 100% 100% 100% Switzerland 75% 100% 100% Panama 100% 100% 100% Chile 100% 100% Portugal – – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 98% 98% 96% Workforce according to gender and working category 2017 2018 2019 Men 422 443 433 Senior management 115 107 91 Middle manager roles 67 59 77 Rest of the workforce 240 277 265 Women 418 496 467 Senior management 32 28 26 Middle manager roles 54 53 64 Rest of the workforce 332 415 377 106 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Women on the workforce and in roles of responsibility employees and other 2017 2018 2019 workers (cont.) On the In roles of On the In roles of On the In roles of workforce responsibility workforce responsibility workforce responsibility Andorra 49% 27% 49% 29% 48% 30% Spain 55% 22% 61% 28% 59% 36% Luxembourg 43% 16% 48% 12% 50% 6% Mexico 61% 100% 69% 100% 69% 60% Miami (USA) 45% 55% 48% 56% 45% 125% Peru 64% 75% 78% 100% 67% 100% Switzerland 25% 33% 33% 0% 100% 0% Panama 56% 58% 51% 52% 61% 65% Chile 0% 0% 0% 9% – – Portugal – – – – – – Crèdit Andorrà 50% 32% 53% 32% 52% 34% Financial Group Workforce according to gender and age group 2017 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Men Women Total 422 418 443 496 432 468 ≤ 25 years 13 22 12 32 14 22 26-30 years 43 54 48 66 50 57 31-35 years 43 67 50 76 47 76 36-40 years 64 78 72 77 62 66 41-45 years 72 83 77 101 70 95 46-50 years 65 58 70 77 65 80 51-55 years 73 35 65 41 61 46 56-60 years 31 17 33 18 45 17 > 60 years 18 4 16 8 18 9 107 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-8 Information on Workforce according to nationality employees and other 2016 2017 2018 workers (cont.) Andorra 30.6% 30.6% 28% Rest of Europe 54.3% 54.5% 61% Africa 14.3% 14.3% 10% America 0.1% 0.1% 1% Asia 0.6% 0.4% 1% Oceania 0.1% 0.1% 0% 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain management is carried out in accordance with our corporate values. It includes all aspects related to corporate social responsibility and is based on transparency and mutual benefits so as to ensure safe, efficient and quality service provision. The Group’s main suppliers include companies that provide leases and real estate, office material, marketing and advertising, computer equipment, technological and communications services, security services, financial services and specific professional services, among others. Moreover, the Bank prioritises suppliers from the Principality of Andorra (local suppliers), as well as other local suppliers from the territories in which it operates. In 2019, the approximate value of purchases made by the Group from suppliers amounted to 45,000 thousand euros. 102-10 Significant changes to There were no significant changes in suppliers. the organisation and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle 57-59 or approach Senior management has set up various risk management decision-making committees: • The Assets, Liabilities and Risks Committee (COAPiR) is the body that establishes the capital base investment and asset and liability management strategies in accordance with the directives issued by the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. • The Senior Loans Committee (CSC) is the independent high-level body that approves customer credit transactions based on certain thresholds and always ensuring that such transactions fulfil certain characteristics that prevent them from being approved at lower levels (Credit Committee and Office Committee, which also have certain approval powers assigned). • The Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Committee (CPBFT) is the internal control and communication body established in virtue of the Money Laundering Prevention Act. Its competencies include structuring and supervising compliance with the regulations on combatting money laundering and financing of terrorism. 102-12 External initiatives 23, 46-47 108 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-13 Membership of 23, 73-79 associations Crèdit Andorrà: Andorran Banking, Confederació Empresarial Andorrana (Andorran Business Confederation), Cambra de Comerç (Chamber of Commerce), Indústria i Serveis d’Andorra (Industry and Services in Andorra), Empresa Familiar Andorrana (Andorran Family Business), Asociación para el Progreso de la Dirección (APD Association for the Advancement of Management), Trobada Empresarial del Pirineu (Business Meeting in the Pyrenees), EFMA, IESE (Crèdit Andorrà Chair in Markets, Organisations and Humanism), University of Andorra, Cercle d’Economia (Economy Series) and Círculo Ecuestre (Equestrian Series). Banque de Patrimoines Privés: Fonds de Garantie des Dépôts Luxembourg (FGDL), Système d’indemnisation des investisseurs Luxembourg (SIIL), Association des Banques et Banquiers (ABBL) and Association Luxembourgeoise des Fonds d’Investissement (ALFI). Banco Alcalá: Asociación Española de Banca and Asociación de Instituciones de Inversión Colectiva y Fondos de Pensiones (INVERCO Spanish Banking Association and Association of Collective Investment Institutions and Pension Funds). Beta Capital Wealth Management (Miami) • Beta Capital Securities LLC: Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), National Futures Association (NFA), Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and NASDAQ. • Beta Capital Management LLC: Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 10-11 decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, 3, 10-11, 17, 58, 102 and opportunities Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, 61, 64-65 standards, and code of conduct 102-17 Mechanisms for advice 64-65 and concerns about ethics Governing bodies 102-18 Governance structure 52-57 102-19 Delegating authority The CEO, under the supervision of the Board of Directors, takes on responsibility for the strategic management of the Group and assumes the execution of all agreements reached by the Board of Directors. The Bank’s General Management and Executive Committee are responsible for driving the agreements made by the Board of Directors and for managing the economic, environmental and social policies adopted within the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group. 109 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-20 Executive-level 56 responsibility for All business lines and areas of the Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group are represented in the Crèdit Andorrà Executive Committee. economic, environmental and Members of this committee have the power to make decisions on the operational and organisational aspects of the institution. The social matters Board of Directors, as the institution’s highest governing body, is kept up to date on all economic, environment and social matters which affect the Group. 102-21 Consulting 62-63 stakeholders on The Board of Directors determines information and communication policies according to shareholder input, the markets and public economic, opinion. environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the The Regulations of the Board of Directors of Crèdit Andorrà, approved on 24 January 2008 and amended for the last time on 30 highest governing body April 2014, gathers the legal framework, establishes the acting principles of the governing body, specifies the basic organisational and its committees and operating rules and the code of conduct of its members. The members of the Board of Directors do not perform executive functions, aside from the CEO. 102-23 Chair of the highest The functions of the Chair and the CEO are different and complementary, with a clear division of responsibilities. governing body The Chair is the highest representative of the organisation and the leader of the Board of Directors on which the CEO also sits. The CEO holds the highest executive office responsible for executing the Group’s strategy. 102-24 Nominating and For board members to be appointed, they must meet legal and statutory requirements required for the office in question, and have selecting the highest appropriate professional knowledge and experience to exercise the duties of the office and for good governance. governing body The regulations of the Board of Directors stipulate that a minimum of one third of total board members must be Andorran citizens or residents with associated economic rights. Furthermore, all members must be people with recognised reputations as honourable professionals and businesspeople. Aspects such as diversity and independence are not taken into consideration. The board members occupy their office for a two-year period, and can be re-appointed. 102-25 Conflicts of interest The regulations of the Board of Directors also establishes norms and guidelines to follow to ensure that board members do not enter into situations of conflict of interest. To ensure all actions are carried out in strict compliance with established legal and company requirements, the Group uses its risk management and control model as an internal framework to ensure operational efficacy and efficiency based on appropriate control of risks and prudent business conduct that guarantees the reliability of financial information communicated internally and externally. 102-26 Role of highest The Board of Directors analyses and approves basic acting directives, determines the degree of compliance with strategic plans and governing body in budgets, and ratifies the Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Code of Conduct in securities markets. setting purpose, values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of Information is provided in meetings of the Board of Directors on the primary issues to address and related to strategic business, highest governing body economic, environmental and social matters. 110 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-28 Evaluating the highest There is no formal evaluation process. At least once a year, however, a report is submitted to the Board of Directors on the status of governing body’s the Bank’s policies and strategies related to the corporate social responsibility policy and other matters. performance 102-29 Identifying and The organisational structure permits economic, environmental and social matters reported to the Board of Directors to be supervised managing economic, by the different management bodies and areas of the Bank. environmental, and The management of these includes supervision of risks and opportunities as well as compliance with international agreements, social impacts codes of conduct and principles. To assist these bodies in performing their duties, support is provided by independent external advisers and by means of information from the organisation itself, from meetings with the various Crèdit Andorrà directors. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk The Board of Directors is responsible for evaluating strategies and policies on risk, internal control and regulatory compliance. management Specifically, it defines the level of risk the organisation is willing to accept, approves policies on risk management, internal controls processes and compliance, supervises compliance and adopts appropriate measures to correct issues. 102-31 Review of economic, Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group has a Global Risk Division, a Legal Advice, Regulatory Compliance and Prevention of Money environmental, and Laundering Division and an Internal Audit Division, which reports directly to the CEO. social matters The Audit and Risk Committee is also responsible for analysing all risks at all levels from all perspectives that affect the organisation’s activities on a quarterly basis, including economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities. 102-32 The role of the highest The Corporate Communication, Marketing and Client Digital Transformation Division is responsible for coordinating and preparing governing body in the Corporate Activity Report, including the materiality process. sustainability reporting This report is reviewed by the members of the management team responsible for handling issues related to human resources, the environment, customers and marketing, and community relations, in addition to Fundació Crèdit Andorrà. One of the functions of the Corporate Communication, Marketing and Client Digital Transformation Division is to monitor the organisation’s performance in relation to CSR issues and to submit any proposals deemed appropriate on these matters to the Board of Directors. 102-33 Communicating critical The Executive Committee is responsible for reporting annual planning to the Board of Directors, including any critical issues it deems concerns relevant or opportune. The Executive Committee meets monthly. 102-34 Nature and number of Critical issues of any nature (economic, financial, environmental, social, etc.) may be brought to the Board of Directors on a recurring critical concerns basis if deemed necessary. The degree of progress in the Strategic Plan and results in economic, social and environmental matters are evaluated in meetings of the Executive Committee and meetings of the Board of Directors. Based on this evaluation, decisions are made to continue or alter strategy. 102-35 Remuneration policies Remuneration policies are planned by members of senior management. Senior management has a remuneration policy that includes fixed and variable parts based on achieving quantitative objectives and performance and attitudes in accordance with Crèdit Andorrà’s values. Severance compensation is subject to applicable law. 102-36 Process for determining The criteria set out in the remuneration policy are followed to determine the amount of compensation to be received. The company remuneration uses the “Hay” Job Evaluation method to assess job roles by profile and pay scale and to classify all positions and categories and salary ranges associated with these. 111 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-37 Stakeholders’ Criteria set out in the remuneration policy, which establishes remuneration according to professional qualification, are used to involvement in determine the amount of remuneration to be received. remuneration 102-38 Annual total This compensation ratio information is confidential. 102-39 Percentage increase in This annual total information is compensation ratio confidential. 102-40 List of stakeholder 62 groups 102-41 Percentage of Crèdit Andorrà does not currently have any collective agreements. The creation of an agreement is an option in accordance with the employees covered by legislation in force that must come from the workers themselves. collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and 62 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to 62-63 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and 102 concerns raised 102-45 Organisations included 101 in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content 101-103 and topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 102 102-48 Restatements of No relevant restatements took place involving information contained in previous reports. Where any data has been reformulated, this information fact is highlighted by the addition of a note explaining the cause for the reformulation. 102-49 Changes in reporting There were no relevant changes in scope or coverage with regard to previous reports. 102-50 Reporting period 101 102-51 Date of most recent 2018 report 112 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for comunicacio@creditandorragroup.com questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims on the level of 101 compliance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index http://informeanual.creditandorragroup.com/ca/ 102-56 External auditing The report has not been subjected to external verification. Material topics Economic topics GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the 103 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 10-12, 16-17, 19, 25-26, 29, 31-33, 35, 62-63 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 10-12,18, 21, 25-26, 29, 31-32, 34, 54-57 management approach 113 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value 21 generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications 88-91 and other risks and Crèdit Andorrà believes that, due to its activity, the physical risks of climate change are minimal. Financial implications as a direct opportunities due to consequence for Group organisations as banking, financial, insurance and asset management institutions are, however, climate change considered to be significant, as are the costs of any investments or expenditures to improve environmental performance and to respond to the challenges of climate change. The risks are the impacts of climate change on Andorra and the repercussions on the country’s economy and the reputation risk from improper environmental management. The main opportunities are considered to be offering products to counter climate change and having a good reputation should environmental excellence be attained through the Environmental Management System. 201-3 Defined benefit plan This obligations and other information is retirement plans confidential. The economic value of the benefits is confidential information. 201-4 Financial support As a banking entity, Crèdit Andorrà does not receive government support. received from the government GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratio of standard initial This category salary per sex information is compared to the local confidential. minimum 114 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 202-2 Proportion of directors Directors from the country (by subsidiaries) hired from the local 2017 2018 2019 community Andorra 57% 56% 56% Spain 100% 100% 100% Luxembourg 6% 6% 6% Mexico 0% 0% 0% Miami (USA) 0% 0% 75% Peru 0% 100% 100% Switzerland 33% 0% 0% Panama 56% 56% 56% Chile 0% 0% – Portugal – – – Crèdit Andorrà 54% 55% 61% Financial Group GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Investments in 72 infrastructure and services to which support has been given 115 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 203-2 Significant indirect 5, 21, 72, 80-82 economic impacts GRI 205: Combating corruption 205-1 Operations assessed 61 for risks related to The active struggle against corruption (including the prevention of money laundering, financing of terrorism and other corruption considerations) is part of the entity’s corporate culture and is pursued by means of mechanisms extending to all of the Group’s business divisions. Analysis of risks related to corruption is regulated by law. Furthermore, the organisation also has an Internal Audit Division, a Global Risk Division, a Legal Advice, Regulatory Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering Division, and a risk management function. 205-2 Communication and 60, 69 training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of No confirmed incidents relating to corruption have taken place. corruption and actions taken GRI 206: Unfair competition practices 206-1 Legal actions for unfair There have been no actions related to monopolistic and anti-competitive practices. competition, anti-trust and monopoly practices 116 Environmental topics GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the 103 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 34-35, 47, 62-63, 84-86, 88, 90 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5, 25-26, 29, 31-32, 35, 47, 85-86, 88, 90 management approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 88 emissions 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG 88 emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 88 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emission intensity 88 305-5 Reduction of GHG 5, 87-89 emissions 305-6 Emissions of ozoneCrèdit Andorrà does not emit substances that destroy the ozone layer, including those in the annexes of the Montreal Protocol. depleting substances (ODS) 305-7 NOx, SOx and other Crèdit Andorrà does not produce NOx, SOx or other emissions. significant atmospheric emissions 117 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with No instances of non-compliance were recorded environmental legislation and regulations Social topics GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG Material topics: Training, professional development and employment GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the 103 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 62-63, 66, 68-71 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5, 67-70 management approach GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires 67 and employee turnover New employee hires by gender and age group Crèdit Andorrà Miami Financial Andorra Spain Luxembourg Mexico (USA) Peru Switzerland Panama Chile Group Men 18 17 14 0 2 0 0 0 0 51 < 25 years 3 3 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 7 26-35 years 7 4 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 36-45 years 3 4 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 13 46-55 years 4 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 > 56 years 1 3 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 7 Women 19 14 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 46 < 25 years 4 4 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 10 26-35 years 12 3 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 19 36-45 years 2 4 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 10 46-55 years 0 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 > 56 years 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 Total 37 31 27 0 2 0 0 0 0 97 118 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 401-1 New employee hires Turnover rate according to gender and employee turnover 2019 (cont.) Crèdit Andorrà Miami Financial Andorra Spain Luxembourg Mexico (USA) Peru Switzerland Panama Chile Group Men 5.3% 7.5% 16.0% 25.0% 14.3% 0% 200.0% 35.3% 0% 9.3% Women 5.3% 9.0% 9.8% 11.1% 5.9% 75% 0.0% 7.4% 0% 7.5% Both genders 5.3% 8.4% 12.9% 15.4% 10.5% 50% 133.3% 18.2% 0% 8.3% Voluntary resigning from the workforce 2017 2018 2019 Andorra 7.8% 4.1% 3.6% Spain 9.9% 7.8% 5.8% Luxembourg 10.5% 18.4% 12.9% Mexico 0% 46.2% 15.4% Miami (USA) 15.8% 7.5% 7.9% Peru 9.1% 0% 0% Switzerland 0.0% 100% 200% Panama 13.0% 10.2% 15.9% Chile 50.0% 0% 0% Portugal – – – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 8.8% 7.8% 6.3% NOTE: In 2016, the figures for Panama also included those of Uruguay. 401-2 Benefits provided to 70 full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 67 119 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of No data 63-64 training per year per available by employee Training activity gender and Average investment in job category Workforce in receipt of for Andorra, training per employee Training within working hours training Spain or (€/employee) Luxembourg. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Andorra 100% 100% 100% 752 644 526 14% 42% 31% Spain 87% 87% 72% 635 257 413 44% 73% 100% Luxembourg 99% 70% 26% 876 1445 1897 86% 0% 0% Mexico 90% 100% 85% 125 166 17 100% 80% 16% Miami (USA) 100% 100% 50% 578 446 267 47% 38% 39% Peru 9% 0% 0% 2,695 0 – 100% 0% – Switzerland 92% 0% 0% 1,091 0 – 100% 0% – Panama 100% 98% 95% 252 399 399 94% 100% 100% Chile 0% 0% 0 0 – 0% 0% – Portugal – – – – – – Crèdit Andorrà Financial Group 96% 92% 81% 689 568 528 23% 46% 41% 404-2 Programmes for 69 refreshing employee skills and transition support programmes 120 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 404-3 Percentage of Workforce subject to the effort evaluation system employees receiving regular performance 2019 and career development reviews Senior management Middle manager roles Rest of the workforce Global Men Women Men Women Men Women Andorra 100% 61 13 36 28 148 185 Spain 35% 7 1 7 1 31 33 Luxembourg 100% 15 1 4 7 31 43 Mexico 100% 0 1 3 6 1 2 Miami (USA) 58% 1 3 3 2 8 5 Peru 0% 0 0 0 0 0 0 Switzerland 0% 0 0 0 0 0 0 Panama 100% 3 5 3 6 11 16 Chile 0% 0 0 0 0 0 0 Crèdit Andorrà Financial 81% 87 24 56 50 230 284 Group Material topics: Equal opportunities, diversity and non-discrimination GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the 103 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 62-63, 66, 68, 70 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5, 67-68, 70 management approach GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities 405-1 Diversity in the 53, 67 governing bodies and among employees 121 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG 405-2 Ratio of basic salary This and remuneration of information is women compared to confidential. men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Discrimination cases 66 and corrective Crèdit Andorrà has not recorded any discrimination cases measures implemented Material topics: Multi-channel services and digitalisation GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the 103 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 8, 41, 62-63, 25, 41-42, 48 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 5, 9, 72, 74-79, 84 management approach GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local 5, 72, 74-79 community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes 413-2 Operations with 5, 72-73, 84 significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities FS13 Access points in areas 5, 8, 25, 41 with small populations or economically disadvantaged areas by type 122 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG FS14 Initiatives to improve 41-42, 48 access to financial services for people with disadvantages Material topic: Information security and confidentiality GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the 103 material topic and its boundary 103-2 The management 64 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 64 management approach GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated 64 complaints concerning Crèdit Andorrà has a personal data protection and privacy policy which considers internal management protocols and procedures breaches of customer that ensure compliance with legal requirements on the subject of e-commerce and the processing of personal data. The provision privacy and losses of of services is in compliance with Andorran legislation in general, and more specifically according to legislation on financial and customer data banking services and products, under the supervision of the corresponding regulators. The other Group companies provide their services in compliance with the legislation applicable at the time and in the country in which the service is provided. Crèdit Andorrà has an obligation to protect its customers’ and employees’ most personal and private information as stated in its Code of Ethics and applicable laws on privacy, data protection and banking secrecy. To ensure the security of IT systems, we have a series of internal action standards to efficiently protect information in a preventative manner. The Information Security Department strives to minimise risks of non-compliance and ensure coordination between the various Group divisions. The purpose of this department arises from the firm commitment to extend all our knowledge acquired in the area of IT security to the other criteria relating to documented information, necessarily considered a critical aspect within the Group’s operations. Its governing principles are: • Confidentiality: ensures that information can only be consulted by authorised persons, and legal standards and requirements related to personal data protection and data privacy are complied with at all times. • Integrity: ensures that stored information is complete and corresponds with the real situation at all times. • Availability: ensures that information is available on demand when needed to conduct required queries or operations. Crèdit Andorrà has not recorded any complaints about respect for privacy or loss of customer data. 123 GRI Standards Content Page number or URL Omissions SDG GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with Crèdit Andorrà has not recorded any non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas laws and regulations in the social and economic areas 124 Table of contents of the Global Compact Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Pages or direct response GRI Standards Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 61 102-16, 102-17, GRI 205, GRI 206, GRI 307, GRI 401, GRI 404, GRI 405, proclaimed human rights, within their area of influence. GRI 406, GRI 419 Principle 2: Businesses must make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 61 GRI 205, GRI 206, GRI 401, GRI 404, GRI 405, GRI 406, GRI 419 abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Crèdit Andorrà does not 102-41 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. currently have any collective agreements. The creation of an agreement is an option in accordance with the legislation in force that must come from the workers themselves. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and Crèdit Andorrà does not 102-16, 102-17 compulsory labour. perform operations that involve any risk of leading to instances of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Crèdit Andorrà does not 102-16, 102-17 perform operations that involve any potential risk of incidents involving child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect 61, 66 102-8, 102-16, 102-17, GRI 405, GRI 406 of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 84-91 102-11, 102-16, 102-17, GRI 305, GRI 307 challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 84-91 102-16, 102-17, GRI 305, GRI 307 environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 85-87, 89-91 GRI 305, GRI 307 environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 61 GRI 205 extortion and bribery. 125 Design and layout: www.cegeglobal.com Legal deposit: AND.99-2020 ISBN: 978-99920-4-072-0 © Crèdit Andorrà www.creditandorragroup.com informeanual.creditandorragroup.com/ca Crèdit Andorrà Group around the world Banking and financial services CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ BANCO ALCALÁ BANQUE DE PATRIMOINES BANCO CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ Av. Meritxell, 80 C/ José Ortega y Gasset, 7, 4º PRIVÉS (PANAMA) AD500 Andorra la Vella, 28006 Madrid 30, Boulevard Royal Torres de las Américas, torre A Andorra Spain L-2449 Luxembourg piso 10, suite 1002 Tel.: +376 888 888 Tel.: +34 911 750 700 Tel.: +352 27 207 1 Punta Pacífica www.creditandorragroup.com www.bancoalcala.com www.banquedepatrimoinesprives.com Panama City Tel.: +507 306 48 00 www.bancocreditandorrapanama.com Asset management CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ ASSET CA ASSET MANAGEMENT BETA CAPITAL WEALTH PRIVATE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LUXEMBOURG MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT ADVISORS Credi-Invest SA 30, Boulevard Royal Beta Capital Securities LLC PANAMÁ C/ Bonaventura Armengol, 6-8 L-2449 Luxembourg Beta Capital Management LLC Torre de las Américas, torre A, AD500 Andorra la Vella Tel.: +352 26 20 63 803 777 Brickell Avenue piso 10, suite 1003 Principality of Andorra www.ca-assetmanagementlux.com/en Suite 1201 Punta Pacífica Tel.: +376 88 95 20 Miami, Florida 33131 Panama City PRIVATE INVESTMENT United States of America Tel.: +507 306 48 00 GESALCALÁ SGIIC Tel.: +1 305 358 88 44 C/ José Ortega y Gasset, 7, 4º MANAGEMENT www.creditandorragroup.us PIM Private Investment CA PERÚ SOCIEDAD 28006 Madrid Management SA AGENTE DE BOLSA Spain Rue de la Croix-d’Or 3 CA MÉXICO ASESORES Av. Rivera Navarrete 501 Tel.: +34 914 311 166 1204 Geneva PATRIMONIALES piso 16 www.bancoalcala.com Tel.: +41 22 819 40 50 EN INVERSIONES Edificio Capital San Isidro www.pim-sa.com INDEPENDIENTES Lima, Peru CA LIFE INSURANCE Corporativo Parque Reforma www.ca-peru.com.pe/ EXPERTS Campos Elíseos 400 piso 15 C/ Agustín de Foxá, 29, 6a Col. Lomas de Chapultepec planta A Alcaldía Miguel Hidalgo 28036 Madrid C.P. 11000, CDMX Spain Tel.: +52 (55) 52814644 www.calife.es www.camexico.mx Insurance CRÈDIT ASSEGURANCES CA VINCLES ACTUARIAL ERSM INSURANCE BROKERS CA LIFE INSURANCE EXPERTS Av. Fiter i Rossell, 22 CONSULTING (ANDORRA, C/ Entença, 332-334, 1a planta C/ Agustín de Foxá, 29, 6a AD700 Escaldes-Engordany SPAIN AND CHILE) 08029 Barcelona planta A Principality of Andorra C/ Josep Viladomat, 17 Spain 28036 Madrid Tel.: +376 88 91 19 AD700 Escaldes-Engordany Tel.: +34 93 439 14 00 Spain www.creditassegurances.ad Principality of Andorra www.ersmgrupo.com Tel.: +34 913 896 017 Tel.: +376 88 91 19 www.calife.es www.ca-vincles.com/es Social activity CRÈDIT ANDORRÀ FOUNDATION Av. Meritxell, 80 AD500 Andorra la Vella Principality of Andorra Tel.: +376 88 88 80 www.fundaciocreditandorra.ad www.creditandorragroup.com
