Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 OUR VISION At GEFCO, our aim is to become one of the most innovative and influential players in supply chain transformation to meet technological, social and environmental challenges. We believe we create value through cooperation. Our open mindset and the humility to listen and learn from our partners take us the extra mile. This is GEFCO’s Infinite Proximity™. GEFCO.net GEFCO Declaration of Extra-Financial Performance Contents CSR OVERVIEW CSR IN DETAIL CSR Overview Chairman’s Letter 6 Chairman’s Letter 2 About GEFCO What We do 4 Our Business Segments 5 Governance and Value Creation 6 About GEFCO What We Do 8 Strategy 7 Innovation8 GEFCO’s CSR Approach 10 CSR in detail About GEFCO Strategy, 10 Innovation Governance and Flow Optimisation and Multimodal Offers 13 Value Creation Clean and Connected Transport 14 Digitalisation 16 People Innovation 12 Attractiveness, Loyalty, and Employee Engagement 18 Health and Safety 20 Environment Responsible Management of the Environment  22 Addressing Climate Change 23 Governance and Society Sustainable Procurement and Duty of Care 24 Business Ethics and Transparency 26 Appendix and Data Reporting Methodology Concordance Table  31 KPIs and Data 33 Report of Independent Third Party 39 1 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group I am pleased to welcome you to GEFCO’s Sustainability Report for 2019, a year in which we continued to strengthen our CSR approach and sophistication.” C  hairman’s Letter Across the company our efforts are accelerating and we saw many successes. Firstly I am proud to announce that we Luc Nadal, CEO again achieved our headline ambition of a 2% avoidance of carbon emissions relating to transport activities. This is the third successive year we have achieved this compounding target showing that real progress can be made now, as well as in the future. Elsewhere in the company there have been many other highlights including a reduction in site energy usage, a reduction in incidence of accidents and environmental hazards, and a maintenance of our water and carbon grades from independent external adjudicator, CDP. I am also pleased to reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles for an eleventh year. For our colleagues, the expansion of GEFCO university has been a great success, with 15 Academies now available for employees to accelerate their development through a combination of e-learning and classroom programmes. As a core strategic pillar, our approach to Innovation has continued to transform, with capabilities and solutions arriving from inside and out. Still in its first 18 months, GEFCO’s Innovation Factory is already producing proofs of concepts, and acquisitions such as Chronotruck are producing real-world results, allowing customers and carriers to increase efficiency and avoid half-loads. Home-grown products have also been launched, including Moveecar, a single-point offering for services to the second-hand car market. 2 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group I am immensely proud of the culture of innovation that we are developing, and the energy with which the entire company has Improved performance across responded. majority of our reporting KPIs Solving environmental challenges also requires partnerships outside of our company, and here we made progress too. In 2019 GEFCO became one of the first signatories to EVcom, committing to stringent measurement and emissions standards Achieved yearly ambition of 2% for our own vehicles, and for our subcontracted fleet. In avoidance of carbon emissions addition, we expanded GEFCO’s Sustainable Procurement from transport Charter which now covers all transport modes and has been signed by more than 1800 carriers representing €1.2bn of spending. Very proud of 2019 performance, The direction of travel is clear. Across the market we have but most excited at what lies seen record interest in our low-carbon transport capabilities, ahead and a related increase in our ability to deliver them thanks to technology and innovation. For our company, the challenges of sustainability represent a significant commercial opportunity. I would like to thank all of our employees and partners for their efforts over the past year, and for the effort that lies ahead as we tackle these fundamental issues. Luc Nadal CEO 3 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group About GEFCO GEFCO is a world expert in complex supply chain solutions and the European Leader in automotive logistics What We Do From its beginnings in the 1950s as the transport and logistics arm of Groupe PSA, GEFCO has grown into a global specialist in complex supply chains. We are now trusted by over 30,000 customers around the world to deliver integrated supply chain solutions. Since 2012, when GEFCO ceased being a wholly-owned subsidiary of Groupe PSA, the company has been transforming, culturally and operationally, into a confident, innovative, outward facing powerhouse brand. We are a world leader in all aspects of automotive logistics, and over the past decade have successfully expanded into other sectors including consumer goods, fashion, healthcare, electronics, pharmaceuticals and aeronautics. No other logistics provider combines this unified, multimodal global presence with the flexibility and expertise to design specific, integrated solutions for each and every customer. 15,000 employees Multimodal: Road, Rail, Air & Sea 100+ nationalities 300+ locations worldwide 5m+ vehicles delivered annually €4.7bn turnover for 2019 Where We Operate GEFCO Footprint GEFCO Partners GEFCO Facilities 4 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Our Business Segments Finished Vehicle Logistics (FVL) Air & Sea GEFCO’s Finished Vehicle Logistics (FVL) segment is GEFCO’s Air & Sea segment arranges local and crossEurope’s biggest transporter of new vehicles underpinned border transport via air, sea, and rail, whilst also handling by multimodal solutions and a dedicated railcar fleet. all aspects of customs, tax, and relevant regulations Across the globe the group delivers more than 5 million relating to import and export. We have a network of 185 vehicles each year from factories to distribution centres, offices worldwide and connect 106 countries. and from car dealers to end customers. The segment is also responsible for arranging time critical In addition to the delivery of new vehicles, GEFCO is solutions, where our customers unforeseen internal increasingly involved in a number of added-value services disruptions require fast and reliable responses to keep within our customers’ supply chains including compound their supply chains moving. operations such as post production operations, preLastly, the Air & Sea team arranges specialist delivery inspection, and light assembly. The Group is also transportation for unusually large or unwieldly cargos developing and deploying its market leading services in that are unable to be moved by conventional means , the very large second-hand car market, including a range such as for heavy industrial projects. of innovative digital solutions. Overland & Contract logistics (OVL) Industrial Services GEFCO’s Overland segment designs and operates supply GEFCO’s Industrial Services segment provides various chain and delivery flows for a wide range of industries, industrial logistics and support services, of which predominantly via road. The offering is a combination our Reusable Packaging Solutions (RPS) is the most of transportation, customised worldwide warehousing, significant, providing proprietary reusable crates and engineering, design, and project management. containers for a range of logistics needs. Through our contracted network of 133 agencies and The offering includes 6.5 million crates and small boxes in more than 300 partners worldwide we provide a full circulation with our customers, allowing standardisation, spectrum of transport services, including full and part and state-of-the-art container management and storage load transport and customised time-critical solutions. Our with minimal capital outlay. asset-light approach, where we own less than 900 trucks directly but have access to over 11,000, allows us to build solutions around our customers’ needs rather bend them to our process. Asset Light The company is deliberately asset-light, choosing to own Firstly we can be extremely agile in responding to changes and invest in strategically important assets (such as car in our markets or our customers’ needs, innovating to turn compounds and railcars). This asset-light model ensures we challenges into opportunities. are resilient over business cycles, and gives us a number of Secondly we can have an effect far-beyond our own advantages from a CSR perspective. boundaries, influencing both customers and carriers to operate in a more responsible way. 5 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group About GEFCO Governance and Value Creation Governance and Structure GEFCO has two main shareholders: Russian Railways (75%) and the PSA Group (25%). The company has a Supervisory Board composed of 13 members representing these two shareholders, including 1 employee representative. Below the Supervisory Board, GEFCO is governed by a Support functions such as finance, HR, IT, real estate, and Management Board (5 members) and a wider Executive compliance are managed at group level whilst the respective Committee (11 members) responsible for implementing Group international subsidiaries are responsible for operational strategy and overseeing the quality and added value of our functions and commercial interface including project projects for customers, shareholders and employees. development, supplies, and site management. FINANCIAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL €291.7m Equity €205m Recurring EBIT Direct operations ■ ■ OPERATIONS CAPITAL in 47 countries OPERATIONS CAPITAL ■ €79m Capital Investment ■ €4.7bn Revenue ■ >5m vehicles shipped ■ 33.7bn tonne kilometres of cargo HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL ■ 15,000 Employees ■ 2458 new hires, all permanent ■ 14% engineers and managers CUSTOMER ACT AS ■ Happy trainees WorldWide label TRUST ONE awarded ■ 670 workplace improvement plans launched worldwide ■ Roll-out of GEFCO University GROW AGILE AND ENVIRONMENT CAPITAL ENVIRONMENT CAPITAL ■ 192m litres water consumption TOGETHER INNOVATIVE ■ T 2 M CO2 (all scopes): 2% ■ 42m kwh electricity consumption avoided every year ■ CDP climate change ranking B ■ Signatory of EVcom ACCOUNTABLE commitments COMMITTED ■ 70% waste recovery and TO CO-CREATE recycling VALUE SOCIETAL CAPITAL SOCIETAL CAPITAL ■ 2550 regular carriers inland ■ EcoVadis Gold level achieved ■ 300+ destinations Partners, unlimitedTM to build ■ 1832 carriers signed 100+ nationalities procurement charter trust and design long lasting ■ cooperations, managing end to end logistics and supply chain. 6 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Strategy The Group’s strategy is focused on five pillars, building on the approach that has proven successful in driving the Group’s above market growth over recent years. S T R AT E G Y P I L L A R S Become the Expand auto Further develop Grow nonContinue global leader in inbound and second-hand auto verticals developing new FVL adjacent logistics vehicle logistics by leveraging geographies and segments and services existing trade lanes The Group is well expertise established as The Group With changing With its assetEurope’s largest will continue approaches to car The Group has light and agile provider of to leverage ownership, and an existing global business model the finished vehicle its leadership GEFCO’s existing integrated network Group can expand logistics and aims position in FVL to positioning and and unrivalled internationally to expand this expand market expertise, the expertise in on a selective leadership position share in adjacent company has the demanding basis. We can do by capitalising automotive an immense and complex so in partnership on its expertise, logistics segments opportunity to automotive with existing specialised assets, including become key industry. We customers who global network, inbound supply provider of services are successfully are themselves and existing chain, spare for vehicles expanding expanding, deep customer parts, reusable throughout their into adjacent and prospect relationships. packaging, and lifetime. This industries with customers, light assembly. includes all used similarly complex especially in car transactions as supply chain fast-growing well as a range of requirements. geographies. services from first owner to scrap. S T R AT E G Y A C C E L E R AT O R S Consolidation platform for selective M&A Harness innovation as an accelerator The Group has a two-pronged approach to M&A: firstly Given the increasingly rapid changes in our customers’ within FVL where the Group will look at strategic and supply chains, innovation is and must be central to value-enhancing companies; and secondly on an our company and culture. We have partnered with opportunistic basis in other segments where we can add Techstars, and launched a dedicated internal organisation additional geographies, technologies or capabilities to the for innovation – GEFCO Innovation Factory – which is Group. already producing results. 7 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Innovation GEFCO operates in a rapidly changing environment, with new technologies transforming both production processes and consumer trends. Turning these challenges into opportunities demands an innovative approach, and we have worked hard to place innovation at the core of our company, fostering it at every level of the organisation. As a global supply chain partner with particular expertise in Since its launch in June 2018, the Innovation Factory automotive logistics, GEFCO is at the confluence of a number has enabled employees in GEFCO’s network to become a of megatrends. Our focus on innovation allows us to design real powerhouse of new ideas. To date, 16 countries have the services that our customers will want and need in the submitted 49 ideas and 10 projects have been incubated. future. There is much more to come. Electric vehicles Innovation Factory New powertrain technologies bring new manufacturers Innovation is key to our growth strategy and our ambition is and new supply chains. GEFCO was quick to adapt, and is to increase the number of projects that scale up and have a uniquely placed to handle new requirements such as the concrete impact on GEFCO’s business. In its second phase, transport of electric vehicle batteries. the Innovation Factory will focus on: boosting the employeedriven idea pipeline; developing strategic projects defined Connectivity by the Executive Committee; Creating stronger ties with the Connectivity is already allowing goods and cars to be located other innovation pillars: Watch & BI and Techstars. and managed more effectively and further opportunities are quickly arising. For example, IoT sensors in vehicles can Watch & BI inform fleet managers as to the car’s condition – when it The Watch and Business Intelligence unit monitors trend requires fuelling, cleaning, servicing, and range of other signals from both our customers’ industries and markets. needs. GEFCO’s area-specific expert teams identify innovative Mobility ideas looking for potential overlap with our operational Especially in major urban centres, people are changing their requirements. relationships with cars – lower rates of vehicle ownership Techstars combined with higher rates of individual car usage will require Since 2018, GEFCO has partnered with Techstars, a significant adjustments to the related servicing and upkeep global accelerator program with an excellent track record of vehicles. Peer-to-peer lending schemes and car-sharing of supporting innovative and ambitious start-ups. Our companies are on the rise, creating an opportunity for GEFCO. Innovation Factory connects with Techstars’ Innovation Digitalisation Bootcamp and broader start-up ecosystem to help accelerate Digitalisation has had a huge impact on the logistics industry, projects. with routing, loading, and tracking systems combining with artificial intelligence to produce huge efficiencies. More gains are approaching such as platooning and Supply Chain 4.0 – some requiring further R&D or regulatory approval, and some entering the market already. 8 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Moveecar Access car logistics services in a click MOVEECAR is a unique digital platform providing connected services throughout the vehicle life cycle. The platform guarantees highlevel customisation combined with affordability and visibility for all operations. MOVEECAR offers a range of services, from domestic/cross-border transport, collection and last-mile delivery to digital inspections, storage, refurbishment and administrative formalities. Available to both consumers and professionals, MOVEECAR services operate across Europe through a network of established professionals. Chronotruck Manage shipments easily with fully digital services GEFCO has acquired Chronotruck to take digitisation to the next level for both shippers and carriers. This innovative digital platform connects supply and demand instantly, offering a full range of services. For businesses, Chronotruck provides access to nearby carriers and an innovative portfolio of digital services, including an instant quotation system, geotracking, proof of delivery and e-invoicing. Meanwhile carriers can optimise flows by filling trucks to capacity with nearby loads. 9 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group GEFCO’s CSR Approach GEFCO’s new corporate message “Partners, Unlimited” was unveiled in 2018, and represents our core cultures. We asked our customers what sets us apart as a company, and they identified our determination to build long-lasting relationships, earn trust and create value across the supply chain acting responsibly and sustainably is central to what we do. GEFCO conducted a large-scale risk analysis of its The resulting insight provided a basis for approaching and environmental, societal and employee issues in 2018. It was prioritising risks, and for better structuring the company’s designed to be comprehensive, long-term in its outlook, approach to CSR challenges. The below risks, under four topand encompassing the views and requirements of all of its level categories were identified as the most important stakeholders both inside and outside of the company. for GEFCO to address – for both our long-term sustainability, and for that of our stakeholders. Within GEFCO, managers of both operational and support functions investigated the risks associated with a wide range GEFCO is also a long-term signatory of the United Nations of CSR subjects. A stakeholder mapping exercise then identified Global Compact, and we are pleased to reaffirm our and interviewed 13 key external stakeholders, including commitment to those essential principles again today. customer and suppliers, as well as professional organisations in the transport sector. This approach enabled GEFCO to bring its stakeholders’ societal, environmental and labour expectations into line with GEFCO’s performance drivers. Page Environment Why has it been identified as a risk? Performance Highlight Number Innovation: Flow Flow offerings must respond to changing costs and customer Acquisition of Chronotruck, a real-time digital platform 6 Optimisation and expectations if they are to remain competitive in both price and already helping over 9,000 customers improve efficiency Multimodal Offers carbon terms. and emissions. China-Europe transit reduced to 3 weeks. Innovation: Clean and Customers are increasingly asking for help to reduce emissions Achieved 2% avoidance of transport related emissions 6 Connected Transport associated with their supply chain. These trends are likely to vs 2018 continue or accelerate. Achieved a CDP climate change rating of B for 2019 Innovation: Digitising Digitalisation can hugely increase efficiency and reduce costs GEFCO did not experience any breaches to its IT systems 6 and is central to GEFCO’s future, but increased data sharing and in 2019 computer analysis also carries disruption risk. People: Attractiveness, As an asset-light business, GEFCO’s human capital is the Happy Trainees label, and 85.1% of young employees 18 Loyalty, and Employee principle source of our value and expertise. It must be nurtured recommend GEFCO Engagement and guarded. 6.6% voluntary turnover rate People: Health and Safety Our operations necessitate a firm awareness of the risks Incident severity rate decreased to 0.2 vs 0.3 in 2018 20 associated with operating heavy machinery, shift working, Incident frequency rate decreased to 5.4 vs 6.6 in 2018 heavy lifting and road incidents, as well as wider workplace risks. Environment: We balance our operations with environmental sensitivity across Number of environmental incidents decreased to 22 Responsible Management all our sites because mismanagement can lead to reputational, 270 vs 285 in 2018 of the Environment regulatory, and even operational risks for the company. GEFCO was awarded EcoVadis Gold for 2019 Environment: Addressing We are seeing growing regulatory incentives and market Achieved 2% avoidance of transport related emissions 23 Climate Change opportunities associated with improving our carbon performance vs 2018 across our operations. Total energy usage at sites reduced by 4% Early signatory of EVcom commitments Governance and Society: GEFCO is an asset-light business. As such our subsidiaries, 108 carrier audits conducted in 2019, leading to 145 24 Sustainable Procurement suppliers and contractors play an integral role in our operations. action plans and Duty of Care Governance and Society: GEFCO has a direct presence in 47 countries and operates 1,268 completions of ethics e-training courses 26 Business Ethics and indirectly in a further 59. We take responsibility for our own Transparency compliance, and that of our suppliers and customers. 10 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Letter from Anne-Brigitte Spitzbarth As the new VP Operations Excellence & Sustainability, I would like to express my enthusiasm for the opportunities ahead of us, and how proud I am to be working with GEFCO’s many stakeholders in the spirit of our Partners, Unlimited commitment. I am excited to be joining a group that has achieved a good year of CSR performance and begun laying the foundations for significant future change. Our people, combining with new technologies and a culture of innovation, will accelerate this positive trajectory for change in our business. This means listening to our employees and customers to find ways to build on what we are doing today to shape our vision of a robust and sustainable future. At GEFCO, optimising logistics goes hand in hand with reducing our environmental footprint. To take one example, savings on kilometers and empty loads mean cost reductions for GEFCO and our customers. Another example is exploring and testing new fuel sources such as electric power, LNG, and hydrogen to help reduce our emissions. Our asset-light business model means we can be agile in our adaptation, and as an integrator we can help accelerate change with our carriers and customers. Together we are looking with at 2020’s opportunities with excitement, while recognizing that there is much work to do. I look forward to revealing more about our sustainability plans and offerings over the coming months and would like to thank my colleagues and customers for their partnership on this important journey. Anne-Brigitte Spitzbarth VP Operations Excellence & Sustainability 11 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group CSR in detail 12 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Innovation Flow Optimisation and Multimodal Offers Risk Action Flow offerings must respond to changing costs and customer Investments in the New Silk Road: GEFCO has long invested expectations if they are to remain competitive. In both price in the connectivity and speed of international rail solutions, and carbon terms, flow optimisation and multimodal capability where one of our proudest efforts is the New Silk Road. can achieve this goal. In addition to the demands of the market, Currently, 95% of trade between China and Europe is delivered regulatory oversight is increasing as governments respond to by sea, yet this mode of freight is slow and has a high air climate obligations. To continue to grow its market share in the pollution impact. GEFCO’s investment in the region allows us medium term GEFCO must stay ahead of these two trends. to offer customers a rail solution that is twice as fast as the shipping alternative and emits 5x less CO 2. Strategy Employing Artificial intelligence: The application of As an asset-light logistics specialist, flow optimisation is a artificial-intelligence to route planning is being trialled in core competence. Seeking out new routes and utilising them the Netherlands, with a view to extend into Belgium and effectively is central to how we add value for our customers. Luxembourg. So far, the trials have demonstrated impressive Dedicated organisation: Understanding and improving reductions in time, distance and cost and we are exploring our flows is a company-wide effort. For example, local how this technology could be better integrated into GEFCO development managers across the company build dynamic operations. data-maps of train lines and marine and river routes for our Results engineering department, who can respond to customer requests. Acquisition of innovative technologies: In 2019 GEFCO acquired Chronotruck; a real-time digital platform that connects Integrating innovation: GEFCO maintains a dynamic, shippers and carriers to reduce wasted, empty journeys and proactive culture towards innovation, and flow management therefore optimise cost and capacity. The technology has is an area where technological advances are creating already helped over 9,000 customers improve their efficiency; considerable opportunities for optimisation. We consider with GEFCO’s added expertise and experience we plan to both external innovation from the wider market, and where expand its application even further. we see opportunities that others have not we encourage entrepreneurialism through our Innovation Factory and China-Europe multimodal: Following considerable investment Techstar programmes. across the region, China-Europe rail transit can now be now served in only 3 weeks, aligning emissions and commercial goals. 13 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Innovation Clean and Connected Transport Risk Action More and more customers are requesting help in reducing the EVcom Commitment: In 2019, GEFCO France became one of emissions associated with their supply chain, and we are also the first signatories to the French Environment and Energy seeing interest in fully green offerings in the medium and long Management Agency’s EVcom mechanism. This commits term. Aside from our obligation to the environment, a failure to GEFCO to ambitious targets for ourselves and our partners, respond to these shifting customer demands would have negative including: consequences for our relationships and eventually our profits. For our own vehicles (by 2021): Strategy • 100% fleet compliance with Euro 6 standards Optimise GEFCO assets: GEFCO’s ability to deliver clean • Telematics to measure and manage fuel consumption on all transportation is reliant on the vehicles it has access to. For our vehicles own fleet this means a high-quality maintenance programme, • All drivers trained in eco-driving and placing the consideration of emissions at the core of our For our subcontracted fleet (largest 130 carriers, or c. 40% procurement process. of spend): Understand subcontracted assets: For our subcontracted • Measure carrier fleet composition vs Euro 4/5/6 fleet we aim to increase the quality, depth and currency of our • Measure percentage of eco-driving trained drivers knowledge, so that we can calculate and select clean solutions. • Ensure adhesion to Objectifs CO2 • Improve all of the above statistics by 2021 KPIs Fleet Renewal: During 2019, GEFCO bought or leased 68 trucks to update its fleet with the majority of these vehicles B 2.04% meeting Euro 6 standards. Disruptive technologies: Innovation is playing a growing role in the reduction of emissions, and GEFCO is investigating and 2019 CDP Climate avoidance of trialling a wide range of concepts including: the use of rigid sails in ocean freight, the deployment of gigaliners in Spain, live fuel Change grade transport related monitoring, and LNG and CNG powertrains. CO2 vs 2018 14 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group 15 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Innovation Digitalisation Risk Action Digitising supply chains reduces customer lead times, Moveecar: Moveecar’s digital platform enables manufacturers, reduces costs, and allows functions to work together in a dealers, rental companies, and other mobility players to offer more connected, efficient way. Done well, digitalisation value-adding services throughout the vehicle life cycle. This allows the business to operate more intelligently. However, includes maintenance, repairs, transportation, storage and reliance on data sharing and computer analysis also carries other necessities. As the market shifts towards Cars-as-arisks of malfunction, data security breaches, and unintended Service (CaaS), Moveecar will improve user experience, and interruptions. As connectivity increases, these disruptions allows GEFCO to focus its growth in an expanding industry. have the potential to affect greater portions of the business Chronotruck: GEFCO acquired Chronotruck in July 2019 to than before. augment its digital offering to both shippers and carriers. The Strategy innovative platform provides a full suite of services with live information and tracking. For our customers, the system gives Integration: Through our Innovation Factory and other access to nearby carriers and digital services including an collaborations, we maintain a proactive role in digital instant quotation system, geotracking, proof of delivery and technology development. This means we can co-design e-invoicing. Meanwhile carriers are able to optimise flows by digital solutions that integrate better with existing GEFCO and avoid half-loads. There is considerable symbiosis with technologies, therefore reducing incompatibility risks or GEFCO’s large network of third-party carriers, and the overall design errors. effect is to reduce both costs and carbon by shipping loads Data security: Interventions such as the General Data more efficiently. Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the EU provide valuable Innovation Factory: A wide suite of digital offerings are guidance when managing vulnerable data. GEFCO launched its being developed in the Innovation Factory. One example is GDPR policy in 2018, and adheres to ISO 27002 (Information a track-and-trace solution for motorcycle transport. GEFCO Technology Security Techniques) which closely informs the has partnered with Actility and Wakeo to trial digitalisation in company’s IT Policy. We test our data systems annually motorcycle distribution chains. Motorcycles are transported against different penetration scenarios and disaster plans. Our on ‘cradles’ for security and GEFCO has digitised these cradles IT risk map is updated annually to stay representative of the with in-built trackers, allowing real-time analysis of their latest threats. location. This traceability allows us to correct anticipated delays or cradle shortages. With automatic alerts and estimated delivery times, the tool allows maximum transparency and information for customers. KPI GEFCO did not experience any breaches to its IT system in 2019 16 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Innovation Case Studies Rolling out Moveecar Chronotruck Route Optimisation One click access to Fully digitalised portal to Proprietary AI solution whole-life vehicle logistics match customers and carriers for milk run logistics Testing Tracy Workshop on Wheels Cargofill Augmented Reality Intra-site GPS Voice activated trackMobile customisation Real-time data on Heads Up Display for Efficient movement and-trace reporting service for dealerships truck volumes for cold-chain package for trucks and ground carrier optimisation handling teams Exploring Rigid shipping sails Smart cradles Natural gas Connected Wagons On-demand Reducing fuel Track-and-trace Alternative fuels for Live tracking for fleet warehousing consumption with solution for motorcycle truck powertrains optimisation Digital access to wind power transport instant warehousing 17 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group People Attractiveness, Loyalty, and Employee Engagement Risk Strategy As an asset-light business, GEFCO’s human capital is the Talent acquisition: Our Talent Acquisition philosophy principal source of our value and expertise. In 2017 we identified incorporates 4 pillars: talent retention and attraction as an area where we wanted to ■ Transparency: to enhance employee ambition and develop be best-in-class. Within logistics, two types of employee have internal mobility we give internal colleagues access to all been difficult to recruit and retain as a result of macroeconomic open positions dynamics. Both are essential to GEFCO’s business model and ongoing profitability. ■ Visibility: to attract better talents, we have to be visible in the job market on a regular basis Managers & Engineers: Historically the logistics industry has not been particularly attractive to recent graduates. But over ■ Efficiency: the candidate experience requires a very the past decade, the sector’s rapid uptake of technology has professional candidate relationship begun to change this. GEFCO needs to retain the expertise ■ Assertiveness: our employer branding is the combination of its experienced staff, whilst appealing to a new younger of all the above, and our ability to convince the market that demographic of engineers in order to maintain its expertise and GEFCO is a great place to work develop its offering. Pulse Survey: The company-wide Pulse survey is launched Drivers: Alongside the rest of the industry, GEFCO is facing every two years with the next edition taking place in September a worldwide scarcity of drivers caused by rising demand for 2020. Its role is not principally measurement, but is instead road transport and just-in-time solutions, as well as the relative focused on developing and implementing action plans to make uninterest of younger people in the working conditions and GEFCO a great place to work. The September 2018 survey anti-social hours. resulted in 670 such action plans launched worldwide, and we expect to have all of them completed by June of 2020. Example Action Plans from Pulse Survey To aid the better understanding of colleagues, both personally and in terms of the work they do, GEFCO Romania GEFCO Romania implemented the Live my Life program. This allowed and Live my Life encouraged employees to spend a day working with alongside a colleague in a different role ending with a structure debrief and sharing of outcomes To accelerate personal development, GEFCO Brazil has begun providing tailored development plans to each employee. These GEFCO Brazil are assessed in meetings every six months to track progress, Personalised development plans and are designed to define clear targets for professional growth. Regular meetings with managers are also scheduled to ensure employees can reach their goals. In order to broaden the understanding of Infinite Proximity principles and how they can be applied, GEFCO Thailand GEFCO Thailand arranged bi-monthly sharing sessions for its employees. Infinite Proximity Sharing Sessions Colleagues present their application of IP tools and demonstrate how they have helped with decision making and relationships in their respective roles. 18 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Understanding attrition and turnover: We were disappointed Strength in diversity: We strongly promote gender diversity to see the number of resignations rise last year. In response, we and equal opportunities, and we fight against discriminatory are widening our efforts to understand the dynamics affecting practices in recruitment, training and career development. employee turnover, so we can better improve our hiring and We believe diversity provides both a rewarding working retention practices. Our HR department designs and implements environment and a competitive edge. Last year the company systematic exit interviews with departing employees and the signed a binding commitment to gender equality, bringing Pulse survey will also inform and improve our employee package. these principles into force. GEFCO France SAS and GEFCO SA signed generation contracts ensuring the adaptation of roles for Comprehensive remuneration: GEFCO’s Reward and Recognition seniors, favouring daytime schedules and training for operators Framework is the centrepiece of our efforts to provide attractive in the use of office tools. We proactively recruit and promote working conditions. It is represented by three Cs. people with disabilities, and in France GEFCO has had a ■ Caring – Looking after our employees through retirement specific disabilities strategy since 2008 that has recently been plans, health insurance, flexible working schedules and home extended to 2020 and beyond, and as a result more than 7% office options. For senior drivers, we actively promote daytime of our French employees have disabilities. working schedules Social dialogue: Social dialogue is the foundation for a strong ■ Contribution – recognition and reward for effort and relationship with employees, and its importance at GEFCO is achievement, both through individual and collective schemes demonstrated by 66% of our employees being covered by a collective agreement. Overall, 113 agreements signed by ■ Competitiveness – Ensuring that our offering is a compelling employee representatives are in force in GEFCO. one in terms of responsibilities and remuneration Results Action In 2019, GEFCO was again awarded the HappyIndex®/Trainees GEFCO University: In 2019, we expanded the GEFCO University World and Europe labels, as well as labels for subsidiaries in Brazil, scheme to all employees. Launched in 2018, there are now 15 Czech Republic, France, Germany, Romania, Russia, Spain and academies available, each offering a blended learning programme Turkey. 85.1% of young employees recommended GEFCO for through online, classroom and community activities. The an internship, work-study placement or international volunteer academies allow our employees to accelerate their development program. and build their own career plans through supported mentorship. Established academies include: ■ The GEFCO Fundamentals Academy: Builds capacity in business compliance such as anti-trust, anti-corruption and bribery, export risks, data protection, health and safety ■ The Infinite Proximity Newcomers Academy: Introduces Infinite Proximity to new employees and welcomes them into the GEFCO culture ■ Talent Acquisition Academy: Designed for HR professionals, to ensure hiring practices are of the highest standard and aligned to corporate strategy ■ The Innovation Academy: Promotes an innovative mindset across GEFCO and reinforces the support available for entrepreneurial development KPIs 6.6% 64% completion of 670 employee action plans from Pulse 2018 by December 2019 voluntary turnover rate 19 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group People Health and Safety Risk Action Our operations necessitate a firm awareness of the risks Advancing standards: We are becoming ISO 45001 certified associated with operating machinery, shift working, heavy for Occupational Health and Safety in two countries, lifting and road accidents, as well as wider work-place risks Portugal and Switzerland. Our ambition for these sites is to such as stress, harassment and other psychological issues. have a fully integrated and certified management system, Safeguarding the safety and wellbeing of our employees is spanning quality (ISO 9001), health and safety (ISO 45001), of primary importance. and environment (ISO 14001). We renewed our companyStrategy wide Health and Safety Policy again in 2019, ensuring it remains relevant and effective. We also carried out a major Strong policy commitment: Over the last ten years, GEFCO new mapping exercise for safety risks across all divisions in has worked hard on its safety culture. The Health & Safety 2019. This included estimations of probability and severity, policy was re-signed in April 2019 by all of the members of and gives GEFCO a better view of risk according to activity. the Executive Committee, with the aim of achieving a zero occupational accident or illness rate. Innovation: GEFCO invests in technologies to reduce Health and Safety risks. Robotic Process Automation (RPA) relieves Understanding risks: All current and future activities assessed workers of repetitive tasks and towards more creative problem for risks from accidents, occupational illnesses or psychological solving or interaction. We are testing RPA for invoicing and conditions. These assessments include on-site accidents, road may expand to reporting and purchasing if successful. In accidents, repetitive movements, physically strenuous tasks, warehouses too, our 4.0 Facilities Management system computer screen exposure, chemical exposure, noise and combines machine learning and artificial intelligence to pollution, and psychological stresses. This builds our operational automate strenuous tasks such as pallet loading and risk map, which allows us to manage high-risk activities. packaging, therefore reducing health and safety risks for Integration: Traditionally, Health and Safety was driven by employees. the Group Management System (GMS) department across our operations. Today, culture and capacity around Health and Safety have increased to the extent that it is now routinely integrated into operational teams. This grants GMS a supporting role, allowing more attention to oversight and improvement. Subcontractors: This year for the first time, our accident analysis expanded to include sub-contractors. We have always requested this information, but gathering the data ourselves reinforces our understanding and quality control. Subcontracted health and safety risks occur mostly from traffic accidents and machinery operations, and this is where we focus our efforts, although our procurement team is also working with chemical suppliers to reduce chemical risks. KPIs Severity rate: 2019 = 0.2 vs 2018 = 0.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 Frequency rate: 2019 = 5.4 vs 2018 = 6.6 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 9.9 7.4 6.9 7.0 8.1 5.4 6.3 5.3 5.3 5.4 5.0 6.6 5.4 20 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group 21 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Environment Responsible Management of the Environment Risk Commitments: 2019 marks a decade of GEFCO’s involvement As an international industrial operator, GEFCO has a in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC is responsibility to the regions and ecosystems in which it an international, principles-based framework that supports operates. We balance our operations with local environmental businesses to operate responsibly. Through this framework, sensitivities across all of our 300 sites because mismanaged GEFCO has committed to: environmental impact can lead to a reputational, regulatory, ■ Support a precautionary approach to environmental and even operational risks for the company. challenges, i.e. volunteering action before negative Strategy impact occurs. Understanding environmental risk: Environmental ■ Undertake initiatives for greater environmental responsibility management at our sites uses risk analyses carried out by the GEFCO Group Management System department. Depending ■ Encourage the development and diffusion of on the typology of a particular site, a list of risks is assembled environmentally friendly technologies where possible against tailored prioritisation criteria. These risks include GEFCO is also rolling out voluntary ISO 14001 certification for accidental pollution, industrial effluents and hazardous waste, Environmental Management Systems across its sites with 59 unintentional releases and damage to biodiversity. A global currently certified. building and equipment maintenance program checks all Action installations that could generate accidental releases into the water, air or soil. This programme assigns responsibilities Capacity building: Our response to environmental impact must and sets out the control and monitoring procedures for each be company-wide. We have produced a range of educational piece of equipment or installation. The sites then implement materials for dissemination; including practical guides, poster mitigating procedures for each risk identified, which are then reminders, and on-site training courses. For drivers, we offer shared to disseminate best practices. training in eco-driving to minimise unnecessary air pollution on the roads. KPIs GOLD 2019 EcoVadis B 2019 CDP Climate change 2422 Number of 270 Number of employees trained on environmental incidents environmental topics (285 in 2018) 22 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Environment Addressing Climate Change Risk Carriers: GEFCO’s Sustainable Procurement Charter commits There are growing regulatory incentives to improve our carbon our subcontracted carriers to a range of environmental performance as more financial mechanisms and emission standards including: minimum Euro 5 compliant vehicles, limits are introduced. tracking systems, eco-drive training, and questionnaires. 1,832 carriers have signed the charter representing €1.2bn of spend. But there are also significant operational and market opportunities with customers requiring help to meet targets, We take our Scope 3 emissions very seriously and many of the and wanting accuracy and visibility as regards their emissions. approaches that reduce emissions for our own fleet are built Carbon reductions can also result in greater efficiency and into our procurement charter and required of our subcontracted cost savings for the business through better design and lessvehicles. consumptive technologies. Action For GEFCO, climate change mitigation is not just about Multimodal: Air freight is the most carbon intense mode of compliance, it is a pillar of business growth and opportunity. transporting goods. Shipping has the lowest intensity but contributes other impacts such as sulphur dioxide emissions. Strategy Road transport has roughly 10% the carbon intensity of air Annual improvement: 2019 is the ninth consecutive year that freight, and rail is better again. As a proportion of GEFCO GEFCO has calculated its CO2 footprint using the EcoTransIT tonnes/km, airfreight has fallen in recent years while rail has World methodology. We use our internal Castor software to increased. This is made possible by our being the largest track emissions as requested by our customers. Since 2017 has private owner of rail wagons in Europe with over 3,500 in total, committed to avoiding a cumulative 2% of its carbon emissions and due to our continued investment in Eurasian rail networks. relating to transport each year. We are delighted that for the 3rd year running, we have met this target. 1 Site-level reductions: The innovation section discusses Scope 1 (direct combustion) reductions through flow optimisation, Road: Of all modes, road provides the largest opportunities for multi-modal solutions and clean alternatives. After Scope near-term CO2 reduction and we have robust action plans in 1, the next portion of emissions within direct control of the place to limit emissions in operations. These include limiting company is the purchased electricity that we consume (Scope empty back haul, optimising flows, and maximising use of 2). To achieve reductions here, we invest in site-level energy full loads. All of these measures are controlled and monitored efficiency. In 2019, 46 sites implemented energy saving. Our through transportation plans which are reviewed monthly to Cournegay site already produces its own electricity through ensure progress. solar panels and will be replicated across other suitable sites. Innovation also plays a significant, giving us access to alternative fuels and greener vehicles; GEFCO is positioned to trial these opportunities as they become feasible, and is already testing dual trailers, LNG, and various engineering upgrades such as the Eco-cars a fuel optimising device in Spain. KPIs 2.04% avoidance of transport 7% increased in total 4% reduction in total related CO2 vs 2018 waste recovery or energy usage at sites recycling at sites 23 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Governance and Society Sustainable Procurement and Duty of Care Risk Risk Mapping and Assessment – Suppliers and GEFCO operates an integrated yet asset-light business. Our subcontractors: Our Supplier Classification System ranks subsidiaries, suppliers and sub-contractors play an integral role suppliers and subcontractors by four performance levels in our operations and it is in our interest to ensure all operate in which then determine GEFCO’s stance towards them: Expand, safe and sustainable conditions. Maintain, Improve, or Reduce. It allows GEFCO to identify where the risks stand in its supply chain and to prioritise which Strategy suppliers to assess in detail and to audit. The classification Duty of Care Plan: Under French Law No. 2017-399 of 27 consolidates both financial and sustainability information and March 2017 on the ‘Duty of Care of Parent Companies and is informed through the self-assessment questionnaire which Ordering Companies’ GEFCO implemented plans to identify requires information on: risks and prevent serious abuses of human rights and ■ Certification, standards and policies (including ISO 14001 fundamental freedoms, and to promote the health and safety and ISO 50001) of persons and the environment. This was communicated with subsidiaries, suppliers, service providers and subcontractors. ■ Environmental activities (including CO2 labelling, sustainable It includes: procurement, and CO2 reduction efforts) ■ Risk mapping by severity ■ Health and safety (including policies, safety rules, and accident rate monitoring) ■ Assessment procedures for entities, aligned with the risk mapping In 2019 we updated the score weightings in the Supplier Classification System to reflect customer demands and ■ Actions to prevent and mitigate risks and serious breaches company strategy; sustainable development, safety and ■ Whistleblowing and data gathering on the existence or the security have since been awarded heavier weightings. realisation of risks, implemented with representative trade Questionnaire results are hosted and monitored on our Carrier union organisations Management System; if we see deviations in the responses, audit becomes a priority. Audits are prioritised for carriers with ■ Follow-up mechanisms for the measures taken, and deviations, carriers who provide high-value services to GEFCO, assessment of their efficiency or any carrier that hasn’t be audited in the last two years. Risk mapping and Assessment – Subsidiaries: Risk mapping Suppliers must commit to GEFCO’s Sustainable Procurement of subsidiaries was carried out in 2018 and will undergo Charter, which involves adhering to GEFCO’s code of ethics, a full review every two years, with a minor review carried respect of human rights, health and safety activities and out in interim years. Local environmental health and safety environment management. The Charter also requires suppliers assessments are conducted by the sites themselves following to receive regular audits. In 2019, this Charter was expanded to guidelines prepared by GEFCO’s GMS team. include all rail and sea carriers, plus all equipment suppliers for the first time. Charter agreements are also integrated into the Carrier Management System. Whistleblowing: We promote an internal whistleblowing system which is open to all concerns including corruption, anti-competitive practices, discrimination and harassment, occupational health and safety and environmental issues. This system is managed by an external provider in order to guarantee absolute anonymity for our employees. In 2019 we launched a revised communications campaign to raise employee awareness of the whistleblowing platform. 24 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Action Subsidiaries: A range of actions have been described in Suppliers must also commit to GEFCO’s Sustainable other dedicated chapters throughout this report. If specific Procurement Charter, which involves adhering to GEFCO’s deficiencies are discovered, GEFCO will request the code of ethics, respect of human rights, health and safety implementation of an action-plan. Action plans are often activities and environment management. The Charter also local, but may be corporate level if deficiencies are recurrent. requires suppliers to receive regular audits. In 2019, this Charter General managers and the subsidiary CFO must sign their was expanded to include all rail and sea carriers, plus all acknowledgement of the assessment process, deviations equipment suppliers for the first time. Charter agreements are found, and whether action plans are required. also integrated into the Carrier Management System. Suppliers and sub-contractors: All suppliers and subWhistleblowing: We promote an internal whistleblowing contractors can access the GEFCO Carrier Management system which is open to all concerns including corruption, System Database and must contractually update their anti-competitive practices, discrimination and harassment, information on services provided, legislative compliance, and occupational health and safety and environmental issues. evidence of their performance. This year we updated our This system is managed by an external provider in order to database management to flag discrepancies in a structured guarantee absolute anonymity for our employees. In 2019 time-critical way; this includes how we record and monitor we launched a revised communications campaign to raise post-audit action plans. employee awareness of the whistleblowing platform. Processes and approach: GEFCO hosts procurement conventions at least once a year to review the effectiveness of sustainable procurement processes. The last of these was held in October 2019 in Riga. In 2020, we will be conducting an additional review of all questionnaire content and the accountability process. KPIs 2018 2019 108 Charters signed 1478 1832 Total spend €911m €1203m audits conducted in 2019 Mode Road only All modes (target: 100), leading to 145 action plans Compliance rate: 79% (target: 80%), an improvement on 2018’s figure of 75% 25 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Governance and Society Business Ethics and Transparency Risk Action GEFCO has a direct presence in 47 countries around the Corruption and Influence Peddling Risks: In 2019 we finalised world and operates in a further 59 countries indirectly via our a risk mapping of all corruption and influence peddling risks partners, managing the flows of goods from thousands of that is compliant with French regulation Sapin 2. We are now suppliers to manufacturers and retailers. We take responsibility working with all business departments to implement a 2020for our own compliance, and that of our suppliers and 2021 action plan to further reduce corruption risk. customers. We integrate and educate these values and Training: We continue to implement e-learning programmes standards within and beyond our business. on corruption awareness, GDPR and insurance issues. In 2020 Strategy we will introduce training on competition law and the Export GEFCO’s ethical values are consolidated in our Code of Control Policy. This training is mandatory for employees with Ethics: a set of commitments to prevent and identify conflicts relevant responsibilities and voluntary for all others. In ten of interest; to treat suppliers fairly; to prevent insider trading; operating countries, employees receive face-to-face training to share our ethics with contractors; to respect international with lawyers to understand local requirements on competition trade control regulations; to exercise fair competition; and to and anti-corruption. fight corruption and money laundering. Guides on Competition Law are made available on the internal GEFCO has developed an Anti-Corruption Policy, a Competition intranet. Law Policy, a formal framework for participation in professional associations, and an Export Control Policy which details verification procedures for flows according to country, region, transaction and risk. In 2019, we updated GEFCO’s Operating Guidelines. The Guidelines require all transactions to comply with local legislative and regulatory frameworks, particularly but not limited to European, American and UN regulations concerning money laundering and corruption. Over 300 GEFCO managers met to review, discuss and commit to the revised guidelines, which include more clarity on guarantee issuance, anticorruption measures and relevance to freight-forwarding. KPI 1,268 completions of ethics e-training courses 26 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group 27 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Reporting Methodology Scope of social data Scope of environmental data and methodologies In 2019, the GEFCO Group’s consolidated accounts covered Scope companies of different origins. GEFCO uses the ‘CSR Reporting’ questionnaire linked to the GEFCO SA and the GEFCO subsidiaries Tennaxia software to gather environmental data relating to all The consolidated GEFCO subsidiaries are spread across six of its activities. The Group’s sites are required to complete the geographic zones, corresponding to eight structural zones for questionnaire on an annual basis. the processing of social data: Scope of the group environmental reporting questionnaire ■ CORPORATE: GEFCO SA, the parent company Exclusion criteria ■ France: GEFCO France S.A.S., the French subsidiary The questionnaire automatically excludes sites that including the GIS* and GAS* second-tier subsidiaries, GCL are considered not to be representative of the Group’s environmental impact, in accordance with the criteria outlined ■ 1520: Baltic states, Kazakhstan, Russia and formalised in the reporting procedures. ■ LATAM (Latin America): Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico ■ Operating life of the site: a site whose operating life is less ■ ASOR (East Asia): China, South Korea, Hong Kong than 6 months in the reference period is excluded ■ CEBAME (Central Europe, Balkans, Middle East): Austria, ■ Activity of the site: a site whose activity is only ‘office’ with a Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, size of less than 5 persons is excluded Hungary, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, ■ Modalities for the accounting if the site is at a third-party’s: Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Ukraine some sites are located on, or juxtaposed to, a third-party site ■ EUROMED (Western Europe, Mediterranean): Algeria, (customer, supplier, service provider, contractor or partner). Benelux, Italy, Morocco, Portugal, Spain (including GLT), If the utilities (water, electricity, gas, heating oil, urban Switzerland, Tunisia, the UK heating, LPG, diesel, and waste management) provided by the third party are not counted physically (using a meter) or ■ F-FWD: F-FWD Corporate, F-FWD Australia, F-FWD are partially, GEFCO does not take account of these figures Hong Kong, F-FWD China, F-FWD Taiwan, F-FWD usually consolidated by the third party. Thailand, F-FWD Singapore, F-FWD Netherlands, F-FWD Poland, F-FWD Czech Republic, F-FWD Germany, F-FWD Switzerland, F-FWD UK, F-FWD USA, GEFCO United states, GEFCO F-FWD Belgium, GEFCO South Africa, GEFCO South Korea, F-FWD France ■ MERCURIO: Argentina, India, Italy, Slovakia 2019 social data The Group’s social data, with the exception of data relating to occupational accidents, is monitored in Vision, its HR information system data regarding occupational accidents and incidents is tracked in the Acciline application, linked to Vision. Subsidiaries which are not consolidated are not recorded in Vision and do not appear within the scope of the 2019 social data. For HS data not linked to ACCILINE, scope excludes in 2019 the following FFWD subsidiaries with no operation activities (F-FWD BELGIUM; F-FWD SWITZERLAND; F-FWD HONG KONG; F-FWD CHINA; F-FWD TAÏWAN; F-FWD THAILAND; F-FWD SINGAPORE; F-FWD POLAND). 28 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group 2019 coverage Carbon Inventory The report covers the period from 1 November 2018 to GEFCO’s carbon inventory outlines the greenhouse gas 31 October 2019. 236 sites took part in the 2019 reporting emissions generated by the Group, whether they are generated campaign. as a direct (Scope 1 and 2) or indirect consequence of its As at 31 December 2019, the GEFCO Group had not been activities. required to establish any provision or guarantee concerning The inventory is produced using the GHG Protocol method. a risk to the environment. GEFCO does not consume raw materials in its activity and the majority of its operational sites Emissions are calculated based on activity data (litres of diesel are located in industrial areas. The impact on biodiversity is used, MWh LHV used, etc.) multiplied by emissions factors therefore reduced. Furthermore, the Group does not exploit (TEQ CO2/litre of diesel, TEQ CO2/MWh LHV of electricity, etc.). land or process food waste. Likewise, the fight against food This data can then be used to assess the impact of Scopes 1 waste is not relevant to the GEFCO Group. and 2. The gases taken into account are those relating to the The Group’s risk management framework incorporates Kyoto Protocol divided by a tonne of CO2 equivalent (TEQ CO2) environmental risks and enables such risks to be taken into through their global warming potential (GWP). account. Scope 3 emissions regarding sea, road, air and rail transport are Indicators reported here may exclude answers of sites that calculated directly using the Group’s internal tool (CASTOR) and have not or ill-answered to the associated questions. The the EcoTransIT World methodology. response rate to an indicator will therefore be specified, being Remaining Scope 3 emissions are calculated by exploiting data higher or lower regarding the number of missing answers or extracted from support operating systems. non-corrected data. Within the GEFCO carbon inventory, emission factors are taken from DEFRA (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 2012), from the Carbon Footprint (V8) and from the implementing decree governing the CO2 display of the means of transport in question. 29 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Appendix and Data 30 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Concordance Table Business model description Pages Global Compact Principles Activities and markets 4-6 Business environment 4-6 Organisation and structure 4-6 Objectives and strategies for creating value 6-7 Main trends and factors that could infuence GEFCO evolution 8-11 in the future Risks and opportunities (risk description, policies, actions and results) Methodology to identify risks and opportunities 10 Flow Optimisation and Multimodal Offers 13 Clean and Connected Transport 14 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Digitalisation 16-17 All principles Attractiveness, Loyalty, and Employee Engagement 18-19 Health and Safety 20 Responsible Management of the Environment 22 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater Addressing Climate Change 23 environmental responsibility, 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Sustainable Procurement and Duty of Care 24-25 All principles Business Ethics and Transparency 26 10.. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Specific disclosures Climate change (contribution and adaptation) 14, 23, 32 Circular economy 22, 33 Fight against food waste Exclusion* Fight against food insecurity and respect for animal welfare and Exclusion* responsible, fair and sustainable food Collective agreements concluded in the company and their impact 10, 19 on the economic performance of the company Actions to fight against discrimination and promote diversity 19, 34-37 Measures taken for the benefit of disabled people 19 Societal commitments for sustainable development 6, 10-11, 24-26 Exclusion*: Given the nature of our activities (transport and warehousing services), we consider the these themes do not constitute major CSR risks and do not justify a development in this non-financial performance declaration. 31 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group KPIs & Data Section Environment Unit 2017 2018 2019 CARBON EMISSIONS CO2 emission by transport mode Road % 74.7 77.7 81.5% Sea % 9.6 8.3 8.2% Rail % 0.4 0.9 0.8% Air % 15.3 13.1 9.5% t.km by transport mode (in %) Road % 50.7 52.2 51.4% Sea % 45.3 43.5 44.9% Rail % 2.8 3.4 3.0% Air % 1.2 0.9 0.6% CO2 emission by scope (in %) Scope 1 (excl. transport) % 0.9 0.8 0.8% Scope 1 Transport % 1.8 2.1 2.4% Scope 2 % 0.5 0.7 0.6% Scope 3 Transport % 86.6 86.1 84.9% Scope 3 (excl. transport) % 10.2 10.2 11.3% ENERGY Energy for buildings Electricity MWh 48,011 47,402 42,102 District heating MWh 1,406 1,518 1,004 Heating Oil MWh 1,746 1,931 1,681 LPG MWh 10,601 13,530 11,403 Natural gas MWh 28,274 26,457 31,04 Total MWh 90,038 90,838 87,23 Forklift consumption Natural gas MWh 9,543 9,041 8,824 Diesel MWh 1,653 1,615 1,521 LPG MWh 1,341 1,488 1,653 Total MWh 12,537 12,144 11,998 32 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group KPIs & Data Environment Unit 2017 2018 2019 WATER Consumption of water per vehicle washed BLYES LAGNIEU ST VULBAS l/veh 106.3 CASABLANCA TIT MELLIL l/veh 37.9 39.8 40.0 COURGENAY l/veh 42.1 35.0 54.0 KOLIN l/veh 189.8 193.1 32.7 MARCKOLSHEIM l/veh 352.1 232.8 MERCURIO LIVOURNE l/veh 429.2 416.3 389.3 OOSTERHOUT LOGISTIEKWEG l/veh 82.8 PARIS MARLY LA VILLE JAURES l/veh 183.3 201.0 143.5 PORTBURY l/veh 45.6 SETUBAL PONTES FVL l/veh 24.1 23.5 24.5 Average l/veh 162.0 180.1 115.2 Consumption of water per “equivalent 60l” container washed MADRID VILLAVERDE WRP/RPS l/cont 9.0 9,62 10.96 PARIS POISSY RD30 l/cont 0.34 SOCHAUX ETUPES FESCHES l/cont 0.6 0,56 0.55 TRNAVA ZAVAR WRP l/cont 5.3 2,33 6.72 VIGO MOS WRP/RPS l/cont 0.5 0,59 0.48 Average l/cont 0.9 0.8 0.7 Type of water Volume of groundwater consumed m3 29,126 Volume of mains water consumed m3 162,828 Total water consumption m 3 191,953 Recovered or Other Unit recycled treatments Total 2019 WASTE MANAGEMENT Non-hazardous waste tonnage 11,350.39 3,933.14 15,283.52 % 74 26 Hazardous waste tonnage 541.5 1,229.71 1,771.21 % 31% 69% Total 11,891.89 5,162.85 17,054.73 70% 30% 33 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value People 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 EMPLOYEES Breakdown of employees by geographical zone 1520 563 534 469 5% 4% 4% ASOR 93 82 83 1% 1% 1% CEBAME 2,425 2,784 2,885 21% 22% 23% CORPORATE 576 585 661 5% 5% 5% EUROMED 2,508 2,970 3,240 22% 24% 26% F-FWD 623 762 721 5% 6% 6% FRANCE 2,977 3,153 3,051 26% 25% 25% LATAM 1,608 1,584 1,269 14% 13% 10% Total 11,373 12,454 12,379 Breakdown of employees by socio-professional category (F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio Argentina excluded from 2017 data) ETAM* 5,871 6,223 6,211 52% 50% 50% Managers 1,731 1,729 1,801 15% 14% 15% Workers 3,678 4,502 4,367 33% 36% 35% Breakdown of employees by socio-professional category per geographical zone (F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio Argentina excluded from 2017 data) 1520 ETAM 422 411 349 75% 77% 74% Managers 85 71 65 15% 13% 14% Workers 56 52 55 10% 10% 12% ASOR ETAM 40 35 37 43% 43% 45% Managers 26 22 22 28% 27% 27% Workers 27 25 24 29% 30% 29% CEBAME ETAM 1,358 1,504 1,523 56% 54% 53% Managers 291 285 280 12% 10% 10% Workers 776 995 1,082 32% 36% 38% CORPORATE ETAM 104 107 163 18% 18% 25% Managers 472 478 484 82% 82% 73% Workers 0% EUROMED ETAM 1,630 1,799 1,738 65% 61% 54% Managers 251 212 257 10% 7% 8% Workers 627 959 1,245 25% 32% 38% F-FWD ETAM 430 551 525 69% 72% 73% Managers 125 147 149 20% 19% 21% Workers 68 64 47 11% 8% 7% FRANCE ETAM 1,488 1,354 1,353 50% 43% 44% Managers 447 464 484 15% 15% 16% Workers 1,042 1,335 1,214 35% 42% 40% LATAM ETAM 483 462 523 30% 29% 41% Managers 64 50 46 4% 3% 4% Workers 1,061 1,072 700 66% 68% 55% 34 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value People 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 RECRUITMENTS (PERMANENT CONTRACTS) Breakdown of recruitments by geographical zone 1520 154 97 85 8% 4% 3% ASOR 15 0% 1% CEBAME 461 678 729 24% 28% 29% CORPORATE 38 66 129 2% 3% 5% EUROMED 211 427 456 11% 17% 18% F-FWD 96 136 144 5% 6% 6% FRANCE 480 773 561 25% 31% 23% LATAM 480 281 357 25% 11% 14% Total 1,920 2,458 2,476 Recruitments by socio-professional category ETAM 806 1,045 1,329 42% 43% 54% Managers 177 254 209 9% 10% 8% Workers 937 1,159 938 49% 47% 38% Total 1,920 2,458 2,476 RESIGNATIONS Breakdown of resignations by geographical zone 1520 64 87 64 9% 11% 9% ASOR 4 1% 0% CEBAME 203 208 185 29% 27% 25% CORPORATE 35 40 37 5% 5% 5% EUROMED 140 143 165 20% 19% 22% F-FWD 91 92 74 13% 12% 10% FRANCE 97 103 105 14% 13% 14% LATAM 70 100 107 10% 13% 15% Total 704 773 737 REDUNDANCIES Breakdown of redundancies by geographical zone 1520 63 3 19 10% 1% 2% ASOR 2 0% 0% CEBAME 100 46 94 16% 8% 10% CORPORATE 19 10 16 3% 2% 2% EUROMED 89 61 172 14% 10% 18% F-FWD 13 16 29 2% 3% 3% FRANCE 223 309 133 35% 52% 14% LATAM 126 147 468 20% 25% 50% Total 633 635 931 35 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value People 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 RETIREMENTS Breakdown of retirements by geographical zone 1520 0% 0% ASOR 3 1 2% 0% 2% CEBAME 15 2 9% 3% CORPORATE 17 12 10 10% 18% 19% EUROMED 39 17 6 24% 25% 11% F-FWD 5 2 2 3% 3% 4% FRANCE 81 34 34 50% 51% 64% LATAM 2 1% 0% Total 162 67 53 Absolute Value Relative Value Gender 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Gender equality (excluding internships + F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio excluded from 2017 data) 1520 Female 233 231 197 41% 43% 5% Male 330 303 272 59% 57% 3% ASOR Female 38 41 41% 50% Male 55 41 59% 50% CEBAME Female 882 978 1,003 37% 35% 26% Male 1,530 1,806 1,882 63% 65% 22% CORPORATE Female 228 223 277 40% 38% 7% Male 348 362 384 60% 62% 5% EUROMED Female 631 768 867 29% 26% 22% Male 1,576 2,202 2,373 71% 74% 28% F-FWD Female 304 400 384 49% 52% 10% Male 319 362 337 51% 48% 4% FRANCE Female 948 961 942 32% 30% 24% Male 2,029 2,192 2,109 68% 70% 25% LATAM Female 203 196 210 13% 12% 5% Male 1,312 1,388 1,059 87% 88% 13% Total Female 3,467 3,798 3,880 32% 30% 32% Male 7,499 8,656 8,416 68% 70% 68% Male/Female headcount by socio-professional category (excluding internships + Mercurio Argentina excluded from 2017 data) ETAM Female 2,633 2,807 2,829 45% 45% 46% Male 3,238 3,416 3,382 55% 55% 54% Managers Female 501 520 575 29% 30% 32% Male 1,230 1,209 1,226 71% 70% 68% Workers Female 364 471 516 10% 10% 12% Male 3314 4031 3,851 90% 90% 88% 36 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Absolute Value Relative Value Gender 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Male/Female distribution age (F-FWD and Mercurio excluded from 2016 data and Mercurio excluded from 2017 data) 60& + Female 57 49 287 18% 16% 4.24% Male 252 266 924 82% 84% 5.93% 50-59 Female 608 584 976 28% 26% 14.43% Male 1,599 1,703 2,958 72% 74% 18.99% 40-49 Female 891 969 1,797 28% 28% 26.57% Male 2,313 2,508 4,406 72% 72% 28.28% 30-39 Female 1,241 1,160 2,538 34% 31% 37.53% Male 2,395 2,586 5,037 66% 69% 32.33% 20-29 Female 671 645 1,163 36% 34% 17.20% Male 1,180 1,247 2,241 64% 66% 14.38% <20 Female 30 3 2 41% 17% 0.03% Male 43 15 14 59% 83% 0.09% Male/Female recruitments by socio-professional category (excluding internships) ETAM Female 323 469 414 40% 45% 72% Male 483 576 539 60% 55% 41% Managers Female 56 89 77 32% 35% 13% Male 121 165 119 68% 65% 9% Workers Female 109 137 85 12% 12% 15% Male 828 1,022 665 88% 88% 50% Total Female 488 695 576 25% 28% 30% Male 1,432 1,763 1,323 75% 72% 70% Training 2017 2018 2019 WORKFORCE Average annual temporary workforce 2153 3025 3,107 Breakdown of employees by contract Permanent 11555 11,405 Fixed Term 899 974 37 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group Report of Independent Third Party Independent third party’s report on consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report To the General Assembly, Responsibility of the independent ■ we assessed the suitability of In our quality as an independent verifier, third party the criteria of the Guidelines accredited by the COFRAC under the On the basis of our work, our with respect to their relevance, number n° 3-1681 (scope of accreditation responsibility is to provide a report completeness, reliability, neutrality available on the website www.cofrac.fr), expressing a limited assurance and understandability, with due and as a member of the network conclusion on: consideration of industry best of one of the statutory auditors of your practices, where appropriate; ■ the compliance of the Statement with entity (hereafter “entity”), we present our we verified that the Statement the requirements of article R. 225-105 ■ report on the consolidated non-financial includes each category of social of the French Commercial Code; statement established for the year ended and environmental information on the 31 December 2019 (hereafter ■ the fairness of the information set out in article L. 225 102 1 III; referred to as the “Statement”), provided in accordance with article included in the management report R. 225 105 I, 3° and II of the French ■ we verified that the Statement pursuant to the requirements of articles Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, provides the information required L. 225 102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105including key performance indicators, under article R. 225-105 II of the 1 of the French Commercial Code (Code and the measures implemented French Commercial Code, where de commerce). considering the principal risks relevant with respect to the principal (hereinafter the “Information”). risks, and includes, where applicable, The entity’s responsibility an explanation for the absence of the The Board of Directors is responsible However, it is not our responsibility to information required under article for preparing the Statement conforming comment on the entity’s compliance L. 225-102-1 III, paragraph 2 of the to legal and regulatory dispositions, with other applicable legal and regulatory French Commercial Code; including a presentation of the business requirements, in particular the French model, a description of the principal duty of care law and anti-corruption ■ we verified that the Statement non-financial risks, a presentation of the and tax avoidance legislation or on the presents the business model and policies implemented considering those compliance of products and services a description of the principal risks risks and the outcomes of these policies, with the applicable regulations. associated with all the consolidated including key performance indicators. entities’ activities, including where Nature and scope of the work relevant and proportionate, the The Statement has been prepared in The work described below was risks associated with their business accordance with the entity’s procedures performed in accordance with the relationships, their products or (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main provisions of articles A. 225-1 et seq. services, as well as their policies, elements of which are presented in the of the French Commercial Code, as measures and the outcomes thereof, Statement or available online. well as with the professional guidance including key performance indicators of the French Institute of Statutory associated to the principal risks; Independence and quality control Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such Our independence is defined by the engagements and with ISAE 3000. ■ we referred to documentary sources requirements of article L. 822-11-3 of the and conducted interviews to: French Commercial Code and the French ■ we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ activities – assess the process used to Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) and the description of the principal identify and validate the principal of our profession. In addition, we have risks associated; risks as well as the consistency implemented a system of quality of the outcomes, including the control including documented policies key performance indicators used, and procedures regarding compliance with respect to the principal risks with applicable legal and regulatory and the policies presented, and requirements, the ethical requirements and French professional guidance. 38 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group – corroborate the qualitative – tests of details, using sampling Conclusion information (measures and techniques, in order to verify the Based on the procedures performed, outcomes) that we considered to proper application of the definitions nothing has come to our attention be the most important presented and procedures and reconcile that causes us to believe that the in Appendix 1. For the risk related the data with the supporting consolidated non-financial statement to addressing climate change, documents. This work was carried is not presented in accordance with the our work was carried out on the out on a selection of contributing applicable regulatory requirements and consolidating entity. For the others entities and covered between that the Information, taken as a whole, risks, our work was carried out on 30% and 45% of the consolidated is not presented fairly in accordance with the consolidating entity and on data selected for these tests the Guidelines, in all material respects. a selection of subsidiary entities: (33% workforce and 45% GHG GEFCO France, GEFCO UK, GEFCO emissions); Comment Slovakia; Without modifying the conclusion ■ we assessed the overall consistency expressed above and in compliance with ■ we obtained an understanding of the of the Statement based on our the dispositions of Article A. 225-3 of the internal control and risk management knowledge of all the consolidated French Commercial Code, we have the procedures the entity has put in place entities. following comment: and assessed the data collection We believe that the work carried out, The calculation of avoided CO2 process to ensure the completeness ■ based on our professional judgment, is emissions covers only the actions and fairness of the Information; sufficient to provide a basis for our limited implemented at the level of the ■ for the key performance indicators assurance conclusion; a higher level of consolidating entity, without taking and other quantitative outcomes assurance would have required us to into account the actions implemented that we considered to be the most carry out more extensive procedures. directly by the subsidiaries. important as presented in Appendix 1, Means and resources we implemented: Paris-La Défense, 9 March 2020 Our verification work mobilized the skills – analytical procedures to verify the of four people and took place between French original signed by: proper consolidation of the data September 2019 and February 2020 Independent third party collected and the consistency of on a total duration of intervention of the data trends; about eight weeks. ERNST & YOUNG et Associés We conducted more than ten interviews Partner with the persons responsible for the Jean-François Bélorgey preparation of the Statement, including Executive Director, in particular the risk management, Sustainable Development human resources, health and safety, Philippe Aubain environment, and procurement departments. Appendix 1: The most important information Quantitative Information (including key performance indicators) Qualitative Information (actions or results) Social information ■ Voluntary turnover rate (%) ■ Employee engagement ■ Frequency Rate and Severity Rate of occupational ■ Remuneration accidents (nb/million worked hours) ■ Health and safety (preventive actions) Environmental information ■ Avoided CO2 emission ratio (%) ■ Climate change (significant emission areas of the activities, measures taken and reduction objectives) Societal information — ■ Subcontracting and suppliers (social and environmental issues) 39 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group GEFCARES 2019 saw GEFCO launch of its first endowment fund, GEFCARES, designed to bring human, financial and material support to charitable organisations, and reflecting the Infinite Proximity culture that drives GEFCO Group’s partnerships. ■ Launched in February, GEFCARES supported four wellGEFCARES will support these charities throughout the year, known French and international charities in 2019: by providing project funding, mobilizing volunteers to help carry out their missions or managing logistics for their sites. ■ Restaurants from the Heart – founded in France in 1985 to provide free meals to struggling individuals and families, This assistance complements the humanitarian work already while supporting their social and economic integration. undertaken on a local basis in most of the countries where GEFCO operates. ■ The Women’s Palace – founded by the French Salvation Army in 1926 to prevent the social exclusion of women by The main purpose of the GEFCO endowment fund is to raise providing long-term housing and assistance, integrated with funds and redistribute them to partner associations. These workplace. funds are raised mainly by employees, although clients and suppliers are also involved, in line with the group’s partnership ■ The Togolese Children’s Charity – a Togolese NGO approach. founded in 2008 to support underprivileged children, widows and families in Lomé, the capital city, through educational and work access programmes. ■ Institute of Engagement – founded in 2012 to help 3,000 young volunteers pursue their plans for the future. The programme also provides comprehensive mentoring to help 700 other individuals achieve their professional goals. Top left: Restaurants from the Heart; bottom left: The Togolese Children’s Charity; Right: Vincent Gerbet for the Women’s Palace, Adobe Stock. 40 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group 1 Report: Sillion Design: BlackCallowRangeLeft Credits: GEFCO, CAPA Pictures, Shutterstock, Adobe Stock 2019 CSR Report GEFCO Group For more information, contact: GEFCO 20-22 rue Jean Jaurès 92815 Puteaux Cedex, France +33 (0)1 49 05 21 21 GEFCO.net
