90 Group Management Report Non-Financial Group Statement Non-Financial Group Statement Contents – Responsibility at Sartorius – Sustainability Management – Stakeholder Involvement – About the Non-Financial Group Statement – Organizational Profile – Materiality Analysis – Risk Management – Sustainable Development Goals Innovation & Social Contribution Employees – Finding and Retaining Talented Young Staff – Occupational Health and Safety Responsible Business Practices – Compliance – Supply Chain – Human Rights Environment – Energy Consumption and Emissions – Product Stewardship Group Management Report Responsibility at Sartorius 91 Responsibility at Sartorius Sustainability Management Stakeholder Involvement Sartorius is an internationally leading partner of the Sartorius engages in a very close, ongoing dialog with biopharmaceutical industry. With our technologies, we its stakeholders, using this exchange to regularly help researchers and engineers achieve faster, easier discuss aspects of sustainability. progress in the life sciences and bioprocess technology, thus enabling the development of new and better We define stakeholders as those persons, companies, treatments and affordable medical care. institutions and interest groups that are able to influence the success of the Sartorius Group or are As a 150-year old company, sustainability is firmly affected by the actions of our company. In particular embedded at many levels in our structure. To us, it these are our customers, employees, investors, means operating responsibly over the long term – with suppliers and business partners, as well as neighboring respect to customers, employees, investors, business companies and local residents. partners and society as a whole. Likewise, it entails handling natural resources responsibly. Sartorius participates in sustainability analyses and ratings to gauge its performance with respect to its Sustainable action also means remaining agile and environmental, social and governance-related business constantly asking ourselves how we can respond to the practices. In the EcoVadis Rating, Sartorius achieved changing world and make a positive contribution. This silver level and, with this score, positioned itself concerns the continued development of our core among the best 19 percent of the companies assessed. business just as much as living up to our corporate In the MSCI Sustainability Rating, Sartorius achieved responsibilities. an AA rating, which puts it among the top 20 percent of companies assessed within that industry. This is why the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee meets at least once each year. Under the direction of the CEO, senior-level managers and About the Non-Financial Group Statement corporate responsibility officers discuss approaches that Sartorius could use to contribute to greater Sartorius defined non-financial indicators that enable sustainability. assessment of the impact of its business activities on stakeholders, the environment and society. During the reporting year, the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee decided on three sets of measures This non-financial Group statement was prepared in and introduced them. First, a climate strategy is to be accordance with the disclosures set out in developed that will lead to greater transparency with Section 315b and 315c in conjunction with Sections regard to energy consumption and emissions. Clear 289c to 289e of the German Commercial Code (HGB). goals will be established to decarbonize the company. Pursuant to Section 315b, Subsection 1, Sentence 3 Second, a plastics strategy will strengthen the HGB, reference is also made to individual nonassumption of responsibility for our products and their financial aspects contained elsewhere in the Group packaging. Third, a sustainable supply chain Management Report. management system will improve the perception of our responsibility in the supply chain. Orientation for the non-financial Group statement is provided by the reporting framework developed by the In addition to optimizing processes and procedures, we Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) so that we can ensure believe that innovation and technical developments transparency and comparability. are the most important drivers of sustainability. Through innovation, we can improve ecological The reporting period for the non-financial Group responsibility and contribute to more and better statement is the fiscal year, the reporting cycle is employment through economic growth. Innovation annual. Unless otherwise indicated, the employeewill help us reach our most important goal: enabling related data covers all Sartorius companies. Unless better health for more people. otherwise specified, the environmental indicators encompass all our production companies, representing 77% of the total headcount. 92 Group Management Report Responsibility at Sartorius This non-financial Group statement was audited by Risk Management KPMG AG in the form of an audit with limited assurance. The submission of this non-financial Group Sartorius is responsible towards its employees, the statement releases our subgroup Sartorius Stedim environment, and society. This responsibility must be Biotech S.A. from the obligation of creating its own assumed throughout the supply chain and we must non-financial statement. ensure that laws and human rights are respected. This is why Sartorius strives to consider risks that have an impact on the company, but what is more, to examine Organizational Profile the risks Sartorius poses for its environment with its business operations as well. We refer to the Group Management Report, pages 23 to 40, sections Structure and Management of the Sartorius believes in the greatest possible integration Group”, Business Model, Strategy and Goals”, and of risk management processes in the company. The Group Business Development”. We also refer to the requirements defined in the German CSR Directive Opportunity and Risk Report on page 57 and the Notes Implementation Act (CSR-RUG) are the basis of the on page 109. ESG risk analysis. ESG risk management also follows the same procedures for identification, analysis, control and reporting as those for central risk Materiality Analysis management. Our considerations with regard to materiality are In the year under review, we began to integrate nonbased on the term used in the European CSR Directive financial risks into the risk management process. In Implementation Act. We also take our stakeholders’ this first overall analysis, no CSR risks were identified considerations into account. that would have to be reported according to CSR-RUG. The new risk management process will be fully We conducted a comprehensive materiality analysis in implemented from 2020. 2017 to determine the material topics for the business activities of the Sartorius Group. For reporting in the year under review, we assessed discussions with customers and investors, taking into account the views of managers in Sales, Product Marketing, Purchasing, Quality Management, Legal & Compliance, Corporate Communications as well as Research and Development and Production. The outcome of this process was discussed with the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee for validation purposes and confirmed by the Executive Board. There were no changes to the material topics compared with last year. They were confirmed as follows: 1. Advance innovation and, as a result, contribute to improved medical care and promote employment and good working conditions through growth. 2. Find and retain employees, protect their health and safety and promote their continuous development. 3. Responsible corporate governance and compliance and respect for human rights throughout the supply chain. 4. Protect the environment by reducing emissions and assuming responsibility for our products throughout their life cycles. Group Management Report Responsibility at Sartorius 93 Sustainable Development Goals SDG 6 – Clean Water and Sanitation Sartorius is a signatory to the United Nations Global The United Nations recognized access to Compact and supports the 2030 agenda for a clean drinking water as a human right in sustainable global economy. 2008. Within the scope of our product stewardship, we try to keep the water The United Nations developed 17 Sustainable consumption of our products as low as possible Development Goals (SDGs). The governments of all throughout their entire life cycle. We take care that member states have adopted the SDGs; however, their our business partners handle water and success is largely dependent on the actions and wastewater responsibly. cooperation of everyone involved – especially on the commitment of the private sector. Sartorius accepts this responsibility. SDG 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth To determine which SDGs are related to Sartorius’ More than 60% of all employees business activities, we also conducted a comprehensive worldwide do not have an employment materiality analysis in 2018. Eight SDGs were contract, less than 45% of all employees considered material in the context of Sartorius’ work full time in permanent employment business activities. After further analysis of the SDGs in relationships. Bad working conditions are often the year under review, we also consider that SDG 8, associated with poverty, discrimination and inequality “Decent Work and Economic Growth”, is material for us. and mainly affect groups of people such as women, people with a disability, young people and migrants. Sartorius is growing quickly and needs to find and SDG 3 – Good Health and Well-Being retain employees. We can do this by offering high employment standards. We also expect this from our According to the United Nations, health is business partners. considered one of the basic human rights and is a major indicator of sustainable development. It is our core business to SDG 9 – Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure help improve the health of more people. Our performance in regard to “Innovation and Social This SDG aims to expand scientific Responsibility”, a topic that is material to us, is research in all countries throughout the measured on the basis of our contribution to SDG 3. world. While Sartorius does not have a direct influence on the areas of infrastructure or sustainable industrialization, it does SDG 4 – Quality Education contribute in a wide variety of ways to achieve this innovation goal. By having our production sites serve Education empowers people to improve as centers of competence, we develop scientific their political, social and economic expertise at many sites across the globe. Our situations. According to the United promotion of young people helps us spread and Nations it is a basic human right and a network the scientific basis worldwide and, as a result, requirement for sustainable development. We strengthen future innovation activities. contribute to this by continuously training our employees and through many forms of support for young scientists. SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Single-use plastic products are a key SDG 5 – Gender Equality component of Sartorius’ product portfolio – for a good reason: the properties of Gender equality is not only a UN human these products are beneficial for the right, it is also a lever for economic patients at the end of the supply chain, for the growth. It gives women better access to environment and for the basic availability and education, medical care and financial development of innovative medical care. At the same resources. We support equality in our own business time, single-use products inevitably raise the question activities and expect our business partners to behave of the product’s end of life. We are addressing this similarly. issue and considering the end of life of our products as well as their overall ecological footprint. 94 Group Management Report Responsibility at Sartorius SDG 13 – Climate Action Human-induced climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It requires action from everyone concerned, especially the private sector. A key issue is to reduce emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases. We accept this responsibility and are pushing ahead with climate protection measures within our company and also in our supply chain. SDG 17 – Partnerships for the Goals The SDGs can be implemented only when we all work together. Traditionally, partnerships have always played an important role at Sartorius. This is especially true when it comes to our innovation activities. Group Management Report Innovation & Social Contribution 95 Innovation & Social Contribution new and creative ideas and thus supports scientific progress. Supporting young scientists is important to us, as this creates the basis for scientific progress in the future. Why it’s important Our corporate mission is to promote scientific progress Our performance in the life sciences, which in turn supports the development of better therapies and affordable By expanding its research cooperation agreements, medical care. Sartorius supports the development and production of biopharmaceuticals worldwide and, hence, improves The research and development activities in the Group the availability of innovative medical care in the long are aimed at providing innovative solutions for our term. customers, supporting sustainable development and, at the same time, strengthening the competitiveness and, In the year under review, Sartorius was involved in consequently, the growth of the company. many research partnerships. At more than 80 percent, the majority of this research work was carried out in The biopharmaceutical market is rapidly developing – it Europe and the USA. However, Sartorius is also is an area in which scientific breakthroughs leading to constantly expanding its cooperation activities in the new therapies occur at a high rate. At the same time, Asia-Pacific region. developing a new pharmaceutical drug continues to take around an entire decade and is extremely costForms of collaboration vary from single cooperation intensive. We are committed to enabling our agreements to partnerships with institutes and biopharmaceutical customers to obtain usable results scientific facilities. Both of these make up about 40 faster by automating research steps, making them more percent of the cooperation agreements. In addition, efficient. Sartorius is involved in research work in consortia. From day one of its incorporation, Sartorius has worked Sartorius contributes its latest scientific findings to to maintain an open exchange with the scientific the cooperations in which it takes part. In particular, community and, in this way, has driven forward the company supports the scientific community with scientific insights and precisely tailored product its participation in consortia such as the Advanced development. Our goal is to promote scientific thinking Mammalian Biomanufacturing Innovation Center and working in society, creating a broader basis for (AMBIC) – a partner of Sartorius during the year under future research and development. review. The AMBIC consortium involves five US universities Our approach and 25 industrial companies. The aim is to work together on complex challenges in biopharmaceutical Innovation at the Sartorius Group rests on three pillars. production. This joint, pre-competitive approach First is our own specialized product development enables more efficient production of biopharmacombined with strategic corporate research activity. ceuticals, which ultimately reduces the costs of While product development is assigned to the healthcare for patients. respective board members, Corporate Research works across the different divisions under the control of the In 2017, Sartorius created a platform for CEO. Second is the integration of innovation through interdisciplinary exchanges between industry and acquisitions and, third, cooperation with partners in science in the form of the Research Xchange Forum. complementary areas. The third Research Xchange Forum in April 2019 focused on immunotherapy with CAR-T cells, a new Often, new approaches arise from the interdisciplinary cellular gene therapy to treat cancer. collaboration of various experts. Because of this, our approach is to bring experts from science startups and Together with the American Association for the industry together and encourage networking and the Advancement of Science (AAAS), Sartorius awards the sharing of ideas. This is conducive to the generation of Sartorius & Science Prize for Regenerative Medicine & 96 Group Management Report Innovation & Social Contribution Cell Therapy”. The award, which comes with $40,000 in prize money, is geared toward outstanding scientists concentrating on basic or translational research in these fields. Besides honoring outstanding achievements, the award aims to draw attention to these research topics and their significance for the future. Group Management Report Employees 97 Employees development opportunities. We conduct these obligatory annual performance reviews worldwide using the same criteria. Finding and Retaining Talented Young Staff Sartorius fills management vacancies from within its own ranks whenever possible. We use Sartorius’ Why it’s important leadership guidelines as the basis for a management development program in which all first-time managers Sartorius is growing strongly. We continually gain participate with the goal of developing a common talented and well-qualified employees and build their leadership culture throughout the Group. The program loyalty to ensure the success of the company in the is already available at our companies in Germany, the future as well. In the process, one particular challenge U.K., France, Belgium, Italy, Spain, India and China. A all over the world is to recruit experienced specialists development program for production managers exists for the company. Currently, 9,016 employees in Germany. contribute to Sartorius’ success. Continuing professional development, assumption of responsibility Sartorius encourages its employees to network within and opportunities to advance within the company are the company and to transfer temporarily to its other important for our employees' satisfaction. These departments or sites. The Global Mobility Department competences safeguard their employability and open coordinates and looks after employees on temporary up new professional prospects for them. assignment to other countries. The basic conditions for temporary assignments in foreign countries are As a globally operating company, we do business in transparently defined for all staff members. many different regions and markets. Sartorius employees from 82 countries work together. The We offer our employees positive work conditions to interplay of a variety of perspectives and experiences encourage them to apply their skills in the best helps us understand our customers better, develop possible manner. The approaches that we pursue tailored solutions and remain competitive in a global throughout the Group are defined in our policy on economy. We believe that a working environment of work practices and social standards. mutual trust, appreciation and respect brings the best work results and increases our employees’ motivation Our employees should be able to develop personally and creativity as well as their loyalty. and professionally throughout their professional lives. To create the same opportunities for people regardless of their life situations, we have installed a flexible Our approach work scheduling model at many of our companies. Employees are often able to take advantage of To acquire personnel, our approach is to focus on the flextime, part-time and teleworking options. things that are important for existing and potential employees and make them known throughout the In addition to flexible work schedules, our response to world. According to our analysis, they are all factors the need for work-life balance includes child care that are likely to create trust in the future: the opportunities. In Göttingen, for example, there are company's brand leadership, its sales growth and offers for children during school vacations, and a day margin development, its internationality and care center is available close to the company on the innovation activities and – last but not least – the Sartorius Campus. As an inclusive day care center, it is individual's opportunities for development within the also open to children with disabilities. It’s part of our company. A meaningful mission and the perceptible corporate culture that fathers also take family leave at assumption of social responsibility are also important Sartorius. for many job applicants. Sartorius creates loyalty among its qualified employees with a wide range of management and communications training and technical training courses at all sites. Annual performance reviews between employees and their managers provide a forum for discussing performance, targets and individual 98 Group Management Report Employees Measures that promote equal opportunity in our In the reporting year, 5.8% or 520 people worked partcompany include the creation of transparency on time at the Sartorius Group, 20 more than in 2018; salary structures. The majority of salaries at the most of them are in Germany. German companies are linked to the rates agreed with the IG Metall trade union, with some paid in New Hires by Region, Gender and Age Group 1) accordance with rates established for IG Bergbau, EMEA Americas Asia | Pacific Total Chemie, Energie. The remuneration paid to employees in France and Austria is also based on trade union Women 384 140 101 625 rates. Using the union rates makes our remuneration ≤ 29 years 189 30 28 247 more transparent. 30 49 years 164 88 72 324 ≥ 50 years 31 22 1 54 The Group Employees’ Council represents the interests Men 517 140 155 812 of our staff in Germany. Five of our six operating ≤ 29 years 208 42 49 299 companies in Germany also have a local employees’ 30 49 years 259 69 104 432 council. In addition to the employee council members, ≥ 50 years 50 29 2 81 various representatives are available to Sartorius Total 901 280 256 1,437 employees. The success of our measures to create a positive Our performance working environment is reflected in permanently low attrition rates. Excluding expired fixed-term contracts, To us, education is a valuable asset, and we consider it Sartorius had an attrition rate of 7.5% in the reporting part of our corporate responsibility to support it and year, or 0.9 percentage points below the already low make it accessible within our sphere of influence. level of the prior year. 1,2 In the year under review, training hours were recorded in Despite the continuation of a high number of new 23 countries. 82% of our employees worldwide work in hires, average seniority rose slightly year on year. In these countries, which include the major sites in 2019, about half of all employees had been with Germany, France, Puerto Rico and India. In the Sartorius for fewer than five years, while around a reporting year, 108,888 hours were invested in training fifth had been with the company for 15 years or more. measures in these countries – on average 14.7 training hours per employee.1 Fluctuation by Region, Gender and Age Group 1) EMEA Americas Asia | Pacific Total Training Hours by Region 1) Women 232 57 53 342 Total Headcount Average ≤ 29 years 100 9 15 124 training with training training hours Region hours hours per employee 30 49 years 94 35 36 165 ≥ 50 years 38 13 2 53 EMEA 83,544 5,839 14.3 Americas 7,652 633 12.1 Men 298 95 72 465 Asia | Pacific 17,692 936 18.9 ≤ 29 years 108 16 20 144 30 49 years 113 55 44 212 Total 108,888 7,408 14.7 ≥ 50 years 77 24 8 109 Total 530 152 125 807 Over the past five years, Sartorius has recruited 6,326 new employees. At the end of the reporting year, women made up 38.9% of the total workforce, which is a slight increase over the previous year. 2) The calculation method was changed: in 2019, we 1) Companies acquired during the year are not counted calculated in relation to the reporting date; in 2018, in and, in line with the reporting guideline, will be relation to the average. For the sake of comparability, included in the report next year. The two sales the updated calculation method was used for the prior companies in the Netherlands are not included. year. Group Management Report Employees 99 Occupational Health and Safety modified the definition of accidents during the reporting year and recorded work-related accidents in Why it’s important greater detail. Accident statistics therefore now include not just work-related injuries with at least one Our employees’ safety is our responsibility. The health day work lost, but also accidents that required only of our employees is also important to us as a company, first aid. Sartorius is also increasingly changing its which is why we offer support in the form of a variety reporting to be more in line with the requirements of of preventative health care offers. the Global Reporting Initiative. Accordingly, the reported number of work-related Our approach injuries and relative accident frequency were higher than in the previous year. There were no accidents Sartorius has high safety standards to minimize jobwith serious outcomes or fatal accidents at any of our related medical conditions, risks to health, and sites, which corroborates the high quality of the safety potential causes of industrial accidents. The basic management system. principles and core policies on occupational safety and health protection are defined throughout the Sartorius Sartorius is responsible for more than just its own Group in its corporate policy on workplace safety and employees. Consequently, in the reporting year, first health. In the process, job safety and work steps were taken to record the work-related injuries of organization conditions are continuously improved. external employees, too. Our company in Beijing is also certified according to OHSAS 18001. 2019 2018 1)2) Number of work-related injuries (staff) 253 135 Planned, mandatory employee training on topics of Relative frequency of work-related injuries occupational health and safety and environmental (staff) per 1,000,000 theoretical working protection ensure that our staff members recognize hours 2) 16.6 10 risks and avoid them accordingly. Work-related injuries with a serious outcome 3) 0 0 Fatal occupational accidents 0 0 Sartorius analyzes all accidents regularly and derives 1) accident prevention measures from them that are also Companies acquired during the year are not included and, in used at other sites. At our local Group locations, work accordance with the reporting guideline, will not be reported until the next reporting year. The two sales companies in the safety committees confer regularly to discuss measures Netherlands are not counted. that promote health and prevent work-related 2) The definition of an occupational accident was harmonized accidents. across the Group during the year with the Group-wide survey in October 2019. Prior to this time, accidents were recorded in The Group's corporate health management policy accordance with local statutory regulations. 3) An accident with a serious outcome is an accident in which addresses both the physical and psycho-social the injured person is not rehabilitated at all or not until six elements of health to enhance employee performance months after the accident. and motivation, ensure their employability and reduce illness-related costs. It is compulsory for companies to provide an in-house medical service. In addition, an external provider is on hand to offer psychological help on any work-related and indeed personal matter. Staff can reach the service via a hotline. Our performance Occupational safety and the preservation and promotion of the good health of all employees are very important to Sartorius, and management actively encourages them. Sartorius is currently working towards standardizing its safety management system throughout the Group. Global harmonization of the processes will further improve occupational safety at our sites. By setting the goal of deriving improvement measures from less serious incidents as well, we 100 Group Management Report Responsible Business Practices Responsible Business Practices themselves the following questions: Are my actions legal? Does my conduct correspond to our values and guidelines? Is it free of personal interests (that are not covered by labor-law regulations)? Will it stand up to public scrutiny? The Code of Conduct covers Compliance compliance with international social and environmental standards, general rules of conduct and Why it’s important dealing with conflicts of interest. We regard compliance with applicable laws as selfThe Anti-Corruption Code forms the basis for raising evident. Beyond this, we have set ourselves the employee awareness about corruption risks. It is also a standard of managing our company with integrity. guideline, instruction manual and aid in taking the necessary action to both prevent and fight corruption We are committed to upholding internationally at specific companies or in specific sectors. An antirecognized human and labor rights as a basis of our corruption officer has been appointed by Group worldwide business operations. A significant task in management as a contact person for corruption this regard is to create a common understanding of prevention. This officer pursues his or her duties fair working conditions – at all our sites and in the independently. supply chain. We ensure that our employees are familiar with the Anti-Corruption Code and the Code of Conduct by Our approach asking all employees worldwide every year to take part in an online training course and complete a test at the Sartorius conducts its business in compliance with end of it. The course teaches employees how to deal globally accepted ethical standards and applicable with ethically or legally problematic situations. national legal requirements. The German Corporate Governance Code defines requirements for A complaint system ensures that employees and management boards and supervisory boards including external third parties can report cases of damaging their interaction with regard to transparency, conduct, such as corruption, discrimination or sexual accounting and auditing and the conduct of annual harassment. The compliance team can be contacted general meetings. Legal & Compliance reports to the face-to-face, via a telephone hotline, the department’s CEO and informs the Supervisory Board in the Audit electronic mailbox or – in the case of anonymous Committee. Sartorius follows the rules and reports – the whistleblower system. The relevant recommendations of the German Corporate contact options are listed on the intranet and are thus Governance Code in its current version of February 7, available company-wide. They are also available on the 2017. company’s website and can thus be accessed by external persons concerned. Our globally applicable compliance management system is intended to ensure that our Supervisory and Executive Board members, management and employees Our performance comply with all legal regulations and codes, and act according to our internal guidelines. The Legal Affairs During the period under review, 3,223 employees from & Compliance department is responsible for legal 33 countries completed training for the Anticonsulting, internal auditing, corporate security, data Corruption Code and 3,429 employees from 34 protection, anti-corruption, customs and export countries completed training for the Code of Conduct. control. The hours spent on training amounted to 2,263 for the Code of Conduct and 2,127 for the Anti-Corruption A dedicated team has the task of the implementing Code. Compliance training course are currently and enforcing all Group compliance topics. The available in German, English, French and Chinese. Sartorius Code of Conduct defines the requirements we place on our employees with respect to responsible No significant fines or non-monetary penalties conduct. The code helps employees act ethically and in resulting from violations of laws or regulations were accordance with the law in their daily work. In imposed in the reporting year and no cases of everything they do, employees are required to ask corruption came to light. Group Management Report Responsible Business Practices 101 Supply Chain Our multi-level procedure consists of a self-assessment, external assessments, quality audits carried out by Why it’s important Sartorius and ESG audits performed by external partners. Respect for human rights, the maintainance of high environmental standards and good, safe and fair Our objective is to initiate actual improvements in the working conditions for the production of our products working, social and environmental standards of our is important to us, and appy to sites outside our own suppliers. production as well. With more than 9,000 suppliers in more than 100 countries and a purchasing volume Of course, we do not establish business relationships that corresponds to about 40 percent of our sales with suppliers where we see a considerable risk of revenue, it is obvious that our supply chain is child, forced or mandatory labor, other breaches of important for us to implement these goals. In addition, human rights or negative impacts on society, and will a growing number of laws and requirements regulate end any existing relationships with such suppliers. This the assumption of responsibility in global supply procedure is also defined officially in our new process chains. for sustainability in the supply chain. Moreover, the supply chains for pharmaceuticals are very sensitive and are the focus of many stakeholders. Our performance In particular, patients at the end of the supply chain are dependent on their medications being available The new multi-level process for reviewing the ESG and safe at all times. performance of Sartorius suppliers was adopted in September 2019. We will be reporting on the corresponding results and performance indicators in Our approach the 2020 annual report. We take a close look at our suppliers. In January 2020, we introduced a multi-step process to check Human Rights compliance with our requirements for sustainability in the production process. Why it’s important In the process, our Code of Conduct for business The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and partners is the basis for collaboration with our Human Rights clarify the responsibility of states and business partners throughout the Group. Our businesses to protect and respect human rights. The requirements with regard to the environment, social focus is therefore not only on preventing matters and governance are defined in the Code. Since infringements of human rights, but also the positive December 2019, acknowledgment of the Code of contribution that a business can make through its Conduct is part of the acceptance process for new activities that promote the protection of human rights. suppliers. Beginning in 2020, we will systematically check whether our existing suppliers have already acknowledged the Code and, if not, will ask them to Our approach do so. In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and And from January 2020, Sartorius will review whether Human Rights, we respect and support the and to what extent suppliers actually breach the implementation of the values of the International Bill required ESG standards. We use a risk-based approach of Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for to set priorities in the review. Parameters can include Multinational Enterprises and the International Labour the respective headquarters or production processes Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental that pose an elevated risk for the environment or the Principles and Rights at Work, by committing ourselves safety of employees. Suppliers from whom we to regard these internationally recognized human purchase a high volume of products are particularly rights as relevant for our operations. We respect the important for our production and, consequently, our laws of the countries in which we operate. own delivery capability. The same applies to suppliers from whom we purchase products that are critical for A Policy Statement on Human Rights has been our production. Regardless of the individual risk of communicated to employees via the intranet since these suppliers, we will be observing their quality, February 2019 and is also available to all stakeholders delivery reliability and sustainability more intensively. on the Internet. 102 Group Management Report Responsible Business Practices Sartorius’ Policy Statement on Human Rights is Our performance binding on the entire Group and applies worldwide. It requires all employees to observe appropriate, fair, and Human rights concern many areas. This is why we lawful conduct towards other employees, business consider the effects we have on human rights on the partners, and the local community. We expect our basis of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of business partners, suppliers, customers and the United Nations, and report on this in the cooperation partners to operate their business in line respective sections. There are potential impacts with with correspondingly high ethical standards. regard to SDGs 6, 12 and 13, which concern the environment. In particular, we see substantial Sartorius’ Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct opportunities to make a positive contribution to the for business partners address the content of Sartorius’ fundamental human rights health, education and Policy Statement on Human Rights and puts it into equal rights, which are covered by SDGs 3, 4 and 5. We concrete terms for everyday work. In annual report on these in detail in the respective sections of mandatory online training courses about Sartorius’ this non-financial Group statement. Code of Conduct, Sartorius employees strengthen their knowledge of the content and check it in the In the 2019 reporting year, we developed an subsequent online test. assessment of our suppliers with regard to the environment, human rights, employees, social issues The complaint system described on page 100 ensures and anti-corruption. We will be reporting on the that topics with human rights relevance can be results from the non-financial Group statement from reported – even anonymously if the person so requests. the next fiscal year onwards. The Executive Board becomes involved in handling reported incidents on a case-by-case basis. Group Management Report Environment 103 Environment For many years Sartorius’ management has pursued the goal of achieving a situation in which energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions do not increase at the same rate as sales growth. In Energy Consumption and Emissions September 2019, we began developing a Sartorius climate strategy. Within this framework we will define Why it’s important medium-term goals and the corresponding measures. These should enable us to obtain a comprehensive Advancing climate change is a challenge that concerns picture of our emissions and to set practical and everyone. We see it as our duty to make a contribution quantifiable reduction targets. Current energy towards the decarbonization of the economy. efficiency measures will be bundled in this strategy and new ones will be identified. Sartorius operates at 23 production sites and, accordingly, consumes energy and creates emissions. Overall, we classify the environmental impact of our Our performance activities as comparatively low. However, we are also aware of our responsibility for the environment and Sartorius has been recording greenhouse gas emissions set high standards for environmental protection. in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) global standard since 2013. We thus account for emissions not only of CO2 but of all gases relevant to climate Our approach change and report them in CO2 equivalents (CO2eq). Currently, we report direct climate-relevant emissions In our Environmental Position, we define the basic from our production sites 1 (Scope 1). We also report principles and core topics of our environmental indirect energy-related emissions resulting from power management system. Sartorius’ Environmental Position generation by external energy suppliers (Scope 2). is binding on all the companies and sites of the Scope 1 emissions occur through consumption of Sartorius Group. It has been communicated to all our direct energy sources, such as diesel, fuel oil, natural employees via the intranet and the company website, gas and LPG, and also through process emissions from and supports us in anchoring efficiency and solvents and refrigerants at our sites in Göttingen and environmental awareness in our daily business. In Yauco. constructing new facilities, we follow recognized standards for sustainable building. Scope 1 and 2 emissions from Sartorius are relatively low. Nevertheless, we are continuously looking for An ISO 14001 environmental management system has ways to reduce emissions. Despite continuing been introduced at our two largest companies in expansion of our production facilities, the success of Göttingen, Germany, as well as in Aubagne, France; our measures is reflected in the company's overall Beijing, China; Bangalore, India; and Kajaani, Finland. energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, Consequently, 26% of the production sites fulfill the which have increased at a lower rate than the requirements of the international standard ISO 14001 company's expansion in terms of sales revenue. and 53% of the employees at production sites work according to this standard. As part of the climate strategy we develop, we will also begin to record our Scope 3 emissions. This will Seventeen of our production sites are also certified enable us to get an overall picture of our emissions according to the quality standard ISO 9001. This and identify further reduction potential. means that 90% of the employees of our production companies work according to this standard. These standards ensure that we comply with quality requirements in the manufacture of our products, exercise care with the resources we use, and prevent 1) Excluded: Sweden Data Analytics, since only 14 employees environmental risks. We also operate an energy work there; Israel, as this site was not added until the middle management system in accordance with ISO 50001 at of December. our four German facilities. In relation to the number of employees at these plants, this represents 39% of all our production sites. 104 Group Management Report Environment Energy Consumption 1) Development of Climate -Relevant Emissions 2019 2018 2) in proportion to annual sales, in t/€ in millions Total energy consumption in MWh 130,649 113,143 27.7 27.7 25.1 25.1 25.5 25.5 24.3 24.3 24.2 24.2 Direct energy consumption 40 in MWh 58,891 48,999 Electricity consumption from 30 public grid in MWh 67,059 59,939 Others in MWh 4,698 4,204 20 1) Excluded: Sweden Data Analytics, since only 14 employees work there; Israel, as this site was not added until the 10 middle of December. 2) The key figure was corrected following an internal audit. 0 2015 2016 2017 20181) 2019 1) The key figure was corrected following an internal audit. Greenhouse Gases 2019 2018 1) Product Stewardship Total GHG emissions in t CO 2eq 2)3)6) 44,138 38,005 Why it’s important Total Scope 1 emissions in t CO2eq4)6) 16,710 13,521 Environmental responsibility concerns not just our Total Scope 2 emissions in t CO2eq5)6) 27,428 24,484 value creation; it has an impact on our products, too. 1) The key figure was corrected following an internal audit. Sartorius earns almost two thirds of its revenue with 2) Emissions in t CO2eq were calculated using thinkstep’s SoFi single-use products. The production and sale of singlesoftware. Emission factors from GaBi, Defra and VfU were used use products raises the question of their ecological for this. The current GaBi emission factors (01/20) were used to footprint during their life cycle and at the product’s calculate emissions in 2019. As a result, the emissions in 2018 differ from those in 2019. end of life. Increasing customer demands and stricter 3) Companies are integrated into the environmental report for statutory regulations have also resulted in aspects of emissions in accordance with the financial control consolidation the circular economy becoming more important. approach. 4) Excluding fuel consumption for car fleet. A large proportion of our single-use products and 5) Only location-based factors are used to calculate Scope 2 emissions. their packaging are plastic. These are a particular 6) Excluded: Sweden Data Analytics, since only 14 employees work focus of current social discussions. We take these there; Israel, as this site was not added until the middle of discussions seriously. In the production of single-use December. products, we operate between the conflicting priorities of humans – environment – revenue. In terms of sustainability, we want to achieve an optimum balance. Our approach Most single-use products manufactured by Sartorius are used in the biopharmaceutical industry, where they ensure the highest possible level of safety for end consumers, as cross-contamination through multiple use can be prevented. To ensure the corresponding sterility in the process, reusable systems must be cleaned thoroughly between the production of different batches. Large volumes of ultrapure water are used as well as various acids and lyes. The necessary steam sterilization is also energy-intensive. Single-use technologies require up to 30 percent less space than reusable solutions. Manufacturers can therefore achieve lower energy and material Group Management Report Environment 105 consumption as a result of small production units. This effect is mainly due to the fact that biopharmaceutical processes place high demands on production conditions with regard to air and climate and are therefore energy-intensive. The particular flexibility of single-use components also enables our customers to respond faster to changing requirements and to expand or reduce capacities accordingly. Our customers’ ability to supply patients with medication or vaccines can be improved in this way. During their usage phase, single-use products have fewer negative ecological effects than reusable solutions 1 . However, they do create more waste. In biopharmaceutical processes, single-use components such as bags, filters and connection parts are usually disposed of after they have been used in the same way as infectious hospital waste: They are incinerated. The high-purity plastics that we use to manufacture single-use products can be thermally recycled to generate heat or electricity. In the reporting year, management decided to develop a comprehensive Sartorius plastic strategy. With this strategy we are addressing three dimensions: end of product life, plastic waste in our own business operations and packaging. We are developing short, medium and long-term goals. An interdisciplinary project team began working on this in the reporting year. Our performance Within the scope of the Sartorius plastic strategy project, we will be developing suitable indicators to measure our performance. We will publish the results in the next reporting year. 1) Sinclair, A.; Leveen, et al.; The Environmental Impact of Disposable Technologies, The Biopharm International Guide, November 2008; Base of the analysis: Typical mAb process at 3+2000 L scale 106 Group Management Report Report of the Independent Auditor Report of the Independent Auditor Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor regarding the Non -financial Group Statement 1) To the Supervisory Board of Sartorius Independence and quality assurance on the part Aktiengesellschaft, Göttingen of the auditing firm We have performed an independent limited assurance We are independent from the entity in accordance engagement on the Non-financial Group Statement of with the requirements of independence and quality Sartorius AG, Göttingen, (further „Sartorius“) and the assurance set out in legal provisions and professional group as well as the by reference qualified parts pronouncements and have fulfilled our additional “Structure and Management of the Group” as well as professional obligations in accordance with these “Business Model, Strategy and Goals” (further: requirements. „Report“) according to §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e German Commercial Our audit firm applies the national statutory Code (HGB) for the business year from January 1 to provisions and professional pronouncements for December 31, 2019. quality assurance, in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and Chartered Accountants (in Germany) and the quality assurance Management’s Responsibility standard of the German Institute of Public Auditors (Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer, IDW) regarding quality The legal representatives of Sartorius are responsible assurance requirements in audit practice (IDW QS 1). for the preparation of the Report in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. Practitioner’s Responsibility This responsibility of the legal representatives includes Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the the selection and application of appropriate methods Report based on our work performed within our to prepare the Report and the use of assumptions and limited assurance engagement. estimates for individual disclosures which are reasonable under the given circumstances. We conducted our work in accordance with the Furthermore, this responsibility includes designing, International Standard on Assurance Engagements implementing and maintaining systems and processes (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements other relevant for the preparation of the Report in a way than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial that is free of – intended or unintended – material Information” published by IAASB. This Standard misstatements. requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any 1) Our engagement applied to the German version of the matters have come to our attention that cause us to Statement 2017. This text is a translation of the Independent believe that the Report of the entity for the business Assurance Report issued in German language, whereas the German text is authoritative. year January 1 to December 31, 2019 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. We do not, however, provide a separate conclusion for each disclosure. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The choice of audit procedures is subject to the auditor’s own judgement. Group Management Report Report of the Independent Auditor 107 Within the scope of our engagement, we performed Conclusion amongst others the following assurance procedures: Based on the procedures performed and the evidence – Inquiries of personnel on group level, who are obtained, nothing has come to our attention that responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to causes us to believe that the Report of Sartorius for gain an understanding of the processes for the business year from January 1 to December 31, determining material sustainability topics and 2019 is not prepared, in all material respects, in respective reporting boundaries of Sartorius. accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. – A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant information on Sartorius sustainability performance in the reporting period. Restriction of Use / Clause on General Engagement Terms – Reviewing the suitability of internally developed Reporting Criteria. This assurance report is issued for purposes of the Supervisory Board of Sartorius AG, Göttingen, only. We – Evaluation of the design and implementation of the assume no responsibility with regard to any third parties. systems and processes for determining, processing and monitoring disclosures relating to Our assignment for the Supervisory Board of environmental, employee and social matters, respect Sartorius AG, Göttingen, and professional liability is for human rights, and combating corruption and governed by the General Engagement Terms bribery, including the consolidation of the data. for Wirtschaftsprüfer and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für – Inquiries of personnel on group level who are Wirtschaftsprüfer und Wirtschaftsprüfungsresponsible for determining disclosures on concepts, gesellschaften) in the version dated January 1, 2017 due diligence processes, results and risks, for (https://www.kpmg.de/bescheinigungen/lib/aab_english.pdf). conducting internal controls and consolidation of By reading and using the information contained in this the disclosures. assurance report, each recipient confirms notice of provisions of the General Engagement Terms – Evaluation of selected internal and external (including the limitation of our liability for negligence documentation. to EUR 4 million as stipulated in No. 9) and accepts the validity of the General Engagement Terms with respect – Analytical evaluation of data and trends of to us. quantitative information which are reported by all sites for consolidation on group level. – Evaluation of local data collection, validation and Munich, Feburary 04, 2020 reporting processes as well as the reliability of reported data based on a sample of the sites in KPMG AG Göttingen (Germany) and Aubagne (France) Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft – Assessment of the overall presentation of the Signed by disclosures. Hell ppa. Dollhofer Auditor 108 Group Management Report Report of the Independent Auditor
