Mazda will celebrate the 100th anniversary of its founding in 2020. To ensure that Mazda continues to thrive and develop as an enterprise over the next 100 years, we must prize our uniqueness and co-create that uniqueness with others. With this in mind and as a milestone to mark the beginning of our next 100 years, we envisioned our ideal for the Mazda brand in the decade from 2030 to 2040. To realize that ideal, in May 2019, we prepared a Medium-Term Management Policy covering the next six years, during which time we will fully introduce the new-generation product lineup that has begun with the Mazda3 launched in 2019. With vehicles sold in more than 130 countries and regions worldwide and manufacturing operations in seven, Mazda has a social responsibility to many stakeholders. Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 presents our Medium-Term Management Policy and other initiatives from the perspective of CSR. We very much hope that our stakeholders will find the report interesting and informative. CONTENTS 2 Preface 62 Efforts Regarding Product and Technology Development 3 Corporate Vision/ Editorial Policy 70 Efforts Regarding Manufacturing and Logistics 4 Top Message 77 Collection and Recycling of End-of-Life Inspiring People through Cars Vehicles (ELVs) and Used Parts Sustainable with the Earth and Society 79 Biodiversity Conservation 80 Environmental Communication 7 Feature Story 1 Long-term Vision for 82 Mazda’s Corporate Activities and Impact on Technology Development the Environment 13 Feature Story 2 Mazda’s Unique Battery 84 Respect for People Electric Vehicles (BEVs) 85 Initiatives with Employees 16 FY March 2019 Highlights 96 Human Rights 17 Major Product Lineup 99 Social Contributions 18 Global Network 100 Social Contributions 20 Mazda CSR 105 Management 21 CSR Management 106 Management 26 Stakeholder Engagement 117 Implementing CSR in the Supply Chain 28 Customer Satisfaction 120 With Shareholders and Investors 29 Providing the Mazda Brand Experience to Customers 121 Innovation 130 History of Mazda 34 Quality 35 Commitment to Quality 132 Third-Party Opinion 133 Third-Party Verification 40 Safety 134 Third-Party Assurance 41 Safety Initiatives 135 Table of Comparisons with Guidelines 51 Environment 141 Corporate Profile 52 Basic Approach to Environmental Protection, and Environmental Promotion Framework and Plan 58 Environmental Management 2 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Vision* We love cars and want people to enjoy fulfilling lives through cars. We envision cars existing sustainably with the earth and society, and we will continue to tackle challenges with creative ideas. 1. Brighten people’s lives through car ownership. 2. Offer cars that are sustainable with the earth and society to more people. 3. Embrace challenges and seek to master the Doh (“Way” or “Path”) of creativity. ＊ Mazda revised its Corporate Vision in April 2015, with the following objectives, aiming to be recognized as a corporate group gaining sincere trust of its stakeholders. ・Clarify the attributes of the Mazda brand, and make concerted efforts across the Mazda Group to realize the Corporate Vision. ・Promote the Group-wide dialogue process to share, understand and agree the goal of the Corporate Vision through the continuous thorough discussions. ・Closely link the Corporate Vision to our daily business activities. Editorial Policy ■ This report presents Mazda’s CSR initiatives in the six areas—Customer Satisfaction, Quality, Safety, Environment, Respect for People, and Social Contributions—primarily regarding the targets and results of these initiatives. ■ Aiming to satisfy the needs of readers, Mazda studied the editorial policy and content of this report in reference to the third party opinion and stakeholders’ ideas and views obtained through the questionnaire survey and engagements with stakeholders. Report Coverage Approach to Reporting Information Organizations Covered: The entire Mazda Group, including Mazda Mazda discloses information in the following formats.* Motor Corporation and its Group companies, is covered in this report. ＊ If any content errors are found after publication, a list of errata will be posted on Mazda’s official website. (Where the reporting item is not applicable to the entire Mazda Group, the organizations covered are specified.) ■ In-depth version* ■ Official website Period Covered: The report primarily covers the period from April 2018 (142 pages) https://www.mazda.com/en/ through March 2019, although some activities after April 2019 are included. csr/ ● PDF Covers comprehensive In addition to the contents of Scope of the Report: Social, environmental, and economic data are information and data on the PDF (In-depth version), the Specialized included in this report. Mazda’s CSR initiatives latest information is posted in ＊ For more details about economic data, see Mazda's website Investor Relations & Annual Report. ■ Digest version* a timely manner. Information is available in a searchable (Corporate Profile) format. Referenced Guidelines (32 pages) ● PDF ● Booklet* This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Includes information Mazda strongly wishes option. to communicate to its stakeholders Other guidelines referenced: Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 Edition), Japanese Ministry of Comprehensive the Environment’s Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 Edition), *Available on our website at https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/report/download/ ISO26000 Date of Publication (In-depth version) Disclaimer: This report includes future projections for Mazda Japanese version: October 2019 (The previous report was published in Motor Corporation and its Group companies’ performance based October 2018; the next report will be published in the summer of 2020). on plans, forecasts, management plans, and strategies at the time ＊ The 2019 digest version (PDF / Booklet) was published in November 2019. of publication, in addition to actual past and resent facts. Such forward-looking statements are predictions based on information English version: November 2019 (The previous report was published in or assumptions available at the time of edit, and may differ from November 2018; the next report will be published in the autumn of 2020). future operational results due to changes in circumstances. ＊ The 2019 digest version (PDF / Booklet) will be published in December 2019. 3 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 TOP MESSAGE Inspiring People through Cars Sustainable with the Earth and Society Akira Marumoto Representative Director, President and CEO Mazda Motor Corporation Contributing to the achievement of sustainable economic growth and solving social issues In the automotive industry today many social issues surround us, such as global climate change and road traffic safety. For all of us to be able to live vibrantly and sustainably on earth, the responsibility of businesses is to provide products and services that benefit the earth and society through innovation to achieve sustainable economic growth and solve social issues. As Mazda’s Corporate Vision states, we wish to “brighten people’s lives through car ownership,” and “offer cars that are sustainable with the earth and society to more people.” In keeping with this vision, in 2017 we announced “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” (see pp.7-12), to show our roadmap and vision leading up to the year 2030, for the development of technologies and infrastructure that will help resolve issues faced by the earth, society and people. I am confident that “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” will also contribute to achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see p.24). 4 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 TOP MESSAGE Formulating the Medium-Term Management Policy by envisioning our ideal for the Mazda Brand Mazda will celebrate the 100th anniversary of its founding in 2020. I see it as my responsibility to lay the foundation for Mazda’s sustained development over the next 100 years. To ensure that Mazda continues to thrive and develop, we must prize our uniqueness and co-create that uniqueness with others. I believe co-creating with others will sustain Mazda’s uniqueness. With this in mind and as a milestone to mark the beginning of our next 100 years, we envisioned our ideal for the Mazda brand in the decade from 2030 to 2040. To realize that ideal, we prepared a MediumTerm Management Policy covering the next six years, during which time we will fully introduce the newgeneration product lineup that has begun with the Mazda3 launched in 2019. In formulating the MediumTerm Management Policy, we first reviewed the Structural Reform Plan and Structural Reform Stage 2, took a fresh look at our strengths IDEAL FOR 2030-40 and weaknesses as a company, OUR DREAM and took into account the external Making Dreams Come True Together environmental factors affecting the Mazda, together with automotive industry as a whole. our friends sharing the We then defined three priority same dreams, through efforts areas in which we need to focus to break through limitations, will enable all stakeholders to feel alive, proud of our business resources and efforts their connection with Mazda, as well as the direction of the and emotionally attached to initiatives in each area. the brand. Defining the three priority areas and the direction of initiatives in each area The first of the three priority areas is “Investment in unique products and customer experience” to further enhance brand value. We will maintain and strengthen our investment in unique products and technologies, one of our key strengths, and in enhancing the customer experience. We will also strive to increase the number of customers who understand the value Mazda offers to support sales growth. The second is to “curb expenses that depreciate our brand value.” We will drastically curb spending on incentives, qualityrelated issues and other outgoings that can depreciate brand value. The third is “investment in the areas in which we need to catch up.” Specifically, we will invest in areas in which we have so far not made sufficient headway and where we need to catch up. These include (1) optimal production structure that support local production for local consumption (as with our new joint venture plant that is due to begin operations in 2021 in the United States), (2) infrastructure for connectivity and sharing services, (3) strengthening alliances with other OEMs to adapt to CASE* trends in the future, (4) our employees and their working environments, (5) shareholder returns, and (6) SDGs & CSR-related initiatives. Moving forward, we will implement concrete measures guided by this policy. We will make continuous efforts to take up the challenge of attaining our targets for FY March 2025 and our longer-term “ideal” for the brand, seeking sustained growth and enhancement of corporate value over the medium and long term. * An acronym signifying new trends in the automotive industry, including connected technologies, autonomous driving, shared services, and electrification. Direction of Initiatives Based on the Medium-Term Management Policy Effect of brand value improvement ■ Improve per-unit revenue by responding to customer and market diversification 1 Investment for brand value improvement ■ Invest in new-generation products, sales networks, and customer experience ■ Trade cycle management and reduced incentives 2 Curb expenses that depreciate brand value ■ Quality improvement to enhance customer satisfaction ■ Build an optimum production structure that supports local production for local consumption 3 Investment in infrastructure ■ Invest in infrastructure for connectivity/sharing business, etc. Investment in partnerships ■ Based on mutual trust, enhance alliances with partners to work together Investment in employees / work environment ■ Improve the work environment to enhance employee motivation Shareholder returns ■ Continue stable shareholder returns ■ Co-exist with society and focus on our raison d’etre SDGs & CSR-related investment ■ Increase investment in environment and safety technologies 5 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 TOP MESSAGE Promoting CSR to contribute to achievement of the SDGs To address social issues and contribute to achieving the SDGs in the course of our daily business activities, we have included “SDGs & CSR-related investment” in the Medium-Term Management Policy. We will strengthen investment in safety and the environment, in order to combat climate change and enhance road traffic safety, priority issues for all automobile manufacturers. At the same time, we will promote activities to help enrich people’s lives by capitalizing on Mazda’s technologies and other resources. One such initiatives is the testing of a shared mobility service utilizing connectivity technologies, which began in December 2018 in Miyoshi City, Hiroshima Prefecture. Recent years have witnessed the dilapidation of public transportation systems in depopulated areas in the mountainous regions of Japan, and this has made it harder for the elderly and disabled to get around. Through this testing, with an eye on future shared mobility, Mazda aims to build a social contribution model that will support regional revitalization and enrich lives in the region by offering safe, secure and unrestricted mobility to people everywhere. In cooperation with local residents and governments, the Company is working to develop an environment that enables more effective use of cars and connectivity technologies, so as to encourage human interaction and create connections between drivers participating in the testing and people in each local community (see p. 104). To deal with social issues on a global basis, in January 2018, Mazda signed the United Nations Global Compact, and in May 2019, declared its support for the recommendations from the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD), set up by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) (see p. 22). While securing coordination among international organizations, local governments and companies, we will push forward with CSR initiatives to contribute to achievement of the SDGs. Aiming to be a brand that is connected to all stakeholders by the strongest of bonds With vehicles sold in more than 130 countries and regions worldwide and manufacturing operations in seven, Mazda has a social responsibility to many stakeholders. Together with our customers, business partners, local communities, employees and all other stakeholders, we will work hard to realize our shared dreams. As they make these efforts with us, we want to enable them to feel alive, proud of their connection with Mazda, and emotionally attached to the brand. That will make Mazda into the brand we want it to be, connected to all stakeholders by the strongest of bonds. I pledge to value dialogue with our stakeholders as we strive to realize our corporate vision and achieve sustainable growth for both Mazda and society. We will continue to work wholeheartedly to grow as a company that is truly trusted by our global stakeholders, and inspire people through cars that are sustainable with the earth and society. 6 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Feature Story 1:Long-Term Vision for Technology Development In 2007, Mazda announced the “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom” long-term vision for technology development. Based on that vision, Mazda has worked to provide both driving pleasure and outstanding environmental and safety performance. In August 2017, Mazda announced “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030,” its long-term vision for technology development that looks ahead to the year 2030. In light of the significant changes in the global automobile industry, the new vision takes a longer-term perspective and sets out how Mazda will make use of driving pleasure—the fundamental appeal of the automobile—to help resolve issues facing the earth, society, and people. Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030 At Mazda, we see it as our mission to bring about a beautiful earth and to enrich people’s lives as well as society. We will continue to seek ways to inspire people through the value found in cars. Pe opl e Enhance customers’ mental well-being with the satisfaction that comes from protecting the earth and contributing to society with a car that offers true driving pleasure Earth S o c i e ty Through conservation initiatives, create a sustainable Realize cars and a society that offer safety and peace of future in which people and cars mind, and create a system that enriches lives by offering coexist with a bountiful, beautiful earth unrestricted mobility to people everywhere Through conservation initiatives, create a sustainable future in which people and cars coexist Earth with a bountiful, beautiful earth Issues and the External Environment ■ Need for substantial reductions in CO2 emissions in order to reduce greenhouse gases, which are a primary cause of global warming ■ Increasingly serious air pollution in major cities around the world To address these issues and truly reduce greenhouse gases, we must work to reduce CO2 emissions throughout a vehicle’s life cycle. Accordingly, we are promoting the reduction of CO2 emissions not just from the conventional perspective, which evaluates CO2 emissions while driving, but also from a well-to-wheel perspective, which evaluates CO2 emissions from oil extraction to product manufacture and shipping as well. Specifically, we aim to reduce our corporate average well-to-wheel CO2 emissions to 50% of 2010 levels by 2030 with a view to achieving a 90% cut by 2050. 7 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 This approach and its goals are in alignment with the Paris Agreement, an international agreement to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and the Strategic Commission for the New Era of Automobiles, under Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). CO2 Emissions Reduction from Well-to-Wheel Perspective Targets Aim to reduce corporate average well-to-wheel Well-to-Wheel (From oil extraction to driving) CO2 emissions to 50% of 2010 levels by 2030 Tank-to-Wheel Combustion Corporate –50 Refinery Tank engine Wheel average well-to–90 wheel CO2 Oil well EV / emissions HEV (g/km) Power generation Tank Wheel 2010 203 050 To achieve these objectives, we are developing multiple solutions that enable us to offer appropriate powertrains that take into consideration each region’s energy situation and power generation mix. We will continue to pursue advances in the internal combustion engine, which is widely expected to help power the majority of cars worldwide well into the future (see illustration below). Meanwhile, we plan to equip all combustion engine-powered cars with some form of electrification technology by 2030. In addition, aiming to make fuels themselves as carbon neutral as possible, we will step up collaborative efforts with other companies and between industry, academia, and government to encourage the spread of renewable liquid fuels such as microalgae biofuels. 160 FCEV Sales of New Passenger Cars (Millions) Electricity 2030 Plug-in hybrid gasoline Fuel cell vehicles Battery EVs / Plug-in hybrid diesel Fuel cell EVs Diesel hybrid Electric vehicles (10%) Gasoline hybrid Vehicles with electriCNG / LPG fication technologies Plug-in hybrids Diesel (xEV*) Gasoline (52%) Hybrids Vehicles with internal combustion engines Gasoline / Diesel / (90%) CNG / LPG 0 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 IEA / ETP–Energy Technology Perspective 2015 * xEV = Electrified vehicles (Battery EVs, plug-in hybrid EVs, hybrid EVs, and fuel cell EVs), based on the Interim Report by the Strategic Commission for the New Era of Automobiles under METI Means to Achieve Our Targets To protect the earth, we will implement the following initiatives in order to maximize the effect of reduced greenhouse gas emissions under real-world conditions. 1. Aspire to make the best internal combustion engine in the world 2. Combine the ideal internal combustion engine with efficient electrification technologies 3. Introduce electric vehicles (EVs) and other electric-powered technologies in regions that use clean energy to curb global warming and in regions that implement government policies to reduce air pollution 8 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda’s Approach to Issue Resolution Electrification Technologies ■ Mazda will strive to reduce CO2 emissions and enhance the joy of driving by deploying compact, lightweight electrification technologies while further refining the internal combustion engine. ■ We will introduce EVs as the optimal solution in regions that generate a high ratio of electricity from clean energy sources or restrict certain vehicle types to reduce air pollution. Composition of Mazda Vehicles with Electrification Technology in 2030 Mazda plans to deploy some form of electrification technology in all production vehicles by 2030. We expect that by 2030, internal combustion engines combined with some form of electrification technology will account for 95% of the vehicles we produce and that battery EVs will account for 5%. In our in-house development of EVs, we aim to leverage the advantages of electric drive systems and be guided by our unique human-centered development philosophy that focuses on human traits and sensibilities. We aim to bring these EVs to market from 2020. EVs True to the Mazda Spirit: Three Concepts 1 Driving Pleasure We aim to offer true driving pleasure with EVs by offering an enhanced sense of connection with the car through the use of G-Vectoring Control and other technologies. 2 Earth-Friendly Technologies: Electrification Technologies Using Small, Lightweight Rotary Engines Mazda is developing two battery EVs, one powered solely by a battery, and Resolving the issue of driving range another that pairs a battery with a newly developed range extender powered by Mazda’s small, lightweight, and exceptionally quiet rotary engine. The range Charging extender will recharge the battery when it is low to effectively increase the vehicle’s driving range. Also, different combinations of generators, batteries, and fuel tanks will make it possible to offer a shared packaging layout for plug-in hybrids and series hybrids. 3 Technologies That Can Contribute to Society: A Life in Which Your Car Can Act as a Power Source Taking advantage of the rotary engine’s compatibility with gaseous fuels, the rotary A power source in times of emergency engine range extender is designed to also burn liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and provide a source of electricity in times of emergency. LPG SKYACTIV-X Skyactiv-X is an innovative internal combustion engine that combines “SPCCI” Spark Controlled Compression Ignition the distinctive high-revving performance of a gasoline engine with the fuel efficiency, torque, and response of a diesel. Using Mazda’s proprietary combustion method called Spark Controlled CI Expanding fire ball combustion Compression Ignition (SPCCI), Skyactiv-X is a new generation of (Air piston) Gasoline New-Gen Diesel engine. Achieving outstanding environmental performance, power, Fuel economy Engine Fair Engine Good Engine Good and acceleration performance, Skyactiv-X is an engine that stands Customer Value Torque Fair Good Good SKYACTIV-X Response Fair Good Good by the earth and people while supporting the Jinba-ittai “horse and rider as one” enjoyment that Output (expansion) Heating Good Good Good Good Fair Fair we strive to offer our customers. We are installing the engine in our new-generation products, Exhaust purification Good Good Fair starting with the Mazda3 launched in 2019. We will continuously evolve Skyactiv-G and Skyactiv-D engines to meet diverse customer needs across a broad engine lineup. 9 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Realize cars and a society that offer safety and peace of mind, and create a system that enriches Society lives by offering unrestricted mobility to people everywhere Issues and the External Environment ■ Emergence of new causes of traffic accidents, especially ■ Emergence of issues accompanying changes in the in developed nations structure of society ・Accidents caused by young and inexperienced drivers ・Weakening / disappearance of public transport in ・Distracted driving due to increase in the volume of areas of depopulation information from smartphones, etc. ・Increase in numbers of elderly or disabled who ・Driving errors by elderly drivers have difficulty getting around ・Dangerous driving under the effects of overwork and illness With the goal of realizing a motorized society without traffic accidents, we are striving to develop more advanced safety technologies under the Mazda Proactive Safety philosophy. Means to Achieve Our Targets 1. Continuously evolve fundamental safety technologies and standardize them across all models Mazda Co-Pilot Concept ・Driving position ・Pedal layout When the driver’s condition is normal ・Visibility Under normal conditions, drivers can enjoy driving themselves ・Active Driving Display while the car constantly monitors their condition and conducts “virtual driving,” meaning it is ready to drive itself at any time. 2. Advanced safety technology to help drivers recognize 1. Normal conditions and assess potential hazards Driver drives responsibly i-Activsense advanced safety technology, which helps Driver Automobile Society Vehicle information drivers recognize potential hazards, and avert accidents or Driver’s Back-up condition reduce their severity Always sensing ・FY March 2018: Standardize in Japan* Interpret Information Information on road conditions Perception Judgment Operation 1 Activates on road Virtual driving conditions ＊ Technologies made standard equipment: Advanced Smart City Brake Support (A-SCBS), Smart Brake Support (SBS), AT Acceleration Control, Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS), Adaptive LED Headlights (ALH) or High Beam Control (HBC), Blind Spot Monitoring (BSM), Rear Cross-Traffic Alert (RCTA) When the driver cannot operate the vehicle in a normal manner The Mazda Co-Pilot Concept centers on people and When it is determined that the driver cannot operate the vehicle leverages automated driving technologies normally, the car intervenes in an attempt to avoid collisions and ・2020: Commence testing moves the vehicle away from traffic to a more safe location where ・By 2025: Aim to make standard equipment it can stop the vehicle. 2. Driver cannot operate car normally Car intervenes, drives away from traffic to a more safe 3. Utilize connectivity technologies place and stops Driver Automobile Vehicle information Using an advanced version of Mazda Connect, we will Society examine the potential of a new business model that Driver’s Back-up system condition Always sensing enables car owners to help fulfill the mobility needs of Interpret Information ① Information on Activates on road Perception Judgment Operation Virtual driving people in depopulated areas that have dilapidated public road conditions conditions transportation systems. 2 10 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda’s Approach to Issue Resolution Connectivity Technologies Mazda Pursues Two Value Concepts in Connectivity In line with its human-centered development philosophy, ■ Offer the ability to enjoy digital convenience, safely Mazda is developing connectivity technologies that offer an enriching experience of the joy of life, connecting people by with minimal distraction, while in your car facilitating the sharing of experiences and feelings through ■ Based on our human-centered development cars. We are contributing to the resolution of social issues, philosophy, provide an enriching lifestyle and such as the weakening of interpersonal connections that has experience of car ownership that energizes people accompanied changes in society, by connecting people and physically and mentally society through connectivity technologies. One such initiative is a shared mobility service utilizing connectivity technologies that we started testing in Miyoshi, Hiroshima in 2018 in cooperation with local residents and prefectural and city authorities. We aim to build a social contribution model that will support regional revitalization through mobility service trials with an eye on future shared mobility. We are also working on technologies that connect customers to their car and technologies that connect customers to Mazda. To build a stronger customer relationship and connection for our business in the future, we will use connectivity technologies to drive business innovation. Enhance customers’ mental well-being with the satisfaction that comes from protecting the People earth and contributing to society with a car that offers true driving pleasure Issues and the External Environment ■ People today enjoy a more affluent lifestyle thanks to mechanization and automation. However, stress levels have also been rising due to a lack of exercise and opportunities for direct social contact. Through our vehicles, we aim to offer driving pleasure and an enriched life to an even greater number of customers. We will build on our strengths by further pursuing a Jinba-ittai—or “horse and rider as one”—driving feel, which unlocks people’s potential and revitalizes them mentally and physically, and further maturing our Kodo design language, which is grounded in a philosophy of bringing cars to life and raises car design to the level of art to enrich people’s emotional lives. Mazda’s Approach to Issue Resolution Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture Platform New-Generation Structural Technologies Mazda’s Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture was developed with an increased focus on the human-centered design philosophy to maximize the human body’s inherent ability to balance itself. In this way, it offers all occupants a more comfortable and less tiring ride and enables them to respond quickly to environmental changes. As the human body is easily able to balance itself in response to driving inputs, the new vehicle architecture provides responsive driving and the ultimate Jinba-ittai driving feel. Kodo—Soul of Motion Design Philosophy: A Step Further Since 2010, Mazda has striven to create cars that embody the dynamic beauty of life through application of its Kodo—Soul of Motion design philosophy. Going deeper, matured Kodo design pursues the expression of a “new elegance” based on Japanese aesthetics. 11 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Unveiling Mazda’s New-Generation Products MAZDA3 We started launches of the Mazda3 in 2019 as the first of our richer and more powerful expression of vitality than previous new-generation products incorporating new technologies Kodo models. Despite sharing the Mazda3 moniker, the targeting the realization of “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030,” hatchback and sedan models have distinct personalities—the our long-term vision for technology development. Based on its design of the hatchback is emotive, the sedan elegant. human-centered philosophy, Mazda has dramatically improved The Mazda3 adopts Mazda’s new Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture, every area: design, driving performance, NVH, environmental designed to enable people to make the most of their natural performance and quality feel, trying to create a new, hitherto sense of balance. The powertrain lineup comprises the latest unknown value. Skyactiv-X, Skyactiv-G, and Skyactiv-D engines, each of which The Mazda3 adopts a matured Kodo design language that seeks to enables responsive control of speed in any driving attempts to embody the essence of Japanese aesthetics. situation. Based on its philosophy of designing the car around While the overall form presents a simple, single motion, subtle the human being, Mazda has dramatically enhanced the car’s undulations bring the design to life through shifting light and fundamental driving attributes such that accelerating, turning, reflections that glide over the body surface. The result is a and braking feel completely natural. Mazda CX-30 Compact Crossover SUV, the Second New-Generation Model The CX-30 is a new compact crossover that combines the bold proportions of an SUV with elegant styling that embodies Mazda’s Kodo design language. As a new core model, the global launch of CX-30 is underway with sales starting from Europe in September 2019. 12 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Feature Story 2 : Mazda’s Unique Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) Earthand people-friendly electrified cars that offering driving pleasure and contribute to society Mazda, also in the field of EVs, aims to create a beautiful earth and a spiritually affluent society and provide customers with the brilliance of life through car ownership according to the Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030 declaration. Based on the concept of Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), we plan to launch Mazda’s own battery electric vehicles (BEVs) in 2020. We are working hard to substantively reduce CO2 emissions. We are pursuing the Jinba-ittai driving feel that makes people one with the cars based on human-centered philosophy unchanged for EVs. We will continue our way of making cars, developing cars with the driving pleasure and earthand people-friendly electrification technologies that contribute to society. Earth To hand down a beautiful earth to future generations, Mazda has Life-cycle CO2 emissions of BEVs and ICEVs (Mazda's trial calculation based on evaluation conditions of the presentation set a goal of reducing average corporate CO2 emissions based on and paper during the academic conference shown in Fig. b on p. 62) the Well-to-Wheel perspective toward reduced CO2 emissions throughout the vehicle’s entire life cycle. Based on the Well-to-Wheel Using the LCA calculation and comparing the CO2 emissions of BEVs and internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs) over the entire life perspective, Mazda is developing a multi-electrification technology cycle shows that EVs with smaller battery sizes tend to generate lower that provides multiple solutions to different regional characteristics, CO2 emissions. In addition, in the latter half of the life cycle, we need to replace a battery to maintain its performance. So, the CO2 emissions such as power source suitability, energy situations, and power of EVs with smaller batteries are almost equivalent to those of ICEVs. generation mix, providing the right vehicle type for each region. X-axis: Total driving distance after manufacturing Y-axis: Total CO2 emissions For instance, for a region with sufficient clean energy resources or a region with air pollution control norms, we believe that our electric BEV – 35.5kWh BEV – 95kWh MAZDA3 Diesel driving technology for EVs is the optimal solution. By fully utilizing Mazda’s unique technologies, we are promoting the commercialization CO2 EMISSION of EVs full of driving pleasure, which customers can willingly select. In addition, from the life cycle perspective, we are actively engaged in activities to reduce environmental impacts by adopting the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), which calculates and evaluates environmental DRIVING DISTANCE Battery impacts at each stage of material procurement, manufacturing, use, replacement to CO2 from electricity generation : 2016 European avg. maintain battery recycling, and disposal. From an LCA perspective, Mazda desires BEV battery changeover : 160,000 km performance to contribute to substantive reduction of the global environmental impact by installing batteries with appropriate capacities. Mazda's unique technology, the Rotary Engine Mazda is focusing on a range-extender that uses Mazda’s proprietary rotary engine technology, expanding its usage in multiple systems including plug-in hybrids and series hybrids with a single package layout. By developing a multiple electrification technology that utilizes a single vehicle family layout to multilaterally satisfy different regional power generation mixes, we believe we can provide multiple solutions for different regional characteristics, such as power source suitability, energy situations, and power generation mix, offering the right vehicle type for each region. Electrification technologies Regional characteristics Engine Electrification system Clean power Penetration of (Power to rotate the generator) Generator Battery Fuel tank source ratio charging stations Technology that primarily uses an external power Rotary engine supply and secondarily uses power supplied from Range-Extender an auxiliary generator mounted on the vehicle (to prevent a power shortage) Technology that uses both an external power supply Plug-in Hybrid and power supplied from a generator mounted on the vehicle Technology that uses only power supplied from a Series Hybrid generator mounted on the vehicle 13 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Society The rotary engine can accommodate various fuels such Future development potential: Multiple electrification technology as hydrogen, LPG, and CNG in addition to gasoline. In the event of a disaster or emergency, we believe that relatively and widely available LPG cylinders can be used by the rotary engine to generate the minimum power required for daily life. Mazda EVs go to disaster-affected GS LPG areas and provide electricity to those in need, a way of contributing to society. Mazda EVs transform themselves CNG HYDROGEN into emergency mobile power supplies. We will make such a new form of social contribution a reality. People Mazda focuses on a human-centered approach to its Technology to realize a sense of unity between cars and humans product development and develops EVs that produce a ■ Multi-directional ring structure body sense of unity with the vehicle and provide customers The battery pack forms a loop with the body frame and cross with driving pleasure in everyday driving scenes. Using members. As a result, the diagonal force of the four wheels the motor’s regenerative braking, our EVs enable more transmits power without delay. flexible acceleration/deceleration control than before, ■ Motor pedal enabling seamless and precise control in all directions. Ability to control acceleration and deceleration by utilizing the The car should be engineered to smoothly interact with characteristics of the motor. By transmitting torque without delay and reducing delay in vehicle responses, the motor pedal the human body, moving in ways that conform to the achieves the kinetic characteristics of a sensation as if the car is natural movements of the body. You will be able to an extension of the driver’s own body. control a vehicle’s behavior in accelerating, turning, and ■ G-VECTORING CONTROL braking intuitively, like your hands and feet. We believe Seamless motion that feels natural for humans is achieved this will allow us to achieve the Jinba-ittai driving feel that by making the G transition seamlessly while cornering, from deceleration to turning and from turning to acceleration. makes people feel one with the car. Mazda’s advanced proprietary technology G-VECTORING CONTROL Using G-vectoring control, Mazda's unique vehicle motion control technology, we are pursuing optimal back-and-forth load shift during turning. Utilizing the motor's regenerative braking, which is unique to EVs, we realized more flexible acceleration/ deceleration, seamless, and with precise control. (1) Control of increased torque when turning the steering (2) G-vectoring control works in all driving situations, including wheel back to further stabilize vehicle motion. when releasing the accelerator pedal and during downhill driving, to further stabilize the vehicle’s stance. Turn in Turn out Stationary state of the Step on the pedal Release Engine brake accelerator pedal Expanded application Reduced torque shifts the load to the front Increased torque shifts the load back to the rear Electric motor Electric motor (Regenerative GVC by motor) (Regenerative GVC by motor) ICE ICE 14 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 MAZDA GLOBAL TECH FORUM 2019 in OSLO Mazda held the Mazda Global Tech Forum 2019 from August 26 to September 2, 2019, in Oslo, Norway, inviting approximately 40 automotive journalists from 16 countries worldwide. Mazda Global Tech Forum 2019 emphasized Mazda’s unchanging car-making philosophy also in EVs, based on the viewpoints of Earth, People, and Society, featuring (1) a human-centered development philosophy, (2) contribution to substantive reduction of global environmental impacts based on the LCA perspective, and (3) future potentials of the rotary engine range-extender. At the Mazda Global Tech Forum, journalists drove a technology prove-out EV* specially produced for this event to experience the Jinba-ittai feel, a feeling of unified car-and-human driving. Through detailed discussions with journalists, we obtained various valuable opinions and advice toward our EV launch in the future. * Technical prototype model that is not planned for sale Key points appealed during the test drive: Seamless vehicle motion in all directions EV usage environment in Norway Composed ride quality from a feeling that the vehicle constantly gravitates toward the Blessed with nature, Norway highly road surface advances the use of renewable All operations including accelerating, energy, with almost all its electricity turning, and stopping are intuitive, supplied by hydroelectric power providing control as if the car is an plants. It is the most advanced EV extension of the driver’s arms and legs. country in Europe, promoting zeroemission cars as government policy Feedback from participating media (excerpts) and exceeding 50% share by EVs. – Impression different from other EVs. The car realized very smooth motion in accelerating, turning, and stopping. – I relate to the idea of not only the Well-toWheel perspective, but also Mazda’s idea of EVs, in addition to its consideration for the environment, from resource mining to battery disposal. Household recharging equipment in Norway World premiere of Mazda’s first mass-production EV at the 2019 Tokyo Motor Show Mazda unveiled its first mass-production EV at the 46th Tokyo Motor Show* sponsored by the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association and held from October 23, 2019. The new EV will be the third installation in Mazda’s new-generation lineup. Developed in accordance with Mazda’s human-centered philosophy and making full use of the benefits of electric drive technology, it offers performance drivers can enjoy effortlessly and whole-heartedly. * Tokyo Motor Show 2019 details: https://www.mazda.co.jp/experience/tokyomotorshow2019/en/ 15 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 FY March 2019 Highlights Number of sales countries/regions Net sales More than 130 countries/regions 3,564.7 Operating income 83.0 billion yen billion yen Down 43.3% Up 2.6% YoY YoY Number of tier 1 suppliers Domestic production volume 1,087 1,010 Overseas production volume thousand units 560 thousand units Global sales volume 1,561 CO2 emissions per unit of sales revenue from production Down 4.2% YoY (Four principal domestic sites*2) thousand units 17.6 t-CO2/100 million yen Reduced by 58% compared with FY March1991 levels Global sales share Total amount of landfill waste (Four principal domestic sites*2) Japan North America*1 Europe China Other 14% 27% 17% 16% 26% 0 t Maintained since FY March 2009 Rate of reinstatement after childrearing leave (Non-consolidated) Number of employees 99 49,998 % Percentage of employees with special needs (Non-consolidated) Overseas local employment rate for management 76% 2.11 % Rate of employees by region (consolidated) North *1 Including Mexico. Japan America*1 *2 Head Office (Hiroshima); Miyoshi Plant; Hofu Plant, Nishinoura District; and Hofu Plant, 79% 15% Nakanoseki District (including R&D and other indirect areas) Europe Other 3% 3% Financial Information Breakdown of Shareholders by Type Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio Net Income Attributable to (as of March 31, 2019) (Billions of yen) ■■Net sales (Billions of yen / %) ■■Operating Income Owners of the Parent Company Operating Income Ratio (Billions of yen) ■■Net income Japanese securities Foreign institutions 3,474.0 3,564.7 3,214.4 companies and others 3.9% 35.6% 146.4 112.1 24,775 thousand shares 224,944 thousand shares 125.7 93.8 83.0 63.5 Other Japanese 3.9 4.2 corporations 2.3 12.9% 81,373 (Years ended 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended 2017 2018 2019 thousand March 31) March 31) March 31) shares R & D Costs Capital Expenditures Equity / Equity Ratio (Billions of yen) ■■R & D Costs (Billions of yen ) ■■Capital Expenditures (Billions of yen / %) ■■Equity Equity Ratio 136.0 134.7 126.9 119.7 1,192.9 1,218.7 104.1 1,039.4 94.4 41.2 43.8 42.4 Japanese individuals Japanese financial and others* institutions 17.0% 30.6% 107,125 thousand shares 193,587 thousand shares * Treasury stock is included in “Japanese individuals and others” (Years ended 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended 2017 2018 2019 (As of 2017 2018 2019 March 31) March 31) March 31) 16 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 MAJOR PRODUCT LINEUP Since 2012, Mazda has been introducing products featuring Skyactiv Technology and Kodo—Soul of Motion design, which provide both driving pleasure and outstanding environmental and safety performance. The launch of the Mazda3 in 2019 marked the rollout of our first new-generation product. Global Sales Volume Sales markets J N E C O Global launch is underway with sales Global Sales Volume Sales markets C starting from Europe in September 2019 161thousand units Production bases J O 56 thousand units Production bases C Global Sales Volume Sales markets J N E C O Global Sales Volume Sales markets J C O Global Sales Volume Sales markets N E O 458 thousand units Production bases J E C O 35 thousand units Production bases J C 59 thousand units Production bases J E Global Sales Volume Sales markets J N E O Global Sales Volume Sales markets J N E C O Global Sales Volume Sales markets J N E C O 169 thousand units Production bases J N O 362 thousand units Production bases J N C O 136 thousand units Production bases J E C O (Japanese name: Mazda Roadster) Sales markets and production bases: J Japan N North America E Europe C China O Other markets * Global sales volume is for fiscal year March 2019; sales markets Global Sales Volume Sales markets J N E C O Global Sales Volume Sales markets O and production bases are as of March 31, 2019. 31 thousand units Production bases J 38 thousand units Production bases O * Vehicle specifications differ by market. 17 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 GLOBAL NETWORK (As of March 31, 2019) Mazda is based in Hiroshima Prefecture and has major production sites in Japan, Mexico, Thailand, and China. The Company conducts sales in more than 130 countries and regions around the world. Mazda has established a global network of headquarters, R&D bases, production facilities, dealerships, and other facilities. Japan Asia (Number of dealerships: 961) (Number of dealerships: 858) 1 Headquarters 12 Mazda Motor (China) (MCO) / 2 Headquarters R&D Divisions MCO China Engineering Support Center 13 FAW Car*1 3 Mazda R&D Center (Yokohama) 14 Changan Mazda Automobile (Nanjing Company) 4 Miyoshi Proving Ground 15 Changan Mazda Engine 5 Mine Proving Ground 16 AutoAlliance (Thailand) 6 Hokkaido Kenbuchi Proving Ground 17 Mazda Powertrain Manufacturing (Thailand) 7 Hokkaido Nakasatsunai Proving Ground 18 Thaco Premium Automobile Assembly and 8 Hiroshima Plant Manufacturing Limited Liability Company*1 9 Hofu Plant 19 Mazda Malaysia 10 Miyoshi Plant 20 FAW Mazda Motor Sales 11 Press Kogyo Onomichi Plant*1 21 Changan Mazda Automobile Sales 22 Mazda Motor Taiwan 23 Mazda Sales (Thailand) 13 20 33 14 15 21 12 22 6 16 17 23 18 7 1 Headquarters Location: Aki-gun, Hiroshima, Japan 19 4 10 3 9 5 11 1 2 8 14 Changan Mazda Automobile Oceania 24 25 3 Mazda R&D Center Location: Nanjing, China (Number of dealerships: 192) (Yokohama) Production capacity: 220,000 units per year Models in production: CX-5, CX-8, Mazda3 Location: Yokohama, Kanagawa, 24 Mazda Australia Japan 25 Mazda Motors of New Zealand 16 AutoAlliance (Thailand) 8 Hiroshima Plant 9 Hofu Plant Location: Aki-gun, Hiroshima, Japan Location: Hofu, Yamaguchi, Japan Location: Rayong, Thailand Production capacity: 569,000 units Production capacity: 416,000 units per Production capacity: 135,000 units per year per year year Models in production: CX-3, Mazda2, Models in production: CX-3, CX-5, Models in production: CX-3, CX-5, Mazda3, BT-50 CX-8, CX-9, MX-5, Bongo, Sports Mazda2, Mazda3, Mazda6 cars for Fiat Chrysler Automobiles *1 Consignment production facilities 18 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 North America Europe (Number of dealerships: 792) (Number of dealerships: 2,023) 26 Mazda North American Operations 32 Mazda Motor Europe 27 Mazda Toyota Manufacturing, U.S.A., Inc.*1 33 Mazda Sollers Manufacturing Rus 28 Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Operation 34 Mazda Motor Logistics Europe 29 Mazda Motor of America 35 Mazda Motors (Deutschland) 30 Mazda Canada 36 Mazda Motors UK 31 Mazda de Mexico Sales & Commercial 37 Mazda Motor Russia Operation 19 distributors in other main markets 37 36 34 32 35 30 26 29 27 32 Mazda Motor Europe 28 Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Operation 28 31 Location: Guanajuato, Mexico Location: Leverkusen, Germany Production capacity: 250,000 units per year Models in production: Mazda2, Mazda3, Compact vehicles for Toyota 38 26 Mazda North American Operations Caribbean, Central Location: California, USA and South America, Middle East, Africa (Number of dealerships: 424) 39 38 Mazda De Colombia 39 Mazda Southern Africa Main Business Lines Regional headquarters / R&D 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 12 26 32 34 Production facilities 8 9 10 11 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 27 28 33 Distributors 20 21 22 23 24 25 29 30 31 35 36 37 38 39 *1 Start of operations planned for 2021 19 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 MAZDA CSR Mazda will grow and develop together with society through the realization of its corporate vision. While striving to meet the requests and expectations of all of Mazda’s stakeholders, each employee pursues corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives in the course of their daily business activities. CONTENTS 21 CSR Management 26 Stakeholder Engagement CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects ① Gathered information on social issues to which stakeholders ① Continue to implement the PDCA (planattach importance, to reflect external perspectives in discussion ① Review key CSR issues (materiality) in do-check-act) process in addressing key on the methods of linking the key CSR issues and Sustainable view of changes inside and outside the CSR issues (materiality). ② Continue to secure coordination Development Goals (SDGs). Company. ② Implemented CSR initiatives based on international CSR ② Continue to secure coordination between related divisions to reinforce CSR 6.2 ○ CSR norms, and participated in working group meetings of the UN between related divisions to reinforce CSR initiatives on a global basis, in line with Organizational management Global Compact and utilized the obtained knowledge in the initiatives on a global basis, in line with international CSR norms. governance ③ Enhance the contents of activities to Company. international CSR norms. ③ Envisioned the ideal state of activities to raise CSR ③ Implement optimization of the contents raise CSR awareness among employees, awareness among employees, and completed deliberations on and opportunities for activities to raise and develop a system to further expand optimization of the contents of and opportunities for activities employees’ CSR awareness by level. opportunities for such activities. to raise employees’ CSR awareness by level. 6.2 ○ Stakeholder Continue and strengthen stakeholder Executed stakeholder engagement initiatives in various forms, as Continue and strengthen stakeholder Organizational engagement engagement. planned. engagement. governance 20 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management CSR MANAGEMENT Basic Approach Mazda aims to achieve its Corporate Vision through the actions of each individual, based on the Mazda Way (see p. 85). While striving to meet the requests and expectations of all of Mazda’s stakeholders, each employee pursues CSR initiatives in the course of their daily business activities, in order to achieve the sustainable development of both society and the Company itself. Sustainable Development of Society and the Company Corporate Vision*1 We love cars and want people to enjoy fulfilling lives through cars. We envision cars existing sustainably with the earth and society, and we will continue to tackle challenges with creative ideas. 1. Brighten people’s lives through car ownership. 2. Offer cars that are sustainable with the earth and society to more people. 3. Embrace challenges and seek to master the Doh (“Way” or “Path”) of creativity. Customers Next generation Shareholders and people Customer (environment) investors Satisfaction Environment Safety CSR Social Contributions Quality Respect for Bu People sin ce ess a lian Global society Local communities ct ivit ies with comp Business partners Mazda employees All Mazda stakeholders Mazda Way Areas of CSR Initiatives Referencing the Charter of Corporate Behavior issued by the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren)*2, etc., Mazda classifies and evaluates its CSR initiatives. The areas of CSR initiatives are periodically reviewed and revised in the light of issues in the business activities of the automotive industry and Mazda, as well as social issues to which stakeholders attach particular importance. The most recent review was made in July 2016, by which the Company defined the following as the key areas of its CSR initiatives: Customer Satisfaction, Quality, Safety, Environment, Respect for People, and Social Contributions. Customer Providing a Mazda brand experience that exceeds customer expectations Satisfaction ・Commitment to customers／・Sales and customer service, etc Offering products and services that please our customers Quality ・Establishing stable pat quality／・Achieving quality that exceeds customer expectations／・Cultivating human resources capable of thinking and acting for the happiness of customers *1 Mazda revised its Corporate Vision in April 2015, with the Promoting safety initiatives to achieve a safe and accident-free automotive society following objectives, aiming to be recognized as a corporate ・Safety initiatives based on the three viewpoints; vehicles, people, and roads and infrastructure Safety group gaining sincere trust of its stakeholders. ・Clarify the attributes of the Mazda brand, and make Reducing environmental impact throughout the entire vehicle life cycle Environment ・Environmental management, efforts regarding product and technology development, efforts regarding concerted efforts across the Mazda Group to realize the Corporate Vision. ・Promote the Group-wide dialogue process to share, manufacturing and logistics, recycling, biodiversity, communication, etc. Respect for Developing human resources, who are the foundations of the Company and society, and respecting for human rights understand and agree the goal of the Corporate Vision People ・Initiatives with employees (including occupational safety and health)／・Respect for human rights, etc. through the continuous thorough discussions. ・ Closely link the Corporate Vision to our daily business Contributing to local communities as a good corporate citizen activities. Contributions ・Activities based on the three pillars (environment and safety performance, human resources development, and Social *2 Mazda actively supports the Charter of Corporate Behavior community contributions), etc. issued by the Japan Business Federation (Keidanren). 21 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management CSR Promotion Organization a b a CSR Promotion Organization Each department carries out its operations based on goals and plans formulated with an CSR Management understanding of the policies and guidelines determined by the CSR Management Strategy Strategy Committee Meetings: Twice annually Committee, which the president chairs, and in cooperation with other Group companies. From Chairperson: Representative Director, President, and CEO Vice-Chairperson: Executive Officer in charge of CSR and FY March 2016, the Board of Directors holds discussions on issues concerning sustainability. environmental affairs CSR Management Strategy Committee Members: Members of the Executive Committee Deliberate the CSR activities that are expected of Mazda from a global perspective, in Secretariat consideration of changes in social environment. (CSR & Environment Department, ● Establishment of CSR targets and follow-up of the progress in CSR efforts (see p. 24) Corporate Services Division) ● Performance evaluation of the mid-term environmental plan (Mazda Green Plan) (see CSR Strategy Core Team pp. 54-55) Meeting: Held as required ● Reviewing and identifying key CSR issues (materiality) (see p. 23) Members: Working members of primary departments involved in ● The present status of social needs and trends regarding CSR and the results of carrying out CSR initiatives external evaluations of CSR initiatives Company Departments and Sections b History of the CSR Structure Customer Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment Respect for People Social Contributions ・Began company-wide CSR initiatives ・CSR Committee established FY March 2005 ・Mazda evaluates its CSR initiatives in the six areas referencing the Charter of Corporate Behavior issued by the FY March 2008 Japan Business Federation (Keidanren), etc. ・CSR Promotion Department established as a permanent structure ・Integrated CSR initiatives and management FY March 2009 ・Reinforced global perspective ・CSR Committee reorganized as the CSR Management Strategy Committee ・Promoted initiatives both globally and across departments ・CSR & Environment Department established as a permanent structure Mazda Group companies in Japan Mazda Group companies overseas ・Former CSR Promotion Department reorganized as a supervising compliance body and renamed as the FY March 2010 Compliance Administration Department ・CSR Targets established FY March 2013 ・Started to implement the PDCA cycle to promote CSR initiatives based on ISO 26000 ・Compliance supervision functions transferred to the Office of General & Legal Affairs FY March 2014 ・Started study to review and identify key CSR issues (materiality) FY March 2015 ・Disclosed the process of reviewing and identifying materiality FY March 2016 ・Continued to conduct interviews with interested parties in the Company and with external experts and specialists ・Disclosed the results of the materiality review, and the items that were identified ・Reviewed the areas of CSR initiatives FY March 2017 FY March 2018–2019 ・Continued the process of reviewing and identifying materiality Collaboration with Local Governments, Industrial Organizations, etc. *1 UNGC: United Nations Global Compact The UNGC is a voluntary effort by corporations and organizations to be good corporate citizens by exercising To fulfill its social responsibility, Mazda is actively collaborating with external organizations, responsible, creative leadership, and to build a global framework for sustainable growth. More than 13,000 including local governments and industrial organizations. The Company has participated corporations and organizations in approximately 160 in activities conducted by industrial organizations, such as the Japan Business Federation countries worldwide are participants or signatories to the compact. (Keidanren) and the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, while also being Mazda joined the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) comprising Japanese signatory companies and organizations involved in government-led activities, such as the Strategic Commission for the New Era to the UNGC. As a member of GCNJ, the Company participates in workshops and gathers information on such of Automobiles set up by Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. In addition, themes as ESG, the environment, supply chains, labor and Mazda signed the United Nations Global Compact*1 and declared its support for the human rights. *2 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD*2), A private sector-led organization set up by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), in response to the request from the as part of its efforts in line with the international community’s initiatives. G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. External Evaluations of CSR (as of September 15, 2019) Mazda identifies key external ratings and evaluations both from within Japan and overseas. By analyzing the results, Mazda evaluates its own initiatives. Mazda continuously makes active efforts to disclose information by responding to both domestic and global surveys and evaluations, such as those by socially responsible investment (SRI) and environmental, social and governance (ESG) rating organizations. ■ Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Asia Pacific Index (Selected since September 2017) ■ Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index series (Selected since March 2011) ■ Inclusion in the FTSE Blossom Japan Index (Selected since the index was established in July 2017). ■ Inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register (Selected since October 2013) ■ In the CDP Climate Change Report 2018, Mazda’s score was B. ■ Inclusion in the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index (Selected since the index was established in September 2018). ■ Winning a Bronze Class award in the SAM Sustainability Award 2019 as an outstanding company in the automotive industry. 22 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Key CSR Issues (Materiality) c c Materiality Review Process Mazda has been implementing a four-phase process (Step 1–Step 4) to extract the social issues [Step 1] Extraction of social issues that the Company should address, so as to identify the key CSR issues (materiality). In identifying Extract aspects of greatest importance from the following perspectives, and clarify the scope of expected impact (boundary) of each aspect. materiality, Mazda reflects the external opinions of experts and various other stakeholders, ■ ‌Social issues in the business activities of the automotive industry and Mazda while taking into account opinions both from management and the relevant divisions. ■ ‌Social issues to which stakeholders attach particular importance or that have substantive influence when During the materiality identifying process, Mazda has also referenced the Sustainable stakeholders evaluate Mazda Development Goals (SDGs)*1 adopted by the United Nations. [Step 2] Prioritization Evaluate the importance of the social issues extracted In the future, Mazda will continue to review materiality, while further clarifying the in Step 1, grade them and show the graded scores by mapping according to the following two axes, so as to relationship between SDG-related issues and key CSR issues. identify the aspects with greatest importance (the status was reported to CSR Management Strategy Committee.) *1 Announced in September 2015. SDGs call on United Nations member nations to mobilize efforts to achieve sustainable development, ■ ‌Horizontal axis: Significance of Mazda group impacts (graded by accomplishing such targets as ending poverty and hunger, ensuring access to affordable and clean energy, combating climate by Mazda’s relevant divisions, from such viewpoints as the change, and promoting peaceful and inclusive societies between 2015 and 2030. SDGs comprise 17 goals with 169 targets. possibilities for existing risks and opportunities at Mazda, and the significance of their impact) ■ ‌Vertical axis: Influence on stakeholders (graded by external Mazda Group’s Key CSR Issues (Materiality) (as of August 2019) experts and institutional investors, from such viewpoints as the relationship with the business activities of the automotive industry and Mazda, and of the possibilities for having impact) Extremely high Influence on stakeholders *1 [Step 3] Validation Category Ⅲ Category Ⅰ Reconfirm the validation of the boundaries of aspects identified in Step 2 based on the business plan, etc. The CSR Management Strategy Committee approved the validation. [Step 4] Disclosure of identification results and Category Ⅳ Category Ⅱ development of the PDCA cycle High *1 Expectation to Mazda group and automotive industry Disclose the materiality aspects identified in Steps 1-3 and the management reporting results for the first time in the Mazda *2 Risk and opportunity for Mazda group Sustainability Report 2016. Continuously collect the opinions of High Extremely high stakeholders inside and outside the Company and carry out periodic Significance of Mazda group impacts *2 reviews, so as to develop the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) process. Related item(s) in Mazda Sustainability Boundary of Category Items Outline Target Report 2019[In-Depth Version] Impact • Indirect economic impact and the degree of contribution in the country/region See Securities Inside and outside Economic Indirect Economic Impacts • Top Message*3 4 where Mazda conducts business Report* the organization See Mazda Green Inside and outside Environmental Energy • Impact of energy use throughout the value chain on the entire society • Environment (energy / global warming) Plan 2020 (p. 54) the organization • Environment (cleaner emissions, resource See Mazda Green Plan Inside and outside Environmental Water Source in Community • Impact of water use on the entire society by water source recycling, biodiversity) 2020 (pp. P54-55) the organization • Environment (energy / global warming, See Mazda Green Plan Inside and outside Environmental Emissions • Impact of greenhouse gases (such as CO2) and NOx on the atmosphere cleaner emissions) 2020 (pp. P54-55) the organization See Mazda Green Inside and outside Ⅰ Environmental Effluents and Waste • Impact of factory waste/wastewater on ecosystems and on the entire society • Environment (cleaner emissions) Plan 2020 (p. 55) the organization Products and Services from • Environmental impact when a product is in use, and impact of waste from end-of• Environment (efforts regarding product and See Mazda Green Plan Inside and outside Environmental Environmental Aspect life vehicles technology development) 2020 (pp. P54-55) the organization • Respect for People (initiatives with See CSR Targets Inside the Labor practices Occupational Health and Safety • Health and safety of employees, etc., and impact on their health employees) (p.84) organization • Providing an opportunity and working environment where a diverse range of • Respect for People (initiatives with See CSR Targets Inside the Labor practices Diversity and Equal Opportunity employees can succeed, regardless of race, gender, age, religion, etc. employees) (p.84) organization • Quality (in general) See CSR Targets Inside and outside Consumer issues Customer Health and Safety • Providing vehicles that customers can use safely • Safety (in general) (pp.34,40) the organization • Stable distribution of generated profits • Risks and opportunities brought by • Respect for People / Social Contributions Economic Economic Performance climate change and changes in external environments, such as social conditions / Management*3 • Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and purchased materials, • Environment (efforts regarding Environmental Transport and of transporting members of the workforce manufacturing and logistics) Ⅱ • Providing employment opportunities (stably securing human resources with diverse • Respect for People (initiatives with Labor practices Employment qualities, and promoting a life-work balance) employees) • Human resources development by improving training programs and establishing • Respect for People (initiatives with Labor practices Training and Education career development programs employees) • Appointing personnel coming from countries/regions where the Company’s • Respect for People (initiatives with Economic Market Presence business sites are located, as managers and above employees) • Promoting effective use of raw materials and recycling (reducing the level of Environmental Materials • Environment (resource recycling) dependence on natural resources) • Environment (environmental management) Environmental Supplier Environmental Assessment • Environmental impact assessment in the supply chain • Management (supply chain) Ⅲ Labor practices Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices • Working environment assessment in the supply chain • Management (supply chain) • Understanding the impact of conducting business on the country/region, and taking • Top Message Social Social Community relevant measures • Social Contributions (in general) Social Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society • Compliance evaluation in the supply chain • Management (Supply chain) • Product labeling that enables customers to select a vehicle to purchase based on Consumer issues Product and Service Labeling • Customer Satisfaction (in general) correct information • Compliance with regulations and rules in vehicle development / manufacturing / Consumer issues Compliance of Product Area • Management (compliance) sales / after-sales service Economic Purchasing practices • Transactions with suppliers in countries/regions where production sites are located • Management (supply chain) • Environment (environmental management) Environmental Compliance of environmental area • Compliance with environment-related regulations and rules • Management (compliance) Labor practices Labor/Management Relations • Labor-management dialogue held in a timely and appropriate manner • Respect for People (initiatives with employees) Labor practices Equal Remuneration for Women and Men • Closing wage disparity between men and women • Respect for People (in general) Ⅳ Human rights Forced or Compulsory Labor • Preventing and eliminating all forms of forced or compulsory labor • Respect for People (human rights) Human rights Assessment • Evaluation of human rights protection • Respect for People (human rights) Social Anti-corruption • Preventing bribery, money laundering, abuse of power, etc. • Management (compliance) • Compliance with regulations and rules in areas other than those related to the Social Compliance of social area • Management (compliance) environment and products • Publicity and advertisement that enable customers to select a vehicle to purchase, Consumer issues Marketing Communications • Customer Satisfaction (in general) based on correct information Consumer issues Customer Privacy • Protection of customer privacy (personal information, etc.) • Management (risk management) *3 Financial materials (described in the Security Report and other documents) *4 https://www.mazda.com/globalassets/ja/assets/investors/library/ s-report/files/f_repo190627.pdf (Japanese only) 23 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Promoting Initiatives Based on the SDGs The Mazda Group pushes forward with various initiatives to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),*1 adopted by the United Nations. In FY March 2019, the CSR Management Strategy Committee enhanced SDG-related information available to the Company’s management, and employees’ awareness of SDGs was raised through the effective use of the Company’s intranet. Mazda’s activities that are instrumental in realizing the 17 goals of the SDGs are presented in each section of this Sustainability Report 2019 [In-Depth Version] (see the following table). Related Items in Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 17 Goals of the SDGs [In-Depth Version] • Respect for People (initiatives with employees) Goal 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere • Management (supply chain) End hunger, achieve food security and Goal 2. improved nutrition, and promote sustainable • Social Contributions (in general) agriculture • Quality (in general) Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Goal 3. • Safety (in general) for all at all ages • Environment (cleaner emissions) Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Goal 4. education and promote lifelong learning • Respect for People (initiatives with employees) opportunities for all Achieve gender equality and empower all • Respect for People (initiatives with employees) Goal 5. women and girls • Management (supply chain) Ensure availability and sustainable • Environment (cleaner emissions, resource Goal 6. management of water and sanitation for all recycling) Ensure access to affordable, reliable, • Environment (energy / global warming) Goal 7. sustainable and modern energy for all • Innovation (in general) Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable • Environment (in general) Goal 8. economic growth, full and productive • Respect for People (initiatives with employees) employment, and decent work for all • Management (supply chain) Build resilient infrastructure, promote Goal 9. inclusive and sustainable industrialization, • Innovation (in general) and foster innovation Reduce inequality within and among Goal 10. • Respect for People (initiatives with employees) countries Make cities and human settlements inclusive, Goal 11. • Customer Satisfaction (products) safe, resilient and sustainable • Customer Satisfaction (products) Ensure sustainable consumption and Goal 12. • Quality (in general) production patterns • Environment (in general) Take urgent action to combat climate change • Environment (energy / measures against global Goal 13. and its impacts warming, environmental communication) Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, • Environment (cleaner emissions, resource Goal 14. seas and marine resources for sustainable recycling, biodiversity) development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably Goal 15. manage forests, combat desertification, and • Environment (biodiversity) halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to • Mazda CSR (stakeholder engagement) Goal 16. justice for all and build effective, accountable • Management (compliance) and inclusive institutions at all levels d CSR Targets Strengthen the means of implementation Goal 17. and revitalize the global partnership for • Mazda CSR (CSR management) Customer Satisfaction (see p. 28) / Quality (see p.34) / sustainable development Safety (see p.40) / Environment (see p. 51) / Respect for People (see p. 84) / Development of PDCA Cycle in Line with CSR Targets d Social Contributions (see p. 99) / Management (see p. 105) Mazda has established its CSR targets for each year starting in FY March 2014. In establishing All areas https://www.mazda.com/globalassets/en/assets/ these targets, CSR initiatives are reaffirmed in reference to the seven core subjects of the ISO csr/download/2019/2019_csrtarget.pdf 26000 social responsibility guidelines, and each division envisions the ideals that Mazda aims to achieve in the future, and summarizes them in these targets. The targets for FY March 2020 as well as the results for FY March 2019, as well as the, which *1 Announced in September 2015. SDGs call on United Nations member nations to mobilize efforts to achieve were established taking into account the process of identifying materiality, were approved sustainable development, by accomplishing such targets as ending poverty and hunger, ensuring access to affordable by the CSR Management Strategy Committee. Mazda will continue to implement the PDCA and clean energy, combating climate change, and promoting peaceful and inclusive societies between 2015 and 2030. (plan-do-check-act) process, so as to carry out CSR management in line with global standards. SDGs comprise 17 goals with 169 targets. 24 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Raising Executive and Employee Awareness e f e Global Employee Survey (Positive Answer Percentage) (Non-consolidated) Mazda endeavors to deepen awareness and understanding of CSR among all FY March 2019 its executive officers and employees, and to promote the undertaking of CSR My workplace is engaged in CSR through their day-to-day activities. (Local 45%*1 initiatives in the course of their daily business activities. The level of employees’ item) CSR awareness is confirmed through Global Employee Survey. *1 Percentage of positive responses from indirect employees (The survey was conducted on both direct and indirect To ensure constant improvement of the CSR awareness level, Mazda will continue employees.) a range of initiatives. Examples of Awareness-Raising Activities f Results of Group Discussion Surveys in FY ■ Implementation of a lecture delivered by an external expert on the theme March 2019 (around 1,300 participants) of “Strengthening sustainability management,” for executive officers and (Non-consolidated) 1. Interest in, knowledge about, divisional general managers (including general managers of independent and understanding of CSR activities 10.6% Before departments) training 13.0% 40.0% 36.5% ■ Distribution of the Mazda Sustainability Report to Group companies in Japan 3.4% After and overseas training 38.4% 58.0% ■ Particular training and enlightenment for specific issues including quality, 0.2% environment, human rights and compliance 2. Awareness of your efforts to contribute to society, through training ■ Implementation of CSR training programs by level (lecture type training and 2.8% After 50.2% 46.9% group discussions for a total of around 1,300 participants, including new training 0.2% recruits, mid-career hires, new band 5 (assistant manager level) and newly Very high High Low Very low appointed managers)*1 ■ Communication about CSR efforts via the Company's Intranet and the inhouse newsletter My Mazda, on an as needed basis*1 CSR Promotion throughout the Entire Value Chain In cooperation with suppliers and dealerships, Mazda has established a CSR initiative promotion system throughout the entire value chain. The Company places emphasis on dialogues with stakeholders, to ensure that its CSR initiatives not only comply with international rules as well as the laws and regulations of each country/region, but also respect local history, culture, and customs. *1 Unconsolidated activities of Mazda Research and Recycling end-of-life Development Purchasing Manufacturing Logistics Sales and services vehicles Research and Implementation of a Pursuit of high-level Pursuit of high-quality, Provision of vehicles and Pursuit of end-of-life development in Japan, broad range of initiatives, manufacturing in a total safe and environmentally services to customers in vehicle recycling and North America, Europe in tandem with 1,087 of 7 countries, including conscious transportation more than 130 countries waste reduction and China for providing major suppliers in Japan Japan, Thailand, China on a global basis and regions innovative products and overseas, aiming for and Mexico tailored to the markets harmonious coexistence and co-prosperity 25 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Basic Approach a a Examples of Indicators Degree of customer satisfaction, brand Mazda clarifies key responsibilities and issues that the Mazda Group should likeability, loyalty (retention), net promoter Customers score, (unaided) awareness level, brand accomplish, through dialogue with stakeholders which are important for a recommendation level company’s sustainable development*1, and carries out daily business activities Shareholders Evaluations by external research and investors organizations while making efforts for improvement. Business Stakeholder Survey To ensure effective communications with customers and other respective partners stakeholders, Mazda has defined its key stakeholders, and determined the Employees Global Employee Engagement Survey frequencies of providing opportunities for dialogue and information disclosure. Global society and local Stakeholder Survey The information obtained is reported to the relevant departments or committee communities meetings attended by the Company’s management, and used for planning and Next-generation Evaluations by external research people organizations improving Mazda’s daily business activities. In the brand value management which the Company has been promoting in earnest since 2013, Mazda is pushing ahead with various initiatives, aiming to continue to grow as a corporate group that earns the trust of all its stakeholders. By establishing indicators for its relationships with its stakeholders, Mazda implements the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. Key Stakeholder Relationships and Opportunities for Key Dialogue and Information Disclosure Key Stakeholder Mazda Group’s Key Responsibilities and Issues Opportunities for Key Dialogue and Information Disclosure (Frequency) ● Establishment of call centers (always) ● Improving customer satisfaction ● Mazda Official Website and social media (always) ● Providing safe, reliable and attractive products and services ● Day-to-day sales activities (always) ● Appropriate disclosure and explanation of information regarding Customers ● Customer satisfaction surveys (as needed) products, services and technical terms ● Holding events (as needed) ● Providing customer support in a timely and appropriate manner ● Interviews with customers (as needed) ● Appropriate management of customer information ● Meetings with Mazda vehicle owners (as needed) ● Website for shareholders and investors (always) ● Publication of the asset securities report and the quarterly financial reports (four times a year) ● Timely and appropriate information disclosure ● Publication of the summary of financial results (four times a year) Shareholders and investors ● Maximizing corporate value ● Quarterly presentation of financial results (four times a year) (see the website for shareholders ● Strict exercise of voting rights (at the general meeting of ● Publication of shareholder reports (twice a year, Japanese only) and investors*) shareholders) ● Holding ordinary general meetings of shareholders (once a year) ● Active investor relations activities ● Publication of the Annual Report (once a year) ● Publication of corporate governance reports (as needed) ● Presentations and plant tours for investors (as needed) ● Hotlines linking Mazda with dealerships (always) ● Fair and equitable trading ● Day-to-day purchasing activities (always) Business partners ● Open and transparent business opportunities ● Supplier communication meetings (once a month) ● Suppliers ● Support for requests for collaboration on CSR implementation ● Conferences with representatives of dealerships (once a year) ● Domestic dealerships ● Appropriate disclosure and sharing of information ● Conferences with supplier executives (once a year) ● Overseas distributors ● Commendation of outstanding suppliers and dealerships (once a year, respectively) ● Labor-Management Council (as needed) ● Respect for human rights ● Direct communication with senior management (MBLD) (as needed) ● Choice and self-accomplishment ● Global Employee Engagement Survey (as needed) ● Promoting a healthy work-life balance ● Career meetings (four times a year) Employees ● Optimum matching of people, work and placement ● Career Challenge System (in-house recruitment and “Free Agent”) (as ● Promotion and improvement of employee health and safety needed) ● Promotion of diversity ● Group and optional training (as needed) ● Mutual understanding and trust between labor and management ● Lectures (as needed) ● Respect for local cultures and customers ● Prevention of workplace accidents and disasters Global society and local ● Opening to the public of the Mazda Museum and plant tours (always) ● Activities contributing to local communities (including communities ● Execution of social contribution activities and participation in and cooperative work) ● Community people promotion of volunteer activities (as needed) ● Disaster-relief activities in regions in which Mazda does business ● Government and ● Dialogue through economic and industry organizations (as needed) ● Compliance with laws and regulations administrative agencies ● Interaction/exchange of views with the local community (as needed) ● Payment of taxes ● NGOs/NPOs ● Response to hearings, information disclosure, etc. (as needed) ● Cooperation with government policies ● Experts and specialists ● Dialogue, cooperation and support through collaboration of industry, ● Cooperative work and support in search of solutions to global ● Educational institutions academia and government (as needed) social issues ● Foundation activities ● Consideration for the environment ● Energy-/ global-warming-related issues ● Holding and participating in environmental events (as needed) Next generation people ● Promoting resource recycling ● Setting targets and reporting the results under Mazda Green Plan 2020, (environment) ● Cleaner emissions midterm environmental plan (once a year) ● Environmental management ＊ https://www.mazda.com/en/investors *1 Parties who are directly or indirectly related to the business of the Mazda Group 26 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Conducting the Stakeholder Survey b b Those Covered by Stakeholder Survey (Only in Japan) Since FY March 2014, Mazda has conducted a Stakeholder Survey (once a year), Suppliers, distributors/dealerships, local inviting opinions from stakeholders outside the Company regarding employee autonomous entities, academic societies, conduct and attitudes toward the promotion of brand value management. industrial associations, etc. The submitted opinions and their analysis results are shared with top management. After clarifying the actual situations and issues to be addressed, the results are announced to Mazda employees and employees of the entire Group in Japan and abroad through MBLD (see p. 88). This provides these employees with opportunities to review their own actions and practices, from the perspective of implementing the corporate vision and strengthening connections with stakeholders. To generate frank opinions and guarantee objectivity of the analysis, Mazda has commissioned a third party organization (research firm) to conduct the survey. Communication through Publication of the Mazda Sustainability Report The Mazda Sustainability Report has been published with the aim of informing stakeholders of Mazda’s CSR initiatives, in accordance with GRI Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. To obtain the opinions and evaluations regarding the report’s content and editorial method, Mazda has conducted a questionnaire survey and applied for CSR-related awards. The submitted opinions and evaluations are fed back to executive officers, external directors, and each division’s employees in charge of producing the Mazda Sustainability Report, and are utilized for designing the next year’s initiatives and for considering the information to be disclosed in the report. The questionnaire survey results are published on the Mazda official website. The Mazda Sustainability Report 2018 won the Award of Merit of the 22nd Environmental Communication Awards, presented by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment, etc. 27 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Mazda is striving to improve customer satisfaction through providing a Mazda brand experience that exceeds customer expectations. CONTENTS 29 Providing the Mazda Brand Experience to Customers CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects ・Strengthened efforts to increase awareness of customer value ・Strengthen efforts to increase awareness among staff on the sales floor, through activities to communicate of customer value among staff on the sales Sell products and offer services to provide a the value that Mazda offers to society, to enable the staff to offer floor, through activities to communicate value realizing a circle of smiles for keeping their smiles to customers. 6.7 ・Reinforced measures to impart the value offered by Mazda ○ Sales and the value that Mazda offers to society, to on growing through a life with Mazda, Consumer services enable the staff to offer their smiles to which makes you feel you always “want to directly to customers (e.g., by holding fan events in three issues customers. ・Implement measures to impart the value continue choosing” Mazda. locations in Japan, i.e., Tohoku, Kanto and Western Japan, with 14,376 participants, and by implementing a total of nine Driving offered by Mazda directly to customers. Academy programs in various regions.) Develop products incorporating specific Evolved the attributes of the Mazda brand in line with the Develop products incorporating specific 6.7 Products technologies that make “Sustainable Zoomprinciples of “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” in Mazda3, and ○ technologies that make “Sustainable ZoomConsumer Zoom 2030” a reality. introduced the model into the market. Zoom 2030” a reality. issues 28 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions PROVIDING THE MAZDA BRAND EXPERIENCE TO CUSTOMERS The Mazda Group promotes brand value management. By enhancing its brand value, the Group aims to increase the number of enthusiastic Mazda fans and attain its business growth, thereby consequently enhancing its corporate value. With a view to building special bonds with customers in more than 130 countries and regions where Mazda vehicles are sold, Mazda pushes forward with various initiatives in cooperation with local distributors/dealerships to provide customers with a Mazda brand experience in all stages of their car ownership. Three Approaches to Establish an Emotional Connection with Customers To establish an emotional connection with customers, Mazda considers it a a Every touch point necessary to take into account all touch points, i.e., not only the period during Having interest, which customers are in possession of a Mazda vehicle, but also the periods search for Considering information before they purchase the vehicle and after they let go of it. Under this belief, replacement Test-drive, with a negotiation the Company has determined three approaches that sales, marketing, customer new car services, and other relevant divisions should jointly pursue, based on which the Group companies of each country/region implement specific measures Ordinary automotive Purchase contract, lifestyle delivery appropriate for their local cultures and environment. Three approaches ■ View customers from a lifelong perspective. In childhood, people ride in their Contact with Inspection, the brand repair, loaner car family vehicle, and after growing up, they enjoy owning their own vehicle. Contact with showrooms Then at an advanced age, they return to riding in someone else’s vehicle. It and staff is important to have customers continue to feel close to Mazda and Mazda vehicles over all these years. ■ Continuously maintain the relationship. Always provide customers with excitement and stimulation so that customers can feel a stronger connection to Mazda as time proceeds. ■ Place particular emphasis on Mazda’s uniqueness (e.g., strong attachment to Hiroshima, where Mazda Head Office is located, enthusiasm for offering driving pleasure). Approach to Developing Products In 2017, in light of the rapid changes taking place in the global automotive industry, Mazda announced “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030.” This new vision for technology development takes a longer-term perspective and sets out how Mazda will use driving pleasure, the fundamental appeal of the automobile, to help solve issues facing people, the earth and society (see pp. 7–12). To achieve this, Mazda is engaged in research and development aimed at creating the world’s best functions with the maximum efficiency. ■ To reflect customer’s input about products, obtained in the sales area, in subsequent product development ■ To improve quality by swiftly dealing with problems with the help of aftersales service area and sharing information with product development TOPICS Winning the Best of the Best, under the Japan Branding Awards 2019 Mazda won the Best of the Best, the highest prize of the Japan Branding Awards*1 2019, organized by Interbrand Japan, Inc. These awards are the first of their kind in Japan to honor the excellent branding activities of organizations. The Company was bestowed this award for its company-wide efforts to promote brand value management across departments, thereby succeeding in improving employees’ awareness and behavior by dramatically changing their ways of thinking. ＊1 In 2018, Interbrand Japan, Inc. established the Japan Branding Awards to evaluate and honor the excellent branding activities of companies and organizations as well as their businesses and services, and provides opportunities to widely introduce these efforts, in order to support further growth of these award recipients. Awarding ceremony of the Japan Branding Awards 2019 (Right) Mr. Masahito Namiki, President & CEO, Interbrand Japan, Inc. (Left) Ryuichi Umeshita, Executive Officer, Mazda Motor Corporation 29 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Responding to the Diverse Customer Needs b Lineup for vehicles for people with special needs (as of September 30, 2019) Mazda has been establishing a system to deliver products and services to customers ● Vehicles with a swivel passenger seat: in the most appropriate way taking into consideration the cultures and trends of each Vehicle with a powered passenger seat that country and region. At its R&D centers in Japan, North America, Europe and China, rotates (Mazda2) Mazda gathers information about markets and customers around the globe. Through local testing, Mazda develops products and provides services to suit its customers’ wideranging needs. To effectively enhance its brand awareness, Mazda focuses on promoting an understanding of the Mazda brand’s common visions and the Company’s spirit of product ● Vehicles with a lift-up passenger seat: development and manufacturing, rather than on awareness of individual models. Vehicles with a powered lift-up passenger seat Examples to Meet Specific Customer Needs that elevates and rotates (CX-5) ● Wheelchair-ramp-equipped vehicle: <Research and Planning Conducted from a Female Perspective> Vehicle with a ramp that enables people in a To respond to the increasingly diverse needs of female drivers, a team composed wheelchair to get in and out while remaining in of female members from various departments conducts research on the vehicles a wheelchair (Flair Wagon) ● Vehicle with hand-operated controls: which are convenient for themselves to use from the female viewpoint. A welfare model that allows the driver to enjoy <Customizing Business (in Japan)> driving pleasure by only using both hands Believing that the development of vehicles serving people with specific needs is (Roadster [MX-5 overseas]) essential to a more open and accessible automotive society, Mazda produces a wide range of vehicle types, as described below. In 1995, Mazda became the first Japanese automaker to launch a vehicle for people Vehicles for with special needs. It was developed with top priority placed on “ease of use and c Mazda instructional vehicle people with comfort for both care givers and receivers.” The Company has expanded the lineup Mazda instructional vehicles (released in May 2019) special needs to four types. b pursue the ideal features for instructional vehicles, i.e. being easy to operate for both trainees and trainers, Mazda offers its instructional vehicles equipped with various unique features. As the Instructional and able to help trainees acquire correct driving first car that trainees drive in their life, it can help them to feel driving pleasure and vehicles to acquire correct driving techniques. c techniques and drive more safely and with peace of mind. Commercial Mazda offers a wide commercial vehicle lineup to respond to various business and specially needs. To satisfy highly specialized needs, the Company has developed the TESMA equipped line, adapting the Bongo Van and Titan Truck for use as dry van trucks, refrigerator vehicles and freezer trucks, etc. Co-Creation of Product Training by Mazda Motor Corporation and Distributor/Dealership Staff d Mazda offers training for sales staff to enable them to provide customers with correct and detailed information on the attractive features of Mazda vehicles. d Seminar targeted at training staff of distributor/dealership As part of the initiatives to enhance brand value, the training is aimed at globally communicating the ideas and efforts employed in development and manufacturing, as well as stories behind the technology, in addition to basic information on functions and equipment. Product Information, Display, and Advertising For product information and display, Mazda not only complies strictly with each law and regulation of each country and region, but also places strong emphasis on safety, human rights, environmental issues, and ethical standards, giving careful attention to information display and expression appropriate for a company that manufactures and sells automobiles. Moreover, Mazda conducts studies on advertising on a periodic basis to check whether information provided to e Product example customers is correct and understandable. ・High-performance air conditioning filter capable of Video and animated computer graphics are used to provide customers with easily filtering PM 2.5 ・Water-based corrosion inhibitor (below) understandable explanations of products’ features and functions. Development/Launch of Value-Added Accessories e Mazda develops and provides various accessory parts that satisfy the diverse needs of customers. Mazda also provides items that address environmental issues to make customers’ life more comfortable, considering the requests from society. While ensuring compliance with regulations of each country, the Company promotes voluntary switching of maintenance and other accessories to those containing environmentally conscious elements. 30 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Communicating the Mazda Brand and Providing the Brand Experience f [Japan] Mazda Brand Space Osaka Mazda promotes initiatives to provide customers with opportunities to communicate with the Mazda brand and strengthen bonds with Mazda throughout their car ownership. To convey globally consistent visual impressions, the VI (Visual Identity) Guidelines have been established and shared within the entire Mazda Group. New Concept in Sales Outlets “New-Generation Showrooms” f g Starting in FY March 2015, Mazda has been developing a new concept in sales outlets both in Japan and overseas, which is called New-Generation Showrooms, g [United States] New-Generation Showroom to allow customers to experience the attractiveness of Mazda and its vehicles. Under the supervision of Mazda’s Design Division, the showrooms are built in accordance with guidelines specifying three values to provide*1 and four showroom design concepts*2. Interiors and exteriors are designed using colors of black, white and silver, with black-based facility signs*3, and as accents, wood is used to form a comfortable space where dignity, high quality and warmness are well-balanced. In FY March 2016 in Japan, Mazda Brand Space Osaka, a showroom directly run by Mazda, was opened and has attracted many visitors. Mazda is also developing New-Generation Showrooms overseas in collaboration with local sales-related Group companies. h Example of information services through websites Mazda3 digital owner’s manual (Japanese only) https://www.mazda.co.jp/carlife/manual/ Information Service for Customers through Websites h Mazda makes efforts to enhance the usability of its website to enable the website visitors to easily obtain the information they need. The website is designed to communicate to many people, not only the facts, but also the underlying principles and philosophy. The website also provides easily understandable information useful for customers at all stages from considering a purchase to the ownership of their vehicles. At the same time, Mazda uses Facebook, blogs, and Twitter, to enhance interactive communications with its customers. Many opinions and messages of encouragement Digital magazine “Mazda Stories” have been posted in response to the articles on the Company’s official Facebook pages. http://www.mazdastories.com/ Promoting Activities to Enable Customers to Experience “Driving Pleasure” i Mazda promotes activities in which both beginners and advanced drivers can easily participate, to experience “driving pleasure” and learn about driving considering safety and the environment. Various events for multiple needs are offered. For example, at circuit events sponsored by Mazda, the Company holds i Examples of Mazda-sponsored events lessons to learn advanced techniques useful in daily driving, and races in which everyone from beginners to advanced drivers can participate. These activities Mazda Fan Endurance (With a total of 576 participants [in six races] in FY March 2019) are designed to communicate the concept of Mazda’s monotsukuri and its latest technologies to customers, and offering them opportunities to dialogue with employees. Through these various approaches, Mazda strives to establish special bonds with customers, while striking a balance between providing customers with driving pleasure and raising their safety and environmental awareness. Examples of Mazda-Sponsored Events: Mazda Fan Endurance (organizer: Circuit where the event is held, main adminstrator: B-Sports Corporation) A circuit event held by Mazda vehicle users. Regular vehicles without any special Mazda Fan Festa in OKAYAMA (With 6,711 participants in FY March 2019) modifications can participate in this race. To promote safety and environmental awareness, professional driving advisors are stationed at the circuit to give participants advice regarding safe driving, and refueling is prohibited during the race, as a way to encourage better fuel economy. Mazda Fan Festa 2018 in OKAYAMA (organizer: Okayama International Circuit, main administrator: B-Sports Corporation) One of Mazda’s largest fan events in Japan. In addition to a car race among Mazda vehicle users, the Festa was highlighted by experience-based programs, with the *1 Shop designed with sense of exhilaration and Mazda aim of deepening bonds with customers. For example, Mazda engineers delivered uniqueness, new vehicle showroom that highlights the attractive features of Mazda vehicles, and shop layout that a lecture on jinba-ittai (oneness between car and driver) driving performance can help strengthen bonds with people and offered customers the chance to test drive Mazda vehicles. Participants also *2 Dignified presence, power to attract people, showing vehicle as attractive and beautiful, with comfortable furniture enjoyed a hands-on manufacturing experience. *3 Mazda brand symbol and showroom name that are used at each showroom 31 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Realizing Customer Services Relied on by Customers for Life To provide a safer, more secure and comfortable ownership experience and to realize customer services that will be relied on by customers for life, Mazda has established a system to promptly and certainly support customers with its high maintenance skills. The Company, seeing the period between purchase of a new vehicle and the next purchase as an important and valuable time to deepen the special bonds between Mazda and customers, has been promoting reform of operation sites, not only to simply resolve customer complaints but also to provide customers with services that exceed their expectations. Through developing and providing service/repair tools and service manuals, establishing parts supply networks, and offering training for service trainers and service staff, Mazda supports dealers in Japan and overseas, aiming at building up systems to enable them to provide close and proper support for customers. Providing Tools/Service Manuals Hoping that customers can use Mazda vehicles more safely and with peace of mind that they can make better use of increasingly multifunctional devices, Mazda distributes digital owner’s manuals, which enable customers to easily search and obtain the information they need by using their PC or smart phones. Mazda also promotes the initiatives to ensure a constant high service quality at Mazda Group dealers in Japan and overseas. ■ Providing information on special tools dedicated to Mazda vehicles and their usage ■ Deploying unique malfunction diagnostic devices that are compatible with the sophisticated electronic control systems adopted in a wide range of safety and environmental technologies ■ Establishing an internet-based support system, which enables quick and accurate access to the latest service manuals, as well as efficient search and ordering for parts Developing Service Trainers/Staff j j Customer Service Skills World Competition To develop service professionals with a high level of maintenance skills and customer service skills on a global scale, Mazda operates training centers in Japan and major countries overseas. In each of the areas of ASEAN, Middle East, and Latin America, locally employed instructors are stationed to provide training for trainers of the dealers in the countries within the area, thereby enhancing support for human resources development and service quality improvement in each country. Mazda has also hosted Service Skills Competitions in Japan and overseas for the purpose of boosting the service skills and motivation of service staff. Through this Competition, the Company aims to show what professionals with excellent The 5th Mazda Customer Service Skills World maintenance skills and customer service skills should be like and realize the Competition, in which participants competed in terms of maintenance skills (May 2019) highest level of services from the customers’ viewpoint. The best service engineers of each country and region are invited to the world competition, contributing to further raising motivation of service staff members. In May 2019, the 5th Customer Service Skills World Competition was held at the Mazda Head Office. Service staff members from 15 teams from 15 countries that had made it through preliminaries competed with each other over their maintenance skills. 32 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Communication with Customers and Business Partners Responding to Expectations and Opinions of Customers k k Framework At distributors/dealerships in each country and region, systems have been established Customers (Japan) Customers (overseas) to listen to the opinions and requests of customers, to respond to them honestly, Mazda Mazda accurately and quickly, and to reflect them in sales and services in cooperation with dealerships in Japan overseas dealerships Mazda Head Office.*1 Mazda The contacts of each market area and FAQ (frequently asked questions)*2 are available Customer Relations Customer on the Mazda website for the convenience of customers. Related Division Service Related Mazda Call Center Division To strengthen bonds with customers, Mazda conducts global surveys focusing on Liaison Quality Assurance “Mazda brand experience,” “sales and after-sales services,” “ownership cost,” product Related Division attractiveness,” and other specific items. Through these surveys, the Company Deployment Deployment Deployment identifies problems in each market and addresses them in cooperation with local Sales Related Production Technology Division Related Division Related Division distributors/dealerships. With the indicators to measure customer satisfaction (see p. 26) applied, the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle process has been established. FY March 2019 Breakdown of Mazda Call Center Customer Responses by Type (In Japan) (April 2018–March 2019) Sharing and Recognition of Best Practices at Distributors/Dealerships Other 1,149 Complaints To boost the level of sales and CS*3 efforts throughout the distributors and dealerships, 3,602 3% 8% a system of sharing and awarding best practices, selected based on such viewpoints as achievements in CS activities and remarkable contribution to vehicle sales, has been Total 45,169 put in place. Examples of initiatives in Japan Questions 40,418 89% Measures Frequency Objective/Contents To encourage staff self-improvement, meetings are held on a periodic basis to award sales and service staff members according to their degrees of achievement Voices of the customers who purchased or of targets, improvement of technical skills, and contribution to improved vehicle testdrove Mazda vehicles are presented on the Staff Awards/ Once a quality. Awards are also given to dealerships that have achieved their targets as a website (Japanese only). Shop Awards year result of all staff’s customer-oriented activities, demonstrating excellent teamwork. https://www2.mazda.co.jp/carlife/voice/ In particular, best practices from the shops producing outstanding results are shared and commended at the presentation meetings hosted by the Mazda Dealership Association in each region across Japan. The Walk-Around Contest, a competition of customer-service roleplaying, is held Walk-Around Once a with the aim of encouraging sales staff to acquire product knowledge and improve Contest year their customer service skills. Communication with Dealerships Mazda works to provide its all dealerships in Japan and overseas with information *1 Distributor List in each country https://www.mazda.com/en/about/d-list/ on midand long-term strategies, products, and services in a timely manner, and *2 Inquiries from Japan / FAQ (Japanese only) https://www.mazda.co.jp/inquiry/ also makes proactive efforts to collect information from them. *3 Customer Satisfaction Communication Opportunities with Distributors/Dealerships in Japan Participants Frequency Objective/Contents Conferences for dealership representatives Representatives of dealerships and Mazda directors Once a year To communicate Mazda policies Mazda Dealership Association in Japan Executive board members and others from Mazda Twice a year Executive board of directors meeting Dealership Association in Japan Opinions are exchanged concerning sales strategies, product planning, used car policies, services, quality concerns, and Mazda Dealership Association in Japan Committee members from Mazda Dealership other topics. As needed Specialized committees Association in Japan and Mazda representatives Communication Opportunities with Overseas Group Companies and Distributors Participants Frequency Objective/Contents Representatives from major overseas bases of Product Launch To share information and exchange opinions globally upon the product launch. operation, such as the United States, Europe, China Indetermined Events In FY March 2019, the event was held in August, with around 60 participants. and Australia Representatives of major regions meet to build common understanding and Global Brand Representatives from major operation bases, such as 3 times a year consensus on brand strategies, and share initiatives. In FY March 2019, a total Events the United States, Europe, China, Australia and Japan of 150 representatives participated. Discussions are held and opinions are exchanged for each region to determine Regional Brand Representatives from major operation bases, such as 3 to 4 times a practical actions for implementing the brand strategies. In FY March 2019, a Events the United States, Europe, China, ASEAN and Japan year total of 500 representatives participated. Discussions covering a wide range of topics including business, marketing, 4A*1 Distributor Representatives from Southeast Asia, Central and Once a year product launches, etc. In FY March 2019, the event was held in September, Events South America, Middle East, and Africa regions with around 150 participants. *1 Areas except North America, Europe, China, Taiwan and Japan 33 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 QUALITY Mazda enriches the lives of its customers by providing products and services that reflect steady and uncompromising work. CONTENTS 35 Commitment to Quality CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects Introduced a vehicle evaluation (MQIC) system, in which quality comparison and improvement can be made using the same Establish a quality assurance system that Establish a quality assurance system that standards on a global basis. All the production sites (9 sites) covers production sites in Japan and 6.7 ○ covers production sites in Japan and Quality completed the introduction of the system in FY March 2018. In overseas, ports and dealerships, to globally Consumer overseas, ports and dealerships, to globally addition, the system’s introduction into shipping ports in Japan enable delivery of products of the same issues enable delivery of products of equal quality. and overseas was completed in FY March 2019. The system is quality. also being introduced into major arrival ports. 34 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management COMMITMENT TO QUALITY Spirit of Quality Policy a a Mazda Quality Policy Under its Corporate Vision, Mazda further advances the efforts it has made and Mazda Quality Policy promotes united collaboration among all areas, continuing to enhance Mazda’s To enrich the lives of our customers by providing products and services that reflect unique value. steady and uncompromising work. Approach to Quality Improvement Spirits of Quality Policy To deliver customers safety, trust and excitement through automotive lifestyles, Mazda makes Group-wide efforts based on the three principles below: ③ Customer First (Customer-Oriented) 1. Establishing quality for new products ② Improvement 2. Achieving quality that exceeds customer expectations ① Leadership 3. Cultivating human resources capable of considering and acting toward the Active Participation Relationship Management happiness of customers (Everyone, self initiative) (Interdependence) Process-Based A P Decision-Making Based on Objective Vision for Quality Assurance Approach C D Facts Vehicle production based on the “100−1=0” belief ③ Our wish is to make our customers happy. Spirits of Quality Policy 1. Establishing consistent quality from planning to production: ② We will continue to improve the work systems which our predecessors have established. “100−1=0” expresses Mazda’s strong desire to provide good quality to all customers, under the belief that for an individual customer, his/her vehicle is not one out of 100 Each one of us will fulfill what we are supposed to do ① (Ensuring implementation of basic actions). vehicles but the only one. Mazda pursues a kind of vehicle production that respects each vehicle as a certain customer’s “one-and-only,” and aims to achieve “zero defects.” Standing firmly on the basic principles and mechanisms of manufacturing, all related departments make consistent efforts to establish quality in all processes, from planning to production. Initiative for the process to change “100−1=0” to “100+1” 2. Early detection and early solution of market problems If an unpredictable problem arises in the market, it may result in loss of trust from customers (“100−1=0”). To avoid this, Mazda promotes quality assurance activities for the early detection and early solution of any trouble pointed out by customers. 3. Building special bonds with customers Mazda aims to build special bonds of ever-lasting trust with its customers by keeping contact with customers in good faith and with a sense of commitment to them (“100−1” ⇒ “100+1”). 100-1=0 100-1=0⇒100+1 1. Establishing consistent quality from planning 3. Building special bonds with to production customers Performance check Sales Product planning Trial production, Product design Manufacturing reliability test Market Recurrence prevention Service Troubles pointed out by customers 2. Early detection and early solution of market problems 100-1=0⇒100+1 35 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Mazda Quality Management System (M-QMS) b b Acquisition of ISO 9000 series To make faithful and unceasing efforts and constantly ensure quality in products, ■ 1994: Acquired ISO 9002*1 sales and after-sales services that can always satisfy the expectations and trust (first Japanese automaker) Apply to: Vehicles produced at Hiroshima of customers, Mazda has established the Mazda Quality Management System Plant and Hofu Plant (M-QMS) based on ISO 9001*1, and has applied it to the series of processes from ■ 1996: Acquired ISO 9001 product design and development to production, sales and after-sales services. In Apply to: Engineering, product development, manufacturing and after-sales January 2018 Mazda acquired ISO 9001:2015 certification, which was revised in service September 2016. ■ 2001: Expanded the ISO 9001 application At overseas production sites, Mazda also promotes the establishment of systems range Apply to: Accessories, KD, product planning, that encourage local employees of new sites to make self-reliant efforts to improve design, specially equipped vehicles (TESMA), quality, and encourages them to acquire ISO 9001, thereby promoting the quality etc. ■ improvement of Mazda vehicles, which are produced and sold worldwide. 2001: AAT*2 acquired ISO 9001 ■ 2007: CMA*3 and CFME*4 acquired TS16949 (ISO 9001 sector certificate) ■ 2015: MMVO*5 and MPMT*6 acquired ISO 1. Establishing Quality for New Products 9001 ■ 2016: MSMR*7 acquired ISO 9001:2015 To satisfy the diverse needs of customers and offer greater trust, joy and excitement, ■ 2018: Hiroshima Plant, Hofu Plant, MMVO Mazda is engaged in establishing a consistent quality level to be assured at all stages and AAT acquired ISO 9001:2015 ■ 2018: CMA*3 and CFME*4 (now CME*8) from planning/development to the delivery of products to customers. acquired IIATF16949:2016 (ISO 9001 sector certificate) Establishing Stable Quality ＊1 International standard for product and after-sales service c quality assurance ＊2 AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ＊3 Changan Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd. Not only to improve the performance and reliability of products but also to ＊4 Changan Ford Mazda Engine Co., Ltd. ＊5 Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Operation improve the quality of new technologies including the initiatives to address ＊6 Mazda Powertrain Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ＊7 MAZDA SOLLERS Manufacturing Rus environment issues, Mazda is committed to “process assurance.” Process assurance ＊8 Changan Mazda Engine Co., Ltd. is the approach of ensuring a consistent quality level at all stages from engineering (planning, product development) to manufacturing (purchasing, vehicle c Consistent Process Assurance based on production, logistics, after-sales services). Based on the correct understanding Major Characteristics of customer needs and expectations, the elements necessary to ensure each Engineering stage Manufacturing stage function/performance are identified. The Company has established a system to Planning/development – Function deployment – Mass production preparation – Mass production – Market launch Detailed engineering maintain and manage them in every stage from engineering to manufacturing. Furthermore, to allow customers feel driving pleasure through its products, Mazda Parts suppliers identifies the functions and performance that embody “driving pleasure” for each Required functions Function deployment Drawing specifications Vehicle production Logistics / Services stage from before getting in the car to after starting driving, so as to enhance Parts processes Parts inspections consistency in establishing quality. Consistency Global Quality Assurance d To ensure the same quality on a global scale, Mazda has adopted the “global Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) common” concept, under which overseas production sites establish the same quality by employing the same indicators, the same operations, and the same d Initiative for Global Quality Assurance Assuring “the same” = Global common structures as those of the Mazda Head Office. With the aim of achieving and maintaining the same quality into the future, the roles and responsibilities of Quality (3) Same management structure the Mazda Head Office and overseas production sites have been clarified for management. Mazda continuously organizes collective training for persons in (1) Same Parts Indicators charge of quality control of purchased parts or quality evaluation of finished / Vehicles Sharing Processes vehicles to help deepen understanding of their roles and to encourage (Standards, procedures) communication and opinion exchange by formulating a human resources (2) Same CMA Operations MMVO development plan and other activities. In cooperation with Mazda North Persons / Skills AAT American Operations, Mazda is currently in the process of developing a quality MC Head Office Overseas production sites assurance system toward the commencement of mass production at a new jointventure plant that will start operations in Alabama, the United States, in 2021. *1 International standard for quality maintenance and assurance 36 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management <Initiatives for Developing Human Resources> e e Initiatives for Global Human Resources To develop human resources who play the key roles in the “global common” Development concept, the Mazda Head Office provides back-office support for overseas Mazda production sites to encourage their autonomous efforts. Mazda gathers leaders of Skilled staff Local leader overseas production sites for collective training in Japan, to monitor the growth of the site leaders and raise their sense of responsibility, as well as to promote quality China Thailand Mexico improvement through encouraging mutual learning between sites. Group training (Japan) Overseas production site Enhancing Quality Assurance after Shipment f Prospective leaders Local trainer To ensure that the high quality at factory shipment is maintained until delivery to customers around the world, Mazda has introduced the same quality evaluation Local staff indicators for production plants, distribution centers in Japan, overseas ports, Local training dealerships in Japan and overseas distributors and dealers, with the aim of delivering products maintaining high quality to customers around the world under a consistent evaluation system. f Consistent evaluation system 2. Achieving Quality that Exceeds Customer Expectations To satisfy customer needs, Mazda makes constant efforts to gather market/ quality-related information both in Japan and overseas, while sincerely listening to Production Ports / Sales / sites Distribution centers Customers customer voices, and to take speedy actions to improve the quality of present and future products. g Expediting Quality Improvement Gathering information Speedy and Comprehensive Quality Improvement gh ● On-site survey data from dispatched local staff ● Detailed data from dealerships Mazda makes Group-wide efforts to ensure stable and speedy quality improvement by comprehensive gathering and management of the voices of List of problems Collecting Vehicle actual product investigation customers from around the world. ● Comprehend all ● Examine actual ● Examine vehicle All relevant divisions at the Head Office, such as those in the customer services, problems products with with trouble ● Visualize progress problem ● Conduct product development, and manufacturing areas, share all items of quality ● Share information ● Check degree of simulation test deterioration information gathered from customers, dealerships in Japan and distributors with relevant departments ● Analyze vehicle data overseas, and the management team monitors the daily progress, so as to expedite stable quality improvement. Investigation Policy Meeting ● Decide necessity ● Review investigation of additional policy Responding to Customer’s Complaints and Expectations investigation ● Check progress of Held daily ● Clarify contents investigation of investigation To faithfully respond to customers’ expectations and complaints, regarding such matters as what additional functions Mazda vehicles should have and in what Visualising improvement Management Review ways Mazda vehicles are less user-friendly, Mazda proactively gathers voices of ● Implementation status of Periodical progress expectations and complaints annually from over 160,000 customers worldwide improvement measures review Quality after improvements by employing the results of surveys by outside survey institutions and conducting ● ● Report on results its own market research. Based on the principle of early detection and early solution, all related divisions, including product development, production, quality assurance and customer services, make united efforts to improve or solve quality h Real-time information gathering problems in response to the gathered customer voices. Customers Mazda takes advantage of various opportunities, such as motor shows and External Quality Failure diagnosis fan events, to have its engineers engage in direct talks with customers on new information information in One-time market, etc. complete repair functions and safety performance of Mazda vehicles so as to communicate SNS Vehicle information their passion about Mazda vehicles that cannot be fully expressed in written Dealerships, materials, hoping to help improve the car ownership experience of customers. distributors The customer voices obtained through such communication are also reflected in Suppliers Customer the development of new model vehicles, with the aim of delivering to customers service products that exceed their expectations. Utilization <Examples of Surveys/Analyses> Integrating quality ■ Gathering customer voices through Mazda-unique market survey related information Global ■ procurement Analysis Quality Market surveys conducted by third parties ■ Questionnaire surveys Mazda has developed ■ Analysis of customer voices on social media Global ■ Centralized management of global quality information production Development bases ■ Enhancing information to support dealerships to ensure repair completion at one time Real-time sharing of Expediting quality information improvement 37 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Corporate Activities with Highest Priority on Customer Safety and Comfort Mazda prioritizes safety and comfort of vehicles above all. Under a strict quality assurance system, Mazda conducts inspections on conformity with laws and regulations of each country and on functions to be used by customers, with a view to manufacturing vehicles that customers feel safe using. This quality assurance system is maintained and managed by the development, production and quality divisions auditing each other from independent standpoints. Recall Procedures (Overview)*1 ■ Registration with authorities in each jurisdiction, according to the laws and regulations of each country and region ■ Disclosure to customers via direct mail, telephone, and other methods, and explanations at dealerships ■ Disclosure of information on recalls on the Mazda Official Website 3. Cultivating Human Resources Capable of Thinking and Acting for the Happiness of Customers To encourage every employee to think about what they should do to please customers and to act accordingly, Mazda places emphasis on cultivating a customeroriented corporate culture/mind. Specifically, the entire Mazda Group is committed to promoting quality awareness-raising activities, quality control education, and QC (Quality Control) circle activities. <Major Activities> Quality Awareness-Raising Activities i Group-wide Quality Education Courses Quality meetings with the consequent aim of enhancing brand value are held on Course Objective (for FY March 2019) To understand basic quality a regular basis. The meetings encourage all employees to obtain new findings Quality program for control concepts (customer1 through discussions and to improve their quality awareness and quality of action. freshmen oriented attitude, continuous improvement efforts) Each meeting is intended to provide opportunities for individual employees to To understand the concept, Problem-solving consider issues on the theme of quality, to discuss how they should change their 2 story course processes and basic techniques of problem solving awareness and behavior to achieve their ideal state, and to share the results with To apply the concepts, the aim of reflecting them in their work. Quality processes, and basic techniques 3 management of problemsolving to daily Quality Control Education i elementary course operations, thereby obtaining For the purpose of developing human resources capable of proactively finding/ problem-solving abilities To become capable of applying solving problems from a customer viewpoint and working for continuous Quality and practically implementing 4 management improvement, quality control education is provided for employees. Quality intermediate course specialized quality management techniques education courses taught by internal instructors are offered, and employees take Quality To reaffirm Mazda’s vision for appropriate courses when their job type or management level changes. 5 Improvement quality assurance, as a team Seminar for Mazda QC (Quality Control) Circle Activities j Assistant Managers leader Mazda promotes QC circle activities to encourage members of each workplace to find and solve problems by themselves. QC circle activities, which have been implemented for over 50 years as key activities for the company, have evolved into global activities, being conducted not only inside Mazda but also at its suppliers j All Mazda QC Circle Competition President's Award and dealerships. The All Mazda QC Circle Competition held every year at the Mazda Head Office is now participated by QC circles of overseas sites, such as those in China, Thailand, and Mexico. Training Program to Deepen Employees’ Understanding of the Mazda Brand To enable Mazda employees to explain Mazda’s products and communicate the concept of Mazda’s monotsukuri, or product development and manufacturing, with their own words to Mazda’s stakeholders, Mazda offers a training program for employees, designed to help them deepen their understanding of the Mazda brand by actually experiencing the products. Through test rides in the latest models, program participants are expected to deepen their understanding of not only each product‘s characteristics, but also the spirit and philosophy common in all Mazda products. Another initiative is under way to help employees reaffirm Mazda’s commitment to and concept of monotsukuri that have been handed down since the Company’s founding, through restoration of Mazda’s historic vehicles. *1 Recall procedures may vary among countries/regions. 38 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management 4. Results of Quality Improvement Initiatives Mazda’s initiatives to improve quality have been highly praised worldwide. FY March 2019 Results (April 2018 – March 2019)*1 Country Name of the Study Vehicle Type and Rankings Name of Company � Recommend � acquired for 4 Reliability/Road Test by Consumer U.S. models Consumer Reports Report Mazda 6, CX-5, CX-9, MX-5 2018 Automotive Performance CX-3 : 2nd,CX-5 : 2nd, Japan J.D. Power Execution and Layout (APEAL)*2 Demio (Mazda 2) : 3rd China 2018 Initial Quality Study (IQS)*3 Mazda 6 Atenza: 3rd J.D. Power Mazda 2 : 1st, Thailand 2018 Initial Quality Study (IQS)*5 J.D. Power Mazda 3 : 2nd *1 Details of the studies for other countries by J.D. Power and J.D. Power Asia Pacific are available at the J.D. Power global website (https://www.jdpower.com/). *2 The J.D. Power 2018 Japan Automotive Performance Execution And Layout (APEAL) is based on responses from around 23,000 purchasers of new cars. The study was fielded between May and June 2018. *3 The J.D Power 2018 China Initial Quality Study (IQS) is based on responses from around 33,000 purchasers of new cars. The study was fielded between March and July 2018. *4 The J.D. Power Asia Pacific 2018 Thailand Initial Quality Study (IQS) is based on responses from around 5,000 purchasers of new cars. The study was fielded between May and September 2018. Addressing Issues Associated with the Measurement of Fuel Economy and Emissions in Final Inspections Last year, in response to a request from Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), the Mazda Group conducted an investigation into its sample testing of fuel economy and emissions during final vehicle inspections. The investigation found that there were instances in which data was handled inappropriately. Specifically, test results were judged valid despite vehicle speed having deviated more than the permitted amount from the speed trace pattern prescribed by the JC08 test cycle (a condition known as a speed trace error). Mazda reported the findings of its investigation to MLIT. To prevent similar occurrences in the future, Mazda has introduced systems that automatically invalidates test results in the event of a speed trace error (excluding gear shift timing in manual transmission vehicles) and automatically store test data (excluding particulate matter in exhaust gas (PM)) and create test reports. Mazda will continue its efforts to raise compliance awareness and promote constant process improvement, in order to earn customers’ trust. 39 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 SAFETY Mazda is promoting safety initiatives, aiming to achieve a safe and accident-free automotive society from the three viewpoints of vehicles, people, and roads and infrastructure. CONTENTS 41 Safety Initiatives CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects ① Expanded the introduction of i-Activsense in the Japanese market. For all the vehicle types and models, the technologies that qualify for the “Wide” Suppocar S (Safety Support Car S) category were applied as standard equipment. Specifically, six technologies qualifying for the “Wide” Suppocar ①Further evolve, and expand the ①Further evolve, and expand the S category were made standard equipment for all the vehicle types and models. Other i-Activsense features that have introduction of i-Activesense, which is introduction of, i-Activsense, which is a become standard are Blind Spot Monitoring (BSM), which a series of advanced safety technologies series of advanced safety technologies supports drivers in confirming safety when changing lanes, and 6.7 ○ developed in line with Mazda Proactive developed in line with Mazda Proactive Safety Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA), which helps drivers confirm Consumer Safety, the Company’s safety philosophy. Safety, the Company’s safety philosophy. ② Obtain high ratings in the new car ②Obtain high ratings in the new car safety when backing out of a parking space or garage. issues ② Obtained the highest ratings in the new car assessment assessment programs (NCAPs) of respective assessment programs (NCAPs) of respective programs (NCAPs) of each country as follows: ・J-NCAP Advanced Safety Vehicle (ASV) Technology countries. countries. Assessment: Atenza (Mazda6 overseas), CX-3, CX-5 and CX-8 obtained “ASV+++,” the highest rating. ・IIHS: CX-5 obtained “TSP+,” the highest rating. ・Euro-NCAP safety performance evaluations: Mazda6 obtained “5☆,” the highest rating. 40 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management SAFETY INITIATIVES Mazda’s Basic Approach to Safety a a Three Viewpoints of Safety Initiatives Aiming to achieve a safer and accident-free automotive society, Mazda promotes Developing and commercializing safe vehicles safety initiatives from the three viewpoints of vehicles, people, and roads and infrastructure. Vehicles In 2017, Mazda announced “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” in light of the rapid changes taking place in the automotive industry around the world. This updated vision for technology development takes a long-term perspective and sets out how Mazda will use driving pleasure, the fundamental appeal of the automobile, Roads and to help solve issues facing people, the earth and society (see pp. 7–12). Mazda People infrastructure believes its mission is to bring about a beautiful earth and to enrich people’s lives as well as society. The company will continue to seek ways to inspire people Educating people Participating in efforts about safety to improve traffic through the value found in cars. In the realm of society, which encompasses safety, environments “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” demonstrates Mazda’s determination to leverage cars and a society that provide safety and peace of mind, to create a system that enriches people’s lives by offering unrestricted mobility to people everywhere. Initiatives in Vehicles Mazda will address the issue of traffic safety, which requires a multi-faceted, balanced, and comprehensive approach, by providing all its customers with excellent safety performance, through vehicle engineering, the field in which Mazda can take the initiative. While continuing to keep abreast of the latest safety advancements, Mazda works on technology development with the belief that technologies will demonstrate their true value only when their use becomes widespread. Mazda Proactive Safety: Mazda’s Safety Philosophy Mazda’s safety philosophy, which guides the research and development of safety technologies, is based on understanding, respecting and trusting the driver. To drive safely it is essential to recognize potential hazards, exercise good judgment and operate the vehicle in an appropriate fashion. Mazda aims to support these essential functions so that drivers can drive safely and with peace of mind, despite changing driving conditions. Since drivers are human beings, and human beings are fallible, Mazda offers a range of technologies which help to prevent or reduce the damage resulting from an accident. High Help protect passengers Accident and pedestrians in the happens Injury event of an accident reduction Help avoid or reduce the Accident becomes severity of an accident when Risk of unavoidable the driver alone cannot Accident safely operate the vehicle Risk of Provide hazard alerts accident rises to help the driver avoid dangers and recover the Accident safe operation of the vehicle reduction Risk of accident is low Maximize the range of (Safe operation of vehicle) conditions in which the driver can drive safely and comfortably Low What Mazda’s safety technologies aim to provide 41 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management By providing a good driving environment and excellent handling stability to support the drivers’ safer driving, Mazda aims to maximize the range of ordinary driving conditions in which the driver can concentrate on driving without anxiety or stress. If the risk of an accident increases, the sensing functions on the vehicle provide hazard alerts to help the driver avoid danger, thereby supporting safer driving. Moreover, understanding that human nature means that mistakes cannot be totally eliminated, Mazda offers safety functions on its vehicles that help prevent such human errors as much as possible, and if an error occurs, help prevent an accident or reduce the resulting damage. While implementing measures appropriate for each accident risk so as to reduce the risk as soon as possible, Mazda places the highest focus on improving ordinary driving conditions to remove possible causes of an accident rather than on a “what if”-based approach (preparing for possible results). Through providing these safety technologies based on a respect and understanding of human nature, Mazda supports safer and secure driving. Continuously Evolving Basic Safety Technologies as Standard for All Vehicles Aiming to achieve a safer and accident-free automotive society, Mazda promotes continuous evolution of basic safety technologies, such as the ideal driving position and pedal layout, excellent visibility, and human machine interface, and will install these in all vehicles as standard. Ideal Driving Position The major driving operation devices, including the pedals and the steering wheel, which are interface between man and vehicle, are located in an ideal position for a driver to operate them with ease and without fatigue. Pursuing the Ideal Joint Angle for Comfortable Driving b b Image of comfortable joint-link angle The driving position is designed based on the theory of the “comfortable joint-link angle,” the joint angle at which the driver of any physical type can exert strength quickly and properly. For Mazda3, which was introduced in 2019 , the adjustable range of the telescoping mechanism*1 has been extended and the driving position adjustment accuracy has been improved to provide the driver with a more comfortable driving position. The above design modification has reduced the tightness a small driver feels when he/she moves the seat forward. The front console layout has also been renewed. In particular, the cup holder position has been moved to the front of the shift lever. Ideal Pedal Layout c c Comfortable layout enabling easy operation The front tires and tire houses have been repositioned farther forward to realize an offset-free, ideal pedal layout where the driver can stretch his/her foot forward and naturally rest it on the accelerator pedal when he/she sits in the seat. The distance between the accelerator pedal and the brake pedal has also been reviewed and optimized. As a result, the driver can enjoy driving more comfortably for many hours in a relaxed posture while operating the pedals more smoothly. These design improvements reduce both driving fatigue and the possibility of the driver stepping on the wrong pedal when braking in an emergency. d New and conventional organ-type Organ-Type Accelerator Pedal d accelerator pedal With an organ-type accelerator pedal, the driver’s heel is placed on the floor, and Conventional Mazda3 the driver’s foot and the pedal follows the same trajectory. This makes accelerator Pedal Pedal pedal control easier because the heel position is stabilized. For the 2019 Mazda3, trajectory trajectory Mazda has developed a new organ-type accelerator pedal structure in which the Deviation Deviation of trajectory of trajectory pedal fulcrum is positioned more closely to the driver’s heel when compared with Foot trajectory Foot trajectory conventional accelerator pedals of this type. The new accelerator pedal minimizes Fulcrum Heel Fulcrum Heel position position the deviation of its trajectory when depressed, enabling the driver to use his/her calf muscles more efficiently. *1 A mechanism to move the steering wheel back and forth. 42 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Excellent Visibility e e Opening angle enlarged by improved A-pillar Continues to enter the blind spot in some instances Mazda considers it important to secure good visibility to help the driver prevent In the case of an A-pillar where the blind spot Pedestrian broadens toward the end accidents by supporting his/her ability to predict and avoid his/her surroundings, A pedestrian is often The blind spot broadens toward the end. continuously hidden behind Behind such as road environment, other vehicles, obstacles, and pedestrians including the A-pillar, preventing the A-pillar A-pillar driver from recognizing children. To expand the vision through the door mirror so as to improve the him/her. Vehicle Driver visibility of pedestrians and obstacles, door mirrors of all Mazda passenger Easy to recognize In the case of Mazda3’s vehicles currently available on the market are installed on the outer door board A-pillar where the blind Pedestrian spot converges The blind spot in a lower position. For the 2019 Mazda3, the visibility has been enhanced by a Sufficient visibility is provided by converges. Behind a combination of the slenderness A-pillar combination of the inherent slenderness and the well-devised shape of the A-pillar. of the A-pillar itself and its welldevised shape, making the blind A-pillar Driver spot smaller than in the case of a Visibility for children is specially cared. conventional pillar. Vehicle “HMI Concepts” to Minimize Causes of Careless Driving f f Designing a cockpit that enables the driver to concentrate his/her attention on driving Human Machine Interface (HMI) refers to the equipment and mechanisms to The area that becomes visible when moving the eyes ①Active driving display facilitate transmission of various information between the driver and the vehicle. Active information Mazda’s thoroughly human-centered cockpit design minimizes the three factors*1 ・Vehicle speed ・Sign ・Navigation that cause careless driving: cognitive distraction, visual distraction, and manual information and others distraction. The area that becomes The area that becomes visible when lowering The information necessary for driving is presented in order of priority, so that the visible when rotating the the head ②Meter head from side to side ③Center display driver can concentrate his/her attention on driving and thus reduce cognitive Status information Information for comfort ・Tachometer distraction. and convenience ・Fuel gauge, water ・Media information ・Map information temperature gauge Indications in front of the driver’s seat have been simplified to make the display ・Travel distance and others ・Warning information and others easier to see and thus reduce visual distraction. 1. Vehicle speed and other “active information that Indicators and other intuitively operable devices are installed to reduce manual should be checked at every moment” are shown in the active driving display. distraction. 2. The amount of fuel and other “status information necessary for checking the status of the vehicle” are shown by meters. 3. Media information and other “information for comfort i-ACTIVSENSE Advanced Safety Technologies*2 g and convenience” are shown in the center display. Mazda is committed to continuous evolution of i-Activsense advanced safety technologies, to deliver safer, more reliable cars to a greater number of customers, g Technologies made standard equipment from beginners to elderly drivers. Mazda’s i-Activsense is an umbrella term on the seven major models sold in Japan covering a series of advanced safety technologies, developed in line with Mazda (For details, see p. 44.) Proactive Safety. They include active safety technologies that support safer ・Advanced Smart City Brake Support (A-SCBS) / Smart Brake Support (SBS)* driving by helping the driver to recognize potential hazards, and pre-crash safety ・AT Acceleration Control* technologies which help to avert collisions or reduce their severity in situations ・Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS)* ・Adaptive LED Headlights (ALH)* or High Beam where they cannot be avoided. Control (HBC)* (either according to the grade) The Company has completed application of six technologies, including the ・Blind Spot Monitoring (BSM) ・Rear Cross-Traffic Alert (RCTA) collision damage reduction brake (Advanced Smart City Brake Support or * Technologies to be equipped to qualify for the “Wide” Smart Brake Support), for all the seven major models sold in Japan, as standard Suppocar S category equipment. Under the new vehicle safety concept “Safety Support Car S (Suppocar S)” promoted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, these models qualify for the “Wide” *1 The following are three factors that cause careless driving. Suppocar S category (as of August 2019). ・Cognitive distraction: The driver is distracted by something other than vehicle control, such as checking the position of a switch and its operation method. ・Visual distraction: The driver takes his/her eyes off the road to check the information or for other purposes. ・Manual distraction: The driver strongly moves his/her body and adopts an awkward posture to operate a device. *2 i-Activsense technologies are designed to reduce damage and/or injuries resulting from accidents. However each system has its limitations, and no safety system or combination of such systems can prevent all accidents. These systems are not a replacement for safe and attentive driving. Please drive carefully at all times and do not rely on technology to prevent an accident. *3 Applied models: Mazda2, Mazda3, Mazda6, CX-3, CX-5, CX-8, and Roadster/MX-5 43 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management i-ACTIVSENSE technologies New technologies used for the 2019 Mazda3 and subsequent models Abbreviation Name Effective when Function AFS Adaptive FrontDriving forward Turns the headlights automatically to illuminate in the h Conceptual figure of the operation of FCTA Lighting (night) direction the driver is steering. Detects oncoming traffic and vehicles in front, Driving forward HBC High-Beam Control automatically switching between high beam and low (night) beam settings. ALH Adaptive LED Headlights Detects oncoming traffic and vehicles in front, Driving forward Glare-free High Beam automatically controlling the area illuminated by the high (night) beams to maintain maximum visibility. Wide LightDriving forward Illuminates areas on either side of the vehicle that Distribution Low Beam (night) conventional low-beams cannot reach. Raises the axis of lighting when travelling at highway Driving forward Highway Mode speeds, making it easier to see road signs and obstacles (night) as early as possible. Driving forward Projects on the center display images of the vehicle’s top i Conceptual figure of the operation of SBS-RC Hazard Recognition Support ー 360-degree View (at reduced view, as well as front, rear, and right/left views, by using Monitor speed) the four separate cameras installed on all sides of the Reversing vehicle. Alerts the driver to the presence of vehicles in the Driving forward blind spot with an icon in the wing mirror. If the driver BSM Blind Spot Monitoring (changing lane) indicates to change lanes, the icon flashes and a warning beep sounds. Warns the driver with a sound (or vibrating steering Lane Departure LDWS Driving forward wheel) and a visual display if the vehicle starts to stray Warning System from its lane. LAS Lane-Keep Assist System Provides steering assistance to return the vehicle toward Lane DepartureDriving forward the center of the lane if the driver starts to stray from the Averting Assist lane. Provides steering assistance to help keep the vehicle Line Trace Driving forward centered in the lane. j Conceptual figure of the operation of DM Forward Obstruction Detects vehicles in front and warns the driver with a FOW Driving forward Warning visual display and alarm if there is a risk of collision. Warning pattern Detects a vehicle approaching from the right or left front Caution (white) Driving forward Front Cross Traffic blind spot at an intersection and issues an acoustic or FCTA (at reduced Alert visual warning in response to the approaching state of h speed) the vehicle. Alerts the driver with an icon in the wing mirror and a ①“Rest recommended” warning beep if it detects vehicles approaching from RCTA Rear Cross Traffic Alert Reversing either side while backing out of a parking space or Warning (orange) garage. With a millimeter-wave radar that detects distant objects, works at a higher speed to automatically apply SBS Smart Brake Support Driving forward the brakes when there is a risk of frontal collision. This ①“Rest recommended” Collision Avoidance / Damage Reduction Support helps to avoid collisions or reduce the severity if one does occur. Works at lower speeds to automatically apply the brakes Advanced Advanced Smart City Driving forward when there is a risk of frontal collision. This helps to k Conceptual figure of the operation of CTS SCBS Brake Support avoid frontal collisions or reduce the severity if one does occur. Driving forward Issues a warning and simultaneously controls the engine ー AT Acceleration Control (at reduced speed) output to prevent sudden acceleration, if the accelerator [Driving forward] Driving forward pedal is depressed more than necessary even if there is (starting) an obstacle in front of the vehicle. Reversing (at Issues a warning and simultaneously controls the engine ー AT Acceleration Control reduced speed) output to prevent sudden acceleration, if the accelerator [Reversing] Reversing pedal is depressed more than necessary even if there is (starting) an obstacle behind the vehicle. Automatically applies the brake to stop or slow the Smart City Brake SCBS R Reversing vehicle when there is a risk of collision with an obstacle Support [Reversing] behind. Detects a vehicle approaching the right, left or rear side Smart Brake Support of driver’s vehicle when reversing, and automatically SBS-RC Reversing (rear and both sides) decelerates or stops the driver’s vehicle when a collision i is considered unavoidable. Monitors the vehicle’s behavior and recommends a rest Driving DAA Driver Attention Alert stop if signs of driver fatigue or reduced concentration forward are detected. Detects a change in the feature point of each part of the driver’s face with a driver monitoring camera to estimate Driving Driving Support DM Driver Monitoring the degree of the driver’s fatigue and sleepiness, and forward warns the driver with a display or sound, or advances j the timing of issuance of an automatic brake start alarm. Traffic Sign Recognition Driving Automatically detects speed limits and indicates speed TSR System forward limit in the Active Driving Display. Mazda Radar Cruise Driving Measures the distance to the car ahead and controls MRCC Control forward speed to maintain a safer following distance. In addition to maintaining driving operation that keeps Cruising & Traffic Driving the distance from the vehicle ahead constant, the CTS Support forward steering assist function helps the vehicle run along the k lane or along the running locus of the vehicle ahead. Advanced safety technology “i-ACTIVSENSE” reference website https://www.mazda.com/en/innovation/technology/safety/i-activsense/ 44 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management The Mazda Co-Pilot Concept: Human-Centered Autonomous Driving l l Autonomous Driving Technologies as Standard Equipment The Mazda Co-Pilot Concept is Mazda’s development concept for humanMazda Co-Pilot Concept, centered self-driving technology. Based on this concept, people enjoy driving employing autonomous driving technologies and are revitalized mentally and physically through the process. Meanwhile, the 2020: Start demonstration test By 2025: Apply as standard equipment car knows all the movements of the driver and the car is driving “virtually” in the background at all times. If the unexpected occurs, such as the driver suddenly losing consciousness, the car takes control to help prevent endangering vehicle occupants and passersby. It also automatically contacts emergency services and drives to a safer location. The Company aims to make the Mazda Co-Pilot Concept, which uses autonomous driving technologies to allow drivers to enjoy any drive with peace of mind, standard by 2025. Mazda Co-Pilot Concept 1. Normal conditions Driver drives responsibly When the driver’s condition is normal Driver Automobile Vehicle information Under normal conditions, drivers can Society enjoy driving themselves while the car Driver’s Back-up constantly monitors their condition condition Always sensing and conducts “virtual driving,” meaning it is ready to drive itself at Interpret Information Information on any time. road conditions Perception Judgment Operation 1 Activates on road Virtual driving conditions 2. Driver cannot operate car normally When the driver cannot operate the Car intervenes, drives away from traffic to a more safe vehicle in a normal manner place and stops When it is determined that the driver Driver Automobile Vehicle information cannot operate the vehicle normally, Society the car intervenes in an attempt to Driver’s Back-up avoid collisions and moves the vehicle condition system away from traffic to a more safe Always sensing Interpret Information location where it can stop the vehicle. ① Information on Activates on road road conditions Perception Judgment Operation Virtual driving conditions 2 TOPICS Cooperation with the government to promote the spread of safe-driving support cars The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and other ministries and agencies recommend a new car safety concept called “Safety Support Car S (Suppocar S).” All Mazda’s flagship models*1 currently available in the Japanese market are furnished with advanced safety technologies as standard equipment. These technologies qualify for the “Wide” *2 subcategory of “Suppocar S.” “Suppocar S” is a popular name for a safe-driving support car designed to prevent traffic accidents that have become a societal problem. A Suppocar S, which is particularly recommended for use by an aged driver, is equipped with various safe driving support systems, including a damage mitigation brake and an acceleration suppression device that functions when the driver depresses the wrong pedal. Mazda will continue to further advance its leading-edge technologies to deliver safer and more secure cars to beginner drivers and senior drivers. ＊1 Equipped with a damage mitigation brake (for pedestrians), an acceleration suppression device that functions when the driver depresses the wrong pedal, a lane departure warning device, and an advanced headlight. ＊2 Mazda2, Mazda3, Mazda6, CX-3, CX-5, CX-8, and Roadster (MX-5) (as of August 2019) 45 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Technologies to Mitigate Injuries in an Accident Focusing mainly on vehicle damage morphology and the mechanisms by which damage develops in the human body (human study) in the event of an actual traffic accident, Mazda has been promoting the development of safety technologies that help mitigate injuries to passengers and pedestrians in the event of a traffic accident. The Company has been dramatically enhancing the collision safety performance of Mazda vehicles by using leading-edge safety technologies, including vehicle body structures made of highly rigid ultrahigh-tensile steel plates that can improve the energy absorption efficiency and the occupant protection structure the Company has developed based on the study of human characteristics to minimize injury to the occupants. Mazda’s major safety technologies are described below. Lightweight, high-rigidity, safer body: Vehicle body skeletons are constructed of highly rigid ultrahigh-tensile steel plates to securely receive impacts and vehicle body frame structures are designed so that they can efficiently absorb and distribute impact energy transmitted from the front, rear and both sides of the vehicle. Vehicle bodies constructed as above minimize the deformation of the cabin. Occupant protection: To reduce injuries to the occupants, Mazda has developed various human characteristicbased injury protection structures and uses them in its vehicles. Pedestrian protection: Mazda uses various methods to reduce injury to pedestrians in the event of a collision. Technologies Used in Mazda3 Lightweight, high-rigidity, safer body The following technologies have been used in the Mazda3, which was launched domestically in May 2019. Lightweight, High-rigidity, Safe Body Ultrahigh-tensile steel plate Compared with the previous model, the percentage of ultrahigh-tensile steel plates having a strength of 980 MPa or more was dramatically increased from approximately 9% to approximately 30%. In addition, Mazda used the world's first* cold-stamped vehicle body structural parts made of 1,310 MPa-class ultrahigh-tensile steel plates. Frontal collision safety performance The bumper beam was elongated in the lateral direction and a perimeter beam was newly installed Safety measures against frontal collision to minimize the damage to the collision partner. Side collision safety performance Shock dispersion type hinge pillars and rear body structures were used to securely receive the collision impact, thereby minimizing the deformation of the cabin. Occupant Protection Front seat The rigidity of seat frames was increased and the cushion side frames was constructed so that they can absorb collision impact force. The above design modification is designed to reduce the injury to occupants’ neck by constraining the heads at the initial stage of a rear-end collision and, at the same time, suppressing Driver’s seat knee airbag the reaction of the seat back when it returns from a backward tilted position to the original position. Seatbelt The front seatbelt was reconstructed so that the lap anchor can be attached to the seat. This minimizes the slacking of the belt even after the occupant moves the seat to any longitudinal position, making it possible to help quickly protect the occupant in the event of a collision. Driver’s seat knee airbag Mazda installed driver’s seat knee airbags for the first time. If a collision occurs, these airbags will deploy around the driver’s knees to help limit the forward movement of the driver, thereby reducing injuries to his/her chest, belly, and legs. Front side airbag Leg protection measure To reduce the impact load that will be applied to the occupants’ ribs and their neighboring areas which are sensitive to collision impact force, Mazda used airbag systems (two-chamber type) that ①Damage to knee were designed after taking into account the load bearing performance of the human body. ligaments Pedestrian Protection Head protection measures ② Shank bone fracture To reduce the impact force and injury to a pedestrian when his/her head hits the bonnet (hood) in the event of a collision, Mazda optimized the distance between the outer and inner panels of the bonnet and the impact absorption structure of the inner panel. The above design modification enables the bonnet to absorb large energy at the initial stage of a collision with the pedestrian’s Face upper head and to softly and uniformly receive the head after the collision. Leg protection measures The upper and lower legs of the occupant are supported by the face upper and the lower stiffener, Lower stiffener respectively, to prevent the legs from bending like a bow, thereby reducing damage to the ligaments and knees in the event of a collision. ＊ As of January 2019, according to Mazda data Website on Technologies to Mitigate Injuries in an Accident https://www.mazda.com/en/innovation/technology/safety/passive_safety/ 46 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management External Evaluations for Mazda’s Safety Technologies m m J-NCAP car assessment result presentation Mazda has earned high evaluations for its safety technologies. Third Party Safety Evaluations Rating by vehicle model (As of June 30, 2019) Demio/ Atenza/ Roadster/ Mazda3 CX 3 CX 5 CX-8 CX-9 Mazda2 Mazda6 MX-5 1 J-NCAP* (Collision 5-Star 5-Star 5-Star 5-Star 5-Star ー* ー* ー* 6 5 6 Safety (2014(2013(2015(2017(2017Performance 2015) 2014) 2016) 2018) 2018) Tests) Japan J-NCAP*1 (Advanced CX-8 won the highest scores among the cars ー* ー* ー* Safety ASV+ ASV+++ ASV+++ ASV+++ ASV+++ （2014） （2018） （2018） （2018） （2018） 6 5 6 Vehicle (ASV) which were assessed in FY March 2018 from Technology two aspects: passive safety and active safety. Assessment) ー* ー* ー* ー* 5-Star 5-Star 5-Star 5-Star （2019MY）（2019MY）（2019MY） （2019MY） US-NCAP*2 5 6 5 6 US IIHS*3 ー* ー* ー* 5 5 6 19TSP 19TSP 19TSP 19TSP+ 19TSP ー* ー* Euro4-Star 5-Star 5-Star 4-Star 5-Star 4-Star （2015） （2019） （2018） （2015） （2017） （2015） 5 5 Europe NCAP*4 Change in rating in the last three years*7 2017 2018 2019 Japan 5-Star 5 6 5 J-NCAP*1 (Collision Safety 4-Star 0 0 0 Performance Tests) 5-Star 3 5 4 US US-NCAP*2 4-Star 1 0 0 5-Star 3 3 3 Europe Euro-NCAP*4 4-Star 3 3 3 ＊1 Japan New Car Assessment Tests: Vehicle collision safety performance evaluations conducted by the National Agency for Automotive Safety and Victims’ Aid. For collision safety performance, 5-Star is the highest possible rating. For Advanced Safety Vehicle (ASV) Technology Assessment, ASV++ is the highest possible rating (From 2016). ＊2 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s 5-Star Safety Ratings program. 5-Star is the highest possible rating. ＊3 Insurance Institute for Highway Safety: Safety performance evaluations by an independent, nonprofit organization funded by auto insurers. Top Safety Pick + (Plus) is the highest possible rating. ＊4 European New Car Assessment Programme: An independent agency comprised of the transport authorities of European countries, etc. 5-Star is the highest possible rating. ＊5 Not yet introduced as of the end of June 2019 ＊6 Not evaluated. ＊7 As of the end of June 2019. New-generation models were the target of evaluation. 47 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Initiatives with People It is said that most traffic accidents are caused directly or indirectly by human behavior. Mazda endeavors to raise safety awareness among adults and children through various means of communication. Raising Traffic Safety Awareness n n Mazda Kids’ Quiz on Traffic Safety website for children (Japanese Only) In cooperation with local municipalities and organizations, Mazda and its Group https://www2.mazda.com/ja/about/kids/ companies in Japan and overseas conduct various activities to raise safety awareness. safetyquiz/ The Company hosts safety-related exhibitions at the Mazda Museum in the Hiroshima Head Office, the “Kids’ Quiz on Traffic Safety” website for children, and other projects. In June 2019, Mazda held a program for experiencing advanced headlight ALH (adaptive LED headlight) as part of the Sustainable “Zoom-Zoom” Forum 2019 at the Mazda R&D Center Yokohama (MRY). The Company also organized other various events to promote understanding of Mazda’s safety technologies.*1 Safe Driving Demonstration o Starting from FY March 2015, Mazda has held the Mazda Driving Academy, an experience and training program to help customers in Japan learn the theories and techniques to control their cars easily, comfortably and safely. A variety of curriculums tailored to the needs and level of the customers are offered, from basic o Experiencing the collision damage reduction driver training of drive, turn, and stop, to the exciting experience of driving on a racing brake circuit, with the aim of improving their driving skills and raising the awareness of safe driving. In FY March 2019, the Mazda Driving Academy was held 9 times. Initiatives with Roads and Infrastructure Initiatives toward Realizing a Safe Automotive Society with ITS*2 Traffic accidents and congestion are serious social problems in many countries and cities. To solve these problems, worldwide efforts have been taken to introduce advanced technologies for roads and automobiles. As an automobile manufacturer, Mazda has been proactively supporting the ITS project driven by the government and private sector, and working collaboratively with the national and local governments and related companies in order to realize a society where the road traffic is safe and accident-free. Technology to Notify the Driver of Unseen Dangers Mazda is promoting research and development of ITS as a means to monitor the objects in a distant position that cannot be detected by Mazda’s advanced technology i-Activsens or the areas in an intersection that cannot be seen from the driver. ITS Projects Mazda Participates Project Description Organizer Research and preparation of next-generation road systems using ITS Road Bureau, Ministry Smart Way technology, linking people, vehicles, and roads by means of information, of Land, Infrastructure, mainly for expressways and toll roads Transport and Tourism DSSS Research and development of driving safety support systems utilizing roadNational Police Agency, (Driving Safety vehicle communication, in which signals are transmitted between vehicles and 1 UTMS* Support Systems) the road infrastructure, as well as systems to enable smooth traffic flow Research and development to realize a system to assist safer driving utilizing Road Transport Bureau, ASV (Advanced cutting-edge technologies, including communication-based driving safety Ministry of Land, Safety Vehicle) support systems. In 1991, the project’s first phase was launched, and currently Infrastructure, Transport discussions are under way as to the sixth phase and Tourism The ITS Connect Promotion Consortium promotes practical application and widespread use of a driving support system combining automobile-related 2 technology with new ITS communication technology. The consortium aims to ITS Connect Promotion ITS Connect* achieve a safe anxiety-free transportation society, by studying the fundamental Consortium technology for the driving support system (ITS Connect), which utilizes ITSdedicated frequency band, and carrying out operation support. Effective use of communication-type ITS systems and open cloud data to enhance the safety and convenience of public transportation systems and make *1 Refer to the following URL for social contribution activities Hiroshima SAND transportation smoother by realizing priority traffic signal control for public Hiroshima Prefecture regarding safety communications by the Mazda Group: BOX transportation systems, minimizing hazardous events at intersections and other https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/social/ places, and promoting ride sharing by increasing transfer convenience. *2 ITS: Intelligent transport system uses telecommunications ＊1 UTMS Society of Japan technology to bring together vehicles, people, and the traffic environment, with the aim of easing traffic congestion and ＊2 Website of ITS Connect Promotion Consortium (https://www.itsconnect-pc.org/en/) reducing the number of accidents throughout Japan. 48 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Advanced Safety Vehicle “Mazda Atenza ASV-5” Mazda has participated in the ASV*1 research and development project since its first phase. In the fifth phase, the Company developed Mazda Atenza ASV-5 which is equipped with the communication technology-based driving safety support system. The vehicle is designed to eliminate blind-spots and supports hazard recognition in 360-degrees through a combination of vehicle-to-vehicle, streetto-vehicle and pedestrian-to-vehicle communication technologies and on-board autonomous sensors. The intuitive HMI displays hazards surrounding the driver in all directions including blind spots, and does not interfere with the operation of the vehicle. When the driver fails to recognize a hazard, and a risk of collision arises, the HMI warns the driver to brake. Demonstration test for Streetcar-to-Vehicle Communication ASV p p Demonstration Tests on Public Road In October 2013, in Hiroshima City where about 150,000 people use streetcars each day, the world’s first demonstration test*2 for the streetcar-to-vehicle communication + autonomous safety technology*3 was conducted jointly by the University of Tokyo, Hiroshima Electric Railway, and National Traffic Safety and Environment Laboratory, and Mazda Motor Corporation. The findings on the test are as follows: ■ Effective in preventing collisions in situations such as when a vehicle turns right or enters the streetcar’s path in order to pass a stopped vehicle. ■ Effective in preventing accidents by coordinating with a smartphone application for the early detection of pedestrians who are in positions difficult for the driver to see. Test section Reference website: https://www.mazda.com/en/innovation/ technology/safety/its/ *1 ASV: Advanced Safety Vehicle *2 As of September 2017, according to Mazda data. *3 The test was conducted as one of the post-congress tour events for the ITS World Conference Tokyo 2013 49 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Mazda’s Safety Initiatives and Primary Safety Technologies For more details, visit Mazda website: SAFETY TECHNOLOGY : https://www.mazda.com/en/innovation/technology/safety/ Accident reduction Injury reduction Category Basic safety Preventive safety Collision safety (Maximizing the range of conditions in which the (Mitigation of risk/damage from an accident) (Minimizing injuries in accidents) driver can drive safely and comfortably) Supporting driver’s recognition ■ Blind Spot Monitoring (BSM)/Rear Vehicle Monitoring (RVM) ■ Front Cross Traffic Alert (FCTA) ■ Rear Cross Traffic Alert (RCTA) Helps to protect drivers/passengers in ■ Lane Departure Warning System (LDWS) accidents ■ Use of Straight Basic Skeleton ■ Lane-Keep Assist System (LAS) Offers the ideal driving position ■ Front Obstruction Warning (FOW) ■ Continuation Technology/Multi-Load Path ■ ‌ Ideal pedal layout ■ 360 Degree View Monitor Structure ■ Organ-type accelerator pedal ■ Cruciform Section Front Frame ■ Emergency Signal System (ESS) ■ Ultrahigh-tensile Steel Bumper Frame ■ Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFS) Supports both safety and Driving Pleasure ■ High Beam Control (HBC) ■ SRS Airbag System (Driver’s seat, front ■ A newly developed front strut and rear ■ Adaptive LED Headlight (ALM) passenger’s seat, curtain, front-side airbags multilink suspension system and driver’s knee) ■ A lightweight cross member with high rigidity ■ Soft Interior to Absorb Impacts ■ Active Driving Display Minimizes damage in an accident ■ Front Seats Designed to Reduce Impacts to the ■ A-pillar/door mirror for improved front field [When moving forward] Vehicles ■ Smart Brake Support (SBS) Neck / Rear Seats that Resist against Luggage vision Flying Forward ■ Advanced Smart City Brake Support (Advanced ■ Power Windows with Injury Prevention ■ Pre-Tensioners and Load-Limiter Seatbelts SCBS) Function ■ Collapsible Brake Pedal ■ AT Acceleration Control ■ G-Vectoring Control (GVC) ■ ISO-FIX-Compliant Child Seat [When reversing] ■ Smart City Brake Support R [When reversing] Helps to avoid danger Anchoring point (SCBS-R) ■ Brake Assist and EBS ■ Impact-Absorbing Steering Column ■ AT Acceleration Control ■ 4-Wheel Antilock Braking System (4W-ABS) ■ Smart Brake Support [Rear side] (SBS-RC) ■ Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) Minimizes damage in an accident with ■ Brake Override System (BOS) pedestrians Supports both safety and Driving Pleasure ■ Impact-Absorbing Bumpers ■ Mazda Radar Cruise Control (with Stop & Go ■ Impact-Absorbing Hood function) (MRCC) ■ Active Hood ■ Cruising & Traffic Support (CTS) ■ Driver Attention Alert (DAA) ■ Driver Monitoring (DM) ■ Traffic Sign Recognition System (TSR) Safety Education People ■ Safety-related exhibitions at the Mazda Museum ■ Traffic safety awareness quiz website for children ■ Presentation of safety technologies at various events Initiatives for a Safe society Roads and ■ Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS） ■ Smart Traffic Flow Control ■ ITS Spot services Infrastructure ■ Development of Advanced Safety Vehicles (ASVs) ■ Road-Vehicle Communication ITS (DSRC) ■ World’s first demonstration tests* for the streetcar-to-vehicle communication ASV in Hiroshima 1 ＊1 As of September 2017, according to Mazda data. 50 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT Mazda views environmental protection as an urgent issue for humanity, and the highest priority issue facing automakers. The Company is making efforts to reduce environmental impact throughout the entire product life cycle. CONTENTS 52 Basic Approach on Environmental Protection, and Environmental Promotion Framework and Plan 58 Environmental Management 62 Efforts Regarding Product and Technology Development 70 Efforts Regarding Manufacturing and Logistics 77 Collection and Recycling of End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs) and Used Parts 79 Biodiversity Conservation 80 Environmental Communication 82 Mazda’s Corporate Activities and Impact on the Environment CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects Energy-and global-warmingrelated issues Promoting 6.5 resource (See Mazda Green Plan 2020) The recycling environment Cleaner emissions Environmental management 51 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management BASIC APPROACH ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROMOTION FRAMEWORK AND PLAN The Mazda Global Environmental Charter Environmental Principles The Mazda Group aims to promote environmental protection and contribute to a better society while maintaining harmony with nature in its business activities worldwide. ・We will contribute to society by creating environmentally friendly technologies and products. ・We will use the Earth’s resources and energy sparingly and never overlook environmental considerations when conducting our business. ・We will do our part to improve the environment by working with local communities and society. Action Guidelines 1.Creation of Environmentally Sound Technologies and Products 3.Corporate Activities in Pursuit of a Cleaner Environment We are committed to the task of creating clean technologies, We will comply with environmental laws and regulations, and will also impose voluntary including methods to achieve cleaner exhaust emissions and controls for higher standards and implement self-regulated controls. reductions in CO2 emissions, and the development of cleanWe will promote the development of new technologies and the introduction of new energy vehicles. systems in our pursuit of a cleaner environment. We will promote the creation of products that are 4.Working with Business Partners to Create a Better Environment environmentally friendly from planning and development to manufacturing, use and recycling/disposal. We will actively provide our employees with education and information about environmental protection to enhance their awareness of the global environment. 2.Corporate Activities in Consideration of Conserving Resources We will work in close cooperation with each other to achieve better environmental protection. and Energy 5.Creating a Better Environment in Cooperation with Local Communities and Society We will actively promote resource-saving and recycling activities to conserve the Earth’s limited resources. We will work actively to understand and appreciate society’s requirements for the We will strive to diversify energy sources and use them environment and reflect them in our business activities. efficiently. We will disclose and publicize environment-related technologies, systems and information. We will promote the appropriate disposal and recycling of We will not only conduct our own environmental activities, but will also actively end-of-life vehicles. participate in social activities for the conservation of the environment. (Established in 1992; revised in April 2005) Mazda’s Approach to the Environment Environmental problems, including global warming, are issues of critical importance for the human race. Mazda actively adopts initiatives to promote a low-carbon, recyclingoriented society in harmony with nature, in cooperation with local governments, industrial organizations, and non-profit organizations. These efforts are reflected in all of Mazda’s a Philosophy and Policies for Environmental Initiatives corporate activities with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. Corporate Vision Philosophy and Policies a The Mazda Global Environmental Charter Mazda carries out its corporate activities with the aim of fulfilling its corporate vision (see p. 3). Products and technologies: Manufacturing, logistics, To this end, Mazda established the Mazda Global Environmental Charter as the basic policy Social contributions: for environmental matters in the Mazda Group. The Charter, which states “The Mazda and office operations: Group aims to promote environmental protection and contributes to a better society while Product Environment maintaining harmony with nature in its business activities worldwide,” along with the five Business Site Social Contribution Action Guidelines from the basis of Mazda’s approach to the environment. The Company Committee Environment Committee Committee carries out corporate activities related to products and technologies; manufacturing, logistics, and office operations; social contributions, respectively in consideration of the Mazda Green Plan environment. Specific targets and results are laid out in the Mazda Green Plan (see pp. 54-55), the Mazda’s future vision of society Company’s environmental mid-term plan. By using the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle Low-carbon recycling-oriented in harmony with nature when executing activities and following up on their results, Mazda can effectively reduce impact on the environment. The Company also strives to address various social issues, *1 TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures including climate change and resource recycling, while placing emphasis on collaboration A private-sector led organization set up by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), in response to the request from the with external organizations. G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. *2 The TCFD Consortium is an organization established in External Organizations in Which Mazda Participates Japan, aimed at holding discussions on effective corporate information disclosure and efforts for leading disclosed Subcommittees of Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association information to appropriate decision-making on investment by financial institutes and other entities. The Ministry of Working groups of Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ) Economy, Trade and Industry, the Financial Services Agency and the Ministry of the Environment participate in the TCFD Consortium*1*2 consortium as observers. 52 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Mazda Environmental Promotion Framework b b Mazda Environmental Promotion Framework (as of March 31, 2019) Mazda has established three committees under the CSR Management Strategy CSR Management Strategy Committee Committee, chaired by the president of the Company, to promote environmental Chairperson: Representative Director and President Vice Chairperson: Executive Officer in Charge of CSR and management throughout the Group. These are the Product Environment Environment Committee, the Business Site Environment Committee, and the Social Contribution Committee. Studies and promotes Product Environment key items regarding Each committee sets targets, and monitors results and progress, under the “Mazda Committee environmental preservation (twice/year) in relation to development, Green Plan 2020” mid-term environmental plan. Chairperson: Executive including development of Officer in Charge of R&D environmentally conscious products and technologies. Mazda Green Plan 2020 Mid-Term Environmental Plan c Business Site Studies and promotes key items regarding environmental Environment preservation in relation to Based on the “Philosophy and Policies” for environmental initiatives, Mazda Committee manufacturing and logistics. (twice/year) Studies and promotes developed this mid-term plan toward 2020, centering on the following three main Chairperson: methods to reduce Executive Officer in environmental impact perspectives. Charge of Environment throughout the entire Vice Chairperson: supply chain, encompassing I. Themes to Be Resolved in the Future Executive Officer in dealerships, suppliers, Charge of Production and others (including the Mazda considers the following as issues that both customers and society expect and Logistics extension of EMS to Group companies). automakers to make positive contributions toward: Studies and promotes key 1. Energyand Global-Warming-Related Issues Social Contribution items regarding environmental Committee protection in the area of Undertaking measures to reduce CO2 emissions over the entire life cycle of a (twice/year) social contributions for the (see p. 100) Group as a whole vehicle. 2. Promoting Resource Recycling Divisions within Mazda Reducing waste from vehicles, the vehicle manufacturing and shipping Group companies in Japan and overseas processes, and disposal of end-of-life vehicles, as well as actively promoting the comprehensive recycling of resources. 3. Cleaner Emissions c Approach on the Mazda Green Plan 2020 Reducing various emissions/waste (aside from CO2) from vehicles and manufacturing processes, especially emissions with highly adverse environmental impacts. 1. 2. 3. 4. Energy and Promoting Cleaner Environmental 4. Environmental Management GlobalResource Emissions Management WarmingRecycling Develop environmental management throughout the entire Group and Related supply chain. Issues II. Mazda’s Initiatives (two categories) a. Vehicles and vehicle technology a. Vehicles and vehicle technology Contributing to a reduced environmental impact through products and b. Manufacturing, logistics, office operations, social contributions, etc. technology. b. Manufacturing, Logistics, Office Operations, Social Contributions, etc. Contributing to a reduced environmental impact through all activities (excluding those related to products and technology) III. Consideration of the Entire Vehicle Life Cycle Reduce environmental impact Mazda is making efforts to reduce environmental impact throughout the entire throughout the entire vehicle life cycle product life cycle. Around 75% of CO2 emissions occur over the period from customer use to disposal – an overwhelming percentage of overall emissions (see p. 62). ■ Manufacturing and logistics (materials manufacturing, and vehicle manufacturing): accounts for around 25% ■ Product use and disposal (use by customer, maintenance, disposal and recycling): accounts for around 75% Next Medium-and Long-Term Environmental Plan Mazda is in the process of formulating the next medium-and long-term environmental plan, referencing “Mazda’s Vision for Society’s Relationship with Vehicles in the Future” (see p. 56), aiming at realizing the vision. With “decarbonization” and “resource recycling” selected as the main themes, discussions are under way to finalize the plan. 53 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Targets and Actions in the Mazda Green Plan 2020 Mid-Term Environmental Plan (Self-assessment key ○:Accomplished, △ :Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) FY March 2019 SelfFY March 2020 Category Item Targets and actions by 2020 Targets and actions Results assessment Targets and actions 1. Energyand Global-Warming-Related Issues ① Respond to ・Meet fully the fuel economy/ ・Achieved fuel economy/greenhouse gas ・Meet fully the fuel economy/ Introduce technology to raise fuel fuel economy ○ economy, to respond fully to the standards in greenhouse gas standards of each emission standards in Japan, U.S., and greenhouse gas standards of each fuel economy standards of each each country/ country/region. China. country/region. country/region. region. ・Promote Skyactiv Technology ・Promote Skyactiv Technology steadily toward achieving the fuel steadily toward achieving the fuel ② Improve Raise the average fuel economy economy target for 2020. Promoted Skyactiv Technology steadily, economy target for 2020. of the Mazda vehicles sold ○ fuel economy and also promoted development and ・Promote development and ・Promote development and worldwide by 30% by 2015 and using Skyactiv implementation of technologies based on by 50% by 2020 compared with Technology. implementation of technologies the Building-Block Strategy. implementation of technologies 2008 levels. based on the Building-Block based on the Building-Block a. Vehicles Strategy. Strategy. and vehicle Promote the introduction of vehicles ○ technology Continue the sales of vehicles Continued the sales of Axela Hybrid with Mazda’s unique mild-hybrid with hybrid system. system. ③ Promote Promote the development of development electric motor drive technologies. of nextPromote the development of Examined solutions to problems related to ○ generation electric motor drive technologies Promote development of electric driving range, etc. with reference to Demio vehicles using based on the analysis results of vehicles and plug-in hybrids. EV’s traveling data and customer feedback. biofuels, Demio EV’s traveling data. electrical power, Promote development of Promote development of hydrogen, etc. Promoted development of technologies ○ technologies supporting technologies supporting Promote development of supporting alternative fuels, such as alternative fuels such as biofuels, alternative fuels, such as biofuels, technologies supporting biofuels. biofuels, synthetic fuels, and hydrogen. synthetic fuels, and hydrogen. synthetic fuels, and hydrogen. ④ Reduce Reduced CO2 emissions from all Mazda CO2 Reduce CO2 emissions from Reduce CO2 emissions from Reduce CO2 emission intensity from Group plants and offices in Japan by 47% ○ emissions all Mazda Group factories and all Mazda Group factories and all Mazda Group plants and offices compared with 1990 levels. from factories offices in Japan by 28% or more offices in Japan by 44% compared in Japan by 45% compared to 1990 (Including the effects of the heavy rain in b. Manufacturing, and offices.*1 compared with 1990 levels. with 1990 levels. levels. July 2018)*2 logistics, office operations, social Reduced CO2 emissions from all Mazda ⑤ Reduce contributions, etc. Reduce CO2 emissions from all Reduce CO2 emissions from all Group logistics operations in Japan by 56% Reduce CO2 emission intensity from △ CO2 Mazda Group logistics operations Mazda Group logistics operations compared to 1990 levels. all Mazda Group logistic operations emissions in Japan by 50% compared with in Japan by 60% compared with (Including the effects of the heavy rain in in Japan by 58% compared to 1990 from logistics. 1990 levels. 1990 levels. July 2018.*2 CO2 intensity improvements levels. are being implemented according to plan.) ＊1 For CO2 emissions calculations, the CO2 coefficient based on the standard (Keidanren's Commitment to a Low Carbon Society) of the Japan Business Federation (Nippon Keidanren) are used. (For the calculations of FY March 2019 and after, the coefficient of FY March 2018 is used.) ＊2 Heavy rains in July 2018 in western Japan damaged roads and other transportation networks. Plant and office CO2 emissions decreased due to lower production volume as production adjusted to the disaster, while alternative routes and shipping methods, including trucks, temporarily increased logistics’ CO2 emissions. 2. Promoting Resource Recycling For the Mazda3, achieved improved disassembly/recycling efficiency and ○ Develop vehicles that are easy to Promote development for ease of Promote development for ease of thermal recyclability, appropriate disposal disassemble and recycle. disassembly and recycling. disassembly and recycling. measures, and expanded use of recycled materials. a. Vehicles ⑥ Promote Expanded parts and models adopting and vehicle vehicle ○ Develop and implement paintless bioplastics with high-quality Develop and implement bioplastics, technology recycling. Promote the use of bioplastics. bioplastics, and expand adoption. textures, which can also be used for large and expand adoption. exterior parts. Continued to promote collection and ○ Promote bumper-recycling Promote collection and recycling Promote the collection and recycling recycling of damaged bumpers. (Collected technology. of damaged bumpers. of damaged bumpers. bumpers: around 62,900) ⑦ Reduce Reduce direct landfill waste across waste Reduce direct landfill waste to Reduced direct landfill waste across the Reduce direct landfill waste to zero ○ the entire Mazda Group in Japan volumes, zero*3 across the entire Mazda entire Mazda Group in Japan to 0.1% of across the entire Mazda Group in to zero*3 as compared to total promote Group in Japan. total waste volume. Japan.*3 waste volume. recycling. Reduced volume of packaging and b. Manufacturing, ⑧ Reduce Reduce volume of packaging and Reduce volume of packaging and wrapping across the entire Mazda Group in Reduce volume of packing and logistics, office △ wrapping across the entire Mazda wrapping across the entire Mazda Japan by 56% compared with 1990 levels. wrapping in terms of basic units operations, packaging Group in Japan by 45% compared Group in Japan by 60% compared (Effect of increase in number of units across the Mazda Group in Japan by social volume used. with 1990 levels. with 1990 levels. shipped, intensity reduction is being 56% compared with 1990 levels. contributions, implemented according to plan.) etc. ⑨ Reduce Reduce volume of water used Reduce volume of water used volume of across the entire Mazda Group in across the entire Mazda Group in Reduce volume of water used across the Reduce the volume of water used ○ water used Japan. Japan. entire Mazda Group in Japan. across the Mazda Group in Japan by and promote Reduce volume of tap water used Reduce volume of tap water used Reduced volume of tap water used by 52% 53% compared with 1990 levels. effective use by 47% compared with 1990 by 49% compared with 1990 compared with 1990 levels. of water. levels. levels. ＊3 Here “zero” is defined as the condition where the percentage of direct landfill is 0.5% or less of the total volume of waste generated. 54 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management (Self-assessment key ○:Accomplished, △ :Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) FY March 2019 SelfFY March 2020 Category Item Targets and actions by 2020 Targets and actions Results assessment Targets and actions 3. Cleaner Emissions Japan: 89% (vehicle number ratio) of passenger vehicles met the SU-LEV（★★★★）standard. United States: Introduced low-emission vehicles ⑩ Ensure that meet Tier3/LEV2,3 regulations in all Introduce and promote low cleaner Promote the introduction of low product lines. Promote the introduction of low ○ emission vehicles to improve vehicle emission vehicles that meet the Europe: All product lines met the Euro 6 emission vehicles that meet the air quality in each country and exhaust gas needs of each country and region. standards. needs of each country and region. region. emissions. China: Developed vehicles that meet Euro5 standards or equivalent levels. a. Vehicles Other: Introduced low-emission vehicles that and vehicle meet the needs of each country and region. technology Pass Ministry of Health, Labour Pass Ministry of Health, Labour and Passed Ministry of Health, Labour and ⑪ Reduce Reduce VOCs in vehicle interiors. and Welfare (MHLW) guidelines Welfare (MHLW) guidelines for the indoor ○ Welfare (MHLW) guidelines for the inclusion of for the indoor aerial concentration indoor aerial concentration in all aerial concentration with the Mazda3. substances of in all new vehicles. new vehicles. environmental Promote development and adoption Promote development and adoption Promote development and adoption burden in Developed a car air-conditioning system ○ of car air-conditioning systems of car air-conditioning systems of car air-conditioning systems products. using a refrigerant with low environmental using new refrigerants with low using new refrigerants with low using new refrigerants with low impact for adoption in new model vehicles. environmental impact. environmental impact. environmental impact. ⑫ Reduce waste Reduce waste volumes of PRTR Reduce waste volumes of PRTR Reduced waste volumes of PRTR substances Reduce waste volumes of PRTR b. Manufacturing, volumes substances across the entire substances across the entire across the entire Mazda Group in Japan by ○ substances across the entire Mazda logistics, office of PRTR Mazda Group in Japan. Mazda Group in Japan. 18% compared with FY March 2018 levels. Group in Japan. operations, substances. social contributions, ⑬ Reduce Reduce volumes of VOC waste Reduce volumes of VOC waste Reduce volumes of VOC waste emissions Reduce volumes of VOC waste ○ etc. volumes of emissions to an average 23 g/m2 emissions to an average 22 g/m2 to an average 20.0 g/m2 or less across all emissions to an average 20 g/m2 or VOC waste or less across all Mazda lines. or less across all Mazda lines. Mazda lines. less across all Mazda lines. emissions. 4. Environmental Management ・Steadily implement LCA for ・Studied and evaluated CO2 emissions ・Steadily implement LCA for new technologies related to from internal combustion engine vehicles new technologies related to ⑭ Promote environmental performance. and electric vehicles through industryenvironmental performance. academia collaboration, and announced ・To expand use of renewable ○ ・To expand use of renewable energy, life cycle Expand the implementation of the results in Japan and overseas. assessment LCA (in Japan). energy, promote demonstration promote demonstration testing ・Promoted demonstration testing of the (LCA). testing of the combination of of the combination of renewable renewable energy and reused combination of renewable energy and energy and reused batteries at batteries at business sites. reused batteries. business sites. a. Vehicles Aiming to realize smooth traffic and vehicle flows that will help reduce energy technology loss due to frequent acceleration/ deceleration, promote the ⑮ Promote Equipped the Mazda3 with control development of technologies based technologies to enable operation of the Improve driving technique an integrated Improve driving technique on human-centered design (such ○ accelerator/brake pedals as intended, and and promote activities to raise approach and promote activities to raise as control technologies to enable Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture technologies to awareness, taking a customerto traffic awareness. operation of the accelerator/brake realize smooth driving that makes drivers feel centered approach. systems. pedals as intended, and Skyactiva sense of connectedness to their cars. Vehicle Architecture technologies to realize smooth driving that makes drivers feel a sense of connectedness to their cars). Expand promotion of the Mazda Expand promotion of the Mazda ○ Promote environmental protection Cascaded the Guidelines to all suppliers, Green Purchasing Guidelines and Green Purchasing Guidelines and activities among Mazda Suppliers. and requested compliance. revise if necessary. revise if necessary. ・Support 100% establishment of ・Supported 100% establishment of EMS ・Support 100% establishment of EMS among major suppliers. among major suppliers. EMS among major suppliers. ○ ・Support and enhance EMS at ・Supported and enhanced EMS at ・Support and enhance EMS at ⑯ Reduce the secondary suppliers. secondary suppliers. secondary suppliers. environmental Continue to provide follow-up Continue to provide follow-up risk of the support for the introduction Completed the introduction of EcoAction support to newly opened shops in Mazda Group Promote the establishment and ○ of EcoAction 21 at all Mazda 21 at all Mazda Group dealerships*1 in obtaining certification, to maintain in Japan. introduction of environmental Group dealerships*1 in Japan, and Japan, and continued to support newly the EcoAction 21-certified status at management systems (EMS). support newly opened shops in opened shops in obtaining certification. all Mazda Group dealerships*1 in obtaining certification. Japan. Review the activities carried out Review the activities carried out at Completed the introduction of EMS at auto at auto parts sales companies*1 auto parts sales companies*1 and ○ parts sales companies. Confirmed proper and the support necessary from the support necessary from Mazda, operation of EMS at these companies Mazda, in order to ramp up EMS in order to ramp up EMS at the sales through periodic reports, etc. at the sales companies. companies. ⑰ Promote Continuously raise awareness Continuously promoted education for Continuously raise awareness inside Actively disseminate activities inside the Group regarding employees at Mazda and its Group and outside of the Group regarding environmental information to ○ b. Manufacturing, to raise environmental issues that society companies, implementing “cool-biz,” environmental issues that society logistics, office improve environmental awareness awareness of faces and measures throughout “warm-biz” and “ light-down” campaigns faces and measures throughout the operations, among Mazda and Mazda Group environmental the entire life cycle of vehicles to and other activities to raise biodiversity entire life cycle of vehicles to reduce social company employees. issues. reduce environmental impact. awareness. environmental impacts. contributions, ・Promoted environmental activities based Promote environmental protection ⑱ Promote etc. activities in regional communities Continuously raise awareness of Continuously raise awareness of on the needs of regional communities. environmental by taking part in environmental environmental issues and deepen environmental issues and deepen ・Conducted around 30 activities in Japan protection volunteer activities (including understanding of biodiversity understanding of biodiversity activities in regional cleanups and efforts based on the needs of regional ○ based on the needs of regional and abroad, including forest preservation partnership to preserve biodiversity) and communities, preserve forests, communities, preserve forests, and activities, support for protection of with regional dispatching instructors to regional and participate in regional participate in regional cleanups. endemic species, regional cleanups, and communities. events and schools to offer cleanups. carbon offset. environmental education. ・Disseminated information by participating in Eco-Pro 2018 (Dec. 6–8) and other ・Disseminate information about environmental exhibitions, and by holding and participating in various events. ⑲ Inform the the Mazda Group’s environmental ・Continuously raise environmental protection activities worldwide by Continue and enhance disclosure Continue and enhance disclosure public about hosting and actively participating of information on the Mazda of information on the Mazda the Mazda awareness by holding environmental ○ in environmental events. Group’s environmental protection Group’s environmental protection Group’s events, such as Earth Hour 2019 (Mar. activities and education to raise activities and education to raise ・Actively disseminate environmental 30), and dispatching instructors for the environmental awareness of environmental awareness of protection environmental education. environmental information to customers. customers. activities. ・Conducted environmental activities, improve environmental awareness among Mazda customers. including forest preservation activities, support for protection of endemic species, regional cleanups, and carbon offset. ＊1 Applicable to consolidated Group companies and equity-method Group companies in Japan. 55 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Mazda’s Vision for Society’s Relationship with Vehicles in the Future Mazda is aware that the greatest challenge in curbing global warming is reducing CO2 emissions, which is the major cause of this problem. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported that global greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced by 40-70 percent as compared to 2010 levels by the year 2050 in order to limit the temperature increase to 2°C above pre-industrial levels. Also, the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) adopted the Paris Agreement. Against this backdrop, the world has been moving toward a decarbonized society. The realization of such a society requires major innovations, which will bring about changes in society and lifestyles. Mazda knows it must take these changes into account in its future operations. Around 2030: A society that aims for decarbonization, resource recycling, and coexistence in harmony with nature Mazda predicts that around 2030 the world will see the evolution of energy and its related technologies in order to meet the unique characteristics of each country and region, as well as the steady introduction of low-carbon technology for all product life-cycle processes, including production, consumption by users, and disposal. Working toward decarbonization, energy structures will shift to be primarily based on renewable energy sources (including solar power, wind power, and biofuels and other renewable liquid fuels) and non-CO2-emitting hydrogen. In addition, the establishment of a smart grid,*1 whose main power supply comprises distributed energy*2 resources, is projected to build up an electric supply and demand structure characterized by the local consumption of locally produced power that is suitable for the respective regional environment. Mazda also forecasts progress in various initiatives to realize a recycling-oriented society that coexists in harmony with nature from the perspective of natural capital. This will be achieved through using resources without any losses, establishing circulation systems including those based on the three Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) for water, plastic, and other resources, and activities to contribute to biodiversity conservation. It is also expected that household use of solar power generation units and energy-saving housing will become increasingly commonplace, while plants and offices will succeed in both reducing their environmental impact and improving energy efficiency thanks to artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT). ＊1 A power transmission network that can optimize the ﬂow of power with a function to adjust the ﬂow of power from both the supply and demand sides. ＊2 Energy supplied from relatively small-scale power generation facilities and heat source equipment that have been installed near the relevant energy-consuming areas. Distributed energy generation has the advantage of reduced transmission loss and the ability to function as an emergency power source. In addition, it is considered to be effective in promoting widespread use of renewable energies and revitalizing local industries. Trends Regarding Vehicles Around 2030, as indicated by the IEA,*3 while the number of vehicles powered by electricity or hydrogen will increase, vehicles featuring internal combustion engines incorporating electrification technologies,*4 highly efficient transmissions, and reduced body weight will account for a significant proportion of total vehicles. Vehicles equipped with internal combustion engines are projected to further improve in terms of efficiency, electrification technologies, and widespread and effective use of diversified fuels, such as natural gas and biomass that emit less CO2. Electric vehicles will be selected more often as the optimal form of mobility in regions where electricity can be generated with renewable energy or other cleaner sources. These factors will accelerate the trend toward lower carbon emissions. To substantially reduce CO2 emissions throughout the entire vehicle lifecycle (on a Well-to-Wheel basis), a multi-solution approach that is tailored to each region is necessary in response to diversifying needs around the world, including regional needs, vehicle characteristics, fuel performance and characteristics, and power generation mixes. Additionally, as autonomous driving becomes prevalent in regions with advanced connectivity technologies and infrastructure innovations, unnecessary acceleration and deceleration and the stopping and starting of vehicles will decrease, which will lead to a reduced environmental impact. A significant reduction in energy and resource losses over the entire vehicle manufacturing supply chain may be expected as a result of efforts for their more efficient use. Dramatic progress will also be made in recycling and waste reduction initiatives through the promotion of the three Rs. ＊3 International Energy Agency (see p. 63) ＊4 Hybrid systems, plug-in hybrid systems, etc. Around 2050: A sustainable society that sees advancements in efforts toward decarbonization, resource recycling, and coexistence in harmony with nature Around 2050, a decarbonized energy structure will have been realized. A new system is expected to emerge that will make the boundary between power supply and consumption seamless by combining a system for renewable energy-based electricity supply and storage (including energy accumulation in the form of hydrogen) with a supply and demand structure capable of local consumption of locally produced electricity using a smart grid. In addition, humankind will see significant progress toward the realization of a sustainable society, along with advances in activities to create a resource recycling-oriented society and achieve coexistence in harmony with nature. It will also become necessary to address new social problems. These problems include a high aging rate, a decline in the working-age population, rural depopulation due to concentration of the population in large cities, and increased stress caused by weakening real-world relationships. Trends Regarding Vehicles Around 2050, as a result of technological innovations, methods of reducing CO2 emissions from vehicles will be further diversified in accordance with the characteristics of each region and country, facilitating significant progress toward decarbonization. Vehicles powered by electricity and hydrogen will become ubiquitous, along with an increasing rate of low-carbon electricity generation in each country as part of the distributed energy resources that comprise smart grids. Internal combustion engine-equipped vehicles running on renewable liquid fuels (including biofuels) will also find widespread use. Moreover, the great evolution of autonomous driving technology using vehicle and connectivity expertise will expand the commercial use of fully-autonomous driving technology as a means of supplementing the labor force in public transportation and logistics services. This will be instrumental not only in improving convenience and efficiency but also in reducing environmental impact. In this manner, vehicles are expected to enhance convenience while dramatically improving environmental performance, thereby significantly reducing CO2 emissions. In addition, throughout the entire vehicle manufacturing supply chain, resource recycling will be realized through conversion to decarbonized energies and the establishment of recycling technologies. Mazda believes that the above-stated innovations will be able to create a sustainable future in which people and cars coexist with a bountiful, beautiful earth, a future that offers safety and peace of mind and enriches lives by offering unrestricted mobility to people everywhere. 56 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Referencing “Mazda’s Vision for Society’s Relationship with Vehicles in the Future,” and aiming to realize the vision, the three environmental committees (Product Environment Committee, Business Site Environment Committee, and Social Contribution Committee) are currently collaborating to draw up the Company’s next environmental medium-to-long-term plan. In 2019 Mazda established the 2030 Targets / 2050 Challenges to be achieved by its business sites. Medium-to-Long-Term Targets for Business Sites Mazda is developing mediumand long-term initiatives also for business sites, based on the approach adopted under its long-term vision for technology development “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030.” The Company aims to develop business sites that will promote harmonious coexistence with the earth, improve employees’ work environments, and coexist and co-prosper with local communities, from the perspectives of “the earth,” “people” and “society.” As for environmental activities, in line with “Mazda’s Vision for Society’s Relationship with Vehicles in the Future,” the Company will pursue and promote environmental technologies that will contribute to resource/energy value maximization (by minimizing consumption and fully utilizing resources/energy without any waste) and resource/energy diversification, looking ahead to 2030 and then 2050. Establishment of the 2030 Targets / 2050 Challenges Mazda has established the 2030 Targets / 2050 Challenges in the three important areas: decarbonization, resource recycling for materials, and resource recycling for water. The Company has also stipulated its policy for initiatives to meet these targets and challenges. The policy indicates the two perspectives to be shared throughout the entire vehicle supply chain. One is a “well-to-wheel perspective,” which derives from the concept “from fuel extraction to consumption during driving.” Mazda applies the “well-to-wheel” perspective in considering the reduction of environmental impact throughout the entire process, from resource/energy selection, through transportation, to recycling. The other is a “global & supply chain perspective.” Based on these two perspectives, Mazda will push forward with the initiatives for decarbonization, resource recycling for materials, and resource recycling for water. Decarbonization/ Low-Carbonization The Mazda Group strives for energy value maximization and energy CO2 Emissions (Index) diversification, to achieve decarbonization and low-carbonization [Energy value maximization] ・Minimize required energy through throughout the product life cycle from manufacture to disposal. As specific objectives, in comparison with 2013 levels, the Group 削減量 process innovation. aims to achieve reductions in the global total CO2 emissions from ・Energy reuse technologies (waste heat ▲30% recovery, power supply regeneration) plants/offices and logistics operations by at least 30% by 2030 and ・Equalize changes in energy demand. by at least 80% by 2050. ・Zero-emission offices, etc. 2030 2050 [Energy diversification] Reduce the global total CO2 Reduce the global total CO2 ・Renewable energies emissions from plants/offices and emissions from plants/offices and ▲80% ・Electricity storage technologies logistics operations by at least 30% logistics operations by at least 80% ・High-efficiency low-carbon technologies in comparison with 2013 levels. in comparison with 2013 levels. that combine multiple stable energy 2013 2030 2050 sources, etc. (Promote low-carbonization) (Promote decarbonization) Resource Recycling for Materials The Mazda Group continues to expand its global efforts for zero <Ideal vision> emissions and resource recycling, by such means as using resources [Reduce] without any losses, and the three Rs activities (to reduce, reuse, ･Improve yield-enhancement technologies. and recycle resources). The Group aims to realize resource recycling [Resource value ・Reduce part weight. maximization] ・Use less packaging, etc. 3R overseas at the same level as in Japan in 2030, and to depart from thermal recycling and other combustion-based processes in 2050. Supplier Group IN company OUT 2030 2050 Resources Product PUT PUT Achieve zero emissions* in Achieve zero emissions through Customer manufacturing and logistics expanded resource recycling [Recycle] Global production site [Reuse] processes on a global basis. initiatives* in manufacturing and ・Change to ・Promote the use logistics processes on a global basis. recyclable materials. of returnable ・Expand material * The status in which landfill waste is Logistics reduced to 0.1% or lower of the total * Break away from dependence on packaging, etc. waste generated. The Mazda Group thermal recycling or other combustionrecycling efforts, etc. companies in Japan achieved zero based recycling methods, and augment [Resource emissions in 2018. material recycling. diversification] Resource Recycling for Water To conserve water resources, the Mazda Group promotes activities <Ideal vison> to eliminate wasteful water use, and circulate water resources by [Resource diversification] [Resource value maximization] treating used water so that it is the same quality as it was taken from ・Fully utilize of nature. The Group aims to achieve these goals at the Hiroshima ・Water quality at the same level as rainwater etc. District in 2030, and then at global business sites in 2050. at the time of water intake etc. ・Reduce water 2030 2050 Rainwater consumption, etc. Implement an optimal approach Implement an optimal approach to IN to water resources recycling and water resources recycling and circulation PUT circulation at model plants* in Japan. in global manufacturing processes. Water Wastewater Discharge ・Fully utilize water without any waste, as a ・Fully utilize water without any waste, as a intake Water OUT valuable resource that is a natural blessing. valuable resource that is a natural blessing. Production Recycled resources PUT ・Circulate water as a valuable resource that ・Circulate water as a valuable resource that process water recycling is a natural blessing, by treating used water is a natural blessing, by treating used water center so that it is the same quality as before it so that it is the same quality as before it ・Increase the use of was used, and returning it to nature. was used, and returning it to nature. recycled water, etc. * Model plant: A pilot plant where new attempts are made, ahead of other facilities. 57 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Mazda is establishing an environmental management system throughout its value chain, including Group companies, suppliers, dealerships, and others. Establishing Environmental Management Systems Mazda is promoting the establishment of environmental management systems (EMS) across its entire supply chain and in all Group companies. The purpose of the EMS is to carry out more environmentally conscious business activities in a more effective manner, based on ISO 14001 and other standards. Progress Status a a List of ISO 14001 Certified Production and ■ 14 Mazda and Group manufacturing companies in Japan and overseas have Business Sites now acquired ISO 14001 certification. (Disclosure by 14 out of a total of 15 Domestic production/business sites Hiroshima Plant companies) Hiroshima district June 2000 Miyoshi Plant ■ Mazda is expanding ISO 14001 certification scope to all domestic sites September Nishinoura district following the revision of ISO 14001:2015. The expansion of certification Hofu Plant 1998 Nakanoseki district September scope and examination of transfer to ISO 14001:2015 were completed in (extended certification) 1999 September 2016. Also, the Mazda Group companies that have acquired Overseas production site ISO14001 completed transfer to ISO14001:2015 within FY March 2018. AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd.*1 May 2000 ■ Mazda has had dealerships in Japan certified under EcoAction 21 (EA21)*1, an December Changan Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd.*1 2008 environmental management system (as of March 2019, 34 dealerships of the February Changan Mazda Engine Co., Ltd.*1 Mazda/Mazda Enfini sales channel, 144 dealerships of the Mazda Autozam 2009 sales channel, and Mazda Chuhan, a used car sales company, have been Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Operation*2 December 2014 certified), and continue to support certification of newly opened shops. Mazda Powertrain Manufacturing (Thailand) November ■ Mazda has completed introduction of an exclusive Mazda EMS to two Mazda Co., Ltd.*2 2016 ＊1 Equity-method group company Group vehicle parts companies in Japan. ＊2 Consolidated group company Four Domestic Consolidated Group Companies (excluding sales companies) Mazda E&T Co., Ltd. *3 June 2000 Mazda Ace Co., Ltd. *3 June 2000 Mazda Logistics Co., Ltd. *3 June 2000 December Kurashiki Kako Co., Ltd. 2001 ＊3 Some or all of the organizations at each of the companies above acquired ISO 14001 certification in the certification scope of Mazda. Four Domestic Equity-Method Group Companies Toyo Advanced Technologies Co., Ltd. *4 June 2000 Japan Climate Systems Corporation May 2000 Yoshiwa Kogyo Co., Ltd. April 2002 MCM Energy Service Co., Ltd. *5 June 2008 ＊4 The company was ISO 14001 certified in the certification scope of Mazda. As a separate business facility, the company individually acquired the certification in March 2016. As a separate company, however, the company acquired re-certification in April 2017, resulting in the exclusion of the company from the certification scope of Mazda. ＊5 Although the company was inside the certification scope of Mazda, it acquired the certification on its own in March 2013. *1 Simplified EMS established by the Ministry of the Environment, for application at companies of various scales, such as small to medium-sized companies. 58 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Promoting Green Purchasing With the aim of reducing the environmental burden throughout its entire supply chain, Mazda established the “Mazda Green Purchasing Guidelines” (revised in March 2017) and engages in operation activities accordingly. b EMS Audit Results on ISO 14001 These guidelines require all of its suppliers worldwide to undertake measures to Mazda Motor Corporation reduce their burden on the environment, at all stages from product development to FY March FY March FY March FY March FY March manufacturing and delivery. The guidelines also make it clear that Mazda will give 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Serious preference in purchasing to suppliers who implement such environmental measures. noncompliance 0 0 0 0 0 Mazda also requires its suppliers of parts, materials, and industrial equipment and issues Minor tools to obtain and maintain ISO 14001 certification, and to reduce the amount of noncompliance 2 2 6 1 0 issues greenhouse gas emissions generated through their corporate activities by 1% annually. Observation 8 16 10 5 6 In addition, the Company promotes environmental activities in collaboration with issues its suppliers by providing them with information and other assistance. Group Companies Presently, all major suppliers involved in Mazda vehicle development and FY March 2019 manufacturing have acquired ISO 14001 certification. Japan Overseas Serious noncompliance 0 0 Status of Establishment of Environmental Management Systems issues Minor (EMS) at Suppliers ISO14001 noncompliance 3 12 issues ■ All major suppliers in Japan and abroad with which the Company has Observation issues 28 75 ongoing business relationships (around 400 companies), including new － Noncompliance 0 issues EA21 suppliers, have maintained certification as of the end of March 2019. － Issues requiring 3 ■ improvement Under the Mazda Green Purchasing Guidelines, Mazda requires, through primary suppliers, secondary suppliers to establish EMS. c Environmental Monitoring Status of Implementation of Environmental Audits b Environmental Target of Items Monitoring monitoring item monitoring monitored frequency To confirm that environmental management systems, such as ISO14001 and Boilers, 5 items: sulfur oxides, EcoAction 21, are operating effectively, both internal audit and environmental melting nitrogen furnaces, oxides, soot, Around 400 management system audit (EMS audit) are carried out annually at Mazda and all of Air quality heating volatile times per furnaces, its Group companies, both in Japan and overseas, that have obtained certification. drying organic year compounds, furnaces, The FY March 2019 EMS audit revealed no serious compliance issues. etc. hydrogen chloride The results of the internal audit and EMS audits were reported to senior management. 43 items: Any problems were swiftly and appropriately rectified. cadmium, cyanide, organic Around 1,600 Treated Water quality phosphorus, times per wastewater Eliminating Sensory Pollution lead, hexavalent year chromium, Sensory pollution comprises noise, vibration, and odors that have a sensory or etc. Noise and Site 1 item: noise 12 times psychological impact on people. Vibration boundaries level per year Mazda recognizes that clearing legal regulations may not be enough to prevent Odor Site 1 item: odor 12 times boundaries index per year noise, vibration, and odors from annoying neighborhood residents. For this 25 items: reason, Mazda is systematically stepping up measures to alleviate the causes of cadmium, cyanide, such pollution, as well as measures to improve noise insulation and odor removal. Waste Slag, sludge, organic Around 100 scrap metal, phosphorus, times per products etc. lead, year hexavalent Specific Initiatives in Environmental Risk Management cd chromium, etc. Environmental Monitoring ■ Regular training is conducted at each plant and office to prepare for response d Legal Violations and Complaints (FY March 2019) in the event of accidents that adversely affect the natural environment. Number of Response ■ Environmental monitoring, including monitoring of air and water pollution, is incidents conducted regularly. Guidance Adjusted equipment, Water verified operational from local 1 Legal Violations government quality procedures, and provided education In FY March 2019, an overseas production site exceeded the allowable Modified wastewater standards. After dealing with this problem appropriately, Mazda has equipment been taking recurrence prevention measures. Noise 2 and changed operational Complaints Complaints procedures Removed bushes In FY March 2019, Mazda received complaints concerning three cases, and is Green area and weeds within 1 management the Company’s taking appropriate actions to address them in good faith. premises 59 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Environmental Education/Education Program Structure e Qualifications that Employees Are e f Encouraged to Obtain: As part of its EMS, Mazda conducts regular environmental education for all employees ■ Energy attorney twice a year, as well as education for EMS leaders and department management twice ■ Head supervisor of pollution control ■ Supervisor of air and water pollution control (Class 1 to 4) a year, and encourages employees to obtain environment-related public qualifications. ■ Supervisor of noiseand vibration-related pollution control In addition, Mazda offers support for employees working toward these qualifications, ■ Supervisor of dust and particulate pollution control (Specified, General) ■ Supervisor of dioxide pollution control including financial support through the Mazda Flex Benefit program (see p. 91). ■ Special managing supervisor in charge of industrial waste disposal ■ Environmental Society Test (=Eco Test) ■ EMS inspector Routine Environmental Activities ■ Internal environment auditor ■ Environment measurer Reducing Paper Use ■ Construction environment hygiene control engineer Mazda continually makes efforts to considerably reduce the amount of paper used for office work through the digitization of documents, ledger sheets, and other forms, as f Environmental Education Structure well as through the use of projectors and monitors at meetings, etc. General education Basic environmental education As part of its recycling efforts, the Company also reuses waste paper (shredder dust) Education for EMS leaders as packaging material for shipping parts, and is increasing efforts to separate the Education for managers Education for foremen collection of waste paper by type during disposal. Education for new employees Reducing Energy Use Education for newly-employed midcareer workers Through regular initiatives, including purchasing of low power-consumption office Follow-up educations among general employees equipment and furniture, and turning off lights and computers when they are not in Departmental education use, Mazda makes continual efforts to reduce energy use. Internal environmental audit education Pre-internal environmental audit education Furthermore, Mazda implements a “Cool Biz” program during the summer season Education of personnel Education covering operational procedures manual engaged in specific tasks every year, setting internal room temperatures at 28°C (82.4°F) on a standard basis. Training to deal with accidents Education conferring Education for development of During the winter season when electricity consumption is particularly high, energy qualifications assistant ISO14001 inspectors and internal environmental auditors, and saving measures are implemented through adjustment of air conditioning systems (heating support for obtaining environmentset at 20°C, or 68°F), lighting, office automation equipment, etc. related qualifications Other educational programs Education for visitors Education for construction and logistics contractors Use of Renewable Energy Education for irregular visitors Number of Employees Receiving Environmental Education Mazda uses renewable energy sources*1 as follows. (Non-consolidated Unit: person(s)) ■ At the Hofu Plant, solar-powered units have been introduced in some corridor FY March FY March FY March FY March FY March 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 lighting. ■ A solar power system is installed on the roof of the radio wave experiment Managers 75 81 83 75 53 Section managers 161 174 190 188 209 building of the Miyoshi Office. The amount of electricity generated by the system Foremen 86 76 60 60 68 in FY March 2019 was 27.4 MWh. Electricity generated by this system is used to New employees 282 755 538 550 606 provide power and lighting for the building, thereby continuously contributing to ＊In addition to the above, environmental education is the reduction of CO2 emissions. provided to general employees in each department ■ Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Operation (MMVO) in Mexico installed outdoor solar lighting, thereby promoting effective use of renewable energy*1 using solar power g Emergency Drill to Prevent Marine Pollution (Extending an oil absorption mat) and LEDs. In FY March 2019, MMVO additionally installed 40 units. The total number of units reached 507, generating 79.3 MWh of power for lighting. Environment-Related Accident Emergency Drill and Prevention g h Campaign ■ Emergency Drill to Prevent Marine Pollution In cooperation with Mazda Ace Co., Ltd. and Mazda Logistics Co., Ltd., Mazda Motor Corporation carries out an annual emergency drill based on an assumed simulation in which hydraulic oil has leaked from a domestic vessel (dedicated car carrier) into the sea. In the simulation drill, participating employees are engaged in operations of removing oil spillage and communicating through an emergency contact network. Each year, the content of the drill has been reviewed and improved to simulate a situation that is closer to reality, to establish a system that ensures that employees can make a quick and appropriate response in the h Campaign for Oil Spill Prevention and Traffic Safety event of an accident. ■ Campaign for Oil Spill Prevention and Traffic Safety Jointly with Mazda Logistics Co., Ltd. and several truckload transportation companies, Mazda Motor Corporation conducts an awareness-raising campaign to prevent oil spills on roads during vehicle delivery and improve traffic safety awareness. In this campaign, which are held twice a year, awareness-raising leaflets are distributed to drivers of delivery trucks to the Hiroshima Plant and the Hofu Plant. These activities are part of the Mazda Group’s efforts to improve such drivers’ *1 Refers to natural energy sources that can be used awareness of the environment and safety, and establish a system that ensures that continuously without being depleted, such as electricity generation using solar, wind, geothermal, hydroelectric employees can make a quick and appropriate response in the event of an accident. or biomass power, or direct solar heating. These types of energy generate zero or negligible CO2 emissions. 60 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Environmental Accounting Mazda is carefully assessing the costs and benefits of its environmental activities and is working constantly to improve their efficiency. Data collection period: April 2018 through March 2019 Basis of data collection: Calculated according to Mazda’s own guidelines in line with Environmental Accounting Guidelines. The amounts do not include depreciation expenses. Boundary of data collection: Mazda Motor Corporation; 21 domestic & 15 overseas consolidated Group companies; six domestic & five overseas equitymethod Group companies Environmental Protection Costs (million yen) Mazda unconsolidated Mazda Group Category Major activities Investment Cost Total Investment Cost Total Preventing pollution Conforming to legal limits for air and water pollution, odor abatement, etc. 2,723 3,710 6,433 2,787 4,450 7,237 Business area Protecting the global Preventing global warming, conserving energy, preventing destruction of the ozone 1,903 1,017 2,920 2,049 1,116 3,165 environment layer, and other environmental protection activities Recycling resources Effective resource use, recycling waste, processing and disposing of waste 1,068 1,311 2,379 1,082 4,143 5,224 Upstream/downstream Container recovery, recovery of end-of-life vehicle bumpers 0 164 164 0 782 782 Employee environmental education, creating and operating environmental management Management activity 5 980 985 5 1,547 1,552 systems, monitoring and measurement of environmental impact, other activities R&D for products, production methods and distribution, to contribute to reduced Research and development 1,838 47,573 49,410 1,884 49,082 50,966 environmental impact Greening, beautification, and environmental improvement; support of community Social activities 0 58 58 0 77 77 residents and organizations; information disclosure; and other activities Environmental Damage − 0 0 0 0 2 2 Total 7,538 54,813 62,351 7,808 61,198 69,005 Overall Environmental Protection Effects Mazda unconsolidated Mazda Group Category Economic effect Economic effect Environmental protective effect (million yen) (million yen) Protecting Production CO2 emissions volume (on unit sales basis) 17.6 t-CO2/100 million yen − − Global warming the global prevention environment Distribution Annual shipping volume 547,440 thousand (ton-km/year) − − Shell sand 15,745 t (year) 45 Effective use of resources, Recycling resources 2,409 recycling Steel scrap 31,225 t (year) 2,364 Upstream/downstream Product recycling Number of discarded bumpers collected 62,920 (bumpers/year) − 29 Metals 132,488 t (year) 2,929 Paint thinner, effluent 747 t (year) Sale of items with Other 2,972 commercial value Empty drums, wheels, discarded tires 18,102 (units/year) 43 Recovered sand, plastics, cardboard scraps 5,894 t (year) Total 5,381 5,410 Boundary of data collection Mazda Motor Corporation Consolidated Group companies 21 domestic companies: Manufacturing companies: Mazda Ace Co., Ltd., Mazda Logistics Co., Ltd., Kurashiki Kako Co., Ltd., Mazda Engineering & Technology Co., Ltd., Sales companies: Mazda Chuhan Co., Ltd., Hakodate Mazda Co., Ltd., Tohoku Mazda Co., Ltd., Fukushima Mazda Co., Ltd., Kitakanto Mazda Co., Ltd., Koushin Mazda Co., Ltd., Kanto Mazda Co., Ltd., Shizuoka Mazda Co., Ltd., Tokai Mazda Sales Co., Ltd., Hokuriku Mazda Co., Ltd., Keiji Mazda Co., Ltd., Kansai Mazda Co., Ltd., Nishi Shikoku Mazda Co., Ltd., Kyushu Mazda Co., Ltd., Minami Kyushu Mazda Co., Ltd., Okinawa Mazda Sales Co., Ltd., Parts sales company: Mazda Parts Co., Ltd. 15 overseas companies: Mazda Motor of America, Inc., Mazda Canada Inc., Mazda Motor Manufacturing de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Mazda Motors (Deutschland) GmbH, Mazda Motor Europe GmbH, Mazda Motors UK Ltd., Mazda Motor Russia.OOO, Mazda Australia Pty Ltd., Mazda Motors of New Zealand Ltd., Mazda Powertrain Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Mazda Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd., Mazda Motor (China) Co., Ltd, Mazda Motor Taiwan Co., Ltd., Mazda De Colombia S.A.S., Mazda Sales (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Equity-method Group companies 6 domestic companies: Toyo Advanced Technologies Co., Ltd., Japan Climate Systems Corporation, Yoshiwa Kogyo Co., Ltd., Mazda Processing Chugoku Co., Ltd., MCM Energy Service Co., Ltd., Mazda Parts Sales Hiroshima Co., Ltd., 5 overseas companies: Mazda Sollers Manufacturing Rus LLC, AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Changan Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd., Changan Mazda Engine Co., Ltd., FAW Mazda Motor Sales Co., Ltd. 61 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management EFFORTS REGARDING PRODUCT AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT In 2017, Mazda announced “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” (see pp. 7-12) in light of the rapid changes taking place in the automotive industry around the world. This updated vision for technology development takes a long-term perspective and sets out how Mazda a The “Well-to-Wheel” Perspective will use driving pleasure, the fundamental appeal of the automobile, to help solve issues Make efforts to reduce CO2 emissions from the perspective of “well-to-wheel,” with the aim of reducing emissions over a facing people, the earth and society. Mazda believes its mission is to bring about a beautiful vehicle’s entire lifecycle. earth and to enrich people’s lives as well as society. The Company will continue to seek Conceptual diagram of Well-to-Wheel* ways to inspire people through the value found in cars. In terms of the environment, “Sustainable Well Tank Wheel Zoom-Zoom 2030” demonstrates Mazda’s determination to use conservation initiatives (fuel extraction) (fuel tank) (driving) to help create a sustainable future in which people and cars can coexist with a bountiful, beautiful earth. Oil Refueling Driving (internal refinery combustion engine) Energy-and Global-Warming-Related Issues Power Electrical Driving (electric/ generation charge plug-in hybrid) Approach to Product Environmental Performance Well-to-Wheel (from fuel extraction to driving) As vehicle ownership continues to expand around the world, automobile manufacturers must redouble their efforts to achieve cleaner exhaust emissions, and improve fuel Well-to-Tank (from fuel Tank-to-Wheel extraction to fuel tank) economy in order to cut CO2 emissions and help reduce the world’s dependence on increasingly scarce fossil fuels. Mazda considers it necessary to develop a multi-solution ＊ Where fossil fuel is extracted and used to drive a vehicle. approach to automobile-related environmental issues that takes into account various factors such as regional characteristics, vehicle characteristics and types of fuel. b Conference presentation/Publication of paper on Mazda’s LCA Addressing Global Warming a Conference presentation: 14th meeting of the Institute of Life Cycle Mazda sees reducing emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases over the vehicle’s Assessment, Japan (March 2019) entire lifecycle — including manufacturing, use and disposal — as one of its top priorities Subject: Estimation of CO2 emissions of an and a duty of automotive industry. The Company wants to maximize its contribution by internal combustion engine vehicle and a battery electric vehicle (BEV) considering not only “tank-to-wheel” emissions that occur while driving but also “well-to-wheel” http://www.ilcaj.org/meeting/ emissions, including fuel extraction, refining and power generation (well-to-tank). Offering files/14thmeeting_proceedings_openaccess. a number of powertrain options in consideration of each region’s energy sources and power pdf (Japanese only) generation methods will allow Mazda to make the optimum contribution to CO2 emissions Publication of paper: reductions by region. In August 2017, Mazda set a goal of reducing corporate average Sustainability magazine, 2019, Volume 11, Issue 9, p.2690 “well-to-wheel” CO2 emissions to 50% of 2010 levels by 2030, with a view to achieving a Subject: “Estimation of CO2 Emissions of 90% cut by 2050. Internal Combustion Engine Vehicles and Battery Electric Vehicles Using LCA” https://doi.org/10.3390/su11092690 Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) LCA is a method for calculating and evaluating the environmental influence of vehicles c An example of a comparison between an across their entire life cycle through the purchase of materials, manufacture, use, recycling, internal combustion engine vehicle and an and final disposal. Since 2009, Mazda has adopted LCA as a means of determining the electric vehicle in terms of CO2 emissions (in time required to reduce the environmental impact of vehicles in their life cycle, and has Japan) been actively working to reduce the environmental impact at each stage of the life cycle. Until the travel distance reaches approximately The Company is also promoting evaluation of the practicability and reliability of new 110 thousand km, the internal combustion engine vehicle emits less CO2 than the electric vehicle; technologies for environmental performance in compliance with the methods specified in however, this magnitude relationship reverses the international standards (ISO14040 and ISO14044). when the travel distance exceeds the above distance. (However, if the battery of the electric Multi-solution Oriented Technology Development through Effective Use of LCA bc vehicle is replaced once at a travel distance Automotive power sources, the energy situation, and the composition of power sources of 160 thousand km, the internal combustion engine vehicle emits less CO2.) differ from region to region. Mazda has been promoting the development of various technologies to offer the right solution to each region. In FY March 2019, the Company assessed the life cycle CO2 emissions from internal combustion engine vehicles and electric vehicles in five regions of the world. The results revealed that the significance of CO2 emissions from internal combustion engine vehicles and electric vehicles during their Electric vehicle life cycles depends on the electric power supply status, fuel/electrical power cost, total Gasoline engine vehicle mileage, and other factors in each region. With the above life cycle assessment results in mind, Mazda has been promoting multi-solution oriented technology development. 62 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management The Building-Block Strategy de d Building-Block Strategy Mazda adopts the Building-Block Strategy to realize its goal of reducing CO2 emissions Aim to provide the Mazdaunique world’s and raising the average fuel economy of Mazda vehicles sold worldwide. Given the best products to each market based on the internal combustion engine is forecast to remain a principle propulsion technology in cars suitability of the product to the market worldwide for many years to come, the Company thinks it important to continue efforts Process innovations to perfect the technology. At the same time, the Building Block Strategy also calls for the ・Monotsukuri Innovation (common architecture & flexible commercial introduction of electric, plug-in and other electrified vehicles in consideration production) Electrification technologies of each country or region’s energy resources, regulations, power generation methods, Model Based Development technologies Plug-in hybrid technology infrastructure and so on. Through this Building-Block Strategy and advances in process EV technology innovations, such as computer Model-Based Development (see p. 124), and Monotsukuri Control technology Innovation (see p. 122), Mazda will, despite limited management resources, offer products Evolution of base technologies and technologies that exceed customers’ expectations. Mazda plans to start introducing (improved efficiency, reduced body weight) electric vehicles and other electric drive technologies in regions that generate a high ratio of Skyactiv Electric device technologies: Technologies: Hybrid system power from clean energy sources or restrict certain vehicle types to reduce air pollution. Engine Brake energy regeneration Transmission system e Graphic representation of global market share of powertrain technologies Body/chassis Idling stop system It is expected that the majority of vehicles in the global market will continue to be powered by internal combustion engines, and that such vehicles will contribute the most to CO2 reduction. (about 90% of the vehicles are powered by internal combustion engines in 2030) Sales of New Passenger Cars (Millions) 160 140 2030 Fuel cell vehicles Battery EVs/ 120 Fuel cell EVs Electric vehicles Vehicles with (10%) 100 Plug-in hybrids electrification technologies 80 (xEV*) (52%) Hybrids Vehicles with 60 internal combustion 40 engines (90%) Gasoline / Diesel / 20 CNG / LPG 0 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Source: IEA/ETP Energy Technology Perspective2015 ＊ xEV = Electrified vehicles (Battery EVs, plug-in hybrid EVs, hybrid EVs, and fuel cell EVs), based on the Interim Report by the Strategic Commission for the New Era of Automobiles under METI Comprehensive Improvements of Base Technologies by Skyactiv Technology f f Features of the next-generation gasoline engine Next The term Skyactiv Technology covers all Mazda’s innovative base technologies. Mazda Gasoline generation Diesel engine gasoline engine redesigned these technologies from scratch, enhancing the efficiency of powertrain engine components, such as the engine and transmission, reducing vehicle body weight, and Fuel economy Fair Good Good improving aerodynamics. The number of models featuring Skyactiv Technology has steadily Torque Fair Good Good increased since the first Skyactiv-G engine was introduced in 2011 in the Demio (known Customer Value as Mazda2 overseas). Following the adoption of the technology in the CX-5 in 2012, the Response Fair Good Good number of models that fully incorporate Skyactiv Technology has increased. Output In August 2017, Mazda disclosed plans to introduce next-generation technologies from (expansion) Good Good Fair 2019, including the Skyactiv-X engine, set to become the world’s first commercial gasoline Heating Good Good Fair engine to use compression ignition.*1 This unique new engine combines the advantages of gasoline and diesel engines to achieve outstanding environmental performance and Exhaust Good Good Fair purification uncompromised power and acceleration performance. Mazda will work toward the market introduction of the Skyactiv-X while continuing to advance Skyactiv-G and Skyactiv-D, both of which remain highly competitive engines. *1 As of August 2017, according to Mazda data TOPICS Launching the CX-5 Clean Diesel Model in the U.S. In July 2019, Mazda launched the CX-5 equipped with a clean diesel engine “Skyactiv-D 2.2” in the U.S. market. The CX-5 is the first clean diesel-powered passenger vehicle Mazda launched in the U.S. The “Skyactiv-D 2.2” adopts a specially designed combustion control software and exhaust purification system to clear U.S. emissions regulations, yet ensures the excellent response and smooth acceleration feel for which this engine is renowned. Mazda CX-5 (U.S. specifications) 63 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Improving Fuel Economy Mazda is working to improve fuel economy in order to help our customers save money and reduce the use of fossil fuels, which is a cause of global warming. Prioritizing improvements in real-world fuel economy, the Company has adopted cylinder deactivation and other technologies that suppress fluctuations in fuel consumption rooted in the way the car is used and environmental factors such as air temperature. Moreover, to provide customers with information on fuel economy that better reflects their real driving environment, the Company was the first automaker in Japan to display WLTC Mode*1 fuel economy figures. Evolution of Eco Drive Support Technology The Intelligent-Drive Master “i-DM,” developed by Mazda to encourage drivers to drive in a safe, fun and environmentally conscious manner, was introduced in all of Mazda’s Japanese models that incorporate Skyactiv Technology. Development of Electrification Technology After taking into account the appropriate power source for vehicles, the energy situation, the power generation mix, and other factors in each region, Mazda is promoting the development of electrification technology to provide customers in each region with the best solution. In 2030, Mazda will equip all vehicles it produces with electrification technology. In terms of the ratio of power units, internal combustion engine vehicles—including plug-in hybrid vehicles*2 and hybrid vehicles—will account for 95%, while pure electric vehicles will account for 5%. In the development of electrification technology, Mazda follows its unique “human-centered” approach that sets priority on human characteristics and sensibilities in order to make the most of the advantages of electric drives. *1 Stands for Worldwide-harmonized Light Vehicles Test Cycle. This is a test cycle based on WLTP (Worldwide-harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure) *2 Hybrid vehicle with a battery that can be charged by household power supply. 64 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Promoting Technology Development for Alternative Fuels One of the ways Mazda is addressing global warming through its products is by promoting the research and development of technologies compatible with alternative fuels, including biofuels and synthetic fuels, so that countries and regions can use energy sources that suit their circumstances. Compatibility with Bioethanol and Bioethanol Mixed Fuel g g Status of Bioethanol Sales*1 Mixed fuels, which include bioethanol or biodiesel made from plant materials, are Japan: Compatible with B5*2 Mazda2, Mazda3 attracting attention for their effectiveness in reducing CO2 emissions. Mazda sells (introduced in 2019), Mazda6, CX-3, CX-5 vehicles that are compatible with these fuels. Thailand: Compatible with E20*3 Mazda2 Efforts for the Spread of Next-generation Automotive Liquid Fuel Compatible with E85*4 Mazda3 (introduced in 2019), CX-3, CX-5 Mazda believes that liquid fuel will be an efficient and useful energy source for ＊1 Subject to variation depending on specifications automobiles and other movable bodies equipped with internal combustion ＊2 Diesel mixed with 5% biodiesel fuel engines even in the future. Mazda has been actively promoting industry＊3 Gasoline mixed with 20% ethanol ＊4 Gasoline mixed with 85% ethanol academia-government cooperation and tie-ups between companies to provide technical support for the spread of algae biofuel and other next-generation renewable liquid fuels (see pp. 125–129). TOPICS Industry-academia-government Collaboration and Tie-ups between Companies for the Spread of Next-generation Automotive Liquid Fuel Setting up a joint study course at a graduate school of Hiroshima University Since 2017, Mazda has opened a joint research course called the “Next-generation Automotive Technology Joint Research Course— Algae Energy Creation Laboratory” at a graduate school of Hiroshima University. In this laboratory, research staff and students have been advancing various research projects, including gene injection using genome editing technology, the development of optimal culture environments, and other research projects, in order to create renewable bio-liquid fuel from micro algae. https://www2.mazda.com/ja/publicity/release/2017/201704/170428c.html (Japanese only) Participation in Hiroshima “Your Green Fuel” Project Since 2018, Mazda has participated in the Hiroshima “Your Green Fuel” Project, a demonstration project for next-generation biofuels jointly run by the Hiroshima Council of Automotive Industry-Academia-Government Collaboration and Euglena Co., Ltd. In line with the above demonstration project, the Company has been conducting various researches in collaboration with Euglena’s Made-in-Japan Biofuels Project to spread next-generation biofuels and construct a model for revitalizing regional areas by establishing an entire biofuel value chain—from material manufacture and supply to the use of carbon-neutral next-generation biofuels—within the Hiroshima area. Shift to Air Conditioner Gas with Low Global Warming Potential To globally introduce vehicles complying with the refrigerant regulations in each country/region, Mazda has been actively developing vehicles that use a new environmentally friendly refrigerant (HFO-1234yf) with low global warming potential.*1 In Japan in 2019, Mazda launched the Mazda3 in which the new refrigerant is used. *1 A measure of how much a greenhouse effect gas contributes to global warming 65 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Development of Resin Material for Auto Parts For Weight Reduction In addition to Skyactiv Technology, which is developed with the whole concept of weight reduction, Mazda actively adopt new technologies for reducing weights in detailed parts. Mazda will continue to pursue weight reduction by using resin, aluminum, ultra-high tensile steel and other materials having both lightness and strength. Offers a Bumper Which Is One of the Lightest in Its Class Mazda has developed a new resin material for auto parts that can maintain the same level of rigidity as conventional materials while trimming vehicle weight. Because the new resin enables the manufacture of thinner parts and thus a significant reduction in the amount of material used, when used for front and rear bumpers, this resulted in the reduction of weight by around 20%. In the manufacturing process, thinner parts have enabled the shortening of cooling time upon shaping and halved the shaping time of bumpers partly due to the utilization of CAE analysis techniques. This resulted in a drastic reduction of the amount of energy used in manufacturing. This new resin bumper, one of the lightest in its class,*1 was mounted on the 2012 CX-5 and subsequent models. In FY March 2019, the new bumper was attached to the Mazda3. Development of Light Weight Wiring Harness Using Aluminum Electric Wire h h Aluminum electric wire of the Roadster/MX-5 Connection between capacitor and DC-DC Mazda has developed a lightweight wiring harness using aluminum electric converter Connection between DC-DC converter and wire, which enables the Company to achieve vehicle weight reduction while battery maintaining connection reliability (quality). Since equipping the Roadster/MX5, launched in 2015, with this lightweight wiring harness, the Company has been increasing the number of models* that incorporate the material. In FY March 2019, the lightweight wiring harness was adopted in the Mazda3. ＊ Models adopting the lightweight wiring harness (as of June 2019): Roadster/MX-5, Mazda3, Atenza/Mazda6, CX-5, CX-8, and CX-9 Cleaner Emissions Cleaner Gas Emissions Aluminum electric wire Mazda is committed to mitigating air pollution from exhaust gas. To this end, the Company is actively developing low-emission vehicles, clearing the emission regulations in each country/region to introduce these vehicles globally. [Major countries’ emissions regulations cleared by Mazda vehicles] ■ Japan: The percentage of SU-LEVs that cleared the certification system for low-emission vehicles has reached 89% (excluding light vehicles and OEM vehicles). ■ U.S.: Tier3/LEV2,3 regulations ■ Europe: Euro 6 regulations ■ China: China 5 regulations (equivalent to Euro 5) *1 1,500 to 2,000 cc class, as of March 2017, according to Mazda data 66 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Development of Unique Single-Nanotechnology Mazda pays attention to global movements toward tighter control of exhaust emissions and fuel economy, market expansion due to rapidly growing emerging countries, and depletion of scarce resources. The Company has developed its unique single-nanotechnology and soot (PM) oxidation catalyst, promoting reduction of the use of precious metals and cleaning of exhaust gases. Single-Nanotechnology Dramatically Reduces Consumption of Precious Metals i i Model of precious metal dispersion by new Based on the belief that it is important to help three-way catalysts for gasoline catalyst technology exercise excellent catalyst performance after reducing the use of scarce elements, Traditional catalyst such as rare metals (precious metals) and rare earths (ceria material), Mazda Base material Tens of developed in 2009 the world’s first single-nanocatalyst*1 that achieves both (ceramic) nm to hundreds cleaner exhaust characteristics and higher durability while reducing the use Precious metal of nm of precious metals for vehicle catalysts by around 70% compared with the particles larger than 10 nm conventional figure at Mazda. Furthermore, Mazda succeeded in an additional 30% to 40% reduction in the When heated, precious metal particles travel across the surface consumption of precious metals needed for a single-nanocatalyst, and has been and are agglomerated progressively introducing the technology since 2011, when it was first introduced into the Demio (Mazda2 overseas). Newly developed At present, this technology is employed in Mazda’s clean diesel engine Skyactiv-D. catalyst (For details, see the URL) Base material (ceramic) Tens of nm https://www.mazda.com/en/innovation/technology/env/other/singlenano_tech/ Precious metal particles larger Technology to improve performance of PM oxidation catalyst j than 5 nm Mazda has developed a unique PM oxidation technology for diesel engine Precious metal particles do not catalysts, which enables rapid combustion and removal of PM (soot) and reduces agglomerate, since they are embedded in the base material CO2 emissions. Compared with conventional catalysts, this technology effectively utilizes oxygen not only on the surfaces of catalyst particles but also of their inside, and enables supply of a larger amount of highly active oxygen for soot, thereby achieving dramatic improvement in functions. The introduction of this technology j Mechanism of PM oxidation catalyst has reduced the use of precious metals, or rare elements, to around one-tenth, along with the durability sufficient to maintain the catalytic function throughout Accelerate soot the entire vehicle life cycle. The introduction began in 2009 into diesel engine Newly (PM) oxidation developed with highly active models, and in the Mazda3 in FY March 2019. catalyst oxygen Precious Highly active metal particle oxygen inside moves rapidly Proper Management of Chemical Substances and Heavy Metals Molecular Soot oxidation movement helps accelerator intake of oxygen Mazda publishes Management Standards for Environmentally Hazardous (ceramics) in the air as highly active oxygen Materials, specifying substances and heavy metals whose use in parts and Some tens to some materials it purchases is subject to restrictions (prohibited substances and hundreds nm substances for which reporting is required), to properly control the use of such hazardous materials. Collection and Management of Automotive Parts Materials k k How IMDS Works Mazda is working across its entire supply chain to reduce the use of Mazda Survey request Suppliers environmentally hazardous materials such as lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium Downloading Inputting and cadmium. Using the standardized IMDS*2, international system, the Company data IMDS server data gathers information on the materials from suppliers (Met all of the voluntary targets of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. (JAMA) (reduction of the use of lead and mercury, and prohibition of the use of hexavalent chromium and cadmium) by February 2007, earlier than the scheduled deadlines). Measures Related to Application of IMDS ■ To ensure that suppliers enter IMDS data appropriately, the Company publishes and distributes guidelines each year. ■ The data gathered through IMDS is used to calculate the Company’s vehicle recycling rate and to comply with various regulatory regimes for chemical *1 Catalyst featuring single-nanotechnology to control finer materials structures than nanotechnology materials, such as REACH*3 in Europe. *2 International Material Data System. *3 Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. 67 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management VOC Reductions: VOCs in Vehicle Cabins l Example of Anti-Noise Measures (Mazda3) The Mazda3, which was introduced in FY To maintain a comfortable cabin environment, Mazda is committed to reducing March 2019, cleared in advance the legal noise regulations that will be tightened in 2020. VOCs*1 such as formaldehyde, toluene and xylene, which have been implicated as Use of engine Reduced possible causes of sick building syndrome. bay cover exhaust noise ■ In 1999 Mazda developed a deodorizing filter with the capacity to remove aldehydes (adopted as either standard or optional in core vehicle models). ■ In new models, starting with the Demio (Mazda2 overseas) launched in 2007, Mazda reduced VOCs in the main materials used in the cabin, such as plastics, paints, and adhesives, thereby conforming with the indoor aerial concentration guidelines established by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Use of engine Welfare. (The Mazda3, introduced in 2018, followed the above guidelines.) under cover Use of low noise tires Optimization of the air intake resonator Reduction of Vehicle Noise l Reduced engine noise * Encapsulation technology is used for the Skyactiv-X engine. Mazda has established its own noise standards which are even stricter than the most recent legal requirements. In compliance with the above in-house standards, the Company has been working to reduce the road traffic noise of all the passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles it produces. The Company has also been actively addressing the development of technologies to reduce the three major vehicle noises: engine noise, air intake/exhaust system noise, and tire noise. Promoting Resource-Saving Initiatives Product Development and Design with Consideration for Recycling Needs m n m Resource-saving based on 3Rs Mazda builds resource-saving initiatives into every phase of the lifecycle of R&D its vehicles, based on the three Rs: reduce, reuse, and recycle. Many limited resources are used to manufacture vehicles, such as steel, aluminum, plastics and Product development and design with consideration for End-of-life rare metals. vehicles recycling needs Production Mazda established the Recyclable Design Guidelines in 1992, and is incorporating Construction and promotion Reduction of waste materials three Rs design into all vehicles currently under development. of recycling systems and promotion of recycling Logistics Mazda is steadily increasing the recyclability of its new vehicles, drawing on the following initiatives. Development of three Rs for packaging and wrapping materials 1. Research into vehicle design and dismantling technologies that simplify dismantling and separation, to make recyclable parts and materials easier to remove 2. Use of easily recyclable plastics, which constitute the majority of ASR*2 by weight n Instrument Panel Instrument panel fasteners are constructed to disengage simply, so that they can be removed easily when pulled during dismantling Bumpers Thin-walled construction of bumper underside fastenings makes the bumper easy to demount by pulling its opening. Easily Dismantled Earth Terminals Terminals are designed to break off when the harness is pulled out to prevent breakage of the harness *1 Volatile Organic Compounds *2 Automobile Shredder Residue It refers to the residue remaining after the crushing/ shredding of what is left of the vehicle body following the removal of batteries, tires, fluids, and other parts requiring appropriate processing; the removal of engines, bumpers, and other valuable parts; and the separation and recovery of metals. 68 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Expanded Adoption of Biomaterials o o [Conventional technology] Mazda has produced new vehicle parts from plant-derived materials on a Conventional Light paint hue commercial basis, which have the potential to facilitate society’s shift away from Tiny variations on paint the use of fossil fuels and reduce CO2 emissions, and is currently increasing the surface <Paint> Quality finish Finish durability number of vehicle models containing these parts. Conventional base Mechanical material 2011: Bioplastic radiator tanks were first used in the Demio (overseas model: (petroleum-based) properties of base material Mazda2) with the Skyactiv-G engine. 2014: Mazda developed bio-based engineering plastic featuring a highquality finish without painting, suitable also for vehicle exterior parts. By [Newly developed technology] Deep Optimization of: developing paint-less technology for interior and exterior parts taking Light hue ・Material composition ・Mold specification advantage of the characteristics of this material, the Company not only Smooth mirrorlike surface secured the excellent environmental performance of the material but Quality finish <Dyed> Finish durability also achieved a high-quality finish that could not be achieved with Newly developed Mechanical base material properties of conventional paint, and contributed to environmental protection and (Plant-based) base material production cost reduction by eliminating the painting process. 2017: Mazda developed materials suitable for making large, intricately shaped New technology for two-layer molding of patternexterior parts, such as front grilles, and optimized the die specifications designed bio-based engineering plastic in order to substantially enhance the formability of these parts. Schematic illustration 2018: Mazda developed a new technology for two-layer molding of patternSurface layer Base resin resin (Newly (Newly designed bio-based engineering plastic, which enables the molding developed developed bio-based engineering of a transparent surface layer and a base layer with a pattern-engraved engineering plastic) plastic) Black surface, both of which are made of environmentally friendly bio-based Colored metallic layer clear layer engineering plastic. The new technology reduces environmental impact while making it possible to provide elaborated, shaded patterns of deep color, which was previously impossible with conventional technology. 69 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management EFFORTS REGARDING MANUFACTURING AND LOGISTICS Energy-and Global-Warming-Related Issues Mazda promotes the efficient use of energy while aiming to reduce CO2 emissions a CO2 Emissions from Mazda’s Four Principal in the areas of manufacturing and logistics. Domestic sites/CO2 Emissions per Unit of Sales Revenue (Thousands (t-CO2/ 【Manufacturing】Energy-Saving / Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions of tons¥100 CO2/year) million) 1,400 50 <FY March 2019 Results (compared with FY March 1991)> a b 1,200 42.3 40 ■ 1,000 Total CO2 emissions from Mazda’s four principal domestic plants* reduced by 1 942 30 800 50.0% compared with FY March 1991 (471 thousand tons-CO2) 22.9 19.6 19.7 ■ 600 18.9 Emissions per unit of sales revenue reduced by 58.4% (17.6 t-CO2/100 17.6 20 534 512 489 498 million yen) 400 471 10 Production sites in Japan and abroad promote activities to improve the facility 200 operation rate and shorten the cycle time, and take measures to cut losses at each 0 1991 2015 2016 2017 2018 0 2019 (Years ended March 31) step from production to consumption of energy. CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per unit of sales revenue Under “Monotsukuri Innovation,” Mazda strives to reduce per-unit energy ＊ CO2 emissions at Mazda’s four principal domestic sites are calculated using the CO2 coefficient for each year based consumption. The “Monotsukuri Innovation” is the initiative to achieve a on standards from the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association Inc. (JAMA) (Commitment to a Low Carbon breakthrough in “sharing a completely new concept beyond the boundaries of Society). Data for each fiscal year were recalculated according to the coefficient change of August 10, 2018. models,” in order to improve quality and brand value, as well as to increase profit The power coefficient for FY March 2019 is undetermined as of June 27, 2019; the FY March 2018 power coefficient is margins, while flexibly responding to the requirements for the manufacture of used for FY March 2019. ＊ The figures of the CO2 emissions at Mazda’s four principal several models and changes in production volume (see p. 122). domestic sites in FY March 2019 have been verified by a third party (see p. 133). ■ Material: Reduced material weight by using thinner casted and forged parts, shortening the forging cycle time, and modifying production methods, so as b Energy Consumption Breakdown at Mazda’s to reduce energy consumption. Four Principal Domestic Plants Unit: (Thousands of GJ/year) ■ Processing and assembly: Evolved conventional flexible manufacturing lines to FY FY FY FY FY FY March March March March March March realize higher-efficiency, mixed flow production. Also pursued more efficient 1991 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Electricity 4,921 6,247 6,150 6,124 6,248 6,115 manufacturing by ensuring a smooth flow of lines and by consolidating and Industrial 0 1,409 1,359 1,236 1,253 1,165 integrating lines. steam ■ Coal 4,967 0 0 0 0 0 Press: Reduced the amount of scraps generated in manufacturing of press Coke 766 170 171 168 171 218 parts, and retrieved parts from scraps to reduce the amount of use of steel Fuel oil A 596 27 19 15 14 24 sheets. Also achieved multi-pressing, which performs molding of several parts Fuel oil B 11 0 0 0 0 0 using a single die, resulting in both integration of processes and reduction of Fuel oil C 1,168 6 6 7 6 5 Gasoline 193 65 64 52 54 59 energy consumption. Kerosene 101 8 11 11 15 5 ■ Paint: Completed the introduction of the Aqua-Tech Paint System, a new Diesel 81 43 47 46 48 40 water based painting technology realized through the integration of painting LPG 989 52 55 55 56 55 functions and high-efficient panting technologies, into the Ujina Plant No.2. City gas 45 1,019 1,006 949 955 882 Total 13,838 9,046 8,888 8,663 8,820 8,568 Also introduced the Aqua-Tech Paint System to global production sites, resulting in reduced energy use and a substantial reduction of VOC (volatile ＊ Amount of heat emission at Mazda’s four principal domestic facilities is calculated using the CO2 coefficient for each year organic compound) emissions. based on standards from the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association Inc. (JAMA) (Commitment to a Low Carbon Society). Past data was recalculated according to the change of the coefficient. *1 Head office (Hiroshima); Miyoshi Plant; Hofu Plant, Nishinoura District; Hofu Plant, Nakanoseki District (including non-manufacturing areas such as product development) 70 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management 【Logistics 】CO2 Emissions during Product Shipment Reduced by 40.4% (Compared with FY March 1991 Levels) c c CO2 Emissions and Reductions for Logistics (in Japan) Mazda is working with logistics companies, dealerships, and other automakers throughout Japan to provide customers with the volume they require, with (Thousands of tons) 100.0 (%) the precise timing they expect, while reducing CO2 emissions during product 200 100 180 177.8 90 shipment through highly efficient logistics across the entire supply chain. 160 80 <FY March 2019 Results> ■ Total domestic transportation volume was approximately 550 million ton140 62.0 70 60.3 59.0 59.6 62.6 120 60 kilometers. 100 50 This represents a 40.4% reduction in transportation CO2 emissions per ton80 71.3 74.4 69.3 73.7 40 kilometer compared with FY March 1991 levels, far exceeding the Company’s 68.0 60 30 target of 31% or more. 40 20 However, CO2 emissions increased from the previous year, since railways 20 10 could not be used for some time due to the heavy rain in July 2018, which 0 0 1991 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended required changing the transportation means to trucks during that time. (Generally, March 31) truckload transportation is considered to produce higher CO2 emissions than Total CO2 emissions CO2 emission reduction ratios per transport t-km compared with FY March 1991 levels railway transportation.) ■Range of the tracking capability for CO2 emissions in the supply chain （ Current tracking line Tracking line to be extended by 2030） In Japan Overseas Distribution Completed vehicle Completed vehicle Dealership Customer center Car carrier Container truck logistics pool area Railway Domestic Overseas Dealership Customer Domestic and overseas suppliers port port Railway & container Transportation by driving Car carrier truck Logistics of parts for Container yard Overseas Mazda Domestic Overseas assembly overseas assembly plants Trailer port Container ship port Ship Railway & trailer plant Parts sales Dealership Customer Logistics of service company Truck Railway & Parts center truck parts Truck Domestic Overseas Dealership Customer port port Trailer Container ship Railway & truck 【Logistics】Realizing Logistics that Enables CO2 Reduction in a Timely Manner Mazda is taking the following measures to provide customers with the volume they require, with the precise timing they expect, while reducing CO2 emissions. Efforts to focus on the following three pillars of logistics are being taken by visualizing in detail the hidden logistics issues in each process on a global level. 1. Hub-and-spoke system for transportation of completed vehicles and service parts*1 d d Hub-and-Spoke System ■ Reforming transportation by consolidating logistics centers for completed vehicles Mazda consolidated its logistics centers nationwide with the aim of Mazda Mazda combining delivery routes with low shipping volumes while ensuring timely Car carrier Car carrier Car carrier shipments (and finished the consolidation in FY March 2012). Distribution Distribution Distribution center center center Continuously reviewing the operation of car carriers (hereinafter referred to Container Container Container Container as “domestic vessels”) according to their shipping volumes has enabled the truck truck truck truck DealerDealerDealerDealerDealerDealerDealerDealerCompany to improve loading efficiency. To make more effective use of the ship ship ship ship ship ship ship ship domestic vessels on the return journey, collaborative transportation has also Customer Customer been promoted with other companies. Before Introduction After Introduction In FY March 2018, Mazda reduced CO2 emissions by around 3,800 tons, by enhancing fuel economy through operations of newly-built or modified domestic vessels, which were introduced in FY March 2017. In FY March 2019, the Company continued its efforts to improve the loading efficiency of domestic vessels, and promoted the loading of completed *1 In the “hub-and-spoke” system, distribution centers around vehicles into ships as directly as possible from their manufacturing sites, the country (hubs) act as bases for delivering completed vehicles to dealerships (spokes). In transporting service parts, thereby succeeding in curbing around 15 tons of CO2 emissions. parts suppliers serve as the hubs and vehicle dealerships the spokes. 71 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management ■ Improving the ratio of modal shift for the transportation of service parts Mazda is striving to improve the rate of modal shift regarding the transportation of service parts. In May 2016, the Company started to use large returnable containers, originally introduced to transport parts overseas, for domestic transportation. This was aimed at reducing transportation CO2 emissions by improving the load efficiency of JR containers. In FY March 2018, Mazda promoted the use of railway for domestic transportation, in accordance with the relocation of parts sales companies beginning in FY March 2016. As a result, the Company increased the rate of transportation by railway from 25% to 45% per transportation volume (ton-kilometer), reducing CO2 emissions by around 400 tons. In FY March 2019, service parts were transported by trucks instead of trains until the restoration of the railway lines, which were damaged by the heavy rain in July. Owing to this change, CO2 emissions increased by around 1,000 tons. 2. “Straightening” of logistics network e e Logistics without Distribution Centers ■ Straight logistics without distribution centers (Vanning at plant, packaging at plant) (Vanning at plant) After the manufacture of parts to be exported to overseas assembly plants is completed, Distribution they are packaged and loaded into containers at the same location, eliminating the need center Tractor-trailer Tractorfor shipment between production locations and distribution centers. At present, the Truck Packaging and trailer Plant coverage of this logistics system is expanding to engines, transmissions and auto body parts vanning Packaging and Container ship Plant vanning at produced at the Hiroshima Plant and the Hofu Plant. Container ship plant In FY March 2018, Mazda expanded the quantity of transmissions vanned at plants to be Before Introduction After Introduction exported to the Mexico plant. For some parts that are manufactured at a supplier’s plant to be exported to the Mexico plant, the Company is planning to cease transporting these parts to Hiroshima in the future, by packaging and loading them into containers at the supplier’s plant, or in a place near the supplier. ■ Reducing the transportation distance for procured parts for overseas production Previously, the parts procured in Asia to be used for overseas production were transported via Japan to the Mexico plant. In July 2016, this was changed to direct transportation, so that now these parts are transported from existing distribution centers in Thailand and China, leading to a reduced transportation distance. In Japan, Mazda started to land parts imported from overseas at the ports close to production sites, in order to reduce the transportation distance between the Hiroshima Plant and Hofu Plant. In FY March 2018, the Company enlarged the scope of models to which this measure is applied, thereby achieving about 8 tons of CO2 emissions. In FY March 2019 as well, by applying this measure to a broader range of parts, Mazda further reduced CO2 emissions by around 3 tons. ■ Reducing the transportation distance for repair parts When the Mexico plant started to run, repair parts were transported via North America to Europe, since their transpiration volume was small. Three years after the plant’s startup, however, the volume was on the rise. For this reason, the shipping method was changed to direct transportation to Europe. By reducing the transportation distance through straight logistics, Mazda succeeded in reducing around 1,400 tons of CO2 emissions. In the future, the Company plans to set up a distribution center for repair parts in Mexco, in order to promote further reduction of the transportation distance. 3. Continuous improvement of transportation efficiency for procured parts f f Milk-Run System For domestically produced parts, deployment of the Milk-Run system*1 was completed throughout Japan by FY March 2008. Today, Mazda is introducing the same system in overseas production sites, with deployment in the Mexico plant completed in FY March 2014, and in the transmission plant in Thailand completed in FY March 2016, aiming to reduce CO2 emissions by further promoting efficiency in the purchasing and logistics processes across the entire supply chain. Mazda Mazda In FY March 2019, the means of transporting procured parts was provisionally changed from trains to trucks until the restoration of the railway lines, which were damaged by the heavy rain in July. Since truckload transportation is considered to produce higher CO2 emissions than Before Introduction After Introduction railway transportation, Mazda saw an increase of around 2,000 tons in CO2 emissions from the previous year. The Company is continuing its initiatives to optimize its packaging volume for purchasing parts, reflecting the logistics needs at the beginning of the product development process, so as to further improve the load efficiency of trucks and reduce the number of trucks required. In Japan, Mazda introduced the Cloud-based Transportation/Delivery Progress Management Service for Logistics Operators*2 in 2016. This service has been proven effective in reducing delivery time and costs and improving the quality of transportation, as well as in mitigating the burden on drivers, easing traffic congestion, and reducing CO2 emissions through efficient *1 A method in which a single truck visits multiple suppliers transportation. The Company plans to apply this service to 600 vehicles in five years after its to collect supplies. Named after truck routes in rural areas, launch. In FY March 2017, the number of vehicles covered by this service was 220. The figure which picked up milk from each farm. *2 The Cloud-based Transportation/Delivery Progress increased to 350 in FY March 2018, and then to 416 in FY March 2019. Management Service for Logistics Operators, developed by DOCOMO Systems, Inc. 72 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Promoting Resource Recycling Mazda builds resource-saving initiatives into every phase of the life cycle of its vehicles, based on the three Rs: reduce, reuse, and recycle. The Company implements thorough recycling and waste-reduction initiatives in the areas of manufacturing and logistics as well, in order to ensure that limited resources are used effectively. 【Manufacturing】Maintaining the Status of Zero Landfill Waste and Promoting the Reduction of Waste g h g Changes in the Amount of Landfill Waste (tons/year) (%) 80,000 100 100 To reduce landfill waste at its four principal domestic facilities* to zero, Mazda 1 70,000 71,287 80 is promoting reductions in the volume of manufacturing by-products and waste, 60,000 more rigorous sorting of waste, and recycling. As a result, the Company has 50,000 60 40,000 achieved zero landfill waste, and has maintained this status from FY March 2009 40 30,000 to FY March 2019. The Company has also achieved material recycling, to ensure 20,000 20 that packaging materials used in the vehicle assembly process can be reused as 10,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 raw materials, by more strictly sorting these packaging materials by ingredient and 1991 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) quality. The amount of waste*2 in FY March 2019 was reduced by 82% compared Volume of waste Percentage of base year with FY March 1991 levels. h FY March 2019 Recycling of Manufacturing Byproducts and Waste in the Manufacturing 【Logistics】Reducing Volume of Packaging and Wrapping Materials i Areas Raw materials and energy Mazda is moving forward with efforts centering on the “three Rs of Mazda Products Plant logistics” to cut down on resources used for packaging and wrapping. The target By-products and waste In-plant recycling External recycling 16.5% 83.5% for packaging and wrapping materials was a reduction in volume of 49.5% or more ・Scrap metal ・Dust and sand ・Casting sand ・Scrap metal from FY March 1991 levels; in FY March 2018, a 56.2%*3 reduction was achieved. Total recycling ratio:100 % Since FY March 2013, Mazda has been continuing activities to reflect logistics needs at the beginning of product development, so as to optimize parts specifications and structures, by considering efficient logistics in the development i Activities Image Before introduction stage of work processes, from design to production and shipment. Mass-production Product development preparation In FY March 2017, departments in the five areas—development, production, Product Development/ Production Production procurement (purchasing), logistics and quality—closely worked together to purchasing Mass Parts Process Packaging design design design production achieve the optimization of parts procurement and vehicle manufacturing, from the stage of product development, and to establish strong cooperation with After introduction Product development/design the supply chain. These efforts resulted in reduced volumes of packaging and Product development Procurement Production wrapping materials, and an increased packaging filling rate. Development Procurement Production requirements requirements requirements In FY March 2018, Mazda continued integrated efforts among departments in Mass Optimization relevant areas to optimize the specifications and structures of the parts for the production next models. And for some parts, the Company enabled containers that are used Logistics Quality requirements requirements to hold double the previous volume of parts. In FY March 2019, similar measures Logistics Quality were taken to improve the packaging filling rate for some parts, and to reduce the volumes of their packaging and wrapping materials. Mazda will continue promoting and expanding these activities that involve efforts in different areas, so as to reduce the consumption of materials. In the area of repair parts for overseas, the Company continues to expand the application of large-size returnable containers, aiming at increasing the container *1 Head office (Hiroshima); Miyoshi Plant; Hofu Plant, Nishinoura District; Hofu Plant, Nakanoseki District filling rate. (including non-manufacturing areas such as product development) By using these containers, Mazda succeeded in reducing the use of packaging and *2 The figures of the amount of waste at four principal domestic sites in FY March 2019 have been verified by a third party wrapping materials by about 2,200 tons in FY March 2018, and by about 2,400 (see p. 133). *3 Forecasted reduction rate compared with measures similar tons in FY March 2019. to those performed in FY March 1991 73 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Cleaner Emissions To preserve water and air quality, Mazda has specified voluntary emission standards stricter than the legal requirements and is ensuring appropriately low emissions of pollutants. In the area of manufacturing, the Company is engaged in a range of initiatives to eliminate or reduce chemical substances that damage the environment. j 【Manufacturing】Clean Water Consumption at Mazda’s Four Clean Water Consumption at Four Principal Domestic Sites*1 (1,000 m3/ Principal Domestic Sites*1 Reduced by 34.2% Compared with year) 300 FY March 2014 Levels jk 260 228 With the exception of its Miyoshi Plant, nearly all the water Mazda uses in 200 200 196 193 171 production processes at the plants and offices in Japan is water for industrial use. The Company does not use subsurface water, as this may cause ground 100 subsidence. Mazda also makes effective use of water by collecting and storing rainwater for use in the Miyoshi Plant. Furthermore, the Company is committed to saving clean 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 water consumption at plants and offices. (Years ended March 31) ＊ The figures of the amount of clean water consumption at four In FY March 2019, Mazda introduced water-saving shower caps in washroom principal domestic sites in FY March 2019 have been verified by a third party (see p. 133). faucets and reinforced management of water heater usage, so as to reduce wasteful water consumption. The Company also ensures wastewater cleanliness by properly treating water used for industrial processes, human hygiene, and other purposes. k Overview of Wastewater Treatment System (Hiroshima Plant) Septic Cleaning and disinfection of Human hygiene: human waste 【Manufacturing】Air Pollution Prevention: Actively Adopting tank toilets and handwashing Wastewater treatment facility Fuels that Reduce Environmental Burdens Industrial Secondary Main Oil processes: wastewater wastewater cooling water storage tank storage tank separation Mazda is continuing efforts to reduce the emission of sulfur oxides (SOx), and wastewater Wastewater Wastewater Coagulation from washing transfer by transfer by nitrogen oxides (NOx), dust and soot, fine particles, vapors, and volatile organic pumping pumping Biological treatment compounds (VOCs). Initial High-level Rainwater precipitation treatment storage In addition, Mazda is shifting the use of fuel oil to that of city gas and makes other Rainwater tank Pumping of initial Outflow efforts to actively adopt materials that reduce the environmental burden. precipitation Outflow VOC Reductions: Body-Painting Lines l Waste liquids: Concentrated coolants and storage tank In FY March 2019, Mazda made steady progress toward achieving the target of waste from Vacuum truck washing Offsite reducing VOC emissions from vehicle body paint in body-painting lines to 22.0 processing g/m2 or less. The target was achieved by reducing VOC emissions in body painting lines to l VOC Emissions in All Lines at Plants in Japan (g/m2) 20.0 g/m2, as a result of various measures. Such measures include the Three 30.0 Layer Wet Paint System introduced as the standard process in all plants in Japan 24.3 25.0 22.4 22.0 21.9 and major plants overseas, the Aqua-Tech Paint System (see p. 70) that delivers 20.0 20.0 world-leading environmental performance, a low-VOC paint that the Company developed and introduced, and improved efficiency in thinner recovery in cleaning 15.0 operations. 10.0 5.0 【Manufacturing】Reducing Emissions of PRTR-Listed Substances 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Years ended March 31) With various efforts, such as the additional introduction of the Aqua-Tech Paint System into the painting process and improvements to the efficiency of thinner *1 Head office (Hiroshima); Miyoshi Plant; Hofu Plant, Nishinoura District; Hofu Plant, Nakanoseki District (including non-manufacturing areas such as product recovery for cleaning operation, in FY March 2019 the amounts of substances development) However, Mazda Hospital, dormitories and catering facilities that are designated under the PRTR Law*2 released into the water system and the are excluded. *2 Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific atmosphere decreased by 69% from FY March 1999 levels, to 852 tons. Mazda Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof. PRTR: Pollutant will continue working to reduce emissions of PRTR-designated substances. Release and Transfer Register 74 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management FY March 2019 Data on Water and Atmosphere Water Pollutants Atmospheric Pollutants Wastewater Drainage Destination: Enko River and Kaita Bay Actual Site Water Pollutants Unit Regulation Actual (Max.) Site Water Pollutants Unit Regulation Max. Min. Avg. ー Boilers ppm 150 43 pH (freshwater) 5.8～8.6 7.3 6.5 6.9 pH (seawater) ー 5.5～9.0 7.7 6.9 7.3 250 59 Drying ovens ppm BOD mg／L 160 13 ND <2.3 230 32 COD mg／L 20 13 2.3 5.1 Melting furnaces ppm 180 82 SS mg／L 200 17 ND ＜4.6 NOx Oil mg／L 5 ND ND ND Diesel engines ppm 950 650 Fluorine (freshwater) mg／L 8 0.2 ND <0.13 200 58 Fluorine (seawater) mg／L 15 9.6 0.2 3.2 Heating furnaces ppm 180 41 Copper mg／L 3 0.07 ND <0.01 Hiroshima 150 76 Zinc mg／L 2 0.93 0.01 0.2 Plant Soluble manganese mg／L 10 0.7 ND <0.2 0.25 0.0012 3 Boilers g／m N Chromium mg／L 2 0.02 ND <0.1 0.1 0.0017 Total nitrogen mg／L 120 12 1.2 5.4 0.4 0.0033 Total phosphorus mg／L 16 2.1 0.01 0.36 3 Coliform groups colonies/cm 3,000 290 ND <25 0.35 0.0031 Hiroshima Drying ovens g／m3N Boron (freshwater) mg／L 10 0.3 ND <0.2 0.2 0.0043 Plant Boron (seawater) mg／L 230 2 0.2 1.5 0.15 0.014 Ammonia, ammonium, nitrous ＜0.001 mg／L 100 6.6 1.4 2.8 acid, and nitrous acid compounds Dust 0.4 The following substances were not detected: cadmium, cyanogen, organic phosphorus, lead, hexavalent chromium, Melting furnaces g／m3N 0.20 0.077 arsenic, mercury, alkyl mercury, PCBs, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, carbon tetrachloride, 0.10 0.0011 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,3-dichloropropene, thiuram, simazine, thiobencarb, benzene, selenium, 1,4-dioxane, phenol, copper, soluble iron, Diesel engines g／m3N 0.10 0.013 chromium and boron. 0.4 0.0014 Wastewater Drainage Destination: Basen River Heating furnaces g／m3N 0.25 0.018 Actual Site Water Pollutants Unit Regulation 0.20 0.1 Max. Min. Avg. － K-value pH 5.8～8.6 7.5 6.9 7.3 SOx ― 7 1.1 regulation BOD mg／L 90 4.2 1 2.1 Painting facilities ppm 700 359 SS mg／L 90 8.2 1 4.6 VOC Oil mg／L 5 ND ND ND Washing facilities ppm 400 75 Fluorine mg／L 8 0.2 0.2 0.2 Boilers ppm 250 160 Zinc mg／L 2 0.01 0.01 0.01 NOx Miyoshi Plant Diesel engines ppm 950 740 Soluble manganese mg／L 10 0.3 ND <0.2 Miyoshi Plant Total nitrogen mg／L 120 1.3 1.3 1.3 Boilers g／m3N 0.30 0.064 Dust Total phosphorus mg／L 16 0.03 0.03 0.03 Diesel engines g／m3N 0.10 0.096 3 Coliform groups colonies/cm 3,000 380 ND <53 150 120 Ammonia, ammonium, nitrous Boilers ppm mg／L 100 0.7 0.7 0.7 acid, and nitrous acid compounds NOx 130 72 The following substances were not detected: cadmium, cyanogen, organic phosphorus, lead, hexavalent chromium, Drying ovens ppm 230 37 arsenic, mercury, alkyl mercury, PCBs, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, carbon tetrachloride, Boilers g／m3N 0.10 0.004 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,3-dichloropropene, thiuram, simazine, thiobencarb, benzene, selenium, 1,4-dioxane, phenol, copper, soluble iron, Nishinoura 0.35 0.003 chromium and soluble manganese. District, Dust Drying ovens g／m3N 0.30 0.003 Hofu Plant Wastewater Drainage Destination: Oumi Bay 0.20 0.006 Actual K-value Site Water Pollutants Unit Regulation ― 4.5 0.002 Max. Min. Avg. regulation SOx pH ― 5.0～9.0 7.2 6.2 6.8 Total pollutant m3N／h 20.56 0.015 load control COD mg／L 50 11.5 2.1 7.9 VOC Painting facilities ppm 700 360 SS mg／L 40 4.5 0.7 2.6 Oil mg／L 2 ND ND ND NOx Melting furnaces ppm 180 46 Zinc mg／L 2 0.8 0.1 0.5 0.25 0.002 Nishinoura Soluble manganese mg／L 120 9 0.6 2.5 Heating furnaces g／m3N District, Nakanoseki Dust 0.20 0.002 Hofu Plant Total nitrogen mg／L 16 4.1 0.5 2.5 District, Total phosphorus colonies/cm 3 3,000 200 17 109 Melting furnaces g／m3N 0.20 0.02 Hofu Plant Coliform groups mg／L 230 1.2 0.8 1 K-value ― 4.5 0.01 Boron mg／L 15 4.1 4 4.1 regulation SOx Total pollutant Ammonia, ammonium, nitrous m3N／h 8.37 0.0011 mg／L 100 0.7 0.5 0.6 load control acid, and nitrous acid compounds The following substances were not detected: cadmium, cyanogen, organic phosphorus, lead, hexavalent chromium, arsenic, mercury, alkyl mercury, PCBs, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, carbon tetrachloride, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,3-dichloropropene, thiuram, simazine, thiobencarb, benzene, selenium, 1,4-dioxane, phenol, copper, soluble iron, chromium and soluble manganese. Wastewater Drainage Destination: Oumi Bay Actual Site Water Pollutants Unit Regulation Max. Min. Avg. pH － 5.0～9.0 7.7 6.5 7.3 COD mg／L 50 9.4 3.1 5.3 SS mg／L 40 15 ND <3.9 Oil mg／L 2 ND ND ND Zinc mg／L 2 0.2 0.03 0.1 Nakanoseki Soluble manganese mg／L 120 12.6 1.9 7 District, Hofu Plant Total nitrogen mg／L 16 1.5 0.1 0.7 3 Total phosphorus colonies/cm 3,000 61 ND <31 Coliform groups mg／L 230 ND ND ND Boron mg／L 15 0.2 ND <0.1 Ammonia, ammonium, nitrous mg／L 100 4.6 4 4.3 acid, and nitrous acid compounds The following substances were not detected: cadmium, cyanogen, organic phosphorus, lead, hexavalent chromium, arsenic, mercury, alkyl mercury, PCBs, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, carbon tetrachloride, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1-dichloroethylene, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, 1,3-dichloropropene, thiuram, simazine, thiobencarb, benzene, selenium, 1,4-dioxane, phenol, copper, soluble iron, chromium and soluble manganese. 75 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Volume of PRTR-designated Pollutants Emitted and Transferred in FY March 2019 (Items marked with an asterisk (*) are Class 1 designated chemical substances of which 500 kg/year or more are handled.) Hiroshima Plant Unit: (kg/year) Amount Substance Amount Volume Amount Amount transferred Amount Substance group No. handled emitted consumed disposed recycled Air Water Soil Waste products 1 Water-soluble zinc compounds 27,074 0 433 0 433 23,663 2,978 0 0 53 Ethyl benzene 103,729 35,635 0 0 35,635 30,433 28,746 0 8,915 80 Xylene 428,874 185,657 0 0 185,657 126,840 83,102 0 33,275 87 Chromium and trivalent chromium compounds 40,700 0 0 0 0 40,057 0 642 1 88* Hexavalent chromium compounds 1,565 0 0 0 0 923 642 0 0 258 1,3,5,7-tetraazetoricyclo [ 3.3.1.13.7 ] decane 4,517 0 0 0 0 0 4,517 0 0 277 Triethylamine 191,697 1,150 0 0 1,150 0 190,547 0 0 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 138,853 14,024 0 0 14,024 78,722 46,107 0 0 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 34,680 17,828 0 0 17,828 278 14,488 0 2,086 300 Toluene 646,112 130,061 0 0 130,061 253,703 219,942 0 42,406 309* Nickel compounds 4,889 0 587 0 587 1,687 0 2,615 0 349 Phenol 31,814 1 1 0 2 0 31,812 0 0 355 Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 19,130 0 0 0 0 18,556 0 574 0 374 Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts 3,156 0 505 0 505 0 2,651 0 0 392 n-Hexane 106,389 266 0 0 266 90,270 15,853 0 0 400* Benzene 21,285 27 0 0 27 15,901 5,357 0 0 411* Formaldehyde 3,153 1,096 0 0 1,096 0 2,057 0 0 412 Manganese and its compounds 54,502 0 371 0 371 51,956 0 2,120 55 438 Methylnaphthalene 6,662 33 0 0 33 0 6,629 0 0 448 Diisocyanate (methylene-bis [4,1-phenylene]) 234,043 0 0 0 0 0 234,043 0 0 453 Molybdenum and its compounds 1,285 0 0 0 0 983 0 63 239 302 Naphthalene 13,784 85 0 0 85 0 13,691 0 8 Total 2,117,893 385,863 1,897 0 387,760 733,972 903,162 6,014 86,985 Miyoshi Plant Amount Substance Amount Volume Amount Amount transferred Amount Substance group No. handled emitted consumed disposed recycled Air Water Soil Waste products 53 Ethyl benzene 2,371 0 0 0 0 0 2,371 0 0 80 Xylene 10,079 1 0 0 1 0 10,078 0 0 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 6,598 1 0 0 1 0 6,597 0 0 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 1,156 0 0 0 0 0 1,156 0 0 300 Toluene 30,750 11 0 0 11 0 30,739 0 0 392 n-Hexane 3,740 9 0 0 9 0 3,731 0 0 ＊ 400 Benzene 1,006 1 0 0 1 0 1,005 0 0 438 Methylnaphthalene 3,219 16 0 0 16 0 3,203 0 0 Total 58,919 39 0 0 39 0 58,880 0 0 Nishinoura District, Hofu Plant Amount Substance Amount Volume Amount Amount transferred Amount Substance group No. handled emitted consumed disposed recycled Air Water Soil Waste products 1 Water-soluble zinc compounds 16,810 0 269 0 269 14,692 1,849 0 0 53 Ethyl benzene 106,763 65,018 0 0 65,018 29,615 12,130 0 0 80 Xylene 280,644 106,504 0 0 106,504 123,419 24,277 0 26,444 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 135,207 23,968 0 0 23,968 76,579 3,836 0 30,824 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 23,425 11,614 0 0 11,614 196 3,811 0 7,804 300 Toluene 541,590 254,893 0 0 254,893 246,155 27,697 0 12,845 ＊ 309 Nickel compounds 3,293 0 395 0 395 1,136 0 1,762 0 355 Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 2,137 0 0 0 0 2,073 0 64 0 392 n-Hexane 89,582 224 0 0 224 88,061 1,297 0 0 ＊ 400 Benzene 15,739 20 0 0 20 15,490 229 0 0 ＊ 411 Formaldehyde 3,290 1,184 0 0 1,184 0 2,106 0 0 412 Manganese and its compounds 4,445 0 243 0 243 2,797 0 1,388 17 Total 1,222,925 463,425 907 0 464,332 600,213 77,232 3,214 77,934 Nakanoseki District, Hofu Plant (No applicable chemical substances subject to reporting. (The volume of the PRTR-designated groups’ substances handled is less than the designated volume subject to reporting.) Company Total Amount Substance Amount Volume Amount Amount transferred Amount Substance group No. handled emitted consumed disposed recycled Air Water Soil Waste products Total 3,414,767 849,331 2,804 0 852,135 1,334,185 1,054,300 9,228 164,919 76 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management COLLECTION AND RECYCLING OF END-OF-LIFE VEHICLES (ELVS) AND USED PARTS Around 80% of a vehicle can be recycled. Implementing thorough recycling and waste reduction initiatives to ensure that limited resources are used effectively, Mazda promotes efforts to establish a recycling-oriented society. Attaching importance to building resource-saving initiatives into every phase of the life cycle of its vehicles, based on the three Rs: reduce, reuse, and recycle, the Company undertakes various efforts, such as the collection and recycling of endof-life vehicles (ELVs) and used parts. End-of-Life Vehicles (ELVs) Measures in Response to End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law in Japan a b c a End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Process Final owner Mazda properly processes and recycles three designated items (fluorocarbons, airbags, and End-of-life vehicle Recovered ASR recycling automobile shredder residue [ASR]*1) pursuant to the End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law in ELV collection agent Crushing/shredding Materials Japan. In addition, the Company is creating unique technologies and measures to move (dealership) recycling Recycling facilities facilities this recycling program forward. In the case of ASR, Mazda is working through ART*2, a CFC recovery contractor Thermal contractor (CFC recovery) consortium of 13 key companies including Mazda, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., and Mitsubishi recycling facilities Motors Corporation, to comply with the law and achieve progress in the reuse of resources. Dismantler ASR Incineration/ (proper processing of airbags) landfill facilities The Company appropriately executes recycling at dealerships. Dealerships collect vehicle recycling fees at the time of sale and receive the ELVs from their final owners in order to Outsourced total utilization and recycling of recovered materials transfer them to the disposal processing companies. Accredited Eco-press Total utilization As for recycling fees, the Company reviewed its fee calculation standard for new models dismantler facilities (fine dismantling) (electric furnaces, etc.) launched in 2012. The new fee standard is applicable to the Company’s new models launched after that. While forecasting a future recycling situation, the Company will continue to push forward with its recycling business in such a way to ensure a balance between revenue and b Resource Recycling Results in FY March 2019 expenditures in the mediumand long-term. Number of vehicles from which fluorocarbon 137,325 units is collected The End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law was revised in February 2012, and newly designated Number of vehicles from which airbags are 131,255 units collected lithium-ion batteries and nickel-metal hydride batteries as items for advance collection Number of vehicles from which ASR is 147,994 units before dismantling of end-of-life vehicles. Mazda, in cooperation with manufacturers, collected Airbags 94.2% is committed to collecting lithium-ion batteries installed in micro-minis (OEM vehicles) Recycling ratio ASR 97.8% launched in and after October 2012. The Company also collects nickel metal hydride Recycling ratio for ELVs* More than 99% batteries installed in the Axela (Mazda3 overseas) Hybrid (launched in November 2013). Total contracting deposits received 1,736,604,673 yen Moreover, Mazda promotes the appropriate disposal of capacitors for i-ELOOP, a Total expenses for recycling 1,490,997,562 yen brake energy regeneration system, in order to ensure safety during recycling by related (Includes separate cost required at Mazda) ＊Recycling ratio for ELVs is the recycling ratio in dismantling/ contractors, even though capacitors are not designated for advance collection. Measures to shredder processes of 83% (cited from the May 2003 joint ensure appropriate disposal include attaching a caution label inside the engine room of the council data), plus the remaining ASR ratio of 17% multiplied by the ASR recycling rate of 97.8%. vehicle, and providing a disposal manual on the Company’s website. Reference website (Japanese only) for Mazda’s efforts with regard to the End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law https://www.mazda.com/ja/csr/recycle/ c Vehicle caution labels for capacitors for i-ELOOP [For the Roadster (MX-5)] ASR and the End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law Disposed vehicles consist of about 80% useful metal and about 20% automotive shredder residue (ASR) that includes resin. Useful metal is recycled in cooperation with metal recycling-related companies such as dismantlers, crushing/shredding contractors, and steel manufacturers. With regard to ASR, which used to be disposed by landfill, is now subject to the End-of-Life [For models other than the Roadster (MX-5)] Vehicle Recycling Law, which was enforced in January 2005. This is due to the rise in the risk of illegal dumping of end-of-life vehicles on the back of a surge in disposal costs due to overstrained final landfill sites and weakness in iron scrap prices. After the enforcement of this law, car manufacturers are required to recycle ASR, chlorofluorocarbons—which lead to global warming and ozone depletion—and airbags—which require specialist knowledge for disposal—under their responsibility, using recycling fees deposited by final owners of the ELVs. *1 ASR : Automobile Shredder Residue *2 ART : Automobile shredder residue Recycling promotion Team 77 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Promoting Recycling Overseas d d Capacitor Disposal Manual Mazda is committed to the recycling of end-of-life vehicles overseas in accordance with the laws in each country and region, under the initiative of the local distributors. As for countries in which recycling-related laws are planned to be established, Mazda is preparing to respond in cooperation with the distributors in such countries. To ensure the appropriate disposal of capacitor-equipped vehicles in countries where i-ELOOP equipped new models are introduced, Mazda provides related contractors with information on appropriate disposal by attaching a caution label in vehicles and providing a capacitor disposal manual in eight languages on its website, as in the case of cars sold in Japan. Europe Based on the EU Directive, Mazda Motor Europe provides a dismantling manual to recycling contractors when introducing a new model and has established a network to collect used vehicles from their final owners free of charge, in cooperation with the distributors in each country. China A law was enforced in January 2015, in accordance with which local manufacturers are managing substances with environmental impact and developing dismantling manuals. Capacitor disposal manual reference website https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/environment/recycle/capacitor/ Used parts Promoting the Collection and Recycling of Used Parts (in Japan) Mazda is continuously engaged in the recycling of damaged bumpers replaced for repairs as plastic materials for new vehicle bumpers, etc. ■ Recycling of damaged bumpers: Mazda collects bumpers removed for repairs at dealerships throughout Japan, and recycles them for reuse as plastic parts (new vehicle bumpers, undercovers, etc.). In FY March 2019, the Company collected 62,920 bumpers, which were utilized as recycled materials. 78 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION Initiatives for Biodiversity a a Process for Assessment of Impacts on Biodiversity Endorsing the aims of the “Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren (the Step 1: Selecting an assessment target scope Japan Business Federation),” Mazda promotes initiatives to protect the global (The assumption is that an assessment environment. will be made for companies with major impacts in the value chain.) In FY March 2012, with the aim of systematically developing its initiatives to protect Step 2: Assessing the levels of the dependence biodiversity, Mazda conducted an assessment of impacts on biodiversity, and and impacts on ecosystem services, recognized the blessings of nature it receives and the significance of the impacts as well as assessing the threat to biodiversity on ecosystems it gives through business activities. In line with this assessment, the Step 3: Identifying business risks and Company established the Mazda Biodiversity Guidelines in December 2012 and opportunities regarding biodiversity has been implementing relevant initiatives in cooperation with society. Step 4: Identifying priority issues and assessing Based on the results of the above assessment of impacts on biodiversity, Mazda the current situations of the existing responses believes that the Company is not so directly connected with biodiversity, although Step 5: Identifying a direction for future responses it ensures cooperation with society and implements a wide variety of awarenessraising activities for its employees and other people concerned. In its core business activities, the Company understands that it generates impacts on biodiversity in no small quantities, especially in energy, water, and other resources. To mitigate such impacts, the Company undertakes a wide variety of efforts in the processes of products, technology, production, and logistics. In FY March 2019, as in the previous year, Mazda issued a newsletter carrying articles about life forms found during the ecosystem survey conducted at the Miyoshi Plant (Hiroshima Prefecture). Also, the Company’s efforts for biodiversity conservation were presented on the occasion of the Miyoshi Commerce and Industry Festival, the Mazda Open Day, and the Hiroshima Environment Day. The Mazda Biodiversity Guidelines [Basic Approach] Based on “The Mazda Global Environmental Charter,” the Mazda Group, recognizing the blessings of nature and the significance of environmental impacts, contributes to the conservation of biodiversity through its corporate activities worldwide, with the aim of establishing and developing a rich, sustainable society that ensures harmony between people and nature. [Priority Initiatives] 1. Creation of Environmentally Sound Technologies and Products 3. Collaboration/Cooperation with Society and Local Communities We will encourage the creation of technologies and products We will promote local community-based activities, by striving considering harmony between the environment and our to establish collaboration/cooperation with a wide range corporate activities, by developing technologies that contribute of stakeholders including supply chains, local governments, to cleaner emission gases, reduction of CO2 emissions, research communities, NPOs/NGOs, and education and research institutions. and development of clean energy-based vehicles, promotion of recycling and biodiversity. 4. Awareness Enhancement and Information Disclosure We will take active and self-initiative actions and disclose and share 2. Corporate Activities in Consideration of Conserving Resources and Energy the achievements widely to society, by striving to enhance awareness We will promote reduction of substances with environmental of the importance of coexistence between people and nature. impact and effective use of resources, and contribute to Established in December 2012 conservation of biodiversity, through efficient energy use and resource-saving/recycling activities. Examples of Initiatives ・Improving the base technologies comprehensively through the introduction of Skyactiv Technology (see p. 121) ・Electric vehicles (see pp. 13-15) Creation of Environmentally Sound ・Developing and designing product with consideration for recycling (see p. 68) Technologies and Products ・Improving the facility operation rate and shortening the cycle time in the production process (see p. 70) ・Introducing hub-and-spoke system for transportation of completed vehicles and service parts (see p. 71) Corporate Activities in Consideration of ・Assessing and considering the impact on biodiversity when constructing a new plant Conserving Resources and Energy ・Promoting the preservation of forests, the protection of rare species, and the protection of habitats of migratory birds* Collaboration/Cooperation with Society and 1 Local Communities ・Activities through the Mazda Foundation* 1 ・Educating employees Awareness Enhancement and Information ・Introducing the activities to the inside and outside of the company through the Mazda Sustainability Report etc. Disclosure ＊1 United States https://www.mazdafoundation.org/ Australia http://mazdafoundation.org.au/ New Zealand https://mazdafoundation.org.nz/ 79 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNICATION Under the Mazda Global Environmental Charter, Mazda carries out a wide variety of environmental protection activities related to products and technologies; manufacturing, logistics, and office operations; and social contributions. The Company appropriately discloses information on each of these activities, and ensures opportunities for dialogue with the stakeholders concerned, thereby striving to respond promptly and appropriately to social problems.*1 Participation in Environmental Exhibits and Events Mazda actively participates in various environment-related exhibitions and events, for the purpose of gaining stakeholders’ understanding regarding its environmental initiatives and hearing their broad range of opinions. Mazda adopts a wide range of approaches to communicate about the environment, such as introducing its advanced environmental technologies at motor shows all over the world and offering test-drives of its vehicles equipped with Skyactiv Technology at various events held in and outside Japan. Reducing Environmental Impact Generated by Communication Activities Mazda has been working to reduce the environmental impact generated by its communication activities. Environmental considerations in event operation ■ Reusing/recycling booth decorating items ■ Decreasing the amount of handouts to reduce CO2 emissions ■ Implementing carbon offsetting by calculating CO2 emissions from event activities Environmental considerations in publishing materials ■ Adopting FSC-certified paper, waterless printing, and vegetable oil ink ■ Implementing carbon offset by calculating CO2 emissions from the printing and bookbinding processes Use of Website and Publishing Materials Mazda ensures environmental communication in a wide variety of ways in consideration of matters of interest that each stakeholder may have and media that he/she may frequently use. Mazda uses images and computer graphics on its website in order to provide easy-to-understand explanations of environmental technologies. Reinforcing the use of social media, the Company disseminates information in a timely manner, and uses the comments provided to the Company for its daily operations. For the Mazda Sustainability Report, the Company has prepared in-depth/ digest versions, as well as PDF/Website/booklet versions, in consideration of stakeholders’ needs regarding the edition method/media to be used. The results of the collected questionnaires and the number of visitors to the website are provided to the executive officer in charge of related affairs, as well as to *1 Refer to the following URL for social contribution activities production members, as feedback, and used for planning the next fiscal year’s regarding environmental communications by the Mazda Group: version. https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/social/ 80 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management In-House Awareness-Raising Activities a Companies that Participated in the LightDown Campaign To raise environmental awareness among its employees, Mazda conducted a wide 1.Mazda Motor Corporation 51.Mazda Autozam Kurashikirange of activities in FY March 2019 including the following. 2.Mazda Ace Co., Ltd. Chuo Eco Walk Commuting Program 3.Mazda Engineering & 52.Mazda Autozam Oda Technology Co., Ltd. 53.Mazda Autozam Tonami In order to raise employees’ environmental consciousness and encourage them to take 4.Toyo Advanced Technologies 54.Mazda Autozam Bairin better care of their health, employees who walk two kilometers or more as part of Co., Ltd. 55.Maps Co., Ltd. 5.Yoshiwa Kogyo Co., Ltd. 56.Hiroshima Seimitsu Co., Ltd. their daily commute to work are rewarded with an addition of 1,500 yen per month to 6.Kurashiki Kako Co., Ltd. 57.Nishikawa Rubber Co., Ltd. their commuting allowance. 7.Mazda Logistics Co., Ltd. 58.Toho Industrial Co., Ltd. 8.Mazda Processing Chugoku 59.Japan Climate Systems Lunchtime Lighting Halved Co., Ltd. Corporation Efforts to reduce lighting in Mazda offices and plants during lunch breaks to half the 9.Hakodate Mazda Co., Ltd. 60.MCM Energy Service Co., 10.Tohoku Mazda Co., Ltd. Ltd. normal levels have continuously been promoted. 11.Fukushima Mazda Co., Ltd. 61.Kyoto Mazda Co., Ltd. Light-Down Campaign a 12.Kitakanto Mazda Co., Ltd 62.Yamaguchi Mazda Co., Ltd. 13.Koshin Mazda Co., Ltd. 63.Mazda Autozam Miyamoto (Participation by companies/facilities) 14.Kanto Mazda Co., Ltd. Obihiro ■ CO2 Reduction/Light-Down Campaign promoted by the Ministry of the Environment 64.Mazda Autozam Ebetsu 15.Shizuoka Mazda Co., Ltd. Mazda and its domestic Group companies participated in the CO2 Reduction/Light16.Tokai Mazda Co., Ltd. 65.Mazda Autozam Koriyama17.Hokuriku Mazda Co., Ltd. Minami Down (i.e., lights-off) Campaign promoted by the Ministry of the Environment. They 18.Keiji Mazda Co., Ltd. 66.Mazda Autozam Sukagawa turned off the lighting of their signboards and indoor lighting (from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. 19.Kansai Mazda Co., Ltd. 67.Mazda Autozam Tomobe 20.Nishi Shikoku Mazda Co., 68.Mazda Autozam 17 on June 21 [summer solstice] and July 7 [Tanabata, or the Star Festival], 2018). Ltd. 69.Mazda Autozam MaebashiMazda Motor Corporation shut off the lighting of its signboards and indoor 21.Kyushu Mazda Co., Ltd. Chuo 22.Minami Kyushu Mazda Co., 70.Mazda Autozam Sado lighting every night from the summer solstice in June to Tanabata, the Star Ltd. 71.Mazda Autozam Higashi Festival (July 7) (15 sites). 23.Okinawa Mazda Corporation 72.Mazda Autozam Chichibu24.Mazda Chuhan Co., Ltd. Nishi Nation-wide 773 production/business sites of 84 Mazda Group companies in 73.Mazda Autozam Kashiwa 25.Mazda Parts Co., Ltd Japan participated in the campaign (on the summer solstice and Tanabata). 26.Mazda Parts Sales Hiroshima 74.Mazda Autozam IchiharaCo., Ltd. Kita This campaign saved 20 thousand kWh of electricity, equivalent to around 10 tons 27.Aomori-Mazda Automobile 75.Mazda Autozam Ayabe of CO2 emissions. Corporation 76.Mazda Autozam Susono ■ WWF’s Earth Hour 2019 28.Chiba Mazda Co., Ltd. 77.Mazda Autozam Katsuragi 29.Eunos Horie Co., Ltd. 78.Mazda Autozam Matsue Mazda and its domestic Group companies participated in the Earth Hour 2019 30.Mazda Odawara Co., Ltd. 79.Mazda Autozam Bizen event organized by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). 31.Tokyo Mazda Corporation 80.Mazda Autozam Fuchu 32.Eunos Sansho Co., Ltd. 81.Mazda Autozam Kaita They turned off the lighting of their signboards and indoor lighting (from 8:30 p.m. 33.Osaka Mazda Motor 82.Mazda Autozam Kure-Kita to 9:30 p.m. on March 30, 2019). Corporation 83.Mazda Autozam Hofu-Chuo 34.Kobe Mazda Co., Ltd. 84.Delta Kogyo Co., Ltd. Mazda Motor Corporation shut off the lighting of its signboards and indoor 35.Nara Mazda Co., Ltd. 85.Niitech Co., Ltd. lighting (15 sites). 36.Okayama Mazda Co., Ltd. 86.Mazda Parts Sales Yamaguchi 37.Hiroshima Mazda Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd Nationwide, a total of 776 production/business sites of 69 Mazda Group 38.Enfini Hiroshima Co., Ltd. 87.Mazda Parts Sales Chiba Co., companies in Japan shut off the lighting of their signboards and indoor lighting. 39.Tottori Mazda Co., Ltd. Ltd. 40.Nagasaki Mazda Co., Ltd. 88.Mazda Autozam Isumi Mazda also participated as a supporting company in the WWF’s event of shutting 41.Mazda Autozam Nichido89.Mazda Autozam Izumi off the lighting of the Hiroshima Peace Memorial (Genbaku Dome) in the Funabashi 90.Mazda Autozam Yano 42.Mazda Autozam Mihara 91.Mazda Autozam Ojiya Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park, as in the previous year. 43.Mazda Autozam Asahikawa 92.Mazda Autozam Kumagaya (Participation by individuals) 44.Mazda Autozam Yasufuruichi 93.Mazda Autozam Nagaoka■ Employees’ private participation in the Light-Down campaign 45.Mazda Autozam FunabashiNishi Kita 94.Mazda Autozam Tanagura In conjunction with the CO2 Reduction/Light-Down Campaign promoted by the 46.Mazda Autozam Ogaki95.Mazda Autozam ShinMinistry of the Environment, Mazda and its domestic Group companies conducted Higashi Shirakawa 47.Mazda Autozam Kusunoki 96.Mazda Autozam Iwase the private Light-Down campaign, in which their employees, family members and 48.Mazda Autozam 97.Mazda Autozam Tsuyama friends joined lights-off activities on an individual basis. A total of 40,000 people, Kashiwanoha-Campus 98.Mazda Autozam Kuse 49.Mazda Autozam Izumo99.Mazda Autozam Yamamotoinlcuding all senior executives and general managers of Mazda Motor Corporation, Hirata Aoba participated in this private event to turn off their lights (from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on 50.Mazda Autozam Ueda 100.Hiroshima Orizuru Tower June 21 [summer solstice] and July 7 [Tanabata, or the Star Festival], 2018). ＊ Companies No. 59 to 85 participated only in the CO2 This initiative resulted in saving 5,700 kWh of electricity, equivalent to around 3 Reduction/Light-Down Campaign by the Ministry of the Environment. tons of CO2 emissions (estimated figures). Companies No. 86 to 100 participated only in the WWF’s Earth Hour 2019. President’s Messages during Environment Month The president transmitted messages to the entire Company during Environment Month (June), emphasizing the importance of thinking about and taking action for the environment. In FY March 2019, the president placed a special focus on raising employees’ awareness of the importance of global warming prevention and biodiversity conservation. The president’s message was also disseminated to Group companies in Japan and overseas. Environmental Education during Environment Month To encourage every employee to think about and take action for the environment, educational programs regarding general environmental issues, the importance of biodiversity, Mazda’s environmental initiatives, and environmental conservation activities in the workplace have been implemented, in coordination with basic education on ISO 14001. 81 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management MAZDA’S CORPORATE ACTIVITIES AND IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT Results of FY March 2019 Mazda tracks ecological data to help reduce the environmental impact of its corporate activities in all areas. Energy consumption in [Area A] Purchasing Scope1, Scope2*2 ● Encouraging business partners to plants and offices*1 Type of energy 12,488×103GJ obtain ISO 14001 certification Emissions of greenhouse gases in 1 10 plants and offices* ,* 705 thousand t-CO2 [Area A] Electricity 9,398 Diesel 42 Coal 0 ● Promoting green purchasin CO2 emissions Emission of greenhouse gases other than CO2 Fuel oil A 32 Gasoline 68 Coke 381 Industrial steam 1,173 699 thousand t-CO2 6 thousand t-CO2 Fuel oil C 5 LPG 115 Kerosene 29 City gas 1,244 Research & Development SOx emissions NOx emissions [Area A] Paper(for office equipment, etc.) [Area A] ● Improving fuel economy 105t 332t 683t ● Producing cleaner exhaust emissions Wastewater [Area A] Water consumption*10 [Area A] ● Reducing vehicle noise 7,134 thousand m 3 9,303 thousand m 3 ● Developing clean-energy vehicles Direct-to-landfill waste [Area A] Raw materials(steel, aluminum, etc.) [Area C] ● Promoting recycling, etc. 1,854t Chemical substances Chemical substances [Area A] 971 thousand t discharge transfer 981t 154t Chemical substances handled [Area A] 4,776t Manufacturing ● Saving energy Scope 3*3 ● Reducing direct-to-landfill waste Wrapping and [Area A] Category 1: Purchased goods and services [Area C] ● Managing chemical substances packaging materials 31,390t (Emissions from resource collection stage to manufacturing stage) 4,524 thousand t-CO2 ● Promoting clean production 4 Distribution volume for [Area B] Category 2: Capital goods* [Area C] domestic logistics 563,360×103t-km (Emissions from construction and manufacturing of capital goods) 93,359t-CO2 Category 3: Fueland energy-related activities [Area D] Logistics not included in Scope 1 or 2* ,* 4 9 Bumpers collected [Area B] ● Reducing CO2 emissions through (Emissions from the manufacturing process of 65,419 t-CO2 62,920 units purchased electricity/heat) and recycled efficient distribution Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution [Area B] End-of-life vehicles recycled [Area B] ● Decreasing use of and recycling wrapping and packaging materials (Emissions associated with distribution of purchased products/services) 29,357t-CO2 (FY March 2019 results based on the End-of-Life Vehicle 4 9 Category 5: Waste generated in operations* ,* [Area C] Recycling Law) (Emissions related to scrapping and disposal of waste generated in business activities) 4,732t-CO2 4 9 Automobile shredder residue (ASR) Sales and after-sales service Category 6: Business travel* ,* [Area C] Total weight collected 29,409t ● Communication with customers (Emissions from transportation means used for employees’ business travel) 1,635t-CO2 4 9 Category 7: Employee commuting* ,* [Area C] Weight of recycled materials 28,749t ● Promoting compliance with environmental laws and (Emissions from transportation means used for employees’ commuting) 3,350t-CO2 Number of vehicles collected 147,994 units environmental beautification Category 8: Upstream leased assets* 5 [Area A] ● Collecting and recycling damaged (Emissions related to operation of assets on lease from other companies) 0t-CO2 Airbags bumpers Category 9: Downstream transportation & distribution [Area B] Total weight of gas generator collected 37,340kg (Emissions associated with distribution of products) 44,330t-CO2 Weight of recycled materials 35,172kg Category 10: Processing of sold products* 6 [Area A] Recycling end-of-life vehicles (Emissions generated when semi-manufactured products are 0t-CO2 Number of units collected 526,614 units processed by downstream operators) ● Carrying out appropriate collection Category 11: Use of sold products [Area E] Number of vehicles collected 131,255 units and recycling (Emissions associated with 31,853 thousand t-CO2 use of products) ● Studying and researching end-of-life vehicle recycling technologies Category 12: Disposal of sold products [Area E] Fluorocarbons (Emissions related to disposal and processing of 409,452t-CO2 ● Using recycled parts products and their containers/packages) 8 Total weight collected* Total number of vehicles collected 5 Total 33,365kg 137,325 units Category 13: Downstream leased assets* [Area A] Weight collected Number of vehicles collected (Emissions related to operation of assets on lease to other companies) 0t-CO2 6 CFC 106kg 1,001 units Category 14: Franchises* [Area A] Weight collected Number of vehicles collected (Emissions of Scopes 1 and 2 in operators with whom franchise contracts have been concluded) 0t-CO2 HFC 33,259kg 136,324 units Category 15: Investments* 7 [Area A] (Emissions related to the management of investment [excluding Scopes 1 and 2]) 0t-CO2 ＊1 Energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and distribution volume are calculated using the energy conversion factor and carbon emission coefficient based on the standards of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. (JAMA) (Commitment to a Low Carbon Society). (For FY March 2019, the FY March 2018 coefficients are used.) Figures for consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method Group companies are prorated based on the percentage equity Global sales volume*8 stake held by Mazda. CO2 emissions resulting from power consumption by overseas companies are calculated by applying the coefficient used in CO2 Emissions (Total retail units of Mazda-brand vehicles sold on a global basis) 1,561 thousand units from Fuel Combustion (2013 Edition) published by International Energy Agency (IEA). Data collection period: April 2018 to March 2019 215 thousand units in Japan 1,347 thousand units overseas Scope of data collection: Area A: Mazda Motor Corporation, 22 domestic consolidated Group companies and eight domestic equity-method Group companies, and 15 overseas consolidated Group companies and five overseas equity-method Group companies. Area B: Mazda Motor Corporation, 22 domestic consolidated Group companies and eight domestic equity-method Group companies. Area C: Mazda Motor Corporation. Area D: Mazda Motor Corporation, four domestic production sites and five overseas production companies (two consolidated Group companies and three equity-method Group companies). Area E: Domestic and major sales regions (North America, Europe and China) Shipments of vehicles certified for low emissions (in Japan)* (Vehicles that have been certified as low-emission vehicles based on ＊2 Scope 1: Direct emissions from consumption of fuels and industrial processes; Scope 2: Emissions associated with consumption of purchased heat/electricity (indirect exhaust emissions certification regulations) emissions from energy consumption) (exhaust gas emissions reduced 75% ＊3 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions are calculated using Mazda’s own calculation method, based on the Ministry of the Environment’s emission basic unit database (ver. SU-LEV compared to the 2005 level☆☆☆☆) 74,193units 2.3, released in December 2017) for organizations to use when calculating greenhouse effect gas emissions generated throughout their supply chains. (Source: (exhaust gas emissions reduced 50% https://www.env.go.jp/earth/ondanka/supply_chain/gvc/files/tools/GuideLine_ver2.3.pdf) U-LEV compared with 2005 level☆☆☆) 8,995 units ＊4 CO2 emissions are calculated based on the Ministry of the Environment’s emission basic unit database (ver. 2.6, released in March 2019) for organizations Vehicles meeting 2005 exhaust gas (excluding SU-LEV, to use when calculating greenhouse effect gas emissions generated throughout their supply chains. (Source: https://www.env.go.jp/earth/ondanka/supply_ emission standards U-LEV) 96 units chain/gvc/files/tools/DB_V2-6.xlsx) ＊5 Category 8: Upstream leased assets, Category 13: Downstream leased assets are included in the greenhouse gas emissions in plants and offices. Clean diesel 75,866 units ＊6 Category 10: Processing of sold products is omitted because the emission volume is very small, Category 14: Franchises are omitted because Mazda has no franchise system. * Number of passenger vehicles shipped within Japan, excluding micro＊7 Category 15: Investments, for group companies, are included in the greenhouse gas emissions in plants and offices. minis and OEM vehicles ＊8 The total figure may not match the sum of the individual items due to rounding. ＊9 Figures assured by a third-party (see p. 133). ＊10 Including figures assured by a third-party (see p. 133). 82 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Period of Data Collection: FY March 2019 (April 2018–March 2019) Boundary of Data Collection Mazda Motor Corporation Hiroshima Head Office, Hiroshima Plant, Miyoshi Plant, Hofu Plant (Nishinoura district), Hofu Plant (Nakanoseki district), Tokyo Office, Osaka Fleet Sales Gr., Mazda R&D Center Yokohama, Hokkaido Kenbuchi Proving Ground, Hokkaido Nakasatsunai Proving Ground, Mine Proving Ground, Parts Centers (2 sites), Mazda Technical Service Centers (6 sites), Mazda Training Centers (2 sites), Mazda Saka Studio, Mazda Education Center, IT Solution Division (Ozu Building), Mazda Hospital Consolidated Group companies 22 domestic companies Manufacturing companies: Mazda Ace Co., Ltd., Mazda Logistics Co., Ltd., Kurashiki Kako Co., Ltd., Mazda Engineering & Technology Co., Ltd. Sales companies: Hakodate Mazda Co., Ltd., Tohoku Mazda Co., Ltd., Fukushima Mazda Co., Ltd., Kitakanto Mazda Co., Ltd., Koushin Mazda Co., Ltd., Kanto Mazda Co., Ltd., Shizuoka Mazda Co., Ltd., Tokai Mazda Sales Co., Ltd., Hokuriku Mazda Co., Ltd., Keiji Mazda Co., Ltd., Kansai Mazda Co., Ltd., Nishi-Shikoku Mazda Co., Ltd., Kyushu Mazda Co., Ltd., Minami-Kyushu Mazda Co., Ltd., Okinawa Mazda Sales Co., Ltd., Mazda Chuhan Co., Ltd., Mazda Motor International Parts sales company: Mazda Parts Co., Ltd. 15 overseas companies Mazda Motor of America, Inc., Mazda Canada, Inc., Mazda Motor Manufacturing de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Mazda Motors (Deutschland) GmbH, Mazda Motor Europe GmbH, Mazda Motors UK Ltd., Mazda Motor Russia, OOO, Mazda Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd., Mazda Australia Pty Ltd., Mazda Motors of New Zealand Ltd., Mazda de Colombia S.A.S, Mazda Powertrain Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Mazda Sales (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Mazda Motor (China) Co., Ltd., Mazda Motor Taiwan Co., Ltd. Equity-Method Group Companies 8 domestic companies Toyo Advanced Technologies Co., Ltd., Japan Climate Systems Corporation, Yoshiwa Kogyo Co., Ltd., Sanfrecce Hiroshima FC, Mazda Processing Chugoku Co., Ltd., SMM Auto Finance, Inc., MCM Energy Service Co., Ltd., Mazda Parts Sales Hiroshima Co., Ltd. 5 overseas companies Mazda Sollers Manufacturing Rus LLC, AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd., Changan Mazda Automobile Co., Ltd., Changan Ford Mazda Engines Co., Ltd., FAW Mazda Motor Sales Co., Ltd. 83 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 RESPECT FOR PEOPLE Mazda aims to be a company staffed by people who enjoy their work. To this end, the Company promotes personal development revolving the principles of the Mazda Way. Mazda also regards respect for human rights as fundamental to its corporate activities, and is actively and sincerely committed to human rights protection activities. CONTENTS 85 Initiatives with Employees 96 Human Rights CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects Continue to respect the diversity of employees. ① Held meetings (twice a year) aimed to formulate a plan for developing ① Continue and evolve training and effective successors of top management of Group companies, and implemented collective Continue to respect the diversity of employees. development of top management in each region. training and project work for successor candidates. ① Continue and evolve training and effective ② Steadily implement plans for training female ② Specified highly promising female candidates at the assistant manager level for development of top management in each region. ② Steadily implement plans for training female ①○ managers, toward achieving the target number of management positions in the future, and drew up individual development plans for them. ②○ Achieving of female managers.*1 Progress is continuously followed up by each division and the Personal managers, toward achieving the target number of 6.3 ③ Promote employment of people with special ③△ diversity Development Committee 2 (PDC2). (Number of female middle managers: 45; female managers.*1 Human rights needs, encourage employment of intellectually percentage of female managers [middle management and above]: 3.1%)*1 ③ Continue to promote employment of people with challenged people and expand their opportunities, ③Continued to actively promote employment of people with special needs, special needs, toward achieving the legally required toward achieving the legally required percentage of particularly intellectually challenged people (19 people were hired in FY March percentage of employees with special needs (2.2%) at employees with special needs (which was raised to 2019), and to expand their opportunities. However, the percentage of employees the earliest possible time.*1 2.2%.)*1 with special needs stood at 2.11%, falling short of the legally required percentage. Promote understanding of what Mazda’s unique human Strengthen initiatives to promote understanding of resources and organization should be, and strengthen brand value management and its practice, and check initiatives to take practical action to achieve the ideal state. ① Hold the MBLD#16 session themed on realizing the the progress of these initiatives. ① Hold the MBLD#15 session themed on the ① Held the MBLD#15 session in December 2018. ①○ ② Training for managers is scheduled to start in FY March 2020, after the program Human resource development of Mazda’s unique human resources and 6.4 ②○ implementation of brand value management practices. ② Start training for managers themed on what they development organizations. Labor practices ② Start training for managers to learn about what they contents are formulated. should implement, to achieve dual goals—jobs should be and to practice what they should do, toward (tasks) that lead to providing value to customers, and realizing the development of Mazda’s unique human improvement in the level of members’ job satisfaction.*1 resources and organizations. ・To increase business competitiveness, worked to realize flexible working styles, and improve the environment/measures to enable individual employees to work enjoyably (e.g., by making revisions to the vacation regulations and the flextime working system.) ・Almost all employees took at least the minimum number of paid vacation days per year (12 ○ Improve the quality of various measures for further Improve the quality of various measures for further 6.4 Work-life balance implementation of work-life balance.*1 implementation of work-life balance*1 Labor practices or more days) that was agreed between labor and management.*1 ・Increased both the rate and the average number of paid vacations: to 89%, up 1% from the previous year, to 17.1, up 0.2 days from the previous year.*1 ① Surveyed/identified dangerous or hazardous factors and then conducted activities to Promote activities based on the Safety and Health Promote activities based on the Safety and Health Management System. Management System. ① Continue risk assessment and improvement activities ① Continue to conduct risk assessment and improvement remove/reduce these factors, resulting in a 64% reduction in high-risk factors.*1 ② Conducted system auditing in all the targeted divisions, and shared the auditing results based on the assessment results.*1 ①○ activities based on the assessment results.*1 ② Continue system auditing and share best practices with ②○ ② Continue system auditing and share best practices with Occupational safety (improvements and best practices) with related divisions. 6.4 ③ Total injury frequency rate* : 0.32 (improved by 0.1 point from 2017, and ranked 2nd ③△ 2 and health Labor practices the related divisions. *1 the related divisions.*1 ③ Achieve Japan’s lowest-level workplace accident occurrence ③ Achieve Japan’s lowest-level workplace accident occurrence among 14 JAMA companies. However, one serious accident occurred.) Consolidated the results of workplace accident occurrence surveys of Group companies ratio, and consolidate the results of workplace accident ratio, and consolidate the results of workplace accident (production sites.) occurrence surveys of Group companies on a global basis. occurrence surveys of Group companies on a global basis. Maintain and improve sound labor relations through mutual Maintained and improved sound labor relations through mutual communication Maintain and improve sound labor relations through mutual ○ 6.4 Industrial relations respect and communication between labor and management between labor and management in Mazda Motor Corporation and in each region respect and communication between labor and management Labor practices at Mazda Motor Corporation and in each region. (resulting in no collective labor disputes.) at Mazda Motor Corporation and in each region. ① Continue to support international initiatives, ① Continued to clarify support for both declarations, in the Mazda Sustainability Report 2018. ① Continue to support international initiatives, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Continued efforts to realize the principles of the UN Global Compact, such as human rights protection. including the Universal Declaration of Human and the International Labour Organization (ILO) ② Executed the following activities as scheduled, to raise awareness of human rights*1: Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at ・As part of LGBT-related initiatives, held training by level and provided human rights miniDeclaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. lectures, and encouraged Group companies to use materials and manuals designed for Work, and the UN Global Compact. ② Encourage all divisions across the ○ ② Encourage all divisions across the Respect for human 6.3 Mazda’s human rights awareness raising activities. ・Held human rights lectures using an external program, for management twice. (Both rights Human rights Company, Group companies and suppliers to use Company, Group companies and suppliers to use materials and manuals of Mazda’s human rights lectures were themed on human rights issues specific to Japan.) materials and manuals of Mazda’s human rights awareness raising activities, for human rights meetings ・Held on-site training lectures at the entire Hiroshima Plant. awareness raising activities, for human rights meetings and training by level,*3 including the programs to ・Held a training program for department/group managers aimed at improving their and training by level,*3 including programs to understand LGBT issues. interpersonal skills. understand LGBT issues. Promoted human rights initiatives throughout the value chain, recognized the status of these initiatives, and conducted surveys of these initiatives, as planned. ・Applied Mazda materials for human rights meetings to Group companies, dealerships, and parts sales companies in Japan. ・Provided advance guidance to employees dispatched to overseas Group companies on local cultures and customs. Continue surveys and follow-up of the status of human ・Checked the expressions used to disseminate information inside and outside the ○ Continue surveys and follow-up of the status of human 6.3 Due diligence rights initiatives throughout the value chain. Company for human rights infringements. rights initiatives throughout the value chain. Human rights ・Responded to consultation requests from collaborating companies submitted to the Human Rights Counseling Desk. ・Introduced the way the Mazda Global Hotline is managed. ・Conducted a questionnaire survey and hearing of local suppliers, regarding the way the Human Rights Counseling Desk was being managed. Also, presented the management method of the Mazda Global Hotline to local suppliers. ＊1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation (FY March 2019 results, and FY March 2020 targets.) ＊2 Results between January and December 2018. Accident frequency, measured as the number of casualties per million person-hours worked. ＊3 Training programs for new recruits, mid-career hires, new band 5 (assistant manager level) and newly appointed managers. 84 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions INITIATIVES WITH EMPLOYEES Basic Approach to Human Resources Mazda recognizes that people are its most important resource and aims to be a company staffed by people who enjoy their work. To this end, the Company promotes human resources training based on the Mazda Way principles that are shared throughout the entire Mazda Group worldwide. Also, the Company has established Group-wide human resources policies and measures along with promotion of various initiatives. Mazda Way a a Seven Principles of the Mazda Way In FY March 2009, Mazda summarized seven basic principles and values handed down ■ INTEGRITY within the Company over time and defined these as the Mazda Way. In FY March 2017, We keep acting with integrity toward our examples of best work practices conducted within the Company were shared to encourage customers, society, and our own work. the implementation of such practices, in order to raise awareness of the Mazda Way in each ■ BASICS/FLAWLESS EXECUTION Mazda employee and promote related changes in behavior. Mazda continues to promote We devote ourselves to the basics, and measures to ensure that the Mazda Way can easily be put into practice by employees. make steady efforts in a step by step fashion. ■ CONTINUOUS KAIZEN Group-wide Human Resources Policies b We continue to improve with wisdom and ingenuity. Mazda engages in regular communication with Group companies worldwide, and each Group company is working together to create further opportunities for interaction among ■ CHALLENGER SPIRIT personnel and cultivate a climate based on a shared point of view. We set a high goal, and keep challenging to achieve it. Overseas Group companies have established a system to conduct management strongly rooted in local communities.*1 By appointing locally hired personnel as managers and ■ SELF INITIATIVE above, the Company makes global efforts to create a comfortable working environment We think and act with “self initiative.” tailored to the culture of each country and region. Mazda also implements human ■ TOMOIKU resources exchanges throughout the Group (short-term personnel exchange program), We learn and teach each other for our through the Global PDC (Global Personnel Development Committee) and other measures, mutual growth and success. to enable a diverse range of employees to succeed on the global stage regardless of their ■ ONE MAZDA country of origin or place of employment. We think and act with the view of “Global” Global Personnel Development Committee*2 and “One Mazda.” Mazda is aiming to provide mediumto long-term training for employees to become leaders in every field of global business and ensure their optimal positioning and performance. Top managements of Mazda Motor Corporation and its Group companies discuss and decide the development and exchange plan for individual personnel in these b Rate of employees by region (Consolidated) companies. 3% Short-term Personnel Exchange Program 3% This program is mainly designed for employees in mid-level positions, with the aim of 15% 79% developing human resources who can be immediately effective in global business settings. Suitable employees in the Head Office are exchanged with their counterparts in overseas regions to gain opportunities for overseas business experience for a short term (three to six months). (Total number of employees exchanged from FY March 2011, when the program commenced, to FY March 2019: 34) Regular Meetings with Human Resources Managers of Group Companies ■ Bimonthly regular meetings with overseas regions Japan North America* Europe Other regions ■ Annual global human resource meetings with the managements in charge of human ＊ Including Mexico resources of major overseas bases ■ Half-yearly meetings with domestic Group companies located on the premises of the Rate of locally hired personnel assigned Head Office (Hiroshima) to management-level* in overseas Group companies (Consolidated) Maintaining Global Employment and Recruitment Employment rate in FY March 2019 76% The Mazda Group conducts recruitment activities to employ the personnel suited to ＊ Executive officers/divisional general managers each country and region. Particularly production sites strive for the maintenance and management of appropriate employment, with an understanding that such practices have great impact on the local economies. In Japan, the Company has maintained the *1 Countries/regions where Mazda Group companies are production volumes and related employment at manufacturing sites in Hiroshima and located. Yamaguchi Prefectures. Overseas, each of the Group companies promotes employment *2 The Personal Development Committee (PDC) comprises four committees: PDC1 and Global PDC, which cover maintenance and recruitment activities tailored to the labor practices of each country/ personnel in domestic and overseas global companies; PDC2, which covers the personnel in middle management region. At the same time, initiatives are under way to improve the operation rate of plants of Mazda Motor Corporation; and PDC3, which covers in Mexico and Thailand, and to establish a new plant in the United States. employees of Mazda Motor Corporation excluding PDC1 and PDC2 level. 85 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Employee Data (as of March 31, 2019) (see p. 134) Realization of Diversity Number of Employees Average Average years of Mazda respects the diversity of its employees, and the Company aims to foster a corporate Production / Administrative / medical engineering age*3 employment*3 climate in which every employee can express his/her individuality while working alongside Nonconsolidated*1 Male 10,440 10,460 40.4 17.2 others to contribute to the Company and society. Mazda also works on a variety of Female 716 1,471 37.5 13.7 programs to enable its employees — a diverse range of people with different values and Total 23,087 40.2 16.9 lifestyles — to enjoy their work by finding a healthy balance between their work and personal lives. Consolidated* Total 2 49,998 ― ― Increasing the Employment and Range of Opportunities for Female Employees*1 ＊1 The “Non-consolidated” numbers exclude the number of employees dispatched to Mazda Motor Corporation from Through enhancement of measures promoting work-life balance and other initiatives, other companies, but include the number of Mazda Motor Corporation employees dispatched to other companies. Mazda is striving to cultivate a workplace in which women can work comfortably. ＊2 The “Consolidated” numbers exclude the number of Mazda Group employees dispatched to companies outside the The Company has set the goal of increasing the number of female middle managers Group, but include the number of employees dispatched and above to three times the figure as of March 31, 2014 by 2020. To achieve this to Mazda Group companies from outside the Group. ＊3 Exclude the number of employees hired under the Expert numerical target, Mazda has promoted initiatives according to voluntary action plans*2. Family system. (Non-consolidated) In 2016, the Company submitted these voluntary plans to the authority concerned as the FY March FY March FY March business owner’s action plans, based on the Act of Promotion of Women’s Participation 2017 2018 2019 Number of female and Advancement in the Workplace. As of March 2019, the number of female middle employees hired 133 170 200 managers and above has increased to more than twice the figure in FY March 2014. In the Number of female managers (assistant manager and above) 190 206 226 future, Mazda will continue to draw up and implement individual development plans for Number of female managers (middle management 36 42 45 female candidates for middle and above management positions and also further promote and above) Percentage of female managers*1 the opportunities for female employees, by improving training and promoting female (assistant manager and above) 4.6% 4.9% 5.3% employee recruitment. Percentage of female managers*2 (middle management 2.5% 2.9% 3.1% Employment for Those with Special Needs*1 and above) Number of male managers Mazda steadily and continuously recruits employees with special needs, considering that (middle management 1,419 1,405 1,404 and above) each employee can demonstrate his/her best performance. In support of a comfortable Number of workers aged 60 1,042 994 958 and over (Expert Family) working environment for employees with special needs, Mazda has established the Physical 2.03% 2.11% 2.11% Percentage of employees with (Legal rate: (Legal rate: (Legal rate: Challenge Support Desk for consultations. special needs*3 2.0%) 2.0%) 2.2%) In FY March 2016, the Company started to employ intellectually challenged people. Number of employees 303 324 337 with special needs*3 Mazda has employed two certified sign-language interpreters as regular employees, to further Average age of managers 52.0 52.2 52.2 ensure provision of information to people with hearing impairments (as of April 2019). Employee turnover rate*4*5 2.8% 3.1% 4.0% Number of new Male 449 448 479 In March 2014, the Company was certified as an Ai Support Company/Organization under graduates hired (University, college the Ai Support campaign*3, by Hiroshima Prefecture. Mazda participates in this campaign and high school Female 77 94 112 graduates) with the aim of helping realize a society where all people can live in harmony and in ＊1 Number of female managers (assistant manager and above)/ comfort, regardless of whether they are with or without special needs. The Company has also Number of managers (assistant manager and above) ＊2 Number of female managers (middle management and above)/ registered itself with the “special support school employment support unit Hiroshima” *4 to carry Number of managers (middle management and above) ＊3 Average number in each fiscal year out the internship program for intellectually challenged students, as part of its collaboration ＊4 Exclude the number of employees hired under the Expert Family with the local community to promote employment of people with special needs. ＊5 The employee turnover rate increased because the Company actively accepted people from overseas Group companies and Many employees with special needs have been recognized as Excellent Workers with suppliers as temporary employees, to provide them with training and opportunities (these temporary employees, after leaving Mazda, Disabilities by the Japan Organization for Employment of the Elderly, Persons with returned to their original workplaces). The employee turnover rates excluding those dispatched to Mazda from other companies are as Disabilities and Job Seekers. follows: 2.6% in FY March 2017, 2.6% in FY March 2018, and 3.0% Promoting Re-Employment of the Elderly, and Passing on Expertise, Skills, and Know-How*1 in FY March 2019. Mazda is actively re-employing retired former employees to help them share their Global rate of female middle managers and above expertise, skills, and know-how with younger employees. (Consolidated) Efforts are being made to create a work environment that is fulfilling yet able to balance work and FY March 2019 6.6% personal life through measures such as reduced work hours and shorter days. Starting in FY March 2014, Mazda has introduced a system to ensure the continued employment Percentage of female new graduates hired (Nonof all post-retirement employees who wish to continue working, in response to the revised Act on (from FY March 2018 to FY March 2020) consolidated) Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons, which took effect in April 2013. FY March 2018 FY March 2019 FY March 2020 Administrative 37% 42% 56% Systems to Enable Limited-Term Employees in Manufacturing Operations to Become Engineering 15% 15% 12% Fulltime Employees and Mazda Workers’ Union Members*1 Production 11% 12% 13% Mazda is implementing ongoing measures toward the achievement of a workplace in which limited-term employees can feel fulfilled with their work. Subject to independent third-party assurance A system has been put in place for limited-term employees who have worked for one year *1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation *2 “Mazda Promoting Active Participation of Female Employees” or more at Mazda in becoming full-time employees. https://www2.mazda.com/en/csr/csr_vision/employee/ pdf/diversity.pdf In addition, limited-term employees who have worked for six months or more and had *3 “Ai” is Love in English. The Ai Support campaign is intended their contracts renewed can become members of the Mazda Workers’ Union. to certify companies and organizations that recommend their employees to read the textbook “Let’s Learn about and Through these and other initiatives, the Company is cultivating a sense of oneness among Live with People with Special Needs,” and to participate in Ai Supporter training programs. employees with different employment styles as it aims to cultivate a vibrant environment *4 A program to promote the employment of special school students through collaboration between local companies where employees can enjoy their work. and Hiroshima Prefecture. 86 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Global Employee Survey c c Examples of Improvement Measures at Workplaces Based on Survey Results Mazda has conducted employee surveys on a continual basis. These surveys ■ Organizing divisional town hall meetings are intended to identify employees’ work motivation and the conditions in the (for explanation of strategies/policies and environment supporting such motivation, and the results are used to make further holding discussions) and meetings with senior management improvements. ■ Promoting idea sharing and strengthening The survey results are reported to top managements of Mazda and its Group teamwork by activating small-group activities companies at home and abroad, and the major contents are disclosed to employees. The results for each division/company are fed back to its management-level members, who are thereby encouraged to develop improvement plans as part of the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. To more accurately grasp the state of human resources and organizations that contribute to the realization of its corporate vision, Mazda revised the survey items in FY March 2018. The revised survey was commenced in May 2018. Percentage of Positive Responses in Global Employee Survey Results (Consolidated) FY March 2019 I feel inspired/driven to achieve more than what is expected of me. 66% I understand my role in helping the company be successful. 64% I propose and implement new or better ways of working that enable me to deliver Mazda's brand 45% philosophy and vision Best Match of People, Work and Rewards d e d Average yearly salary (Non-consolidated) FY March 2017 FY March 2018 FY March 2019 Mazda has put in place a system to ensure that each employee understands their Total 6,846,000 yen 6,803,000 yen 6,769,000 yen work evaluation results and ability level assessments, and feels that their growth and performance are appropriately reflected in their compensation. Specifically, e Average salary by gender since 2003, instead of using gender, age, nationality, or years of service as criteria, (Non-consolidated, in April 2019) Male Female employees are graded according to their ability level (production and medical Middle management and 644,358 yen 580,986 yen staff) and work level (administrative and engineering staff), so that individual above positions General employees 308,422 yen 290,278 yen employee’s performances are directly reflected in their base salaries and bonuses. In wage determination, Mazda is not only in compliance with local laws and regulations in each region both in Japan and overseas, but also taking industry standards into consideration. Creating a Working Environment that Enables Each Employee’s Successful Performance Mazda strives to create a working environment where each employee can continue to proactively work and succeed. Specifically, the Company promotes the introduction of a system that encourages flexible and diverse work styles, reduction of working (overtime) hours through the effective use of information technology, and development of career plans for employees’ continued success. In FY March 2019, as a measure to promote diverse work styles, Mazda made a trial of a satellite office (telework) system. For these initiatives, Mazda won the Award of Excellence of the 1st Platinum Career Award.*1 *1 The Platinum Career Award, hosted by Toyo Keizai Inc, recognizes enterprises that support their employees in developing and pursuing the “platinum career.” The award winners are selected from three viewpoints: longterm perspectives, autonomous learning, and social contributions. 87 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Choice and Self-Accomplishment f f Education/training results in FY March 2019 (Non-consolidated) Mazda provides various opportunities for employees to take the initiative in Average days of training per person 8.7 days/year setting their own growth and performance goals and doing their best to achieve Average training cost per person 137,500 yen/year them, so that ultimately, such efforts will bring great results to the Company. Number of employees that 19,600 employees/year received training Mazda offers a range of education and training programs to assist employees in developing their careers and improving their skills according to their job types and positions. These programs are for Mazda and its Group companies in Japan and overseas to manufacture and sell products of the same quality in all countries and regions, by sharing the same objectives. Major Education and Training Programs Name of Duration, education and frequency, Target Objective Content of training Remarks training program etc. ・To communicate the intention of the Regarding management issues and top management the future direction of the Company, ・To cultivate business leaders at all Mazda All Group message from the management team is Commenced in 2000. Since FY March 2013, the program Business Leader Once a year employees in Japan levels who have a company-wide delivered. The understanding and the has been annually implemented on the theme of “Brand Development and overseas perspective future execution of the message through Value Management.” ・To reform the corporate culture and (MBLD) active participation by all employees is climate promoted To hone skills in areas including Employees selected leadership, broadness of vision, and The program features practical activities Global Business from Mazda Group the ability to think strategically, and such as communication with top As needed Inaugurated in FY March 2016 Leader Program companies around train the next generation of business business leaders and engagement as a the world operators to take the lead in global team on management issues business Human Resource Management and ・Management training ・Supervisor education program To provide basic training by level ー Development at production staff at ・Technical skills training As needed to employees working at overseas Global overseas production ・Karakuri Kaizen training production sites Production Sites sites ･Training for new employees ･Training for third-year employees ･Training for band 6 employees ･Training for managers and team leaders To encourage employees to reconfirm ･Training for general managers Administrative and their roles at each level, and consider Training by level*1 As needed engineering how they can help improve the ー Each training program is designed to staff*1 organizational strength of the promote changes in the employees’ Company ways of thinking, through group discussion among members from different departments. Newly appointed To develop trainees’ awareness and When senior managers, sense of responsibility as managers and Mazda Way, CSR, compliance, internal ー Management skill newly new band 5 urge them to acquire a companywide controls, personnel management, human training*1 appointed employees (assistant perspective, thereby altering their rights, safety and health, etc. manager level)*1 mindset toward their own roles To develop trainees’ abilities to recognize ･Super leader training ･Senior leader training Foreman/Assistant Production and resolve problems, management ･Team leader training ー Foreman/ Leader Training As needed improvement skills, and leadership ･Junior leader training Team Leader Program*1 capabilities and other skills required to candidates*1 work as a leader at each level ･Systematic training of young Selected employees Results of FY March 2019 WorldSkills engineers ･Training participants to compete Two in the production Employees are trained in special skills Gold, silver and bronze medals in Sheet Metal Competition years /12 field who are under so as to participate in the WorldSkills Technology 1 of each Training in the regional, national and employees 21 years old*1 competition Bronze medal in Car Painting 1 Program*1 international WorldSkills Bronze medal in Autobody Repair 1 competitions ･During the two-year program, one Cumulative Results since 1996 Advanced To preserve the advanced technical expert trains two apprentices Number of employees completing the course 129 Technical Selected highly skills necessary for manufacturing and ･After completing the course, the expert Production Engineering Meisters 61 As needed Skills Training skilled employees*1 hand them down from one generation is awarded the title of Production Hiroshima Prefecture award winning skilled workers 16 course*1*2 of craftspeople to the next Engineering Meister and receive the Contemporary Master Craftspeople 15 Meister Badge Medal with Yellow Ribbon recipients 15 ･To train technicians to compete in the Inaugurated in 1982 (Figures below are the Welding regional and national competitions Specialized training is conducted with the ･To promote the growth of individual cumulative numbers) Skills Training As needed Welding technicians goal of sending welding technicians to National competition winners 9 Program*1 technicians, pass on skills within complete in the national championships Prize recipients 37 Mazda and raise standards ＊1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation ＊2 Twenty-four courses comprising skills to pass on to new engineers are available in 13 fields: iron and casting, die casting, casting, powder alloys, heat treatment, machining, engine assembly, axle assembly, transmission assembly, press, chassis, painting, and vehicle assembly 88 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Human Resources System to Provide Appropriate Jobs and Environments*1 Mazda uses the Tobiuo Human Resources System to provide the appropriate jobs and environments where each employee can demonstrate their best performance and to support their development and success. Specifically, a wide variety of human resource measures are actively deployed based on the system’s three pillars of “Choice and Self-Accomplishment,” “Promote Balance between Work and Life,” and “Best Match of People, Work and Rewards.” The Three Pillars of Tobiuo Employee success Mazda success development and realization of the performance of each employee corporate vision Choice and Self-Accomplishment There is the opportunity People are able to show their to choose jobs or initiative as they are matched with environments where I can positions that suit their abilities, fully display my abilities. and thus produce results. Promote Balance Between Work and Life I can have a very The energetic spirit of productive day every day, employees is reflected in their actively enjoying both work and products, allowing work and play. customers to truly feel the brand (power) of Mazda. Best Match of People, Work and Rewards My contribution is fairly Active players can be and directly reflected when rewarded according to the rewards are determined. level of their contribution. Career Meetings*1 g g At Mazda, opportunities for formal communication are provided for all employees Main Themes of Career Meetings through one-on-one career meetings between supervisors and their staff, held Discussions to encourage personal four times a year. The things that employees should do, the specific targets and development: broad goals expected by supervisors are combined with the employees’ personal Confirm vision of future upon accomplishment of goals, determine abilities to refine through goals as well as the things they hope to, and can achieve, enabling supervisors work and activities to undertake, monitor rate of improvement and their staff to understand each other and proceed to set common half-yearly targets. In light of these targets, they also reflect on their work accomplishments Discussions to encourage performance: to clarify the issues to be addressed and set the next targets. Through these Determine work-related targets, confirm progress toward meeting targets, share present activities, employees’ successful performance in the next half of the year and their and future issues further personal development are encouraged. Furthermore, the feedback on the Ratio of career meetings held competency evaluation results are utilized to help employees review their own FY March 2019 work attitude and behavior, in order to facilitate their personal development. 90.8% of all applicable employees Competency Evaluation System*1 Once a year, Mazda carries out a competency evaluation, through which the work attitude and behavior of administrative and engineering staff are evaluated. Based on the seven principles of the Mazda Way, a subjective evaluation is carried out to assess the work attitude and behavior that individual employees are expected to improve (competency evaluation items), from the employees’ own perspectives and from the perspectives of their supervisors, and for managers and above, also from the perspective of subordinates/colleagues/partner companies (multidimensional feedback). Feedback on the evaluation results is given to employees by supervisors at the career meetings, at which they discuss future issues to be addressed. The competency evaluation system is used as an effective tool for supporting employees’ personal development and successful performance. The evaluation results are used as a reference for effective company-wide positioning of personnel. *1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation 89 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions OJT Coach System*1 Mazda has introduced the OJT (on-the-job-training) coach system for all new employees in administrative and engineering positions since FY March 2012. Typically a senior employee who shares a workplace with the new hire is assigned as an OJT coach providing the job related advices to each new hire. The purposes of this system are to train new employees, foster the coach’s growth, and energize the workplace. Career Challenge (In-House Recruitment / FA) System*1 h h As part of the Career Challenge System (for employees’ career development In-house recruitment assistance), an in-house recruitment system has been implemented. Briefing A system where the Company releases details on occupational experience and skill sessions on in-house recruitment are held, attracting many participants who requirements for the specific assignments so considered applications for the system. They actively exchange information with that the appropriate employees are able to apply for a particular job the personnel from various departments that called for applicants for specific FA (Free Agent) System assignments. Each time applications are invited, there are a large number of A system where employees release their applicants. Mazda will continue to periodically implement this system to provide abilities and career history via the FA Declaration in order to challenge the job in employees with an opportunity to think about their own career development. a different field of work or department using their accumulated skills and experience Mazda Technical College (Two-Year Course)*1 Mazda Technical College, approved by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, is an in-house education institution offering courses to high school graduates and selected employees in order to cultivate human resources that can play a central role in manufacturing at Mazda. Those who complete the two-year program are assigned to production and manufacturing related divisions, and thrive at various manufacturing sites and in a range of situations. ■ Number of present students: 104 (as of April 1, 2019)*2 ■ Total number of graduates (among present employees): 1,539 (from April 1988 to March 2019) Promotion of Work-Life Balance*1 Mazda is working on a variety of programs to enable its employees — a diverse range of people with different values and lifestyles — to enjoy their work and find a healthy balance between their work and personal lives. To promote understanding of various measures to help employees achieve a better life-work balance (see p. 91), the Company provides explanations in management skills training programs, and in the section “Compass for Work and Rewards of Employees” on the Intranet about support measures designed for each life event. *1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation *2 Including 15 students from Group companies 90 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Major Measures to Promote Work-Life Balance and Diversity in the Workplace (Non-Consolidated) System Description (as of March 31, 2019) Started FY March 2017 FY March 2018 FY March 2019 This system allows female employees who are pregnant and have difficulty Maternal care paid Aug. 47 beneficiaries 36 beneficiaries 32 beneficiaries performing their duties due to morning sickness or other feelings of leave 2008 (845 days) (825 days) (691 days) discomfort to take paid leave for the necessary amount of time. 2,474 days (546 beneficiaries) 2,164 days (481 beneficiaries) 2,212 days (481 beneficiaries) Including 30 Including 35 Including 34 non-regular employees non-regular employees non-regular employees Child-rearing paid This system allows employees to take up to five consecutive working days off, Aug. 1 Male: 1,876 days Male: 1,742 days Male: 1,823 days leave following childbirth or for child-rearing. 2008* (429 beneficiaries) (394 beneficiaries) (402 beneficiaries) Female: 598 days Female: 422 days Female: 389 days (117 beneficiaries) (87 beneficiaries) (79 beneficiaries) 300 beneficiaries 269 beneficiaries 253 beneficiaries (including 14 male) (including 13 male) (including 17 male) This system supports unpaid leave for child-rearing for children up to 3 years Jan. Rate of reinstatement after Rate of reinstatement after Rate of reinstatement after Child-rearing leave old. It is possible to take leave in installments. (Legal requirement: Up to one 1991 childrearing leave: 98% childrearing leave: 98% childrearing leave: 99% year old.) Rate of retention one-year Rate of retention one-year Rate of retention one-year after childrearing leave: 85% after childrearing leave: 96% after childrearing leave: 95% This system allows employees with eligible family members requiring nursing Jan. 2 beneficiaries 11 beneficiaries 14 beneficiaries Nursing care leave care to take a leave of absence (maximum length of 1 year). (Legal requirement: 1992 (including 1 male) (including 5 male) (including 9 male) up to total of 93 days per eligible family member.) Special working This system allows employees involved with nursing or childrearing (until Employees with reduced Employees with reduced Employees with reduced arrangements for end of child’s sixth year of primary school) to reduce work hours, be excused Apr. working hours working hours working hours employees involved from overtime and holiday work, etc. (Legal requirement regarding work hour 1999 For child-rearing: 369 For child-rearing: 392 For child-rearing: 445 with child-rearing reduction: until the child reaches 3 years old.) For nursing care: 6 For nursing care: 8 For nursing care: 18 or nursing This system enables employees to perform up to 25% of their work hours at Work-at-home Aug. home for the purpose of childrearing or nursing care, or when working at home 149 beneficiaries 265 beneficiaries 766 beneficiaries*2 system 2008 will raise work efficiency. A paid-leave system covers nursing care for relatives, volunteer work, functions at one’s child’s school, and infertility treatment 503 beneficiaries 769 beneficiaries 1,017 beneficiaries “Volunteer work” here refers to the following: (2,598 days) (3,051 days) (4,391 days)*2 ・Social welfare (welfare services for children, for elderly people and for people Male: 229 beneficiaries Male: 448 beneficiaries Male: 655 beneficiaries with disabilities, etc.) (1,593 days) (1,476 days) (2,334 days) ・Environmental protection (forest preservation, recycling activities, etc.) Female: 274 beneficiaries Female: 321 beneficiaries Female: 362 beneficiaries ・Interaction and cooperation with communities (participation in community (1,005 days) (1,575 days) (2,057 days) events, support for activities of children’s associations, crime prevention activities, For nursing care for For nursing care for For nursing care for Special Warm etc.) Aug. relatives relatives relatives Heart leave system ・International friendship activities (welcoming home stay guests, interpretation 2008*1 377 beneficiaries 411 beneficiaries 552 beneficiaries service, etc.) (1,786 days) (1,758 days) (2,238 days) ・Health and medical volunteering (health care instructions, donor activities, etc.) Including 30 non-regular Including 34 non-regular Including 48 non-regular ・Disaster relief employees employees employees ・Acquisition of qualifications, skills and knowledge that are useful in volunteer Male: 165 beneficiaries Male: 158 beneficiaries Male: 256 beneficiaries activities (780 days) (724 days) (1,270 days) ・Support for sports activities (sports coaching, organizing sports events, etc.) Female: 212 beneficiaries Female: 253 beneficiaries Female: 296 beneficiaries * Note that activities related to specific political and religious beliefs are not (1,006 days) (1,034 days) (978 days) included in volunteer work. Onsite daycare This daycare center was established for employees’ children who have not yet Apr. center:Mazda entered school. A permanently stationed nurse is available to look after children Preschoolers: 47 Preschoolers: 47 Preschoolers: 47 2002 Waku Waku Kids En who become ill. In order to increase future career potential, employees can use this Challenging Career Oct. system to take leave for up to three years while attending a school or 2 beneficiaries 2 beneficiaries 1 beneficiary leave 2003 other training facilities. Leave for employees This system allows employees to take a fixed-term leave in order to accompany accompanying a Oct. a spouse who has been transferred, allowing the employee to resume their 22 beneficiaries 15 beneficiaries 18 beneficiaries transferred family 2003 career at Mazda later on. member This system provides an opportunity for former Mazda employees who left Re-employment Aug. the Company due to marriage, child-rearing, nursing care, or other reasons to 4 registrants 2 registrants 2 registrants Systems 2008 return to work if they desire. This system enables interested individuals who meet a certain standard of Expert Family abilities and experience to be rehired as engineers, advisors to younger engineers (to Apr. 201 hires 180 hires 205 hires System pass on their knowledge), specialists or in other positions following their 2006 retirement at the mandatory retirement age. Super-Flextime This system was introduced to maximize results by supporting a balance Used at 80% of Used at 80% of Used at 80% of Working System between each employee’s private life and working life. Under this flextime Oct. administrative and administrative and administrative and (with no set core working system, the employees can setup days of not showing up to their 2000 engineering field workplaces engineering field workplaces engineering field workplaces working hours) workplace. By streamlining operations, the Company has reduced the long working hours for divisions not directly connected with production. Examples of this initiative Go Home Early Sep. include no-overtime days and setting mandatory lights-out times. (Information Ongoing Ongoing Ongoing Campaign 2007 about the overtime hours is reported back to management of each division, once in three months to implement the PDCA cycle.) － － － Paid Leave for JICA Employees participating in Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Apr. Activities volunteer activities are entitled to take paid leave for these activities. 2007 This is a selective benefit system. Individual employees can seek the type of Mazda Flex assistance that most suits them by choosing from a number of preset benefit Oct. All employees All employees All employees Benefit System options within the points they have. Livelihood support, capacity development, 2001 childrearing, nursing care, social contributions, hobbies, etc. Benefit program to As part of the Mazda Flex Benefit System, employees can apply their points support employees’ toward compensation for the costs incurred during volunteer activities they Oct. 19 instances 14 instances 12 instances environmental perform. This system is also extended to employees who take a leave of absence 2001 415,800 yen 201,800 yen 297,500 yen protection and social to participate in JICA activities. contribution activities Labor and management cooperate to streamline and standardize work Rate of vacation day use: Rate of vacation day use: Rate of vacation day use: Promotion of processes, helping to create an environment in which employees take the 86% 88% 89% planned use of Ongoing initiative in planning for and using their paid vacation days (vacation may be Average of vacation days Average of vacation days Average of vacation days paid leave taken in 0.5 day increments). taken: 16.5 days taken: 16.9 days taken: 17.1 days ＊1 Operated under a different system before August 2008. ＊2 The number of beneficiaries increased following the heavy rain in July 2018. 91 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Mazda Mutual Aid Union*1 The Mazda Mutual Aid Union has its foundations in the spirit of mutual assistance for all members*2. Funded by mutual membership fees (from both members and the Company) as well as special contributions from the Company, this organization provides a range of assistance to its members and their families. Marriage and Childbirth Support ■ Payments of gift money for marriage and childbirth ¥15,000 is paid upon marriage, and ¥5,000 per child is paid upon childbirth Long-Term Care Support ■ Long-term care leave payments ¥30,000/month will be paid to members who take leave under the long-term care leave system (If payment continues for more than three months, ¥100,000/month will be paid for the months after first three months) ■ Family long-term care relief payments ¥50,000/year will be paid to members whose dependent, or child who has not yet reached the first March 31 after his/her eighteenth birthday, is in a state requiring long-term care (as defined by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) for a continuous period of one year or more Education Support ■ Payment of subsidies for raising disabled children ¥50,000/year will be paid in support of child development to members whose child possess a grade 2 disability or higher Support During Disasters, etc. ■ Payments of money as condolence following a disaster Up to ¥160,000 will be paid in condolence if a member or his/her parents’ home is adversely affected by a disaster Other Support ■ Injury/sickness leave payments, long-term medical relief payments, and injury/sickness leave special payments ¥5,000 will be paid each time a member takes leave of one month or more for injury or sickness ¥30,000/month will be paid for a long-term (three months or more) period of leave (if longterm leave results in the member not receiving his/her bonus the member will receive a special payment of up to ¥100,000) ■ Financial aid for advanced medical treatment ■ Monetary condolence gifts and farewell gifts, financial support for survivor’s pensions funds and scholarship pension funds, etc. Industrial Relations Mazda has a standing labor agreement with the Mazda Workers’ Union.*3 The Company build relationships in which everyone thinks and works together with the Union to build environment contributing to all stakeholders. The Company and the Union held discussion on such themes as personnel affairs, production and sales once or twice a month. A discussion with the Mazda Workers’ Union is also held regarding operation changes which may have a significant impact. The information about operation changes should be shared with employees with sufficient lead time. Moreover, various measures for discussion with labor are ready in entire Mazda Group to maintain and develop positive labor relations. ■ Group companies in Japan Regularly exchanges information and engages in active discussions with the Federation of All Mazda Workers’ Unions. ■ Group companies oversea Measures for discussion with labor are ready based on the labor practices in each country and region. *1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation (There was no collective labor dispute in FY March 2019.) *2 Executives and regular employees, as well as those approved by the governing board *3 Membership is around 90% of Mazda employees. 92 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Occupational Safety and Health i i Safety and Health Creed / Three-Year Plan “One Mazda Movement for an Enjoyable Under its Safety and Health Creed, Mazda is proactively working to develop people, Workplace” workplaces, and mechanisms that ensure the safety and health of the employees. In FY March 2017, Mazda launched a new three-year plan and globally promoted allSafety and Health Creed participating-type activities under the three pillars that support the realization of a For workers, safety and health are essential assets. proactive and enjoyable workplace. The Company believes that it will help invigorate Our people are our most valuable resource, and we are committed to keeping them safe. employees and improve their work performance, also leading to the fulfillment of Mazda’s Corporate Vision. One Mazda Movement for an Enjoyable Workplace General Safety and Health Committee The Three-Year Plan Mazda has established the General Safety and Health Committee, whose members include Policy: Realize a proactive and enjoyable workplace* by accomplishing safety and health management (executive officer in charge of safety, general managers of each division and activities initiated by individuals and divisions. independent department) and labor representatives (Mazda Workers’ Union*1 leaders). Slogan: Safety and health first in One Mazda, The committee members meet to discuss each year’s action plan and priority measures 24 hours a day concerning safety and health. Based on the decision made by the committee, division/ Three pillars of activities independent department general managers take the lead in promoting occupational 1) Development of human resources with safety and health activities taking into account the work characteristics and risks of each heightened sensitivity workplace. For Group companies in Japan and overseas, the committee shares information 2) Realization of a safe, secure and comfortable on its activities, observes and provides guidance to each workplace, and supports working environment education activities, etc. 3) Activities on a global basis ＊ Proactive and enjoyable workplace: A workplace where intensive problem-solving activities are implemented, Coordination with Overseas Group Companies j taking into account the division’s characteristics, and where individual employees work as a team harmoniously led by their manager, so that individual employees and the Mazda steadily promoted fostering people and improving workplaces that emphasize safety organization are both invigorated. and health across the Mazda Group through sharing safety and health management methods with oversea Group companies considering the laws and regulations as well as labor practices j Global lost-time injury frequency rate* of the countries and regions. During the three years from 2016 to 2018, Mazda supported FY March 2019 0.13 each local site according to its level of safety and health activities, with the aim of facilitating work standardization. In addition, initiatives started to manage the injury frequency rate for ＊ Lost-time injury frequency rate: The number of lost-time accidents per million person-hours the entire Mazda Group. The Company will continue to provide global support and establish worked. Scope of data collection: Mazda Motor Corporation, eight a system that enables mutual learning between its Group companies, while strengthening Group companies in Japan, and five overseas production exchange among production sites and encouraging each local site to make self-reliant efforts sites (Subsidiaries and equity-method Group companies that promote safety and health initiatives are included in the to develop people and workplaces that focus on safety and health. scope of data collection.) Safety and Health Management System (SMS) k Injury Frequency Rate (see p. 134) (Non-consolidated) 0.6 Mazda implements voluntary and continuous safety and hygiene management through its Safety and Health Management System. This system reduces the potential risks for work0.50 related accidents and enhances overall levels of safety and hygiene standards. 0.5 0.46 Contents of the Management System Initiative 0.40 Mazda performs risk assessments to prevent accidents before they happen. The Company 0.4 also carries out internal audits for all applicable divisions and departments to investigate 0.31 and evaluate the management system, as part of the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. 0.3 Risk Assessments Since FY March 2006, Mazda has conducted risk assessments at all facilities to determine potential dangers and risks in manufacturing, product development, administration, office 0.2 0.18 operations and other processes, in order to determine suitable countermeasures. Through 0.11 these efforts the Company reviews and identifies risks each year, improving the level of 0.08 0.08 0.1 workplace safety. 0.06 0.06 Since FY March 2016, Mazda has been developing a mechanism for risk evaluation based on the status of use and harmful effects of chemical substances and the system to prevent diseases 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 caused by chemical substances by introducing risk assessment of chemical substances. (Years ended March 31) Safety Record (Injury Frequency Rate) in FY March 2019 k Total injury frequency rate Lost-time injury frequency rate In FY March 2019, Mazda saw a significant decrease in the injury frequency rate, from the Total injury frequency rate: previous year. The decrease is mainly attributable to a reduction in the number of routine The number of lost-time and non-lost-time accidents in Mazda Motor Corporation per million person-hours worked. work accidents, achieved through steady safety efforts to counteract the increasing trend Lost-time injury frequency rate: in the rate that continued until the previous year. Specifically, managers and supervisors The number of lost-time accidents in Mazda Motor Corporation constantly confirmed the safety of their workplaces at a set time every week, in keeping per million person-hours worked. with the on-site and real thing philosophy. Unfortunately, however, in October 2018, a fatal accident occurred in which an employee was injured by being caught between a forklift and logistic materials, and passed away. Taking this accident seriously, Mazda is swiftly implementing measures to ensure safer cargo Subject to independent third-party assurance *1 Membership is around 90% of Mazda employees. handling operations company-wide. 93 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Education and Training Concerning Occupational Safety and Health l l Contents of Education and Training Programs Concerning Occupational Safety and Health (FY March 2019) To develop human resources with heightened sensitivity toward occupational safety (Non-consolidated) and health, which is one of the three pillars of its activities, Mazda strives to improve Contents Number of training participants safety and health education and training. In FY March 2019, the Company offered 2,302 Safety and health training prescribed (including 531 employees opportunities to share accident examples and realize the reported risks by the Occupational Safety and from Group Health Law companies and as their own issue, by combining the conventional safety education seminars*1 suppliers) Training for achieving zero accidents and risk simulation training.*2 Mazda also supports Group companies in Japan and (prediction trainer training, etc.) 462 overseas, suppliers (Toyukai Cooperative Union* ), and collaborating companies 3 Capacity-building training for dangerous or hazardous work within the Company premises in conducting education and training programs on engaged persons 1,095 (forklift operation, etc.) safety and health, in order to create safer workplaces across the Mazda Group. Training  for safety and health managerial and supervisory personnel 139 (for newly appointed personnel) Mental Health Measures*4 Practical first aid training (including AED use) 1,476 In 2003, Mazda declared its commitment to active cooperation between labor and m Number of Participants in Mental Health management to promote employees’ mental health in the Warm Heart Declaration, Training (Non-consolidated) and formulated the Mazda Warm Heart Plan. In 2007, labor and management, FY March FY March FY March 2017 2018 2019 including managements, respective divisions, Company doctors and occupational Training for newly 190 152 177 appointed managers health nurses, and the Mazda Worker’s Union, cooperated to establish the Mental Training for managers 92 196 39 Health Project and construct a Company-wide support system. (advanced) Consultation System Training for third-year employees 107 247 217 Mazda has established a system to provide consultations by Company doctors (Self-care seminar) Training by division and health advisors. Not only for employees at Mazda Head Office, but also for (at the division’s 357 653 945 request) employees dispatched to other companies in Japan and overseas, the Company offers on-site healthcare consultations, and consultations via video-conference n Vitality Checkups (Investigation of system to support their health maintenance. Occupational Stress and Diagnosis of the Organization’s Comprehensive Health Education and Training m Degree) (Non-consolidated) Mazda holds “listening skills, coaching and assertion training” and “advanced training FY March FY March FY March 2017 2018 2019 based on case studies” targeting newly appointed managers, and self-care training Comprehensive health 94 90 90 risk*1 targeting third-year employees, on a regular basis. The Company also offers training Comprehensive health degree of the 52.3 52.8 52.4 by division on demand of the workplace. In addition, information is periodically organization*2 ＊1 An indicator of health effect (risk), based on workload/ provided to managers regarding the important points of mental health measures. discretion/support conditions. The above figures are calculated assuming the national System for Supporting Employees Returning to Work average value (announced by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) to be 100. (A smaller value indicates a smaller The Company is also making efforts to support employees who have taken time risk.) ＊2 An indicator of the organization’s current health degree, off from work not to be absence again by improving measures to support them based on the stress response and work engagement. Expressed as a deviation value. in getting back to work. The measures are such as the reduce work hour system, a system of allowing them to return to workplaces on a trial basis, and follow-up *1 The seminars feature panel exhibitions showing Mazda’s consultations after their reinstatement. safety chronology that summarizes past serious accident cases and safety activities that Mazda implemented so far, Vitality Checkups (Investigation of Occupational Stress and Diagnosis of the to help employees reflect on the Company’s safety activities Organization’s Comprehensive Health Degree) n and past accidents, raise their awareness and obtain new knowledge, which will be helpful to safety management in the future. Prior to the legislation requiring companies to implement the stress check system *2 The training is intended to improve employees’ sensitivity toward risk, through simulations of various potential risks in (that came into effect in December 2015), in 2008 Mazda introduced occupational their workplaces. *3 The Toyukai Cooperative Union consists of 62 vehicle parts stress diagnoses known as “vitality checkups” for employees to reveal individual and and equipment companies that are direct or indirect trading partners with Mazda, and is a union organization that organization-level risks. Employees use the results of individual diagnoses to grasp actively engages in initiatives with a constant awareness of the need to put “quality first.” It was founded in 1952 by and manage their own health conditions. The result for organization-level is shared Mazda and 20 collaborating companies that have trading relationships with the Company, with the aim of promoting with the respective divisions. Based on the results of these diagnoses, each division friendly relations among members and improving welfare, as well as developing a system for cooperating with Mazda. promotes the complete checkups for workplaces*5 which will facilitate workplace The Company offers advice and support to this group from a safety viewpoint by introducing safety information and improvements to prevent mental health problems. In FY March 2016, Mazda inviting safety training provided by Mazda. *4 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation introduced the diagnosis of the organization’s comprehensive health degree, aiming *5 Activities in which all members of a workplace participate to identify points needing improvements and make proposals to assess the organizational productivity and human productivity based on the for improvements, and assess their working environment from a broad perspective, thereby improving it by using clear results of management and employees’ engagement surveys. and simple procedures. Implemented since FY March 2017. 94 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Measures to Prevent Lifestyle-Related Diseases*1 o o Data on Measures to Prevent LifestyleRelated Diseases (Non-consolidated) To alleviate and prevent lifestyle-related diseases, including metabolic syndrome, Mazda FY March FY March FY March carries out various activities, such as non-smoking measures, promotion of walking, and 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of employees holding seminars on these themes. Nonwho smoke 29.9% 29.2% 29.2% smoking Promotion of Non-Smoking Measures promotion Number of employees receiving nicotine patches 18 9 9 Mazda has set a long-term target of reducing the percentage of smokers in the Company to activities /guidance 25%. To achieve this target, Mazda offers full individual support and promotes a nonsmokerNumber of participants friendly environment. A Company-wide smoke-free day has been implemented once a month. in the “10,000-steps Challenge” / 9,659 9,330 9,477 In addition, the provision of outside smoking areas is promoted to prevent passive smoking. Percentage of employees /42.6% /39.7% /41.3% who achieved 10,000 Promotion of Walking steps per day To help employees improve their health, Mazda promotes various measures to encourage Number of participants in 5,709 5,654 5,684 walking. These include: Walking Mazda Active Walking ■ Eco-Walk Commuting Program (with allowance payments) activities ・Number of employees who completed the Smile 144 136 173 ■ “10,000-step Challenge” (with the goal of walking 10,000 steps a day), which is Course (2,000 km/year) held for indirect employees ・Number of employees ■ Mazda Active Walking, for which tools on the Company Intranet are provided to who completed the Steady 606 584 527 Course (2,500 km/year) help employees record the distance they walk ・Number of employees who completed the Speedy 119 116 110 Physical Management Seminars (Started in 2015) Course (3,000 km/year) Mazda holds seminars for employees of 31 years of age (in the year following the comprehensive medical checkups for those reaching the age of 30), aiming at “improving p Measures for Health Risk the practical skills to improve their lifestyles” and “preventing metabolic syndrome.” Measures for Measures for lifestyleUsing external facilities, these seminars provide participants with opportunities to listen to mental health related diseases lectures (about dietary habits) and to actually experience exercises and relaxation (these seminars are jointly held with the Mazda Health Insurance Society.) Improving support for employees returning Tertiary prevention Management of restrictions on work (management of Encouraging Healthy Eating to work Disease control high-risk individuals) Risk management Starting in FY March 2010, a new type of healthy meal that is low calorie, low salt, and uses high-fiber ingredients, is being offered as a regular part of the Company lunch menu. It is Mental consultation Follow-up checkups for those in need of control also applied to dietary instruction of specific health guidance. Secondary prevention Early detection and Follow-up to vitality Provision of checkups rapid response healthcare guidance Health Maintenance and Improvement p Education for Primary prevention：Preventing a Promotion of To maintain and improve the health of its employees, Mazda conducts health checkups, managers (line-care) problem before it occurs walking and promotes measures to prevent and mitigate mental health problems and lifestyleEducation for Zero-order prevention：Creation Non-smoking employees (self-care) measures related diseases. Companywide health improvement activities are under way emphasizing of comfortable workplaces and corporate culture the reduction of health risks, by providing guidance and education based on the results of Conducting vitality checkups Providing education health checkups, taking aging countermeasures, supporting related activities at domestic (promoting workplace by age group (physical improvements) management seminar) Group companies, and offering health maintenance support for employees dispatched to other companies overseas. Mazda was selected as one of the Excellent Enterprises of q Healthcare Guidance Data Health & Productivity Management in the large enterprise category (White 500), under the Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program, which is Health checkups Identifying jointly run by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi, for the employees at third consecutive year since the inception of the Program in 2017. Notice of the results with high health risk an interview invitation Health Checkups*1 q Interview with a Company doctor* In addition to legally prescribed health checkups for all employees, Mazda carries out ・Putting restrictions on work ・Purpose explanation comprehensive medical checkups*2 covering a variety of areas for employees when they ・Health guidance reach the ages of 25, 30, and 35, and when they pass the age of 40. Furthermore, the Company conducts complete physical checkups, *3 including gastroscopy and abdominal Outpatient checkups/ ultrasonography, for employees when they reach the ages of 50, 54, and 58. Based on the health checkups in the following year results of these health checkups, Company doctors determine if employees can continue to Improvement in data work or not. Mazda also promotes employees’ health by offering personal health guidance and education by Company doctors and health advisors. Lifting restrictions on work ＊ After the interview results are confirmed by the employee, Health Risk Measures*1 these results are also reported to the employee’s manager. The business climate has undergone various changes, including the globalization of (Non-consolidated) FY March FY March FY March workplaces and an increase in the number of people who are continuously employed after 2017 2018 2019 retirement. Giving consideration to these changes, Mazda strives to establish a system to Personal guidance on the basis of appropriately assess and deal with the health risk of employees,*4 from the perspectives of health checkup results 1,393 1,258 1,738 (including specific health guidance) risk prevention and management. Measures for Employees at High Health Risk *1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation Mazda has established a system to take appropriate measures for employees at high health *2 Checkup items: Height, chest circumference, chest X-ray, risk for heart diseases and cerebrovascular diseases. The Company also promotes activities blood test, urinalysis, electrocardiogram, etc. *3 For employees who reach the age of 30, 35, and 40-and above, to clarify the assessment indexes, such as the process of determining high-risk individuals breast cancer and uterine cancer examinations are available by multiple Company doctors based on relevant data, and to establish a follow-up system with comprehensive medical checkups upon request. Checkups of the brain, the lungs, etc. are offered as paid options. to care for high-risk individuals after their health checkups, through collaboration among *4 Example) Vaccinations against infectious diseases (including the person in question, the Company doctor and other members of the workplace. hepatitis A and tetanus) for employees dispatched to other companies overseas 95 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions HUMAN RIGHTS Basic Approach a a Human Rights Declaration (November 2000) Mazda respects for human rights as fundamental to its corporate activities. Mazda Mazda will strive to become the leading company in believes that a friendly, productive workplace in which employees respect the dignity and Japan for respecting human rights and for the ethical individuality of their coworkers is essential. Such a workplace harnesses the capabilities treatment of its employees. of its employees and is a source of great strength for the organization. With this in mind, Mazda adopted the Human Rights Declaration in November 2000. The declaration states that Mazda must never tolerate human rights violations of any kind, including discrimination or bullying on the basis of race, nationality, faith, gender, social status, family origin, age, mental or physical disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. It also sets forth that Mazda is determined to eliminate human rights violations from business activities both inside and outside the Company. Based on the notion that there is no end to human rights efforts, the Company continues its initiatives with the ultimate goal of zero problems. Mazda recognizes that, from the perspective of human rights due diligence*1, a system and mechanism to grasp the activity status and to identify, report, correct and follow-up actual and potential negative impacts are required. The scope of human rights activities has been expanded to include domestic and overseas Group companies as well as suppliers, with the following efforts being conducted. Rules / Guidelines One of the five principles of behavior stipulated in the Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct is “to comply with laws and regulations, company rules, common sense and sound practice in international society.” Mazda has striven to increase employee awareness of its fundamental approach to respect for human rights, by further clarifying Company policies and standards of behavior among employees, in the light of the basic principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Specifically, Mazda established the Guidelines on Eliminating Sexual Harassment in 1999 b Human Rights Promotion System and the Rules to Eliminate Human Rights Violations in 2000, prohibiting any activity that Human Rights Committee Local governments, other may infringe on an employee’s human rights, and created a list of rules and guidelines corporations, external to ensure a good working environment. In general, these rules and guidelines will be organizations reviewed, with consideration to internal and external circumstances at the time, and if Labor Affairs Group of necessary, will be revised accordingly. The most recent revisions were made in compliance Human Resources Office with the revised Equal Employment Opportunity Law for Men and Women and the revised (In charge of Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion) Child Care and Family Care Leave Act, both of which came into effect in January 2017. Specifically, in 2017, Mazda revised the Rules to Eliminate Human Rights Violations and Business formulated the Guidelines to Eliminate Human Rights Violations.*2 locations In these rules and guidelines, the Company stipulates that inappropriate behavior regarding Division and Department managers respect for the human rights of sexual minority or LGBT people, or pregnancy, childbirth, Human Rights Protection childcare or elderly care leave, constitutes harassment and violates Mazda working Promotion Officer regulations. These revised rules and guidelines have been posted on the Company’s Domestic and overseas Group companies, Intranet, to make them known to everyone in Mazda. suppliers Systems for Promoting Human Rights b c c Global Employee Survey (Positive Answer Percentage) The Human Rights Committee, comprising executive officers and division general managers, (Non-consolidated) deliberates on human rights activities, and based on their decisions the Human Resources FY March 2019 Office promotes human rights education activities and resolves issues throughout the I understand my company's basic philosophy 85%* Group. Each division manager leads the division’s activities as the human rights promotion and policy for human rights. (Local item) officer at Mazda Motor Corporation, while the person in charge of human rights leads My company takes appropriate action if there is 78%* a violation of human rights. (Local item) activities at each Mazda business location as well as at Group companies in Japan ＊ Percentage of positive responses from indirect employees and overseas. Exchanges of opinions among Group companies take place on a regular (The survey was conducted on both direct and indirect basis. Serious human rights violations within the Group are reported to Mazda Motor employees.) Corporation human resources officer or other senior executives, providing a framework that *1 Due diligence is the comprehensive, proactive process enables the implementation of Group-wide solutions. Once a year, the Global Employee to identify the actual and potential negative social, survey is conducted to check the progress in human rights initiatives and confirm whether environmental and economic impacts of an organization’s decisions and activities over the entire life cycle of a project there is any problem to be addressed or not. The results of the survey are fed back to each or organizational activity, with the aim of avoiding or mitigating negative impacts (cited from ISO 26000). management and improvement measures are taken as needed. As for suppliers, Mazda *2 Renamed from the Guidelines on Eliminating Sexual seeks to establish a supply chain in which suppliers are also required to fulfill their social Harassment established in 1999, after adding contents other than those regarding sexual harassment. responsibilities in the area of respect for human rights, based on the Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines (see p. 117). 96 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Activities at Group Companies in Japan and Overseas In line with its “ONE MAZDA” concept, Mazda is committed to promoting human rights activities in its Group companies. Based on the Mazda Human Rights Declaration’s basic principles and with reference to the Rules to Eliminate Human Rights Violations, the Guidelines to Eliminate Human Rights Violations, Mazda Group companies are maintaining a set of rules and guidelines that take into account the conditions in each country where they are applied. Through these efforts, the Company strives to protect human rights at all companies throughout the Group. There is also regular information exchange between human rights officers at Mazda Motor Corporation and each Group company. Depending on the circumstances of the particular company, Mazda Motor Corporation may also take steps such as providing training/education tools or dispatching instructors. Since FY March 2017, Mazda support Group companies in establishing a system for human rights training, and providing materials of Mazda’s Human Rights Meetings to Group companies. In case problems arising at Group companies, Mazda accepts reports through the pertinent superiors, but in cases where this is difficult, accepts direct reporting from employees via the Human Rights Counseling Desk, the Female Employee Counseling Desk, the Mazda Global Hotline (see p. 114). Human Rights Counseling by Dedicated Counselors Mazda has established a Human Rights Counseling Desk and a Female Employee Counseling Desk to appropriately respond human rights consultations from employees, through providing advices and, supporting early relief from human rights violations. Mazda has set out regulations mandating strict confidentiality, guaranteeing immunity from reprisals, and ensuring that no disadvantage will accrue to employees who request consultations. Counseling is offered in various forms, such as face-to-face, by telephone, or by e-mail. Mazda promptly responds to consultations, with the goal of rapidly improving the work environment for the affected employee, and offers the necessary support to ensure respect for human rights throughout the entire workplace, through the above-mentioned counseling desks. For example, these desks offer advice on workplace culture improvement to the employee’s supervisor, and provide counseling and advice for the employees and other persons concerned. These counseling desks are managed by the Human Resources Office, and following set protocol, all received cases are followed up until they are resolved. To prevent similar cases from occurring, the counseling desks investigate all the facts through working in collaboration with related divisions/departments, in sufficient consideration to the intention of the employees who have requested consultations. Initiatives to Eliminate Human Rights Violations Mazda carries out various initiatives to eliminate human rights violations. In case a problem involving human rights violations occurs, the Company discloses the case on the intranet as an example of disciplinary action, and conducts educational and awareness raising activities in order to prevent a recurrence. Mazda records the results of handling these cases and manages in accordance with the stipulated procedure, and reports to the Human Rights Committee. These records are used to formulate more effective Companywide policies and to prevent the recurrence of similar problems. At the meeting of the Human Rights Committee held at the end of FY March 2019, members held discussions based on issues that had occurred in the same fiscal year, to decide the themes for FY March 2020 activities. The selected themes were “improving the quality of dialogue to secure honest communication while paying mutual respect” and “further promoting understanding of diversity of people, including sexual minorities.” 97 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Training and Educational Activities To raise awareness of human rights, Mazda requires all executive officers and employees to consider human rights issues by participating in training programs and educational activities. Mazda gauges the status of employees’ human rights awareness based on the results of questions related to employee human rights included in the Global Employee Survey (see p. 87). These results are referred to during revisions of activities and improvement measures. In March 2008, Mazda became the first corporation in Japan to be awarded the Human Rights Merit Award by Japan’s Ministry of Justice and the National Federation of Consultative Assemblies of Civil Liberties Commissioners. Human Rights Training*1 d d Themes of Human Rights Mini-Lectures (Examples) ■ Collective training ・Sexual diversity (LGBT) Mazda holds obligatory human rights training programs for employees when ・Power harassment they newly join the Company and they are promoted in rank or position. The ・Sexual harassment ・Various issues and challenges (regarding women, Company also holds event-based training such as human rights lectures for people with special needs, nationality/race, the elderly, [HIV-] infected persons, etc.) executive officers and senior managers. Moreover, the Company also holds training programs by department that are customized to each department in response to its specific needs. In FY March 2017, Mazda started to organize training programs and lectures to promote understanding of sexual minority (LGBT) issues. ■ Human rights mini-lectures and other information offered via the in-house intranet Mazda conducted activities to raise human rights awareness by human rights mini-lectures through intranet, and e-learning programs and to ensure that all employees can share recognition regarding power harassment and sexual harassment. President’s Message During Human Rights Week*1 The Company president delivers to all employees a message on the importance of respect for human rights every year during Human Rights Week, in connection with Human Rights Day on December 10. Human Rights Meetings*1 Mazda held regular meetings (four times a year for plant workers, twice a year for office workers) at each workplace themed on familiar topics, allowing employees to develop awareness for human rights on a daily basis. Other Human Rights Education Activities*1 Mazda distributes Human Rights Card upon hiring, and holding of Human Rights Slogan Competition, etc. Collaborating with External Organizations and Contributing to Local Communities Mazda actively collaborates with local governments, companies and other external organizations to implement human rights protection activities for local communities. Other efforts towards promoting respect for human rights include social contributions on a global basis, such as participating in human rights events in regional communities, exchanging opinions with human rights organizations, adopting measures against poverty, supporting an HIV/AIDS care facility, and supporting education for ethnic minority groups.*2 *1 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation *2 https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/social/ 98 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS Mazda is fulfilling its responsibilities as a good corporate citizen through ongoing involvement in socially beneficial activities tailored to the needs of local communities. Social contribution activities (in Japan and overseas) are introduced under “Social Contribution Initiatives” on the official website. （https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/social/） CONTENTS 100 Social Contributions CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects ① Implement programs based on Mazda’s basic ① Implement programs based on Mazda’s basic policy on initiatives and each region’s local policy on initiatives and each region’s local 6.8 ① Continued or newly launched more than 550 activities. Corporate community contribution policy. community contribution policy. Community ② Continue to implement the PDCA cycle (to ○ ② Continue to implement the PDCA cycle (to ② Continued to implement the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. citizenship involvement activities make efforts to resolve social issues) based on make efforts to resolve social issues) based on and the program effect evaluation index (the Mazda the program effect evaluation index (the Mazda development Social Contribution Prize.) Social Contribution Prize.) ・Changed the media for disseminating information on social Disclosure of 6.8 ・Continue active disclosure of social contribution Community results regarding ○ Further promote active disclosure of social contribution activities (websites and annual reports.) ・Disclosed social contribution activities in the Sustainability Report, the community contribution activities. activities. involvement and involvement and Social Contribution Report, and on SNS sites, etc. development development 99 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS Basic Policy on Initiatives a a Three Pillars in Basic Policy on Social Contribution Initiatives Basic Principles As a company engaged in global business, Mazda is fulfilling its responsibilities Environmental as a good corporate citizen through ongoing involvement in socially beneficial and Safety Performance activities tailored to the needs of local communities, in order to ensure that its Responsibility as an business activities contribute to the building of a sustainable society. automobile manufacturer Plans for Future Activities ■ Proactive, ongoing responses to social needs through the core business Human Resources Community Development Contributions activities of the Mazda Group in Japan and overseas Fostering people who will Responding to local ■ In collaboration with local communities, contribute to the development of a be future leaders in the social needs as a good foundation of society and corporate citizen sustainable society through activities tailored to the needs of communities in business ■ Emphasize and provide support for self-motivated volunteer activities by employees, and incorporate diverse values to foster a flexible and vibrant corporate climate ■ Proactively disclose the details of activities and engage in a dialogue with society Three Pillars Mazda promotes activities that are strongly rooted in local communities. Its social contribution activities are underpinned by the three pillars of environmental and safety performance, human resources development, and community contributions (see pp. 102-103). Promotion Framework b b Promotion Framework In May 2010, Mazda established the Social Contribution Committee. The role of CSR Management this committee, which meets regularly (twice a year), is to discuss issues facing the Strategy Committee entire Mazda Group and share information, in line with the social contribution Social Contribution Framework for policy and the CSR targets (see pp. 20, 28, 34, 40, 51, 84, 99 ,105) decided by Committee implementation Hiroshima: Mazda the CSR Management Strategy Committee (see p. 22). Chairperson: Executive officer in Community Service charge of CSR, Environment and The details of the actual activities are considered by a Working Group comprised General Affairs Committee of related divisions. Through the activities of the committee undertaken since Vice Chairpersons: Executive Domestic region officers in charge of Domestic 2010, Mazda continues to enhance information collection and utilization from Sales, in charge of Global Overseas region Marketing, in charge of Global a global and Group standpoint. Individual activities are carried out based on the Human Resources, and of budget plan in each region or department.*1 Oversight of Tokyo Office FY March 2019 Major Results: Secretariat: CSR & ■ Set the CSR targets and the Mazda Green Plan 2020 (social contribution) (see Environment Department pp. 54-55) and took actions. Social Contribution Committee ■ Carried out over 550 activities*2 in Japan and overseas*3 (cost of social Working Group (comprising related divisions) contribution activities: around 2.1 billion yen in FY March 2019). ■ Established the Mazda Social Contribution Prize, selected based on evaluation indexes for social contribution programs, and continued implementing the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle process (see p. 101). Evaluation Indexes for Social Contribution Programs In FY March 2015, Mazda established the evaluation indexes for social contribution programs. These indexes are used to evaluate and promote programs which resolve social issues and improve corporate values and created the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) process. *1 In Japan, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, and They are designed to evaluate these social contribution programs from three South Africa, the Mazda Foundation in each country separately undertakes various activities. perspectives: effect on society; effect on the Company; and Mazda uniqueness. *2 Social contribution activities: Monetary donation, goods donation, facility sharing, employee participation and (To be more specific, the indexes comprise eight categories such as “the number dispatch, voluntary programs, and support for disasterof beneficiaries,” “the number of participating employees,” “conformity with the stricken areas. *3 “Social Contribution Initiatives” on the official website Three Pillars in Basic Policy on Social Contribution Initiatives,” etc.) https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/social/ 100 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Establishment of the Mazda Social Contribution Prize c c 5th Mazda Social Contribution Prize In January 2015, Mazda established the Mazda Social Contribution Prize as a Activity name commendation system to recognize outstanding social contribution activities. The Cleaning convex traffic mirrors Grand Prize (Okayama Mazda, Mazda objective of the prize is to raise in/external recognition of the outstanding social Autozam Ito) contribution activities and support for increasing excellent social contribution Donating toys to children in activities. Salamanca Special Prize (Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Based on the evaluation indexes for social contribution programs, members of the Operation) Social Contribution Committee Working Group, the Mazda Workers’ Union and Collision experiment and the Federation of All Mazda Workers’ Unions collaborate to evaluate candidate quiz show challenge with activities. The Social Contribution Committee then selects prizewinning activities, Special Prize engineers! – (Mazda Motor Corporation, each of which will be presented with a certificate of recognition in the name of the Tokyo Mazda Sales) Company President on the anniversary of Mazda’s foundation in January every year. Special Prize for Co-creation seminar ■ 5th Mazda Social Contribution Prize Encouragement (Mazda Motor Corporation) The 2019 prizewinning activities were selected from the social contribution activities introduced in the Mazda Social Contribution Activities Report*1 (which covered the period from April 2017 through March 2018). Volunteering by Employees Mazda offers support to help employees become actively involved in volunteer activities. ■ Providing volunteer opportunities (Specialist Bank, Volunteer Center, etc.) ■ Subsidizing part of the cost of activities (Mazda Flex Benefits (see p. 91), etc.) ■ Enabling employees to take leave for activities (volunteer leave such as the Special Warm Heart leave system, etc.) ■ Providing volunteer training opportunities Support for Disaster-Affected Areas The Mazda Group provides various supports for the early recovery and restoration of areas affected by natural disasters. Mazda Head Office coordinates with its production/business sites in the affected area to provide appropriate support in case of natural disasters such as an earthquake and abnormal weather. Recent support cases: Great East Japan Earthquake/heavy rain in July 2018/ Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake/Typhoon Jebi (No. 21)/Northern Kyushu heavy rain (Japan), hurricanes (United States), Mexico Earthquake (Mexico), flooding in Southern Thailand (Thailand), etc. Support through Mazda Foundations Mazda and its Group companies have established Mazda Foundations in five countries, to promote support activities tailored to each region. Amount of grants Year of Country Name Support activities/objectives (donations) in FY establishment March 2019 Mazda Foundation Support activities to promote science Japan http://mzaidan.mazda.co.jp and technology and the sound 1984 ¥51.80 million (Japanese only) development of youth. Provide funds to various initiatives Mazda Foundation USA (MFUS) for education, environmental Around U.S. 1990 https://www.mazdafoundation.org/ conservation, social welfare, crossUS$464,000 cultural understanding, etc. Provide funds to various initiatives, Mazda Foundation Australia (MFA) including education, environmental Around Australia 1990 http://mazdafoundation.org.au/ conservation, technology promotion, A$723,000 and welfare. Mazda Foundation New Zealand Provide funds to various initiatives, New Around NZ$ (MFNZ) including education, environmental 2005 Zealand 369,000 https://mazdafoundation.org.nz/ conservation, and culture. Provide funds to various initiatives, Mazda South Africa including education, career South Around https://www.mazda.co.za/ development, technological 2017 Africa R8,483,000 mazdafoundation/ development, and environmental *1 https://www.mazda.com/globalassets/en/assets/csr/ conservation social/library/download/2018_s_all.pdf 101 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Initiatives Based on the Three Pillars Mazda promotes activities that are strongly rooted in local communities. Its social contribution activities are underpinned by the three pillars of environmental and safety performance, human resources development, and community contributions. Environmental and Safety Performance Mazda’s business activities have a relationship with and impact social issues, such as global warming, energy and resource shortages, and traffic accidents. To resolve these issues, the Company attaches importance to the environmental and safety perspectives, not only in conducting its main business, but also when making social contributions. ■ Hosting environmental awareness-raising programs at various events, dispatching lecturers to environmental education programs, and carrying out volunteer activities for biodiversity conservation and various other environmental protection initiatives ■ Offering lectures on traffic accident issues at various events, and holding saferdriving seminars [Environment] Japan / New Zealand/ Raising Environmental Environmental AwarenessAwareness among Children Raising Activities Environmental events and onMazda Motors of New Zealand site lectures are held to raise Ltd. (MMNZ) has provided Mazda environmental awareness among vehicles to Project Crimson Trust, elementary and junior high to support the Trust's conservation school students. In EcoPro 2018, work. The Treemendous Project, Mazda introduced its attempts a joint project between Mazda to contribute to global warming Foundation New Zealand and prevention, on the theme of the Trust, has been implemented reducing CO2 emissions. The to educate children on the Company also held a quiz through importance of the environment which participating children could and the country's native fauna learn ways that vehicle users can and flora. Together with students, easily cooperate in addressing the school staff and local residents, above theme, looking ahead to an Mazda Group employees perform automotive society in the future maintenance on the schoolyards when they grow up. and plant gardens to cultivate a variety of native species. [Safety] Japan / Japan / Raising Traffic Safety Raising Driver Safety Awareness Awareness During the Road Safety Week, To help drivers understand the local dealerships have participated danger of not wearing seatbelts, in the cleaning and inspection of in cooperation with the Japan convex traffic mirrors, to contribute Automobile Federation (JAF), to traffic safety. These dealerships Mazda has participated in work in collaboration with local local events. At these events, police stations, to which the results explanations are given using a of these activities are reported. video, and a collision simulation is provided to participants to raise their safety awareness, aiming at increasing the rate of seatbelt use. The Company has also joined the DRIVE&LOVE, a project to encourage everyone to eliminate traffic accidents. DRIVE&LOVE website: http://drive-love.jp/concept.html (Japanese only) 102 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Human Resource Development Mazda emphasizes the perspective of human resources development, based on the idea that fostering people who will be future leaders in the foundation of society and in business is important. ■ Holding seminars and lectures by employees with specialized knowledge and skilled techniques such as manufacturing. ■ Accepting students for internship programs, supporting to learn about vehicles using facilities in the Company, etc. [Human Resources Development] Japan / China/ Promoting Children’s Supporting Children of the Education Mazda Wheat Seedling Class The Mazda Museum at Mazda Head Mazda Motor (China) Co., Ltd. Office (Hiroshima) has welcomed (MCO) has provided support for approximately 1.69 million visitors from children of the Mazda Wheat Seedling around the world since its opening in Class, established in 2012 through 1994. The Museum offers exhibitions the Wheat Field Project Education of Mazda’s history, technology, etc. In Foundation, a non-governmental NPO addition, the Museum provides tours for educational support in China. MCO of Mazda’s assembly line and learning has supported the class by funding for opportunities about the vehicle library reforms and teacher training. In manufacturing process, helping to addition, employees on behalf of the augment social studies curriculums in company have attended the graduation elementary and junior high schools. ceremony, and many MCO employees Guide to the Mazda Museum have donated books with their message https://www.mazda.com/en/about/museum/ cards to these students. Through such activities, MCO has promoted interaction with children of the Mazda Wheat Seedling Class. Community Contributions Mazda promotes community contribution activities to cope with specific issues of each local community, in the countries/regions where the Company conducts its business operations. ■ Making monetary/vehicle donations to charities and participating in various charitable activities ■ Promoting sports and culture [Community Contributions] Japan / Europe/ Donation of Vehicles Support for Children Who Are Mazda contributes to community Unable to Live Together with revitalization, making effective Their Parents or Caregivers use of the Hiroshima Municipal Mazda Motor Europe GmbH (MME) and Baseball Stadium (Mazda Zoomthe national sales companies in each Zoom Stadium Hiroshima), for country are working in collaboration which Mazda acquired the naming with local SOS Children's Village (SCV) rights. For each one million stadium to develop support activities. SCV visitors, the Company donates one is an international organization that Mazda vehicle to a social welfare provides support for children who organization. are unable to live together with their In October 2018, the cumulative parents or caregivers. These companies number of visitors reached 17 have provided vehicles to assist in million, and accordingly, the 17th transportation for activities and organized vehicle was donated to such an volunteer activities by employees, who organization. have delivered Christmas gifts, and offered opportunities to experience indoor skiing. TOPICS Mazda Won the 12th Kids Design Award*1 (Designs that Develop Children’s Creativity and Shape their Future) The Mazda Specialist Bank is an organization that dispatches Mazda Group employees with specialized knowledge and skills to various events, upon request from local communities. The organization won the 12th Kids Design Award*1 (Designs That Develop Children’s Creativity and Shape Their Future). The Mazda Specialist Bank was established to supply the personnel needed to assist in the preliminary round of the 12th Asian Games, held in Hiroshima City in 1994. In FY March 2018, the Bank conducted 32 activities for children, to teach sports, give lectures on work experience, and hold environmental classes (a total of 62 activities were implemented, including other activities not geared to children.) ＊1 The Kids Design Award is a commendation system to select and make widely known excellent products, spaces and services that help realize three design missions: “security and safety for kids’ lives,” “the development of sensitivity and creativity in kids,” and “a secure environment for having and raising kids.” 103 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda CSR Customer Quality Safety Environment Respect for Social Management Satisfaction People Contributions Social Contributions through the Core Business Activities of the Mazda Group Mazda promotes various initiatives to help resolve social issues, taking advantage of technologies and skills that the Company has been cultivating through its core business activities. While valuing dialogues and co-creation with its stakeholders, Mazda aims to achieve sustainable development of itself and society. Testing a Shared Mobility Service Leveraging Connectivity Technologies Mazda will leverage the car and connectivity technologies to help create a community where local residents help one another, assisted by drivers from inside and outside the community, and promote real-life discoveries, experiences and growth through human interactions. Surely that is the way to create a more human world that allows people to really experience the joy of life. Recent years have witnessed the dilapidation of public transportation systems in depopulated areas in hilly and mountainous regions of Japan, and this has made it harder for the elderly and disabled to get around. To help resolve such social issues, in December 2018 in Miyoshi City, Hiroshima Prefecture, Mazda started testing a shared mobility service utilizing its connectivity technologies, in cooperation with local residents and prefectual and city authorities. In this testing, Mazda is in charge of developing a transportation service management system and application software for users. Through the development of this application, Mazda will improve the operational efficiency of a local mobility service operated by local residents. The Company will also contribute to initiatives to encourage participation and create added value to energize the local community, by enhancing the application content. Data obtained from this testing will be accumulated and utilized for research and development of ride-sharing services that combine the next-generation connectivity technologies and autonomous driving technologies. Through this testing, Mazda aims to build a social contribution model that will support regional revitalization and enrich lives in the region by offering safe, secure and unrestricted mobility to people everywhere. Outline of Shared Mobility Service Testing Driver Local government Pickup and drop-off Support system/support for legal Arrangement and service (share-ride) compliance procedures, etc. dispatch of vehicles Station/bus stop Collaboration with Mazda Local community local events Providing Clinic application and vehicles Supermarket, etc. Request through phone or Collaboration application through creation of systems to promote mobility and revitalize the local economy Service users Implementing Internship Programs As an effort for human resource training through industryacademia-government collaboration, Mazda provides internships for technical college and university students. Since FY March 2016, Mazda has improved the organizational relationship with the schools to provide a program with different levels that cover students from lower grades up to the doctorate level. This is provided as a place of selftraining with a focus on the foundation of innovative human resources, that is, high ambition and practical skills. Students can nurture their own ambition and dreams through the corporate ambition and philosophy, and improve their practical skills through co-creative work and practical training. 157 interns were accepted in FY March 2019. 104 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management MANAGEMENT Mazda has established management systems to fulfill its social responsibility throughout the Mazda Group and the entire supply chain. CONTENTS 106 Management (Corporate Governance/Internal Control/Risk Management/Compliance) 117 Implementing CSR in the Supply Chain 120 With Shareholders and Investors CSR Targets for FY March 2020 (Self-assessment key ○ : Accomplished, △ : Nearly accomplished, × : Not accomplished) SelfISO 26000 Items FY March 2019 targets FY March 2019 results FY March 2020 targets assessment core subjects In light of the rapid changes in the business environment surrounding Mazda, Mazda decided and disclosed that it would transition to a company with an audit and supervisory committee, Continuously improve and strengthen corporate Continuously improve and strengthen corporate 6.2 ○ Corporate so that a substantial part of decision-making regarding the execution of important business governance measures, in light of the purport and spirit governance measures, in light of the purport and spirit Organizational governance would be delegated to executive directors. The objectives of the transition were to enable of the Corporate Governance Code.*1 of the Corporate Governance Code.*1 governance faster business decision-making, further enhance discussion of management strategies and strengthen supervisory functions of board of directors meetings. ① Further visualized the risks at Mazda and its Group companies, and strengthened risk Identify various internal and external risks and management activities there, based on the mid-term action plan (for FY March 2018–2020) continue activities to minimize such risks. ① Improve the level of development of the risk Identify various internal and external risks and that was formulated at the Risk Compliance Committee meeting in FY March 2017. continue activities to minimize such risks. ・Based on the results of measures to cope with risks identified by each division, established ① Improve the level of development of the risk management systems of Mazda and its Group common priority issues to be addressed by the Mazda Group and took countermeasures. ・Improved education programs for department managers of Mazda and its Group company companies, and have these systems checked and management systems of Mazda and its Group ①○ evaluated by the Risk Compliance Committee. ② Strengthen the ability to make an appropriate companies, and have these systems checked and officers, and established and implemented new education programs for newly appointed 6.2 Risk management evaluated by the Risk Compliance Committee. managers. ②○ Organizational ② Continue risk management activities based on ② Conducted risk management activities based on the action plans in preparation for ③○ initial response in the event of emergencies, such as governance earthquakes. ③ Update data for the supply chain risk management the action plans in preparation for earthquakes and earthquakes and tsunami. tsunami. ・Introduced a safety confirmation system company-wide, and conducted training on how to ③ Update and enrich data for the supply chain risk system. ④ Based on the experience in the heavy rain in use the system. management system. ③ Continued to operate the SCR keeper, a supply chain risk management system. In FY July 2018, inspect possible supply chain risks from March 2019, production sites in Thailand (AAT and MPMT) started to operate the system. landslides and flooding. Periodic updates of data registrants and data were conducted, as planned. ①Continued to implement an e-learning program entitled “Basic Rules for ① Ensure information management ① Ensure information management Handling Personal Information.” *2 Continued to provide education on management of confidential information 6.6 ○ Information through continuous awareness-raising activities.*2 through continuous awareness-raising activities.*2 ② Promote and strengthen information security ② Promote and strengthen information security and personal information for new recruits, mid-career hires, etc.*2 Fair operating ② In response to the enforcement of the EU General Data Protection Regulation management practices measures.*2 measures.*2 (GDPR), established related internal regulations and provided education for data management divisions through e-learning.*2 Promote activities to protect and make effective use of Promote activities to protect and make effective use of intellectual properties. intellectual properties. ① For the protection of Mazda’s intellectual properties: ① For protection of Mazda’s intellectual properties: Promote Promote rights acquisition activities on a global basis. ① For the protection of Mazda’s intellectual properties: rights acquisition activities on a global basis. ・Maintain the number of patent applications at the same ・In Japan: Completed around 800 patent applications. ・Maintain the number of patent applications at the same level as the previous year in Japan. ・Overseas: Filed around 35% of the patent applications made in Japan also level as the previous year in Japan ・File 30% or more of the patent applications made in overseas. Completed around 900 patent applications, aiming at promoting rights ・File 30% or more of the patent applications made in Japan also overseas. The primary targets for the rights acquisition activities in the United States, Germany, China and other countries. Japan also overseas. The primary targets for the rights 6.6 ② For the protection of the intellectual properties of other parties: ○ Protection of acquisition activities are the United States, Germany and acquisition activities are the United States, Germany and Fair operating ・Held patent training as scheduled, with around 110 participants in the basic intellectual property China, which are Mazda’s major overseas sales markets. China, which are Mazda’s major overseas sales markets. practices ② For the protection of the intellectual properties of other patent seminars, around 20 participants in the seminar on effective use of patent ② For the protection of the intellectual properties of other parties: information, and around 210 participants in the intellectual property risk seminar. parties: ・Continue to strengthen awareness-raising activities aimed ・Promotion of the appropriate use of trademarks: Added about 529 new images ・Continue to strengthen awareness-raising activities aimed at protecting the intellectual properties of Mazda and to the Mazda-Shared-Image-Collection. at protecting the intellectual properties of Mazda and other parties. other parties. ・Promote the appropriate use of works belonging to other ・Promote the appropriate use of works belonging to other parties, in conducting communication activities. parties, in conducting communication activities. ① Ensured the implementation of the awareness-raising activities.*2 ・Continued to provide compliance education for new recruits, mid-career hires, etc. ① Ensure compliance and improve the level of ① Ensure compliance and improve the level of Held a compliance seminar for senior executives and general managers. Put up posters and implemented e-learning programs to make the Mazda Global compliance awareness through continuous awarenesscompliance awareness through continuous awarenessHotline, an internal reporting system, better known to everyone. 6.6 ② Support for Group companies ○ raising activities, etc.*2 raising activities, etc.*2 ② Continue and strengthen support for Group ② Continue and strengthen support for Group Compliance Fair operating ・Newly established a regular education program for officers of Group companies in Japan, practices companies through the provision of timely companies through the provision of timely to provide information on recent legal trends. ・Continued to hold regular meetings among departments concerned, in order to share information, etc. information, etc. information on the administration of domestic and overseas affiliates and to secure consistency across the Group. ① Based on the revised Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines, ① Made a revision to the Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines, by adding “Promotion of hold discussions about conducting a questionnaire survey ① Continue to conduct a questionnaire survey about fair business practices,” which goes beyond compliance with laws and regulations, as a to understand suppliers’ operation status of CSR initiatives, promotion of fair business practices and reform of compliance item. Conducted a questionnaire survey to understand the statuses of suppliers’ 6.6 ○ and about follow-up of the survey results (e.g., through study working practices, and implement follow-up activities Fair transactions initiatives to promote fair business practices, and held follow-up interviews with suppliers Fair operating meetings, and announcement of outstanding companies.) based on the survey results. Also, promote awareness ② Complete the activities to apply the Mazda Supplier CSR who were deemed to be in need of improvement, judging from the survey results. practices ② Completed the activities to apply the Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines to MPMT, the of the Supplier CSR Guidelines among Tier 2 and Guidelines to MPMT, the production site in Thailand, and lower suppliers, through Tier 1 suppliers. production site in Thailand, and announced the guidelines to all MPMT suppliers. announce the guidelines to all MPMT suppliers. ＊1 Corporate governance guidelines for listed companies announced by the Tokyo Stock Exchange in June 2015. ＊2 Initiatives at Mazda Motor Corporation (FY March 2019 results, and FY March 2020 targets.) 105 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management MANAGEMENT Mazda is working to enhance corporate governance and strengthen internal control in order to improve the transparency of management and expedite decision-making. Corporate Governance a b Mazda respects the purport of the Corporate Governance Code formulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and, while working to build a good relationship with its stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers, the local community and its employees, the Company strives to sustain growth and enhance its corporate value over the medium and long term through transparent, fair, prompt and decisive decision-making and to continue to enhance its corporate governance. The Company’s surrounding business environment is undergoing rapid changes. In order to enable faster business decision-making, further enhance discussion of management strategies and strengthen supervisory functions of board of directors meetings, the Company transitioned to a company with an audit and supervisory committee through a resolution at the 153rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2019. a Corporate Governance Framework b For detailed information, please see the following. General meeting of shareholders ■ Corporate Governance Report Selection/dismissal State opinions Selection/dismissal Selection/dismissal Advice/ https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/library/ report Officer Lineup & Board of Directors Remuneration governance/ Advisory Committee ■ Annual Report 2019 Audit & Supervisory Representative Directors Committee Audit Advice Directors (Audit & Supervisory Directors https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/library/ Supervise Report/ Committee members) (excluding members of Audit & ECM and other president advisory annual/ ・Officers’ areas of responsibility, profiles, etc. committee/organization Supervisory Committee) Cooperate (4 out of 6 are outside directors) (6 out of 15 are outside directors) (pp. 34-35) Report Supervise ・Officers’ compensation/Audit fees (p. 30) Accounting auditor Committees* ■ Company Outline Cooperate Audit & Supervisory Committee Department Report Executive officers https://www.mazda.com/en/about/profile/ executive/ Division managers Group companies ・Officers’ areas of responsibility Audit Internal audit dept. Dept. managers ■ Securities Report (Japanese only) https://www.mazda.com/globalassets/ja/assets/ Employees investors/library/s-report/files/f_repo190627.pdf ・Corporate governance, etc. (pp. 30-44) ＊ ‌Health & Safety Committee, Quality Committee, Risk & Compliance Committee, Human Rights Committee, Security Export Control Committee, etc. Corporate Governance Framework c c Numbers of Directors in Board of Directors and Audits & Supervisory Committee Board of Directors 9 (Inside Directors:7, The Company’s Board of Directors deliberates and makes decisions on items related to the Outside Directors: 2), Directors* Number execution of important business, such as management strategy and basic management including 1 female director policies, and supervises the execution of individual directors’ duties. Directors who 6 (Inside Directors:2, In addition, in order to facilitate quick and flexible decision-making, based on the are members Outside Directors: 4), of the Audit Number Articles of Incorporation, a substantial part of decision-making regarding the execution of & Supervisory including 1 female director important business will be delegated to management, and executive directors including Comittee and below the president to whom authority has been delegated based on the Company’s 15 (Inside Directors:9, Outside Directors: 6), rules of administrative authority will make decisions regarding these matters. Number including 2 female directors The board is made up of 15 directors, six of whom are highly independent outside directors. Total number of Ratio of Audit & Supervisory Committee Directors Outside 40% The Company’s Audit & Supervisory Committee audits the board of directors’ decisionDirectors making process and business execution through the execution of voting rights at board of Ratio of Female 13.3% directors’ meetings and the execution of its right to state opinions on the personnel changes Directors and remuneration of directors (excluding directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee ＊ Excludng directors who are members of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. Members) at the general meeting of shareholders. The Audit & Supervisory Committee is made up of six members, four of whom are highly independent outside directors. Accounting Auditor Accounting audits are conducted by KPMG AZSA LLC. 106 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Executive Officer System Mazda has also introduced an executive officer system. By separating execution and management, the effectiveness of the oversight of the board of directors is enhanced, and decision-making is speeded up through expanded debate by the board of directors and by delegating authority to executive officers. In this way, the Company is working to further managerial efficiency. Officer Lineup & Remuneration Advisory Committee The Company established the Officer Lineup & Remuneration Advisory Committee, made up of three representative directors and six outside directors and chaired by a representative director, as an advisory body to the board of directors. The committee reports to the board of directors the results of its deliberation on matters such as officer lineup and policies regarding the selection and training of directors, as well as remuneration payment policies and the remuneration system and process based on those policies, which contribute to the Company’s sustainable growth and raising of corporate value in the medium and long term. The policies for the nomination, appointment and dismissal of officers, and the policies and procedures for determining their remuneration are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report. Executive Committee Meetings, etc. In addition to the general meeting of shareholders and meetings of the Board of Directors, the Audit & Supervisory Board and other bodies designated by law, Mazda holds executive committee meetings to report information necessary for debate on important companywide policies and initiatives and business management as well as advisory bodies, to contribute to decisions by the president. Support System for Outside Directors Mazda provides explanations of matters to be brought before the board of directors as necessary so that outside directors can freely state their opinions at board meetings and so that outside directors can easily participate in decision-making. The Company also arranges for outside officers to interview executive officers and provides opportunities for them to inspect facilities and participate in events both inside and outside the Company. Audit & Supervisory Committee Members (full-time) offer observations based on information they have acquired or opinions they have formed through their attendance at important internal meetings or through their audit activities. The departments concerned work together to provide information based on the opinions of the outside directors and to support them. Analysis and Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Mazda analyzes and evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of Directors in order to steadily advance measures for the further enhancement of the board’s efficiency. In this initiative, based on a survey prepared by the board’s secretariat, all of the directors and members of the Audit & Supervisory Board evaluate the board’s effectiveness. After the results are compiled by the secretariat, an analysis of the current situation is shared at a board meeting, and the ideal to be pursued and improvements are discussed. In FY March 2019, it was found that members of the Board of Directors were properly involved in determining the Company’s business strategy and share an understanding of its content, that outside directors and corporate auditors expressed their opinions from an independent perspective after gaining an understanding of the Company’s situation by receiving explanations of resolutions in advance and other forms of support, and that the oversight function of the execution of operations was ensured. Based on the previous survey (FY2017), although initiatives to strengthen monitoring of the business strategy and other important matters and to enhance debate on risks and profitability resulted in definite improvement, the need for further improvements was recognized. The Company will analyze and evaluate the board’s effectiveness annually and continue to d Status of cooperation make improvements in order to enhance corporate value over the medium and long term. ■ Meeting between Audit & Supervisory Board members (full time) and the auditing company ■ Meeting between Audit & Supervisory Board Cooperation among Parties Responsible for Auditing d members (full time) and the Mazda’s auditing department Full-time auditors (Audit & Supervisory Board members [full time], after June 26, 2019), the ■ Three-party meeting among Audit & Supervisory auditing company, and the Mazda’s auditing department hold three kinds of meetings on a Board members (full time), the auditing regular basis to improve the quality of auditing and to deepen their mutual understanding company, and the Mazda’s auditing department by exchanging information on audit plans and results. 107 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Governance for Group Companies In the Mazda Group, each Group company has established a corporate governance framework with the aim of enhancing cooperation between Mazda and the Group companies. Japan Group companies in Japan set the corporate auditors who audit directors’ execution of their duties. Through the Group Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Meetings attended by the Audit & Supervisory Board members (full time) of the Group’s large companies and the appointment of each Group company’s parttime corporate auditors from among Mazda middle managers, Mazda aims to strengthen ties between Mazda and its Group companies. Overseas Many overseas Group companies hold meetings of the Audit Committee.*1 Members participating in these meetings are executives and internal auditingrelated departments of each overseas Group company, Mazda’s executives and internal auditing-related department, and the department in charge of each Group company. They enhance each Group company’s internal control by discussing and exchanging opinions on activities related to internal control. Mazda further provides guidance and support to other overseas Group companies, to improve their internal control-related initiatives. Internal Auditing e e Internal auditing in Group companies ○ Major Group companies (North America, Internal audits are conducted in Mazda and its Group companies in Japan and Europe, China, Thailand, Australia, etc.): The overseas, for the purpose of ensuring sound and efficient management. internal auditing department of each company conducts audits and reports the results to Mazda. The Mazda’s internal auditing department is staffed with those qualified as To ensure high auditing quality, Mazda’s auditing Certified Internal Auditor (CIA), Certified Information System Auditor (CISA), department conducts audits advises on annual audit plans and audit results, and provides etc. Members of the department are continuously encouraged to improve their information related to auditing, and various auditing skills, acquire specialized qualifications, and participate in outside other supports. training programs and internal workshops. ○ Other Group companies in Japan and overseas, and Mazda: Mazda’s auditing department In May 2019, the Global Internal Audit Summit was held, bringing together the conducts audits. parties responsible for auditing at Mazda Group’s major operation bases. At the Summit, which was in its 10th round, participants shared their auditing policies and plans as well as related risks and issues. They also presented best practices at each base and discussed the promotion of the “global audit alliance,” in which an auditor of an overseas Group company conducts auditing of another operation base, working together with Mazda’s internal auditing-related department. In this manner, efforts are under way to improve the quality of auditing of the entire Mazda Group and foster its greater efficiency. System Auditing The Mazda’s auditing department and the internal auditing departments of overseas Group companies conduct audits on overall IT control concerning financial reports and IT security for individual operations and systems, with the aim of reducing IT-related risks. *1 Committees are set and operated independently for each overseas group company for the purpose of gathering information and exchanging opinions on internal control. 108 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Internal controls f f Mazda Internal Controls Efficacy/ Financial Asset Mazda has established the Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct (see p. Compliance Efficiency Reporting Protection 114), which states action guidelines for employees, the Finance Control Guideline for global financial control, and other guidelines. Based on these guidelines, each Control Environment department develops rules, procedures, manuals, etc. to promote establishment ○ Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct ○ Finance Control Guideline, etc. of internal control. For Group companies, cooperative systems have been established, in accordance Risk Assessment Mazda ○ Risk Compliance Committee with the affiliates’ administration rules established by Mazda. The responsible ○ Revising self-diagnosis checklist, etc. department at Mazda supports training and system improvement for each Group Control Activities Group companies in Japan ○Developing/operating work processes company. (Developing procedures, manager approvals, etc.) Information and Communication Overseas Group companies ○ Internal control signoff system ○ Mazda Global Hotline, etc. Internal Control Self-Diagnosis Monitoring In 1998 Mazda initiated a system of self-diagnosis of internal controls for the ○ Self-diagnosis of internal controls ○ Internal auditing, etc. purpose of disseminating awareness concerning internal controls. Currently, Enhancement of IT Security self-diagnosis is carried out at almost all Mazda Group companies in Japan and ○ Setting IT Security Management Regulations ○ IT system auditing, etc. overseas. This system enables the supervisors in charge of actually developing and operating the processes and mechanisms, not third parties such as internal auditing departments or auditing companies, to evaluate internal controls using the checklist. Through this system, Mazda’s departments and Mazda Group companies have proactively found inadequacies in internal controls and taken action to improve them. Mazda’s internal auditing department reviews the procedure for self-diagnosis and provides advices for necessary improvements while ensuring that any newly found risks would be reflected in the checklist, so as to always ensure proper and effective diagnosis. Implementation of Internal Controls Signoff System From FY March 2007 Mazda has introduced the signoff system, in which top management of Mazda’s each department and each Group company ensure internal controls by “signing off” after identifying inadequacies in controls and confirming the status of correction thereof through auditing and self-diagnosis. The Mazda Internal Controls Report is prepared based on the contents of these signoffs. From FY March 2010, for the purpose of early discovery of inadequacies at each department or Group company, a new system of quarterly reporting has been implemented whereby inadequacies found are reported to the Mazda’s auditing department on a quarterly basis. For each inadequacy reported, the deadline and responsible person for improvement are determined to facilitate speedy improvement. 109 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Risk Management gh g Risk Management Structure in Normal Times Representative Director and President Mazda makes continuous efforts to identify and reduce various internal and external risks in accordance with the Basic Policy on Risk Management, Risk Management Risk Compliance Committee Regulations, and other related internal regulations, so as to ensure continuous and Executive Executive Officer in charge of Risk Management stable progress of business activities. Among the risks identified, considering the level Officers in charge Department in charge of promoting risk management of importance, individual business risks are managed by the department in charge of that business area while company-wide risks are handled by departments that Department responsible for each risk Company-wide risks carry out business on a company-wide basis. These departments manage the risks Instruction, assistance appropriately, following the PDCA cycle. Departments within Mazda Business Mazda Group companies risks In the event of an emergency, such as a natural disaster or situation that creates serious managerial consequences, Mazda takes appropriate measures in reference to its internal regulations, including establishing an emergency response taskforce when necessary. h Emergency Risk Management Structure In line with the medium-term action plan established in FY March 2017, the Risk Compliance Representative Director and President Committee has worked to further clarify the risks in the Company and its Group companies and to strengthen risk management. The committee has also ascertained the progress of Executive Officer in charge of Risk Management these activities on a half-yearly basis. Its initiatives are periodically reported to the Board of Emergency Response Taskforce Directors. In FY March 2019, as in the previous year, the committee selected the common key issues to be addressed across the Mazda Group, from among the risks identified by each Departments within Mazda Mazda Group companies division, based on the confirmed results of the said risk management. Then, measures were For incidents that fall outside the scope of existing risk put in place to deal with these key issues. Moreover, the committee enhanced education management organizations and require a coordinated programs for division general managers as well as managers of Group companies. interdepartmental response, the executive officer in charge of risk management will consult with the president, establish an Mazda is presently upgrading and expanding its business continuity plan (BCP) to avoid emergency response taskforce, and appoint a general manager for this taskforce. suspension of business that would extensively impact society. ■ Annual Report 2019 https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/library/ Basic Policies of Risk Management annual/ ・Business risk (pp. 41-43) Concept With the advance of IT and globalization and the growing awareness of environmental issues and compliance with the law, the environment surrounding the company’s activities is rapidly changing, and it can be expected to change even further in the future. In order to realize this “Corporate Vision,” it is necessary to specifically address these changes in the environment and minimize the potential risks that threaten to interfere with the continuous, safe furtherance of our business activities. The company must also create a system that will allow a rapid recovery when abnormal or emergency circumstances occur and gain the strong trust from our customers, shareholders and the community. The entire Mazda Group shall address risk management and work toward becoming a company that can truly be trusted. Goals In the following ways, Mazda shall strive for Enhancement of Corporate Value and Harmony with the Community thereby realizing the company’s “Corporate Vision.” 1. Ensure the health and safety of all those who make up the Mazda Group as well as local citizens 2. Maintain and increase the trust from the community 3. Make appropriate use of the tangible and intangible corporate assets of the Mazda Group 4. Secure interests of the stakeholders, earn their trust and meet their expectations 5. Support the functions of the organization and seek a rapid restoration of business activities at the time of abnormal circumstances or emergencies Action Plan All corporate officers and all employees shall have responsibility for carrying out risk management based on the awareness that risk exists in every facet of business activities. Risk management shall be addressed from all angles at every stage of operations. Methods Risk management activities shall be divided into two types: 1. Continuous efforts to prevent and mitigate potential risks existing in everyday duties and the promotion of the proactive use of these activities (risk management) 2. Minimization of damage resulting from crisis and rapid recovery (crisis management) Scope of Application 1. Shall include the control of all types of business risk. 2. Shall apply to the entire Mazda Group including subsidiaries and related companies. 110 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Response to Accidents and Other Emergencies i i Number of participants in drills at Mazda Head Office Mazda has been systematically working to enhance both the “hardware” and Drill for disaster response, firefighting and first aid (using AED) in preparation for an earthquake, tidal wave, etc. “software” aspects of emergency readiness, in preparation for major earthquakes FY March FY March FY March such as the expected Nankai Trough Earthquake and tsunamis associated with 2017 2018 2019 them. Examples of such “hardware” and “software” measures include quakeParticipants 19,021 19,289 18,900 proofing buildings and facilities, and raising embankments, as well as maintaining emergency-contact networks and organizing self-disaster-defense teams. Meanwhile, disaster drills are held annually both jointly with fire authorities and solely by Mazda’s self-disaster-defense teams, based on lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake and other earthquakes that occurred in various parts of Japan. Mazda also introduced a system to confirm employees’ safety in the event of a large-scale disaster. In FY March 2019, the Company established a system for faster initial response in an emergency, with the aims of protecting human life and minimizing disaster damage, based on the experience in the heavy rain in July 2018. Mazda also further strengthened its collaboration system with local communities for disaster control, through the dispatching of fire engines in the case of fire in the surrounding region and provision of drinking water, work gloves, and other relief supplies to the affected areas. Information Security Personal information and other important information are appropriately managed and protected based on the established information management policies and internal regulations, so as to ensure information security. To raise employees’ awareness about information security, Mazda requires its employees to execute training on the management of confidential information, protection of personal information, and IT security. When newly joining the Company, management of confidential information is covered in the introduction program, while e-learning is used for personal information protection and IT security training. Other continuous education efforts are also available, including an Intranet site dedicated to information and knowledge on information security. For companies in the Mazda Group, Mazda provides guidelines and educational tools regarding information security, realizing a group-wide effort to ensure information security. IT Security Management Rules The IT security policy based on the BS 7799*1 framework has been established as IT security management rules, under which the mechanisms for security control and monitoring that should be incorporated into IT systems are determined. Whether such mechanisms are properly installed and operated is confirmed on both a regular and random basis. *1 Standards on information security management established by the British Standards Institution (BSI), on which ISO/ IEC27001 & 27002, the current international standards for information security management, are based. 111 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Protection of Personal Information Mazda rigorously protects personal information in line with its own Personal Information Protection Policy. Handling rules are set out in order to ensure appropriate management of personal information, regular examination of management records for retained personal data is taken, and management statuses are checked once a year. In cases in which the handling of personal information is entrusted to outside parties, such contractors are carefully selected based on a checklist which determined the necessary items including security management. The Mazda Call Center responds to customers who wish to inquire about the Company’s handling of personal information and those who request disclosure regarding privacy issues. In FY March 2019, in response to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), whose application started that year, Mazda took appropriate measures, by such means as establishing its internal regulations and providing education for data management divisions through e-learning. Personal Information Protection Policy The Company endeavors to adequately protect the personal information of its customers, business partners, employees and other parties in accordance with laws and regulations on the protection of personal information and the basic guidelines described below. 1. Mazda shall establish Regulations for the Protection of Personal Information, to be adhered to by all parties that handle personal information. 2. Mazda shall put in place a presiding supervisor for the management of personal information, and provide corresponding educational activities for its employees (directors, employees, part-time workers, temporary agency workers, etc.) and other related persons. 3. Mazda shall acquire personal information through appropriate means. When collecting personal information, Mazda shall either inform that person of the purposes of use and its contact address, or announce such information by a well-recognized method or methods (such as through a website). 4. At Mazda, personal information shall only be utilized by those who have been authorized to manage such data, to the extent disclosed to the parties concerned or publicly announced, and within the scope necessary. 5. Mazda shall take all necessary measures required by law, including obtaining consent from the relevant party, for the provision of such personal information to a third party. 6. If Mazda assigns a third party to any business relating to personal information, the Company shall make an appropriate selection of the assignee for such business, and take all necessary measures required by law, such as conducting necessary and adequate supervision. 7. If Mazda receives any claim for disclosure, correction, suspension, or elimination of all or any part of the personal information retained by the Company, Mazda shall react appropriately in accordance with laws after the Company confirms that said claim was made by the relevant party. 8. Mazda shall ensure reasonable security measures, and continuously improve such measures to prevent illegal access, loss, destruction, falsification, and/or leakage of personal information. Basic Policy on Intellectual Property j j Invention and device awards Mazda’s overall vision for intellectual property is to use intellectual property as a Once a year on Mazda’s foundation day, management resource in support of its business management and enterprise activities, certificates of commendation, commemorative medals, prize money, etc. are presented to the based on respect for its own and others’ intellectual property. Based on this vision, selected recipients through the manager of their Mazda has established an Intellectual Property Committee to discuss and decide key department. No limit is set for the amount of items regarding intellectual property. The committee is comprised of division general prize money, so that inventors are fully rewarded for their contribution. managers from related divisions and chaired by an executive officer responsible for intellectual property issues. Also, the invention incentive system increases motivation for inventions among employees working at the forefront of research and development. For its Group companies in Japan and overseas, Mazda supports them in developing/ implementing policies and establishing systems for handling intellectual property, with the aim of enhancing the intellectual property management functions of the entire Mazda Group. 112 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Protection of Intellectual Property and Intellectual Property Risk Management Mazda’s dedicated Intellectual Property Department leads Company activities regarding intellectual properties so as not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies, and conducts strategic activities aimed at fiercely protecting, accumulating, and making optimal use of the intellectual properties generated through these in-house activities. 1. Exhaustively uncovers and globally obtains rights concerning intellectual properties created by its business activities, including new technologies, markings, model names and vehicle designs, and protects Mazda technologies and the Mazda brand. 2. Takes steps to exhaustively investigate as well as prevent and solve any problems regarding intellectual properties that may obstruct business activities in each domain, such as infringement of other parties’ patent rights; trademark rights, design rights and copyrights; and violations of the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. To avoid patent litigation driven by patent trolls,*1 which has been increasing mainly in the United States, Mazda joined the License on Transfer Network*2 in 2015. The Company also participated in 2017 in the Open Invention Network (OIN), in which all members agree that there should be no patent conflict around LINUX and related technology. The aim of this participation was to reduce the risks regarding LINUX-related patents, which have been on the rise as the use of LINUX-based OS becomes widespread in the automotive industry. Awareness-Raising Activities k k Examples of awareness-raising activities The Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct (see p. 114) stipulates “Protect ・Preparing manuals for creating and publishing confidential information. Never infringe on any intellectual property rights, materials ・Developing Mazda-Shared Image-Collection, whether belonging to Mazda or another party,” so as to clearly convey a relevant which collects communication materials code of conduct to all employees and guide their behavior. The Intellectual that involve no risks of intellectual property Property Department is responsible for the overall management of intellectual infringements property, and also regularly conducts awareness-raising activities to instill respect for intellectual property law. Based on periodic review of risks according to changes in the external environment, the Department offers awareness-raising programs tailored to the management level and position of each employee and executive in Mazda and each Mazda Group company at home and overseas, and to the type of intellectual property in question. In addition, to prevent intellectual property-related problems, intellectual education is provided with particular focus on the risks involved in joint development, thereby promoting information sharing and awareness raising. Brand Protection (Measures against Imitation Products) To protect customers, Mazda implements activities to eliminate the risk posed to customers by the purchase of imitation products. These activities are aimed at supporting and improving the strength of the Mazda brand and its trustworthiness, as a brand that continues to be relied on by customers. [Details of Activities] 1. Mazda develops and implements its own measures against the sale of imitation products. 2. Mazda actively participates in programs organized by the private and public sectors against imitations. *1 A patent troll is an organization or group that is not engaged in technology development itself but acquires patents 3. Mazda appoints permanent staff from among the members most for technologies developed by others, for the purpose of demanding unreasonably high patent royalties or settlement knowledgeable in intellectual property issues to liaise with countries and money from third parties that use the relevant technologies. regions that are major sources of imitation products. Working with government *2 A patent association established in July 2014 by Canon Inc., Google LLC. and some other companies. If a member and other agencies tasked with exposing imitation products, these staff company sells a patent it owns to an external organization, group, or individual, the license for the patent will be members work to devise measures to stem the flow of such products. automatically granted to other member companies. (If a patent troll obtains a patent of a member company, Mazda cannot be charged a patent royalty by the patent troll.) 113 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Compliance l l Compliance Promotion System At Mazda the concept of compliance applies not only to laws and regulations, but Representative Director and President also includes adherence to other rules such as internal guidelines and societal norms Risk Compliance Committee and expectations. Business operations are conducted in accordance with the Mazda Mazda Global Hotline Corporate Services Division Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct to ensure fair and honest practice. To promote Liaison Deliberation of handling highly transparent and fair transactions with all partner companies, Mazda established Reporting Recommendation / advice the Guidelines on Entertainment and Gifts, which prohibit bribery, receiving unjust Departments within Mazda Mazda Group benefits, etc. These guidelines are revised as needed to cope with changes in the social (Department/Group Managers = Persons in charge of compliance) companies environment, social needs, etc. Overseas as well, Mazda not only complies with international regulations and the laws of Global Employee Engagement Survey Percentage of positive responses each country and region, but also respects local history, culture, and customs. (Consolidated) The Global Employee Engagement Survey, which includes a questionnaire concerning FY March 2019 compliance, is conducted to check the employees’ degree of understanding of compliance. Legal and company policy compliance 77% is strictly observed in this company. Outline of the Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct Overview of Compliance Activities Five principles of “faithful” behavior 1997 Ethics Committee established under the 1. To comply with laws and regulations, company rules, common sense and sound direct supervision of the president practice in international society. 1998 Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct established. Guidelines on Entertainment 2. To be fair and even-handed. and Gifts established 3. To fulfill the company’s social responsibilities. 1999 Ethics Advisory Office established 2002 Compliance Seminar held for executives 4. To fulfill your own duties truthfully. and middle managers (once a year in 5. To be honest. principle) 2005 A mandatory e-learning course held for all Guidelines indirect employees Ethics Questionnaire conducted targeting executives and 1. Comply with laws and regulations and the company rules. In a situation where such rules employees are not clearly defined, make a judgment considering their spirit. A wallet-size “Compliance Card” is distributed 2. Treat employees, customers and clients fairly and justly. Do not obtain from or give to every employees in the Mazda Group. 2007 The Mazda Global Hotline established anybody an unjust benefit and/or favor taking advantage of your business position. 2008 Distribution of “Learning from Other 3. Make distinctions between public and private affairs, and never pocket or abuse the Companies” and “Compliance company assets. Communications” started on the Company Intranet 4. Keep confidential information. Never infringe on any intellectual property rights, whether The Ethics Committee reorganized to Risk it belongs to Mazda or another party. Compliance Committee 2013 Compliance Card revised and disseminated 5. Seek to develop, manufacture and sell products taking human safety and the environment through the Mazda Global Hotline into consideration. 2017 Distribution of “Let’s Learn Together about 6. Act with a view to seeking sound profit. Compliance!” started on the Company Intranet 7. Respect human rights and human dignity. 8. State the truth honestly and timely in reporting internally and/or to the public. m Mazda Global Hotline Whistleblower Response Response Mazda Global Hotline mn (where notification Real name, in principle Real name/ (where notification Pseudonym is possible) is possible) Reporting Reporting The Company has established the Mazda Global Hotline, as an in-house system to Mazda Global Hotline Mazda Global Hotline receive reports regarding non-compliance and other issues. With its contact points set In-house contact point Outside contact point (Attorney’s office) up both inside the Company and outside (attorney’s office), the hotline enables Mazda Reporting Group employees to choose a contact point to submit their reports to either under their Department targeted for Corporate Services Division investigation real names or anonymously. The content of these reports is carefully handled, and the Reporting Instruction whistleblowers’ confidentiality is completely protected. In so doing, Mazda takes sufficient Representative Director and President follow-up measures to ensure that those who make reports to the hotline or who cooperate Auditor Management in an investigation will not be subject to unfavorable treatment. The Company has distributed the Compliance Card with the contact information to all n Various Contact Points employees at Mazda Motor Corporation, on the occasion of compliance education. In FY March 2019, as part of its efforts to make the hotline better known to everyone, Mazda put Labor Consultation up posters and implemented e-learning programs. Consultation for Mental Health Human Rights/ The Mazda Global Hotline is also introduced to suppliers so that they can report the Consultation Women <Reporting Only> questions arose from any transaction. Mazda Global Hotline The hotline received total of 51 reports, including consultation, in FY March 2019. Complaints/ (Within Mazda/attorney’s office) In addition, Mazda has set up several contact points to provide various consultations for Consultations from Consultation on Customers and Financial Control employees. These contact points aid in the early detection and appropriate handling of Stakeholders Legal Consultation/ important compliance-related information. The critical cases are reported to the management. Compliance Consultation 114 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Compliance Education o o Themes of “Learning from Other Companies’ Case Examples,” “Let’s Learn Together about Mazda believes that mere adherence to laws and regulations is not enough; it is Compliance!” and “e-Learning” (Example) important to have each and every employee understand the essence of such laws ● Agreement ● Copyright and regulations and to practice integrity. ● Insider Stock Trading Various compliance education activities are organized in line with the changes ● Personal Information ● Act on Subcontracting in the social environment and social needs. The content of voluntary learning ● Security Control opportunities using e-learning is also being enhanced. ● Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Moreover, the Company uses its Intranet to raise employee awareness of Misleading Representations ● Ordinances on Exclusion of Violence Group compliance issues. For example, Mazda distributes a case study series entitled ● Anti-Monopoly Act “Learning from Other Companies’ Case Examples,” which highlights problems and ● Unfair Competition Prevention Act (including bribery of national civil servants) best practices at other companies relating to compliance and risk management. ● Security Export Control Such information is also shared with Mazda Group companies, who apply it in ● Non-Disclosure Agreement ● Outsourcing Agreement their own compliance education activities. And others Continued initiatives targeting executives and middle managers of Mazda as well as Group company executives are also taking place to reemphasize the importance of compliance through compliance seminars taught by internal and external lecturers, and timely provision of information. Enhancing Global Tax Compliance The Mazda Group handles tax affairs with integrity, in keeping with the Mazda Corporate Ethics Code of Conduct and other relevant rules and regulations. It is an important duty as a good corporate citizen to pay taxes in an appropriate and timely manner, in accordance with followings: international rules, each country’s laws and regulations, and the Company’s Finance Control Guidelines. With this in mind, Mazda contributes to social development in each country, by voluntarily fulfilling its tax obligations. The Mazda Group understands the purport of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) projects, which are promoted by the OECD and the G20 countries. The Group will not engage in tax-evasion behaviors through the abuse of tax havens, but will sincerely cooperate in implementing information disclosure in response to requests from the tax authorities of each country, to ensure tax transparency. Particularly in its global business operations, Mazda is well aware of the importance of transfer pricing taxation as a means of determining proper profit-sharing among Group companies in the respective countries. By promoting active dialogue with tax authorities through effective use of Advance Pricing Arrangement, the Mazda Group is committed to transparent and fair transfer pricing. The Group will continue to establish trusted relationships with the tax authorities in each country and enhance tax compliance from a global standpoint, while taking into account changes in the social environment and needs regarding tax affairs. 115 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Supporting Enhancement of Compliance at Dealerships in Japan To support transparent management throughout all Mazda Group companies, Mazda systematically promotes the strengthening of compliance among its dealers in Japan based on the principle as compliance being the base for building the brand. Specific initiatives: ■ CSR Committee meetings are convened in conjunction with the Mazda Dealership Association in Japan in order to discuss basic policies and measures related to compliance and internal controls, and request the promotion of compliance to all Mazda dealerships in Japan at every opportunity, such as during the conferences for dealership representatives. ■ At regular training sessions for representatives from dealerships in Japan, their awareness is raised to fully implement measures to find inadequacies in compliance and internal controls and prevent recurrence of similar problems. They also share examples of these inadequacies with related parties, and carry out relevant investigations. ■ Questions encompassing risks concerning standard business process and laws particular to dealerships in Japan as well as internal control were added to the Self Diagnosis Checklist on Internal Controls, which is deployed throughout the Mazda Group. It supports the promotion of dealership management in compliance with related laws and improvement of work efficiency. The Self-Diagnosis Checklist reflects examples of dealerships’ activities. It is intended to promptly share best practices and risks with related parties and to promote more practical self-diagnosis. Since FY March 2019, a briefing session has been held, in order to promote internal control self-diagnosis activities at more dealerships. ■ The CSR site has been opened on the intranet used by all dealerships in Japan, in order to promote understanding of compliance and internal controls among dealership employees. The site provides the standard operating procedures that define the basic business operations to be performed by dealerships, as well as education tools, such as one-point lessons on compliance concerning near-at-hand case studies and specialized e-learning programs. ■ For immediate reporting of problems regarding compliance, internal controls, human rights and other CSR-related issues, an in-house consultation contact point has been set up at each dealership in Japan, and effective use of the Mazda Global Hotline reporting system has been brought back to attention. 116 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management IMPLEMENTING CSR IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Working with Mazda’s Suppliers a Basic Purchasing Policy Mazda carries out a wide variety of activities in order to achieve mutual growth and Mazda will, in the fullest sense of coexistence prosperity with suppliers and dealerships, both in Japan and overseas. In line with its and mutual prosperity, engage in research and basic purchasing policy, Mazda is making efforts to build open business relationships and production for improved competitiveness. The Company will build open and fair business ensure fair and even-handed dealings with its suppliers both in Japan and overseas, while relationships to ensure sustainable growth and extending opportunities to businesses throughout the world, regardless of nationality, raise its level of contributions for social and economic development. (1994) scale or history of transactions with the Company. Upon receiving a request to start business with Mazda, Mazda assesses the company in question in a fair and even-handed manner according to its in-house criteria for evaluation of suppliers, and determines the Number of Suppliers (As of March 31, 2019) feasibility of a business partnership. Automotive parts 543 In addition, Mazda bases its assessments of business dealings with its suppliers on a Materials, etc. 148 comprehensive evaluation that covers not only quality, technical strengths, pricing, delivery time and management approach, but also the corporate compliance structure Equipment and tools 396 and CSR initiatives, including environmental protection activities (see p. 118). Mazda Total 1,087 has conducted questionnaire surveys of its suppliers on an as-needed basis, aiming to understand and evaluate the status of their CSR implementation in more detail (see p. 118). Also, concerted efforts are under way between Mazda and its suppliers to establish a Measures for Supplier Support risk management systems that ensure business continuity and stable development, so as ● Co-creation and technology exchange to avoid suspension of business that would extensively impact society (see p. 119). with suppliers, aimed at improving their In addition to proactively offering opportunities for communication, Mazda provides competitiveness supports in various forms to suppliers to ensure that the Company can promote CSR ● Cooperating with suppliers in improving their product quality initiatives and risk management in close concert with them (see p. 119). ● Adoption of the Milk-Run system (Mazda has shifted from the conventional system, with Promoting CSR Initiatives in Partnership with Its Suppliers delivery of parts by each supplier, to the MilkRun system (MRS) (see p. 72), in which Mazda trucks stop at multiple suppliers to collect Promoting Suppliers’ CSR Initiatives and Deployment of the parts. Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines bc ● Provision of advice on joint subscription systems for product liability insurance, which reduces manufacturers’ liability risks for parts. The Company stipulated the Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines, based on Mazda’s basic ● Provision of information on third-party approach on CSR initiatives and with reference to the CSR Guidelines of the Japan exhibitions and conventions to showcase the Automobile Manufacturers Association. The Guidelines outline CSR areas and items that latest technologies and manufacturing methods are closely related to the purchasing area. In the Guidelines, CSR activities are categorized into six areas: Customer Satisfaction (Safety/Quality), Environment, Social Contribution, Respect for People (Human Rights/Work), Compliance, and Information Disclosure. The Guidelines request that all Mazda suppliers comply with the guidelines in these areas. b Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines The Mazda Green Purchasing Guidelines (see p. 59) are separately created to indicate the https://www.mazda.com/globalassets/en/assets/csr/csr_ Company’s approach on the environmental protection area in more detail, and Mazda vision/distributor/supplier_csr_guideline_e.pdf requests that suppliers observe these guidelines. The Company also conducts periodic surveys of suppliers to confirm their compliance status (see p. 118). c Mazda Green Purchasing Guidelines https://www.mazda.com/globalassets/en/assets/csr/csr_ Customer Satisfaction (Safety/Quality): Suppliers are requested to abide by the guidelines vision/distributor/greenpurchasing_guideline_e.pdf regarding products and services that meet the needs of consumers and customers, sharing appropriate information about products and services, safe products and services, quality products and services, etc. Environment: Suppliers are requested to abide by the guidelines regarding environmental management / greenhouse gas reduction / air, water and soil pollution prevention / resource conservation and waste reduction / chemical management / ecosystem conservation, etc. Social Contribution: Suppliers are requested to make social contributions proactively and continuously at home and abroad to meet the needs of each region, thereby fulfilling their responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Respect for People (Human Rights/Work): Suppliers are requested to abide by the guidelines regarding abolition of discrimination / respect for people / prohibition of child labor / prohibition of forced labor / non-use of conflict materials*1 (see p. 118) / wages / working hours / dialogue with employees / safe and healthy working environment, etc. Compliance: Suppliers are requested to abide by the guidelines regarding regulation compliance / competition law compliance / promotion of fair business practices (added in FY March 2019) / corruption prevention / confidential information management and protection / export management / *1 Conflict minerals: Minerals and their derivative metals designated by Financial Regulatory Reform Article 1502 that intellectual property protection, etc. are sourced from and used as financial sources for armed groups in conflict-affected regions in the Democratic Republic Information Disclosure: Suppliers are requested to disclose information to their stakeholders in a of Congo or adjoining countries (Regulated minerals: timely and appropriate manner, and make efforts to maintain and develop mutual understanding and tantalum, tin, tungsten, gold). Under this act, listed US companies are obliged to report that no conflict materials are trustful relationships with stakeholders through open and fair-minded communication. used in their products. 117 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Example of CSR Initiatives in Cooperation with Suppliers Respect for People: Activities to Address Problems regarding Conflict Minerals Mazda considers that among crucial social problems in the supply chain are human rights violations and illegal extraction in disputed regions and issues regarding conflict minerals*1, which may be used as financial sources by armed groups. To ensure that conflict minerals and other materials that may cause social problems are not used, the Mazda Supplier CSR Guidelines clearly state Mazda’s policy, and the Company requires all suppliers to comply with it. In FY March 2019, Mazda conducted a survey on conflict minerals, targeting about 300 suppliers of the parts and materials of vehicles to be supplied to companies to which Mazda vehicles are delivered, in response to the request. The survey was carried out using the format designated by the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) (now the Responsible Business Alliance [RBA]). Compliance: Promotion of Fair Business Practices d d In-House Education to Ensure Fair Transactions Mazda promotes fair business practices to ensure that both the Company and its suppliers The following educational initiatives are have fair dealings under clear standards with a common recognition to strengthen their conducted for those engaging in procurement global competitiveness through mutual collaboration. Based on the Guidelines for operations in order to realize fair and equal transactions. Appropriate Transactions in the Automobile Industry, which was formulated at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Mazda carries out various activities, ● Administering comprehension tests on promotion of fair business practices (including including the formulation of the Promotion Manual for Appropriate Purchasing, education Subcontractors Act) for those engaged in procurement operations at Mazda, and information provision to ● Education on financial control suppliers through the website and briefing sessions. ● Posting of guides and process rules regarding fair business practices and compliance on the Purchasing Division The Supplier Evaluation System e website on the Intranet ● Participation in the fair trade promotion When starting business with a new supplier, related departments coordinate together to seminar hosted by the Small and Medium Enterprise Agency confirm the supplier’s quality control system, research & development system, technological capabilities, financial conditions, and CSR initiatives, in order to evaluate whether or not the supplier is compliant with the procurement/selection policies of the Mazda Group. For each long-term supplier, Mazda conducts not only an evaluation based on the quality, cost e Evaluation System and delivery time of the procured goods or services, but also a comprehensive evaluation Evaluation items when starting business with a of the entire business including the quality control system, research & development system, new supplier technological capabilities, and the status of its CSR initiatives. For the supplier quality Quality management system, research & development system, technological capacity, control system, Mazda employs a system that enables continuous grasping of issues, production and delivery capacity, financial evaluation of the situation, and provision of guidance for improvement by receiving daily conditions, CSR initiatives, etc. reports on product quality as well as voluntary audit results, and when a supplier is in Evaluation items for long-term suppliers need of quality improvement, conducts quality auditing that involves on-site confirmation Quality management system, research & of actual products at both domestic and overseas sites. Also, Mazda comprehensively development system, technological capacity, production and delivery capacity, financial evaluates its suppliers every year (271 suppliers in 2018) from the perspectives of quality, conditions; quality, pricing, delivery time of pricing, delivery time, etc., in order to build more positive business relationships with them, goods or services procured, and other items in and passes the results of these evaluations back to the suppliers. Outstanding suppliers are the Supplier CSR Guidelines (see p. 117) recognized with awards. The Company has also introduced CSR-based evaluation, giving special awards to suppliers that have made outstanding proposals on weight trimming, which greatly affects environmental performance such as fuel efficiency. Questionnaire Survey for Suppliers Mazda has conducted questionnaire surveys of its suppliers since FY March 2014, aiming to understand and evaluate the status of their CSR implementation. The survey results confirm that these suppliers have appropriately implemented CSR initiatives and established their own CSR promotion systems. In FY March 2019, a questionnaire survey was carried out about compliance (fair business practices) and labor practices (reform of working practices), in view of the growing social awareness of these matters. The survey was targeted at approximately 60 local manufacturers, a major percentage of whose sales consisted of products delivered to Mazda. The survey results showed that a progress has been made since FY March 2018. After analyzing these results, the Company held individual interviews with *1 Conflict minerals: Minerals and their derivative metals designated by Financial Regulatory Reform Article companies deemed to be in need of further improvement, in order to offer them cooperation 1502 that are sourced from and used as financial sources for armed groups in conflict-affected regions in devising improvement methods. in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries (Regulated minerals: tantalum, tin, tungsten, Using these surveys, the Company checked each supplier’s recognition of the Mazda Supplier gold). Under this act, listed US companies are obliged CSR Guidelines, and confirmed that all the suppliers surveyed were aware of these guidelines. to report that no conflict materials are used in their products. 118 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management Risk Management in Collaboration with Suppliers Upgrading and Expanding the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) In the light of risk management, Mazda works together with its suppliers to upgrade and expand its business continuity plan (BCP) in order to avoid suspension of business that would extensively impact society. The Company has introduced the “SCR Keeper,”*1 a supply chain risk management system, to accelerate its initial response in the event of a disaster by promptly and thoroughly grasping information on the situation of operation sites. Also, initiatives are under way to promote disaster prevention and mitigation activities. Mazda had already completed risk inspections and made provisions against the expected Nankai Trough Earthquake and other large earthquakes. However, based on the experience in the heavy rain in July 2018, the Company started to further advance its disaster preparedness, including the inspection of supply chain risks with its scope of application broadened to cover heavy rain-related risks, and reinforcement of disaster prevention and mitigation measures in operation sites at high risk. Mazda will continue to enhance its BCP in cooperation with its suppliers. Communicating with Suppliers Information Exchange and Dialogues with Suppliers f g f Lecture at Supplier Communication Meeting “Mazda’s CSR initiatives” (November 2018) Mazda proactively offers opportunities for communication with suppliers, to ensure that the Company can work in close concert with them. Seeing all the suppliers as its important business partners, the Company takes steps to promptly brief suppliers on mediumto long-term business strategies and on matters related to sales and production, and arranges opportunities for information exchange and dialogues on a regular basis. As part of such efforts, Mazda organizes an annual seminar with the aim of enhancing awareness of environmental and other CSR initiatives. The Company also maintains close liaisons with supplier-managed purchasing cooperative organizations.*2 For example, staffs from member companies visit each other’s offices in order to exchange examples of successful approaches and practices g Purchasing Cooperative Organizations* through subcommittee activities. In FY March 2019, 127 companies conducted a (As of March 31, 2019) total of 59 activities. Parts suppliers Yokokai 169 Major Channels of Communication with Supplier Materials suppliers Target participants Frequency Aims/content (Raw materials, equipment, Yoshinkai 80 molds, etc.) ･Mazda’s president and CEO explains Mazda’s current status, the problems the Company faces and its policies, after which * An autonomous management organization, comprising Roundtable Executive-level the general manager of the Purchasing Division explains suppliers that have a certain degree of transaction with Conference Once a management at Mazda’s purchasing policies in order to heighten participants’ Mazda, with the purpose of strengthening relationships with Supplier year major suppliers understanding of Mazda and gain their cooperation. ･This conference also deepens friendly ties between Mazda Management between Mazda and its suppliers as well as promoting mutual growth and prosperity. and its suppliers. ･Mazda’s specific purchasing policies are explained to Representatives of representatives of frontline business divisions at suppliers, frontline business Supplier Once a based on the explanation given at the roundtable conference divisions and Meeting year by the general manager of the Purchasing Division. This helps to departments at promote a better understanding of Mazda and provides useful major suppliers input for the work that suppliers do. ･To facilitate smoother collaboration with its suppliers, Mazda Representatives of provides them with information, such as topics concerning daily Supplier frontline business Once a operations between Mazda and its suppliers (including CSR), Communication divisions and month production/sales status, quality status of purchased materials, Meeting departments at pilot construction schedules for newly developed models, and major suppliers mass-production implementation schedules for new models. *1 Supply Chain Resiliency system This is a system combining map data with the earthquake ･Mazda also employs a range of other communication channels, information by the Meteorological Agency, with which the As Other ー by using the in-house “Mazda Technical Review”, highlighting new seismic intensity of the registered production sites can be needed found quickly in the event of an earthquake. technologies and research. *2 Yokokai member companies: 169 parts suppliers, Yoshinkai member companies: 80 material suppliers The procurement amount from member companies of Yokokai and Yoshinkai accounts for about 90% of the whole. 119 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Customer Respect for Social Mazda CSR Satisfaction Quality Safety Environment People Contributions Management WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors a a Breakdown of Shareholders by Type (as of March 31, 2019) For continued growth and enhancement of corporate value over the medium and long terms, Mazda engages in a variety of investor relations initiatives in Other Japanese Japanese securities corporations companies keeping with its policy of timely and appropriate disclosure of information and 12.9% 3.9% with constructive dialogue. In addition to general shareholders’ meetings, the 81,373 thousand 24,775 thousand shares Company holds frequent meetings with its shareholders and investors, providing shares quarterly announcements to explain its business results and other activities. Japanese The Company is working to increase opportunities for dialogue in such ways as individuals holding business briefings for institutional investors, individual investors, and and others* Foreign domestic and overseas securities analysts. 17.0% institutions 107,125 and others Mazda’s official website provides information such as the schedule for general thousand shares shareholders’ meetings and financial results announcements, performance/ 35.6% 224,944 financial data, notices of the general meetings of shareholders (business reports), Japanese financial thousand institutions shares shareholders reports (Japanese only), summary of financial results, briefing materials 30.6% for the financial results, Securities Report (Japanese only), annual report, Cooperate 193,587 thousand shares Governance Report. Mazda strives for highly transparent and fair disclosure. ＊ Treasury stock is included in Japanese individuals and others Mazda is planning to apply International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), in order to enhance the international comparability of its financial information, quality of Group management and corporate governance. Mazda will decide the appropriate timing of IFRS application, observing the trend of the adoption among Japanese companies as well as the domestic and overseas economic situations. Management Conditions and Dividends for FY March 2019 b b Management Conditions (consolidated /billion yen) The operating environment for the Mazda Group in FY March 2019—the year FY March 2017 FY March 2018 FY March 2019 ended March 31, 2019—showed a gradual recovery trend as a whole despite Net sales 3,214.4 3,474.0 3,564.7 factors clouding the outlook, including trade friction among leading economies and issues surrounding the United Kingdom’s departure from the European Union Operating income 125.7 146.4 83.0 (“Brexit”). Against this backdrop, the Mazda Group made efforts to offer attractive Net income products that provide driving pleasure and outstanding environmental and safety attributable to owners of 93.8 112.1 63.5 performance in this fiscal year, the last year of its Structural Reform Stage 2 mediumthe parent company term business plan. At the same time, the Group worked to further improve its brand value with the aim of realizing qualitative growth in all areas of its business. Capital investment 94.4 104.1 119.7 This fiscal year, the Company launched the Mazda3 as the first of its newR & D costs 126.9 136.0 134.7 generation products, starting to sell the model in North America. Also, Mazda’s second new-generation model, the CX-30, compact crossover SUV, made its Total assets 2,524.6 2,724.1 2,871.0 world premiere at the Geneva International Motor Show in March 2019. On the Equity 1,039.4 1,192.9 1,218.7 production front, Mazda resumed two-shift (day and night) operations at the Hofu Plant No.2 in August 2018, bringing all vehicle production sites in Japan (thousand units) onto a two-shift operations schedule, thereby realizing a more efficient production FY March 2017 FY March 2018 FY March 2019 system that can flexibly respond to demand. Meanwhile, preparations are well under way to start operations of Mazda Toyota Manufacturing, U.S.A., Inc., a Total 1,559 1,631 1,561 joint venture production company in the United States, in 2021. On the research Japan 203 210 215 Global sales volume and development front, in October 2018, Mazda announced its technology North strategy for electrification and connectivity as a concrete initiative to realize its America 429 435 421 “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” long-term vision for technology development. In Europe 262 269 270 the area of these new technologies as well, the Mazda Group remains committed China 292 322 247 to embodying the spirit of “never stop challenging” in pursuit of driving pleasure, based on Mazda’s unique human-centered development philosophy. Mazda Others 373 394 409 promotes various initiatives aiming at becoming a brand with which customers Investor Relations (includes financial results, annual reports) feel an emotional connection that is the strongest in the world. https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/ In this fiscal year, global sales volume declined 4.2% year on year, to 1,561 thousand units. By market, sales volume rose in Japan and the ASEAN region but fell in China, the United States, and Australia. By model, sales remained brisk for crossover SUVs including the CX-5 and the CX-8. Net sales totaled 3,564.7 billion yen, an increase of 90.7 billion yen from the previous fiscal year, mainly supported by growth in wholesales. Operating income declined 63.4 billion yen to 83.0 billion yen. The decline reflected such factors as increased marketing expenses due to intensifying competition and the impact of yen appreciation, all of which outweighed the benefits of increased wholesales and cost-improvement initiatives. Ordinary income fell 55.3 billion yen to 116.8 billion yen. Net income attributable to owners of the parent declined 48.6 billion yen to 63.5 billion yen. With regard to the dividend for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we plan to declare. The Company paid a dividend of 35 yen per share (comprising an interim dividend of 15 yen and a year-end dividend of 20 yen) for FY March 2019. 120 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 INNOVATION Mazda has been committed to manufacturing unique cars that fascinate people with the pleasure of driving, brightening customers’ lives through car ownership, and offering cars that are sustainable for the earth and society. To this end, the Company has been developing unique technologies and enhancing cooperation with business partners, universities and research institutions, and administrative organs. Mazda-unique Innovation With the aim of developing innovative vehicles that exceed the expectations of its stakeholders, Mazda has promoted company-wide efforts to review the vehiclemanufacturing processes from scratch. In FY March 2019, these efforts were highly appreciated both inside and outside Japan. Innovation in Base Technologies “Skyactiv Technology” a a SKYACTIV TECHNOLOGY Mazda engages in research and development with the aim of creating the most Name Features Highly efficient direct-injection functional products with the maximum efficiency. Skyactiv Technology,*1 which SKYACTIV-G gasoline engine the Company began introducing in models in 2011, achieved comprehensive SKYACTIV-D Highly efficient clean diesel engine improvements in base technologies, such as improving the efficiency of powertrain SKYACTIV-X New-generation gasoline engine components including the engine and transmission, reducing vehicle body Highly efficient automatic SKYACTIV-DRIVE transmission weight, and improving aerodynamics. In 2019, the Company will introduce cars SKYACTIV-MT Highly efficient manual transmission equipped with the Skyactiv-X (see p. 9), which is set to become the world’s first*2 SKYACTIV-VEHICLE New-generation vehicle structural commercial new-generation gasoline engine to use compression ignition, and the ARCHITECTURE technologies SKYACTIV-VEHICLE New-generation vehicle dynamics new-generation Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture. DYNAMICS control technologies Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture New-Generation Vehicle Structural Technologies b b A seat that keeps the pelvis upright to maintain the spine’s natural “S” curve Skyactiv-Vehicle Architecture was developed and enhanced focus on the humancentered design philosophy to leverage the human body’s inherent ability to Ideal condition in a car seat The dynamic balancing capability can be demonstrated balance itself. Mazda reviewed every component and function -seats, body, as in the case of walking. chassis, NVH performance, etc. -approaching development and commercial While walking Ideal condition in a car seat implementation from a viewpoint of total vehicle optimization. (An example is the The pelvis The head is stable. is positioned seats, which are designed to keep the pelvis upright, maintaining the spine’s natural “S” in the opposite direction from curve). This also improves the body’s balance for driving operations and enhances the upper part of the body. the ultimate Jinba-ittai feeling, allowing the driver to control the car easily. ・The seat keeps The pelvis upright to maintain the spine’s “S” curvature. ・The seat transmits the force from the road surface to The pelvis and causes The pelvis to move regularly, continuously, and smoothly. ■ Ideal condition while walking and in a car seat *1 It covers all Mazda’s base technologies such as the engine, transmission, chassis and body. *2 As of August 2017, according to in-house investigation. 121 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Skyactiv-Vehicle Dynamics Improves Comfort, Handling, and Stability c c G-Vectoring Control Plus (GVC Plus) operation image* Mazda has been pushing ahead with the development of Skyactiv-Vehicle Dynamics, a series of new-generation vehicle dynamics control technologies. These technologies provide integrated control of the engine, transmission, chassis and body to enhance the car’s Jinba-ittai driving feel—a sense of connectedness between the car and the driver. In July 2016, the Company released the first technology in the Skyactiv-Vehicle Mz Fx Dynamics series, G-Vectoring Control (GVC),*1 which was followed by the second technology, G-Vectoring Control Plus (GVC Plus), introduced in October 2018. GVC Plus uses the brakes to add direct yaw moment control. As the driver steers out of a corner by returning the steering wheel to the center position, ＊ Mz: restoring moment, Fx: braking force GVC Plus applies a light braking force to the outer wheels, providing a stabilizing moment that helps restore the vehicle to straight line running. The system realizes consistently smooth transitions between yaw, roll and pitch even under high cornering forces, improving the vehicle's ability to accurately track sudden steering inputs and crisply exit corners. In addition to improving handling in emergency collision avoidance maneuvers, GVC Plus offers a reassuring feeling of control when changing lanes on the highway and when driving on snow or other slippery road surfaces. Design Theme, Kodo– Soul of Motion d d Mazda Vision Coupe design vision model (released in October 2017) Since 2010, Mazda has striven to create cars that embody the dynamic beauty of life through application of its Kodo—Soul of Motion design philosophy. To maintain and further deepen value, the Company has been pursuing the expression of a new elegance based on Japanese aesthetics characterized by a beauty that is subtle and restrained yet rich and abundant. This more mature form of Kodo focuses on a “less is more” aesthetic that cherishes space and eliminates non-essential elements to create simplicity of form. The challenge then is to bring the car to life via carefully honed reflections on the body surface. The Company is reinterpreting the very essence of Japanese aesthetics, a subdued beauty cultivated since ancient times. The goal is to create an elegant and refined look with a sense of vitality that makes Mazda cars truly come alive. Monotsukuri Innovation Looking five to 10 years into the future, Mazda has implemented Monotsukuri Innovation for efficiently developing and manufacturing products. Shared development methods and manufacturing processes are made possible by using bundled product planning for models to be introduced in the future, spanning market segments and model classes. Optimized structures for each function are shared across all car lines and laterally spread to each car line based on bundled product planning. A flexible production system is used to produce products engineered based on a common architecture concept in a highly efficient and flexible manner. Mazda is aiming to raise operational efficiency by building a flexible production process that can handle changes in volumes and can quickly introduce new models with a minimum of investment. Through Monotsukuri Innovation, the Company’s products since the CX-5, launched in 2012, and Skyactiv Technology have achieved improved efficiency in terms of both product development and manufacturing facility investment as well as significant improvements in vehicle costs. Through design based on common architecture under Monotsukuri Innovation, Mazda is able to promptly apply the latest technologies and designs to all of its products. In new-generation *1 The world's first control system to vary engine torque in technology development, the Company is working to enhance the efficiency of response to steering inputs in order to provide integrated control of lateral and longitudinal acceleration forces development processes through bundled planning and computer modeling-based and optimize the vertical load on each wheel for smooth development. and efficient vehicle motion. (As of June 2016 for mass production vehicles, according to in-house investigation) 122 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Mazda Digital Innovation (MDI) Since 1996, Mazda has been pushing ahead with the Mazda Digital Innovation (MDI), an initiative aimed at reforming work processes by introducing the latest IT technologies. In April 2016 MDI Phase 2 began, in response to the advancement of IT technologies such as IoT and AI and the diversification of customer needs. The Company has been committed to operational reforms capitalizing on state-of-the-art IT technologies, based on innovation through the CX Map, which depicts the Ideal Customer Experience (CX) as a flow of Marketing Sales Service Engagement. In September 2019, Mazda launched new connected services for Mazda3 users in Japan. The Company continues working to realize a customer experience that meet the needs of various customers, offering them not only peace of mind and satisfaction but also excitement. Global Master CX Map depicting the Ideal Customer Experience (CX) The CX Map specifies the ideal CX. To achieve the ideal scenes, ideal operation using state-of-theart technologies and data is defined in detail. Marketing Sales Take Collect Make a Visit the Consider Take Purchase Receive the Enjoy interest in Mazda. information. reservation to visit a dealer. the dealer. specification. a test drive a car. delivered car. the car! CX Map Service Engagement Receive Make a Drive the Receive Receive the Receive Build strong Recommend information reservation vehicle to the maintenance car after follow-up ties with about a dealer for a dealer dealer for at the maintenance services. Mazda. Mazda. inspection. inspection. inspection. dealer. The scene marking the start of Connected Services for the Mazda3 launched in 2019 Connected Services Available for Mazda3 On-board communication device Connected Services to On-board connect drivers to Mazda communication Mazda3, launched in May 2019 in Japan, is newly equipped with an on-board device Three-year free services are offered that connect the communication device that enables customers to access Connected Services vehicle to Mazda through through the MyMazda smartphone app, thereby offering greater convenience a communication device to enhance the car ownership and emergency notification services. Connected Services support customers 24 experience fitted to individual drivers. hours a day in various situations to help them feel safer and to give them peace of CONNECTED CAR Since Mazda3 comes equipped with the on-board communication mind, even if an unexpected problem occurs, such as a serious traffic accident or a device as standard,* the vehicle is connected to the network in various situations 24 hours a day. breakdown. Connected Services also make customers' car ownership experience * Excluding 1.5 L gasoline-powered models more convenient by allowing them to connect with their cars via their smartphones. DRIVER Peace of mind Connected Services are intended to provide customers with the following three types of value: 1) peace of mind, 2) comfort, and 3) handheld connectivity. 1. Peace of mind: Even if the driver loses consciousness in an accident, a 24h connectivity Connected Services operator will call the emergency services (Mazda Emergency Call). In the event of a breakdown, the operator can monitor the data on the failure and the vehicle location, based on which a smooth response will be SERVER OPERATOR made to assist the customer (Mazda Advice Call). DRIVER Comfort 2. Comfort: If a customer is found to have forgotten to lock the car door, the MyMazda smartphone app will notify him/her of the unlocked status so that he/she can lock the door from far. The MyMazda app also makes it easier for Greater comfort customers to find where their vehicle is located even in a large suburban parking by using a smartphone lot, using the app’s function to identify the vehicle location (Car Finder). 3. Handheld connectivity: Before going for a weekend drive, customers can SMARTPHONE VEHICLE check the details of the desired destination and set their routes using the MyMazda smartphone app. While enjoying making the driving plan together Careless error notification & remote control with their friends, customers can send the data on the destination and routes to While enjoying sightseeing after getting out of the car… their vehicle in advance. So, they can just get into the car and make a smooth If you have forgotten to lock the car door Careless error notification start to their trip with excitement. Your smartphone app will receive the information that you have forgotten to lock the door, or left the hazard lights on. If you are far away from the car when you receive the notification Remote control You can lock the door or turn off the hazard lights through remote control using the smartphone app. 123 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Model-Based Development (MBD) e Cars are being called on to provide increasingly advanced and diverse functions, while vehicle architecture and control systems are becoming more and more complex. Model-based development, which uses computers to efficiently replicate development processes, is essential to keep developing complex systems quickly and with limited resources. Model-based development involves creating computer models of the vehicle, control systems, drivers, passengers, driving environments and other development subjects, and conducting development via thorough computer simulation. It is an efficient method of optimization. By carrying out model-based powertrain and vehicle development through simulations from design to vehicle evaluation, Mazda strives to reduce the number of prototype parts and actual unit verification, in order to develop complex, highly sophisticated technologies and products with minimum resources while also ensuring quality. e Model-Based Development A technique to develop outstanding products by modeling (quantifying) and connecting all four elements of (1) the car, (2) control systems, (3) the driver & passengers, and (4) the environment without using an actual vehicle Car Driver & passengers Control system Sensibility model Ergonomic model Aerodynamic Operation Judgment Recognition model Feedback Combustion model Integrated control model Driving E.g.: Driving safety support environment Collision model Handling stability model All driving environment models (e.g., nighttime) TOPICS EV C.A. Spirit Corporation In September 2017, Mazda, Denso Corporation, and Toyota Motor Corporation signed a contract to jointly develop basic structural technologies for electric vehicles (EVs), and established a new company EV C.A. Spirit as a joint development center. Other automakers who share the same vision have participated in and have been jointly developing fundamental EV technologies. To ensure flexible and rapid response to market trends, research of the optimum performance and functions of EVs capable of covering a wide variety of vehicle segments and types is undertaken through bundled planning and common architecture at EV C.A. Spirit. At the same time, computer modeling-based https://www.ev-cas.co.jp/ development is used to realize efficient product development at each company. 124 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Open innovation f f Objectives of opening innovation Mazda has promoted collaboration with companies, universities and government [Contribution to society] authorities, aiming to efficiently resolve business issues by obtaining new ・Achieve a sustainable society, advance monotsukuri or product development and knowledge from outside the Company and to achieve the sustainable growth of manufacturing (share knowledge and skills), and society and businesses (open innovation). enhance regional empowerment The business environment in which companies operate is becoming increasingly [Achieve the growth of the Mazda Group] competitive due to stricter environmental and safety regulations, new competitors ・Improve engineering capabilities, improve the brand value, and increase R&D efficiency from other industries, and diversification of the mobility business. Through open innovation, the Company will achieve the growth of the Mazda Group and contribute to society, thereby fulfilling the Corporate Vision. System diagram of open innovation (1) Inter-company Collaboration with automakers and suppliers Industry collaboration (1) Inter-company collaboration (2) Industry-academiaCollaboration with local governments and companies (Hiroshima government collaboration Council of Automotive Industry-Academia-Government (3) Industry(4) Industryacademia government Collaboration) collaboration collaboration (2) Industry(3) Industry-academia Joint research with universities Collaboration with government academiacollaboration institutions and research institutions (participation in national government projects) collaboration Academia Government (4) Industry-government Participation in technology exhibitions organized by collaboration government authorities (dissemination of needs and seeds) Others (Model Based Development, Research Association of Automobile Internal Combustion Engines (AICE)) g Partnership strategies (1) Inter-company collaboration g Toyota Motor Corporation EV C.A. Spirit Corporation Hirojiren* Universities, educational institutions, etc. Mazda has been promoting inter-company collaboration with other automakers and suppliers to enhance their manufacturing and engineering capabilities and Alliance Partners Suppliers create synergies. Local Community Cross-industrial Local Government Collaboration * Hiroshima Council of Automotive Industry-AcademiaCollaboration with partners who work with Mazda Government Collaboration While working hard together with its partners to realize our shared dreams, the Company wants to enable them to feel proud of their connection with Mazda, *1 An advanced automatic collision notification system and emotionally attached to the brand. This will turn Mazda into the brand it that uses vehicle connectivity technology. Participating enterprises are: the certified non-profit organization wants it to be, connected to all stakeholders, including customers, by the strongest Emergency Medical Network of Helicopter and Hospital (HEM-Net), Subaru Corporation, Toyota Motor Corporation, of bonds. On the basis of mutual trust with Toyota Motor Corporation and other Nissan Motor Corporation, Honda Motor Co., Ltd., Mazda partners, the Company plans to promote active collaboration. Motor Corporation, Japan Mayday Service Co., Ltd., Bosch Service Solutions GmbH, and Premier Aid Inc. [Collaboration examples] (For examples in the environmental area, see p.65.) *2 A company that works to create an environment to promote MaaS (Mobility-as-a-Service), aiming to encourage the March 2019: Participated in D-Call Net®*1 widespread use of next-generation mobility services and to resolve Japan’s social mobility issues. The MONET June 2019: Concluded a capital and business partnership agreement with shareholder structure and investment ratios are as follows: SoftBank Corp. (35.2%), Toyota Motor Corporation (34.8%), MONET Technologies Inc.*2 Hino Motors, Ltd. (10.0％), Honda Motor Co., Ltd. (10.0％), Isuzu Motors Limited (2.0％), Suzuki Motor Corporation (2.0％),* Subaru Corporation (2.0％), Daihatsu Motor Co., Ltd. (2.0％), and Mazda Motor Corporation (2.0％). TOPICS New Joint Plant, Mazda Toyota Manufacturing, U.S.A., Inc. In November 2018, Mazda held a ground-breaking ceremony to mark the start of construction of a joint venture facility being built by Mazda Toyota Manufacturing, U.S.A., Inc. (MTMUS). This plant is scheduled to begin operations in 2021. In April 2019, a ceremony was held commemorating the placement of the first steel column. Preparations are going smoothly, with major construction work of the plant buildings and related infrastructure already under way. In July 2019, MTMUS announced that it aims to achieve at least 20 percent total diversity spend with certified minorityand women-owned business enterprises (MBE/WBE) on plant construction. MTMUS aims not only to produce high-quality cars but also to create a plant that employees will be proud to work at, and contribute to the further development of the local economy and the automotive industry. * Mazda Toyota Manufacturing, U.S.A., Inc.is a new joint venture production company for complete vehicles, established by Mazda Motor Corporation and Toyota Motor Corporation in Huntsville, Alabama, the United States. 125 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Activities to Improve Manufacturing Capabilities in Collaboration with Local Suppliers Mazda is rolling out its J-ABC (Jiba [“local”] Achieve Best Cost) program for local suppliers in and around Hiroshima Prefecture starting in 2004. Under this program, Mazda staff visit suppliers’ plants and use the approach employed in Mazda production systems as a basis for identifying wasteful, unnatural or problematic manufacturing processes. The Company then works cooperatively with the suppliers to formulate and implement countermeasures. This program is also expected to enhance potential for improvement at manufacturing sites in connection with Mazda’s Monotsukuri Innovation activities (see p. 122). It has helped increase productivity and reduced production costs by around 3 billion yen per year, while also contributing to reduce environmental impact through energy and resource conservation. Results of J-ABC activities for FY March 2019 Case Example Objective Initiative Results for FY March 2019 Cooperative Improving operation rates, A total of around 2,000 visits to 51 plants at Held 54 results-reporting meetings Promoted a shift from site-based activities to company-wide Improvement shortening cycle times, improving 24 companies were carried out to implement activities. Efforts logistics operations (started in 2004) cooperative improvement activities. Fostering high levels of creativity Offered practical programs such as lectures 11 participants from nine companies successfully completed the program. The Master Trainer J-ABC and making work more fun without and on-site guidance meetings to improve qualification system introduced in 2016, to qualify leaders within local suppliers. Karakuri ®*1 incurring additional costs (launched the ability to devise mechanisms for Outstanding works are proactively submitted to the Mazda Hiroshima Plant Karakuri Exhibition and Kaizen Dojo in 2006) increased productivity. Karakuri Kaizen® Mechanism Exhibition. Practical programs such as lectures and Held twice a year in the Hiroshima and Hofu districts, with two members from two companies J-ABC Preventing facility stoppages and on-site guidance meetings were offered successfully completing the program in 2018. Maintenance drops in production capability to improve the ability to both detect and Under the leadership those who have completed the program with the help by their plant managers, Workshop (launched in 2010) properly respond to irregularities. self-motivating maintenance initiatives took place at 18 plants. The 2018 conference was postponed due to the heavy rain in July 2018, and was held on March 1, 2019. To encourage study through the The morning session (in which messages were delivered, the policy was explained, and outstanding activities Held for all participating companies, J-ABC sharing of J-ABC activity policy and were presented and commended) was attended by a total of 450 participants, with 400 participants from providing a venue for presentations, awards, Conference outstanding activity examples (started 61 local suppliers and 50 participants from Mazda. In the afternoon session (in which outstanding activity and other events. in 2005) examples were presented, and karakuri, or self-motivating maintenance initiatives, were exhibited), 12 examples, seven works, and three activities were presented and introduced. ＊1 Karakuri Kaizen® is a registered trademark of the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance. Activities to Improve Manufacturing Capabilities in Collaboration with Overseas Production Sites and their Local Suppliers As the importance of overseas production sites increases along with its attempt to establish a global production footprint, Mazda is promoting activities to improve manufacturing capabilities, with a view to improving quality and productivity jointly with local suppliers. While paying respect to the differences in national characters and cultures and understanding the key points necessary to promote continuous improvement activities at worksites, the Company employs the knowhow obtained through the J-ABC activities. The Company has also established a system to develop leaders at both local production sites and suppliers in promoting activities to support improvement of suppliers. Mazda will continue to expand the activities in cooperation with its suppliers. A-ABC activities in Thailand h h A-ABC activity In 2013, Mazda launched the A-ABC (ASEAN Achieve Best Cost) program at AutoAlliance (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (AAT), starting with five local suppliers. As of June 2019, 11 sites of ten suppliers are implementing activities under the A-ABC program. Mazda has organized a team of its employees to promote the program at AAT, where three promotion leaders and two advisors are working together with the local suppliers. This program is designed to have each supplier envision an ideal, understand and analyze the present situation, develop and implement measures for improvement toward realizing said ideal, and finally report the results. It is carried out twice a year. The A-ABC conference is held annually, to promote communications and information exchange among participants, and to commend outstanding activities. In January 2018, AAT declared that it would implement “integrated scheduled production,” a lean manufacturing process that ensures the scheduled operation of production lines to deliver highquality products to customers in the shortest lead time. Under this production system, AAT i M-ABC activity encourages its suppliers to supply parts in a timely manner, to reduce lead time. M-ABC activities in Mexico i Mazda de Mexico Vehicle Operation (MMVO) launched the M-ABC (Mexico Achieve Best Cost) program in 2015, starting with two local suppliers. As of June 2019, six suppliers are implementing activities under the A-ABC program. Mazda has organized a team of its employees to promote the program at MMVO, where one team leader and three promotion leaders are working together with the local suppliers. Similar to the A-ABC program, the program is designed to have each supplier envision an ideal, and activities are carried out twice a year. The members first address themes related to stable quality and stable supply of production lines, and gradually move to issues related to productivity and quality improvement and lead time reduction. Local promotion members are called national staff. National staff members are encouraged to autonomously and independently operate the program. To this end, Japanese management of MMVO and its suppliers are making joint efforts to facilitate autonomous operation. 126 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 (2) Industry-academia-government collaboration Mazda, in establishing the Industry-Academia-Government Collaboration Secretariat, has promoted collaboration with local companies, universities and government authorities. Through collaboration among government, academia and industry, the Company has contributed to the local community in terms of developing new creative technologies and nurturing human resources capable of bringing about innovation. Hiroshima Council of Automotive Industry-Academia-Government Collaboration j j Digital Monozukuri (Manufacturing) Education Research Center As a company which has its research & development and production facilities mainly in Hiroshima Prefecture, Mazda believes that cooperation with local business and industry is very important. Under this belief, Mazda is collaborating with the Chugoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry, Hiroshima Prefecture, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima Industrial Promotion Organization, and Hiroshima University to support local automobile-related companies and promote innovation and the vitalization of the region. Toward achieving the 2030 Industry-Academia-Government Collaboration Vision established in 2015, various initiatives are implemented, such as creating new frameworks to support local businesses, investigating next-generation automotive societies, and raising awareness in society. In FY March 2019, a research program proposed by Hiroshima Prefecture was selected to receive a subsidy under the Cabinet Office’s Project for Revitalization of Local Universities and Regional Industries.*1 As part of the program, the Digital Monozukuri (Manufacturing) Education Research Center was established in Hiroshima University. The center started R&D activities to create innovative multi-functional composite materials and a smart system using data-driven control technology and sensing technologies, with a view to social implementation of these inventions. The 2030 Industry-Academia-Government Collaboration Vision ・Transform Hiroshima into a hub that attracts people seeking innovative automotive technologies and dynamic car culture, and a place that continually produces technologies that amaze the world. ・Industry, government and education sectors work together to nurture human resources capable of innovation across all generations, and enliven the region through Monotsukuri (product development and manufacturing). ・ Develop Hiroshima’s unique Industry-Academia-Government Collaboration into a *1 Hiroshima Prefecture Special Committee to Promote the Project for Revitalization of Local Universities and Regional Industries was set up. (Chairperson: Hidehiko Yuzaki, leading model for “regional empowerment” in Japan, serving also as a benchmark for Governor of Hiroshima Prefecture, Project manager: the rest of the world. Masamichi Kogai, Representative Director and Chairman on the Board, Mazda Motor Corporation) Major initiatives Initiative Details and results Exhibiting vehicles and parts at career seminars, and To support suppliers’ recruitment activities, displayed Mazda vehicles and parts at career seminars, and Supporting suppliers’ proposing/implementing booth layout according to the proposed and demonstrated a booth layout that can effectively show how suppliers are connected to mass personnel recruitment vehicle supply chain (February 2019) produced vehicles (highly appreciated by the participating suppliers). (1) Local companies co-creation subcommittee (1) NVH performance assessment of a benchmark vehicle, and research on a lightweight frame structure Co-creation and technology (2) Industry-academia collaboration subcommittee (2) Innovation training exchange with suppliers (3) Administrative organs collaboration subcommittee (3) Review of the creation of collaboration synergies and the next-generation vision Focusing on biomass-derived, carbon-neutral liquid fuel, known as a future energy source for automobiles, The Energy Work Group held “Symposium on NextStudies on future energies experts in each of the industry, government, and academia sectors explained its potentials and practical Generation Liquid Fuel for Automobiles 2018” (June 2018) applications, to think about energy in the future. Research and development of Applying the combustion research results to product The combustion research results achieved through the Hiroshima University-Mazda joint study course were internal combustion engines development utilized in the development of the next-generation Skyactiv-X gasoline engine. (1) Sensibility-based monotsukuri (product development (1) Started the sensibility innovation practical course and the needs-seeds matching meeting under the auspices and manufacturing) in collaboration with local of the Council for the Promotion of Innovation with KANSEI (Hiroshima Prefecture). Research and development in communities (2) Experiments were conducted on general subjects, using real-time saliency mapping (a method of assessing KANSEI (sensibility) field (2) Joint research on sensibilities with local suppliers where human eyes are focused on) of car interior parts, to utilize the results for clarifying the sensitivity of (3) Overall coordination of sensibility activities by relevant drivers to the parts. local groups (3) A sensibility monitor program was started to obtain reliable data. MBD/CAE training courses were planned and organized for all manufacturing companies, including both auto Aiming to enhance the research & development Human resources suppliers and non-automobile industries, in collaboration with the Hiroshima Digital Innovation Center. In the capabilities of local companies, opening basic courses development in ModelBased past three years since FY March 2017, a cumulative total of 2,700 individuals participated in the training. 1 for the development of human resources with MBD/ Development (MBD)* field Of these training courses, the MBD process training course was certified as a Course on IT-Skill Training to Meet CAE abilities the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. ＊1 Model Based Development: development process employing simulation technologies. 127 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 (3) Industry-academia collaboration Mazda has a system to efficiently offer advanced training through collaboration with educational institutions such as universities and research institutions. Participating in World-Leading National Projects and Joint Studies Mazda participates in world-leading national projects and joint studies with external research institutions, with the aim of solving social problems facing the automobile industry. Relevant government institutions/organizations Project name Outline Research and development on structural materials, bonding Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry / New Energy and Development of Innovative New Structural Materials Technology technology, etc., to fundamentally reduce the weight of Industrial Technology Development Organization / Innovative http://isma.jp/en/ automobiles and other transportation equipment, for the Structural Materials Association purpose of reducing CO2 emissions Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry / New Energy and Research and development on innovative technology to utilize Research on technology to make use unused energy*1 released Industrial Technology Development Organization / Thermal unused thermal energy as thermal energy into the atmosphere Management Materials and Technology Research Association http://www.thermat.jp/english/ ＊1 In Japan, refers to the energy consumed in the living environment, industry, and transportation fields and released as unused heat energy into the atmosphere Collaboration with Universities Through enhancing collaboration with universities in various fields, Mazda aims to solve a broader range of issues from a wider perspective, thereby contributing to society. University Collaboration outline Measures and activities Next-generation automotive technology joint study course (since April 2015) Mazda has set up five joint study courses with the university (e.g., an internal combustion engine lab, the Algae Energy Creation Lab) to find solutions to long-term technological issues and to develop human Opened next-generation automotive technology joint-study course (in resources to implement the solutions. Industry-academia collaboration activities have been promoted FY March 2016) to enable Hiroshima to lead Japan in Monotsukuri (product development and manufacturing) through ・nternal combustion engine lab (opened in April 2015) human resources development and research and development based on Model-Based Research (MBR) ・Aerodynamics lab (opened in July 2016) and Model-Based Development (MBD). ・Advanced materials lab (opened in October 2016) Comprehensive collaboration agreement (since February 2011) ・Algae energy creation Lab (opened in April 2017)(see p. 65) ・Model based development lab (opened in April 2019) Hiroshima Through collaboration in broad areas, from technologies related to research and development and University production to social science fields such as planning, management, and marketing, proactively conducting joint research from exploring research themes to finding solutions. Also cooperating in examining the Regional empowerment and open innovation ideal form of internship, and deciding the method of accepting interns and setting themes for human ・Participated in the Co-Creation Consortiums in the Material Model resources development. Based Research Division and the Data-Driven Smart System Division Regional empowerment and open innovation of the Digital Monozukuri (Manufacturing) Education Research Center Mazda contributes to regional empowerment and human resources development of the Chugoku region (see p. 127). and Hiroshima Prefecture, and to global sustainable development goals (SDGs) through collaboration with Hiroshima University and local communities and participation in national projects, etc. Mazda and Hiroshima City University Faculty of Arts Co-Creation Seminar (since May 2017) Hiroshima City Set up a co-creation seminar with the university, aiming to develop human resources who are capable of In FY March 2019, held a co-creation seminar that conducted formative University creating new manufacturing for a new era, and make Hiroshima a place to generate human resources for activities on the theme “Elegant Form.” manufacturing that Hiroshima can boast to the world. Establishment of a joint research department (since August 2017) Mazda has set up a joint research department with the university to find solutions to long-term Kyushu technological issues and to develop human resources to implement the solutions. Opened the Mazda Next-generation Energy Storage Joint Research University Inter-organizational collaboration regarding next-generation automotive technologies (since May 2011) Department (in August 2017). Mazda has been working together with the university to reinforce research and development projects and to encourage academic research and education activities. Agreement concerning comprehensive research collaboration (since December 2012) Research Collaboration Promotion Committee ・Held meetings to discuss the progress of joint research projects and Kindai Cooperating in bolstering cutting-edge research development and in strengthening the technological University capabilities of local industries. specific measures to strengthen cooperation. ・Set up an experimental station dedicated to research into applications Concluded an agreement on joint research using Spring-8, a large synchrotron radiation facility (May 2016) University of Cooperating in the development of innovative materials and product development technologies using Hyogo of advanced analytical techniques. radiation analysis techniques. Industry Liaison Member (since August 2013) ・Searched for research seeds and arranged matching them with the Industry Liaison Member (since August 2013) development needs. ・Participated in technology exchange seminars and hosted inhouse Technology transfer through joint research, for the purpose of improving the quality of research and education and promoting application of research and education results. Contributing to the creation of Tokyo Institute seminars by faculty members. ・Implemented joint study on algae energy. new industries and promotion of innovation. of Technology Automotive technology course (from September to November 2018) Automotive technology course (from September to November 2018) ・Several (eight) developers served as specially-appointed lecturers to Mazda held automotive technology classes for third-year undergraduate students of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering. present and explain the latest vehicle development technologies in the classes. 128 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 (4) Industry-government collaboration Mazda efficiently promotes cutting-edge joint research and shares needs and seeds with customers through collaboration with government authorities. Business Matching Meetings for Suppliers and Universities (Collaboration with Administrative Organs) Mazda organizes business-matching meetings in collaboration with the local administrative organs, in which information on technological needs and seeds was exchanged between suppliers, universities and public research institutes. FY March 2019 activities 1. Toyama Next-Generation Automotive New Technologies and New Engineering Solutions Exhibition and Business Meeting in Mazda, organized by the Toyama Prefecture and Toyama New Industry Organization 2. Gifu-Mie-Aichi New Technologies and New Engineering Solutions Exhibition and Business Meeting in Mazda, organized by the Gifu Economic and Industrial Promotion Center, the Mie Industry and Enterprise Support Center, and the Aichi Small Business Support Center Promotion of model distribution in the automotive industry Mazda has participated in the Study Group for Ideal Approaches to Model Utilization in the Automobile Industry organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry since its launch in November 2015. The Company works on initiatives with other automakers and parts manufacturers to spread Model Based Development (MBD), a development technique to achieve the advanced development and performance assessment process for automobiles through virtual simulation. In April 2018, the Company agreed on the Enrichment of SURIAWASE 2.0*1 for the Automobile Industry (an industry-academia-government joint strategy project policy), and announced that the Company would continue with the initiatives to enrich MBD and harmonization areas, etc. In addition, Mazda formulated the guidelines for smoothly promoting model distribution between companies, based on the results of activities implemented by the study group thus far. In December 2018, the study group and ProSTEPivip,*2 an international standardization organization, jointly announced these guidelines to the world, as international rules originating from Japan. In this study group, the Company takes full advantage of its knowledge of virtual simulation and unique MBD that have been refined through Mazda Digital Innovation (MDI) (see p. 123) to contribute to activities for increasing the global competitiveness of the Japanese automotive industry. Basic and Applied Research on Technologies for Internal Combustion Engines and Cleaner Exhaust Emissions Mazda participates in the Research Association of Automobile Internal Combustion Engines (AICE*3), a new joint research organization in the Japanese automobile industry. AICE was established on April 1, 2014, with the support of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry to enable automobile manufacturers *1 SURIAWASE 2.0 is an initiative to enhance the harmonization of development processes by taking advantage of an to conduct basic and applied studies jointly with universities and research MBD process that uses virtual simulations instead of physical machines across entire supply chains in Japan. A institutions on themes common to automobile manufacturers, and to use the Study Group for Ideal Approaches to Model Utilization in the Automobile Industry was organized in November research results to accelerate their in-house development activities. Taking 2015 by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, to advantage of its participation in AICE, Mazda is promoting its development of further enhance the international competitiveness of the automotive industry. technologies for internal combustion engines and cleaner exhaust gases, with http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2017/0331_004.html http://www.meti.go.jp/english/press/2018/0404_001.html a view to achieving improved fuel economy and reduced exhaust emissions. *2 An international standardization organization based in Germany. Its membership comprises 185 companies, Beginning in April 2019, the Company has expanded the scope of its development primarily automakers in Europe, the United States and Japan, as well as airlines and software companies. ProSTEPivip efforts to include mechanical resistance reduction and heat management works to develop and promote international rules regarding CAD and MBD. technologies. *3 Research Association of Automobile Internal Combustion Engines, participated in by nine Japanese auto manufacturers and two organizations (as of April 2015) 129 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 HISTORY OF MAZDA 1920 1920.1 Corporate Toyo Cork Kogyo Co., Ltd is founded Product* 1921.3 Jujiro Matsuda becomes president 1927.9 Company becomes Toyo Kogyo Co., Ltd 19201930 1930.9 New plant is constructed in Hiroshima (Aki-gun, Fuchu-cho) 1932 Export of 3-wheel trucks begins 1931.10 1936.4 Caravan of 3-wheeled trucks from Kagoshima to Tokyo (advertising campaign) Production of 3-wheel truck “Mazda-go DA 1936.4 New logo is introduced 1936.4model,” Mazda’s first automobile, begins 1940 1945.8 Mazda loans part of Head Office building to Hiroshima prefectural government, court, news media, etc. Regarding the Hiroshima prefectural government all functions are temporarily transferred there (until July 1946) 1945.12 Production of 3-wheel trucks suspended since August 1945 resumes 1949.8 3-wheeled truck exports restart 1950 1951 New logo is introduced 1950.6 1951.12 Tsuneji Matsuda becomes president 4-wheel light truck 1951“CA model” is launched 1959.7 New logo is introduced 1959.71960 1961.7 Mazda enters into technical cooperation with NSU/ 1960.5 1962.2 Wankel on rotary engines “R360 Coupe,” Mazda’ s The first “Carol” first passenger car is launched 1963.3 Cumulative domestic production reaches 1 million vehicles is launched 1965.5 Miyoshi Proving Ground is completed 1963.10 The first “Familia” 1966.5 1966.11 Operations at new passenger is launched The first “Bongo” car plant (Ujina) is launched in Hiroshima begin 1966.8 1967.5 The first “Luce” 1967.3 Full-scale exports to the European “Cosmo Sport (110s)” is launched market begin Mazda’s first rotary engine vehicle is launched 1970 1970.4 Exports to the U.S. begin 1970.5 1971.8 1971.9 The first “Capella (RX-2)” The first “Titan” is launched The first “Savanna (RX-3)” 1970.11 Kouhei Matsuda becomes president is launched is launched 1975.1 New logo is introduced 1975.11977.12 Yoshiki Yamasaki becomes president 1975.10 1979.6 Cumulative domestic production reaches 10 million vehicles The first “Cosmo” 1978.3 1979.11 Ford Motor Company and Mazda enter into a capital tie-up is launched The first “Savanna RX-7 (RX-7)” is launched 1980 1981.12 Operations at Hofu Transmission Plant (Nakanoseki district) begin 1982.9 Operations of manufacturing passenger car at Hofu plant (Nishinoura district) begin 1984.5 Company is renamed as Mazda Motor Corporation 1984.10 Mazda Foundation is established 1980.6 1984.11 Kenichi Yamamoto becomes president “Familia (GLC/323)” is fully redesigned 1982.9 1985.1 Mazda Motor Manufacturing (USA) Corporation (MMUC), (Receives the “1980-1981 Car of the Year Japan”) “Capella (Telstar)” is fully redesigned now Auto Alliance International (AAI), is established(-2012.8) (Receives the “1982-1983 Car of the Year Japan”) 1987.4 Cumulative domestic production reaches 20 million vehicles 1989.9 1987.6 New research center is opened in Yokohama, Japan The first “Roadster (MX-5)” (the current Mazda R&D Center Yokohama) is launched 1987.12 Norimasa Furuta becomes president 1988.4 Mazda Technical College is established 1988.5 Mazda Research and Development Center is established in Irvine, CA (U.S.) 1990 1990.1 Hokkaido Kenbuchi Proving Ground for 1991.6 1990.1 cold-weather testing is completed Mazda 787B wins the 59th Le Mans 24-Hour Endurance Race, The first “MPV” claiming the first ever victory for a Japanese automobile is launched 1990.5 European R&D Representative Office (MRE) is completed 1991.12 Yoshihiro Wada becomes president 1991.12 1995.4 Cumulative domestic production reaches 30 million vehicles “RX-7” is fully redesigned (Receives the 1995.11 Mazda and Ford jointly establish Auto Alliance (Thailand) “1991-1992 RJC Company Limited (AAT), a joint venture production company New Car of the Year”) 1996.3 Mazda website is opened 1996.8 1996.6 Henry D.G. Wallace becomes president The first “Demio (Mazda2)” is launched (Receives the “ 1999.4 1997.6 New logo is introduced 1996-1997 RJC The first “Premacy New Car of the Year”) (Mazda5)” is 1997.11 James E. Miller becomes president launched 1999.12 Mark Fields becomes president 1997.6* Launching date is based on Japanese market 130 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Product* 2000 2000.11 Mid-term plan “Millennium Plan” is announced 2000.7 “Roadster (MX-5)” is recognized by the 2002.1 Nakasatsunai Proving Ground is completed Guinness Book of Records as the world’s largest production of lightweight open two-seater sports car 2002.5 2002.4 New brand statement “Zoom-Zoom” is introduced The first “Atenza (Mazda6)” is 2003.4 2002.6 Lewis Booth becomes president and CEO launched (Receives the “2003 RJC Car of the Year”) “RX-8” is launched 2003.1 Production of “Mazda6” commences (Receives the “2004 RJC Car of The Year”) at FAW Car Company in China 2003.10 The first “Axela 2003.8 Hisakazu Imaki becomes president and CEO 2005.8 (Mazda3)” is launched “Roadster (MX-5)” is fully redesigned 2004.11 Mid-term plan “Mazda Momentum” is announced (Receives the “2005-2006 Car of the Year Japan” ) 2006.2 2005.8 China Engineering Support Center is opened Leasing of hydrogen vehicle, “RX-8 Hydrogen RE”, is started 2006.5 Mine Proving Ground is completed 2006.3 Global presentation 2007.3 Mid-term plan “Mazda Advancement Plan” is announced of the first “BT-50” at Bangkok International 2007.3 Long-term vision for technology development: Motor Show “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom” is announced 2007.4 Changan Ford Mazda Engine Co., Ltd. 2006.10 (CFME, now CME) in China commences operation 2006.12 Production of the first “CX-7” is launched “CX-9” commences 2007.7 Cumulative domestic production reaches 40 million vehicles 2007.7 “Demio (Mazda2)” is fully redesigned 2007.10 Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Nanjin Co., Ltd. (Receives the “2008 RJC Car of the Year” (CFMA, now CMA) commences operation and the “2008 World Car of the Year”) 2008.11 Takashi Yamanouchi becomes president and CEO 2008.7 2009.3 “Biante” is launched Leasing of hydrogen vehicle, “Premacy Hydrogen RE Hybrid”, is started 2010 2010.4 “Framework for Mediumand Long-term Initiatives” 2010.10 2012.2 is announced Next-generation Skyactiv Technology “CX-5” is launched is announced (Receives the “2012-2013 2012.2 “Structural Reform Plan” is announced Car of the Year Japan”) 2012.11 2012.9 Mazda and Sollers establish Mazda Sollers(MSMR), “Atenza (Mazda6)” featuring a series of the advanced safety technologies a joint venture production company in Russia i-Activsense is fully redesigned (Receives the “2014 RJC Car of the Year”) 2012.9 Mazda and Bermaz establish Mazda Malaysia(MMSB), 2013.6 a joint venture company Commenced public road test of leased hydrogen vehicles, “Premacy Hydrogen RE Range Extender EV” 2013.1 Business agreement is concluded for the development and production of Fiat brand two-seater convertible sports car 2013.11 2014.9 “Axela (Mazda3)” is fully redesigned “Demio (Mazda2)” 2013.6 Masamichi Kogai becomes president and CEO is fully redesigned (Receives the “2014-2015 2014.1 Operations at the production facility Mazda de Mexico Car of the Year Japan”) 2015.2 Vehicle Operation (MMVO) a joint venture with “CX-3” is launched Sumitomo Corporation in Mexico are started 2015.1 Operations at transmission plant in Thailand, Mazda 2015.5 “Roadster (MX-5)” is fully redesigned Powertrain Manufacturing (Thailand) (MPMT) are started (Receives the “2015-2016 Car of the Year Japan,” the “2016 World Car of the Year,” and 2015.4 “Structural Reform Stage 2” is announced the “2016 World Car Design of the Year”) 2015.4 New Corporate Vision is established 2015.7 2016.2 “Mazda BT-50” is fully 2017.8 Agreement is entered into with Toyota on business “CX-9” is fully redesigned and production and capital tie-up redesigned and commences in Thailand production 2017.8 Long-term vision for technology development commences 2016.4 “Sustainable Zoom-Zoom 2030” is announced “CX-4” makes 2016.7 its world debut A series of Mazda’ s new-generation vehicle 2018.3 Mazda and Toyota establish a joint-venture company motion control technologies “Mazda Toyota Manufacturing U.S.A” “Skyactiv Vehicle Dynamics” is announced 2018.5 Cumulative domestic production reaches 50 million vehicles 2016.12 2017.8 “CX-5” 2018.6 Akira Marumoto becomes president and CEO Next-generation engine is fully redesigned “Skyactiv-X” is announced 2017.12 “CX-8” is launched 2019.5 “Mazda3” is launched 2019 autumn 2019 “CX-30” is launched * Launching date is based on Japanese market 131 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Third-Party Opinion As she did last year, Sachiko Kishimoto again shares her opinion on the CSR activities of Mazda Motor Corporation and its Group companies, after reading the Mazda Sustainability Report 2019. Sachiko Kishimoto Executive Director Public Resources Foundation With the year 2020 marking a significant milestone, of pursuing an ideal form of internal combustion engine, the 100th anniversary of its founding, Mazda Motor combining such an ideal form of internal combustion engine Corporation has developed a mid-term management with effective electrification technologies, and deploying policy, in which the Company made reference to SDGs electric vehicles and other electric drive technologies in areas (Sustainable Development Goals) and CSR (Corporate Social that have the capability to generate clean power and/or Responsibility)-related investment for the first time. In terms that have established air pollution control policy. I hope that of the integration of management policy and CSR, this can the Company’s efforts to attain the target of equipping all internal be said to be a major step forward for the Company. combustion power vehicles with electrification technologies by 2030 will be accelerated as much as possible. It is also highly evaluated that Mazda has shown its commitment to strengthen its efforts to address climate In the context of the increase in the number of elderly change by expressing its willingness to support the Financial drivers in Japan, there has been a growing social demand Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial for realizing a safe automobile society, free from traffic Disclosures (TCFD) in May 2019. accidents. I think that the approach that pursues basic safety technologies—such as those designed to prevent drivers However, Mazda’s efforts to contribute to SDGs as an from mistakenly stepping on a wrong pedal by realizing an automotive manufacturer have only just begun. I hope that ideal pedal layout—and installs advanced safety technologies more in-depth consideration will be given to this issue and in all vehicles as standard is only possible by Mazda. more specific initiatives will be defined and implemented. One of the major social issues facing hilly and mountainous In August 2017, Mazda announced “Sustainable Zoomareas in Japan is lack of means of mobility especially Zoom 2030,” a new long-term vision that looks ahead to for elderly people due to the withdrawal of public the year 2030. Under the vision, the Company set a goal of transportation services. Freedom of mobility is a vitally reducing corporate average “well-to-wheel” CO2 emissions important right for people. Mazda has reported that in to 50% of 2010 levels by 2030 with a view to achieving a 2018 it started demonstration tests of a shared mobility 90% cut by 2050. I highly evaluate that Mazda established service using connectivity technologies in Miyoshi City, a specific numerical target for reduction of CO2 emissions. Hiroshima Prefecture. It is keenly expected that as part As part of its efforts to make the energy sources closer to of the Company’s CSR activity, this project will eventually carbon-neutral, the Company is also enthusiastic about contribute to developing a ride-sharing service by, for promoting its industry-academia-government collaboration example, combining connectivity technologies with to develop renewable bio liquid fuel made from microalgae. autonomous driving technologies. In the days ahead, it is expected that renewable energy sources will be introduced broadly to production sites on a Mazda is a unique global company that has taken root in full-scale basis. the Hiroshima region. The Company rolled out its J-ABC (Jiba [“local”] Achieve Best Cost) program for local suppliers To realize its goal of reducing CO2 emissions, Mazda has in and around Hiroshima Prefecture, starting in 2004. This been promoting the Building-Block Strategy, which combines initiative has contributed not only to cutting production costs optimal control technologies and effective electrification but also to reducing environmental impact, such as energy technologies in consideration of each country’s or region’s saving and resource saving. As the importance of overseas energy resources, regulations, power generation methods, production sites increases, Mazda is also expected to further infrastructure, and so on. It is commendable to, from the promote its activities to support improvement of suppliers. Company’s unique perspective, promote the strategies 132 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Third-Party Verification The Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 [In-Depth Version] was assured by third parties to improve the reliability of the data disclosed in the report. The amounts of GHG emissions, water use and waste emissions disclosed in the Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 [InDepth Version] are those verified in “FY2018 Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions Calculation Report”, “FY2018 Scope 3 GHG emissions Calculation Report”, “FY2018 Water Use Report” and “FY2018 Waste Emissions Report”. 133 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Third-Party Assurance The Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 [In-Depth Version] was assured by third parties to improve the reliability of the data disclosed in the report. 134 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index The table below shows the pages in this report containing information relevant to each of the required disclosures under the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and its Core option, and each of the ISO 26000 subjects. Core option Relevant pages/ GRI Standard Disclosures ISO26000 requirements Reason for omission in parentheses 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102： General Disclosures 2016 1 Organizational profile ✔ 102-1 Name of the organization 141 ― ✔ 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 17、141 ― ✔ 102-3 Location of headquarters 141 ― ✔ 102-4 Location of operations 16、18-19 ― ✔ 102-5 Ownership and legal form 141 ― ✔ 102-6 Markets served 16、17、141 ― ✔ 102-7 Scale of the organization 16、141 ― ✔ 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 86 6.4、6.4.3 ✔ 102-9 Supply chain 117 ― ✔ 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain N/A ― ✔ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 110-113 6.2 ✔ 102-12 External initiatives 22 6.2 ✔ 102-13 Membership of associations 22、127-129 6.2 2 Strategy ✔ 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-6 6.2 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 23-24、54-55 6.2 3 Ethics and integrity ✔ 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 114 ― 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 114 ― 4 Governance ✔ 102-18 Governance structure 22、106-107 6.2 102-19 Delegating authority 22、106-107 ― 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 22、106-107 ― ・Corporate Governance Report* 1 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 6.2 ・Securities Report* 2 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 6.2 ・Corporate Governance Report* 1 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 6.2 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 107 6.2 ・Corporate Governance Report* 1 102-25 Conflicts of interest 6.2 ・Corporate Governance Report* ― 1 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy ・Corporate Governance Report* ― 1 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body ・Corporate Governance Report* 1 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 6.2 ＊1 Corporate Governance Report https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/library/governance/ ＊2 Securities Report (Japanese only) https://www.mazda.com/ja/investors/library/s-report/ 135 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Core option Relevant pages/ GRI Standard Disclosures ISO26000 requirements Reason for omission in parentheses 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 21-25、110 6.2 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 21-25、110 ― 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 21-25、110 6.2 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 21-25 ― ・Corporate Governance Report* 1 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 6.2 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns ー ― 106-107 ・Corporate Governance Report* 102-35 Remuneration policies 1 6.2 ― 106-107 ・Corporate Governance Report* 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 1 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration ― 6.2 ・Corporate Governance Report* ― 1 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio ― ― 5 Stakeholder engagement ✔ 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 26-27 6.2 6.3.10、6.4 ✔ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 92 6.4.3、6.4.4 6.4.5 ✔ 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 26-27 6.2 6.2、6.7 6.7.4、6.7.5 ✔ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26-27 6.7.6、6.7.8 6.7.9 ✔ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 25、26、30、33、37、80、87、119 6.2 6 Reporting practice 3 ・Securities Report* ✔ 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2 6.2 ✔ 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 3、21−25 ― ✔ 102-47 List of material topics 23 ― ✔ 102-48 Restatements of information N/A ― ✔ 102-49 Changes in reporting N/A ― ✔ 102-50 Reporting period 3 ― ✔ 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 ― ✔ 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 ― ✔ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 142 ― ✔ 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3、135-140 ― ✔ 102-55 GRI content index 135-140 ― ✔ 102-56 External assurance 133、134 7.5.3 103 Management Approach GRI 103： Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23 ― ― 20、22、28、34、40、54-55、 103-2 The management approach and its components 84、99，105 ― 20、23、28、34、40、54-55、 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 84、99，105 ＊1 Corporate Governance Report https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/library/governance/ ＊2 Securities Report (Japanese only) https://www.mazda.com/ja/investors/library/s-report/ 136 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 ●：Important issues specified by Mazda Important Relevant pages/ GRI Standard Disclosures ISO26000 issues Reason for omission in parentheses 200 Economic ● GRI 201： Economic Performance 2016 6.8、6.8.3 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 87、101、120 6.8.7、6.8.9 56 ・Securities Report* 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 1 6.5.5 ・Securities Report* ― 1 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government ー ― ● GRI 202： Market Presence 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage ー 6.4.4、6.8 6.8、6.8.5 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 85 6.8.7 ● GRI 203： Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 6.3.9、6.8 6.8.3、6.8.4 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 48 6.8.5、6.8.6 6.8.7、6.8.9 6.3.9、6.6.6 6.6.7、6.7.8 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 100-104 6.8、6.8.5 6.8.6、6.8.7 6.8.9 ● GRI 204： Procurement Practices 2016 6.6.6、6.8 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers (Confidential information) 6.8.5、6.8.7 ● GRI 205： Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption ー 6.6、6.6.3 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 25、114-115、117-118 6.6、6.6.3 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken N/A 6.6、6.6.3 GRI 206： Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 6.6、6.6.5 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices N/A 6.6.7 300 Environmental ● GRI 301： Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 82 6.5.4 301-2 Recycled input materials used 77-78、82 6.5.4 6.5.3、6.5.4 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 73、77-78、82 6.7.5 ● GRI 302： Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 60、70、82 6.5.4 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization ー 6.5.4 302-3 Energy intensity ー 6.5.4 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 70 6.5.4、6.5.5 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 62-64 6.5.4、6.5.5 ● GRI 303： Water 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 74-82 6.5.4 ＊1 Securities Report (Japanese only) https://www.mazda.com/ja/investors/library/s-report/ 137 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Important Relevant pages/ GRI Standard Disclosures ISO26000 issues Reason for omission in parentheses 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts ー 6.5.4 303-3 Water withdrawal 74、82 6.5.4 303-4 Water discharge 74-75、82 6.5.4 303-5 Water consumption ー 6.5.4 GRI 304： Biodiversity 2016 ー Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas 304-1 6.5.6 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity ー 6.5.6 304-3 Habitats protected or restored ー 6.5.6 ー IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 304-4 6.5.6 affected by operations ● GRI 305： Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope1) GHG emissions 70、82 6.5.5 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope2) GHG emissions 70、82 6.5.5 305-3 Other indirect (Scope3) GHG emissions 82 6.5.5 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 70 6.5.5 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 70 6.5.5 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ー 6.5.3、6.5.5 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 75、82 6.5.3 ● GRI 306： Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 75、82 6.5.3、6.5.4 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 82 6.5.3 306-3 Significant spills N/A 6.5.3 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste ー 6.5.3 ー 6.5.3、6.5.4 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 6.5.6 ● GRI 307： Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 59 4.6 ● GRI 308： Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 6.3.5、6.6.6 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria (Confidential information) 7.3.1 6.3.5、6.6.6 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 118 7.3.1 400 Social ● GRI 401： Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 85-86 6.4、6.4.3 ー Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4、6.4.3 401-2 employees 6.4.4 401-3 Parental leave 91 6.4、6.4.3 ● GRI 402： Labor/Management Relations 2016 6.4、6.4.3 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 92 6.4.4、6.4.5 ● GRI 403： Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 93 6.4、6.4.6 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 93-95 6.4、6.4.6 138 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Important Relevant pages/ GRI Standard Disclosures ISO26000 issues Reason for omission in parentheses 403-3 Occupational health services 94-95 6.4、6.4.6 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 93 6.4、6.4.6 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 94 6.4、6.4.6 403-6 Promotion of worker health 95 6.4、6.4.6 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by 403-7 93 6.4、6.4.6 business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 93 6.4、6.4.6 403-9 Work-related injuries 93-95 6.4、6.4.6 403-10 Work-related ill health 93-95 6.4、6.4.6 ● GRI 404： Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 88 6.4、6.4.7 6.4、6.4.7 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 88 6.8.5 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 89 6.4、6.4.7 ● GRI 405： Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 6.3.7、6.3.10 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 86、106 6.4、6.4.3 6.3.7、6.3.10 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 87 6.4、6.4.3 6.4.4 GRI 406： Non-discrimination 2016 6.3、6.3.6 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ー 6.3.7、6.3.10 6.4.3 GRI 407： Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 6.3、6.3.3 ー Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 6.3.4、6.3.5 407-1 bargaining may be at risk 6.3.8、6.3.10 6.4.3、6.4.5 GRI 408： Child Labor 2016 6.3、6.3.3 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 96-98、117-118 6.3.4、6.3.5 6.3.7、6.3.10 ● GRI 409： Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 6.3、6.3.3 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 96-98、117-118 6.3.4、6.3.5 6.3.7、6.3.10 GRI 410： Security Practices 2016 ー 6.3、6.3.5 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 6.4.3、6.6.6 GRI 411： Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 6.3、6.3.6 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples ー 6.3.7、6.3.8 6.6.7 GRI 412： Human Rights Assessment 2016 6.3、6.3.3 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 96-98 6.3.4、6.3.5 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 96-98 6.3、6.3.5 ー Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or 6.3、6.3.3 412-3 that underwent human rights screening 6.3.5、6.6.6 139 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Important Relevant pages/ GRI Standard Disclosures ISO26000 issues Reason for omission in parentheses ● GRI 413： Local Communities 2016 6.3.9、6.6.7 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 413-1 104 6.8、6.8.5 programs 6.8.7 ー 6.3.9、6.5.3 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 6.5.6、6.8.9 ● GRI 414： Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria (Confidential information) ― 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ー ― GRI 415： Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions ー ー ● GRI 416： Customer Health and Safety 2016 6.3.9、6.6.6 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 47 6.7、6.7.4 6.7.5 6.3.9、6.6.6 ー Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and 416-2 6.7、6.7.4 services 6.7.5 ● GRI 417： Marketing and Labeling 2016 6.7、6.7.3 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 43 6.7.4、6.7.5 6.7.6、6.7.9 6.7、6.7.3 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 43 6.7.4、6.7.5 6.7.6、6.7.9 6.7、6.7.3 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications N/A 6.7.6、6.7.9 ● GRI 418： Customer Privacy 2016 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 418-1 N/A 6.7、6.7.7 customer data ● GRI 419： Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 6.6、6.6.3 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area N/A 6.6.7、6.8.7 140 Mazda Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2019) Company name: Mazda Motor Corporation Research and Head Office, Mazda R&D Center (Yokohama), Mazda North development American Operations (USA), Mazda Motor Europe (Germany), Founded: January 30, 1920 sites: China Engineering Support Center (China) Head Office: 3-1 Shinchi, Fuchu-cho,Aki-gun, Hiroshima Production Japan: Hiroshima Plant (Head Office, Ujina), Hofu Plant (Nishinoura, 730-8670, Japan sites: Nakanoseki), Miyoshi Plant Main business Manufacture and sales of passenger cars and Overseas: China, Thailand, Mexico, Vietnam*1, Malaysia*1, Russia*1 lines: commercial vehicles Sales Japan: 218, Overseas: 140 Stock 1,200,000,000 total shares issuable companies: information: 631,803,979 total outstanding shares Principal Four-wheeled vehicles, gasoline reciprocating engines, diesel 149,121 shareholders products: engines, automatic and manual transmissions for vehicles Capital: 284 billion yen *1 Assembly only (Volume is not disclosed). Employees: Consolidated Total: 49,998 About Mazda The Origin and Meaning of “Mazda” Mazda Corporate Mark The Company’s name, “Mazda,” derives from Ahura Mazda, a Mazda developed its corporate mark as a symbol for Mazda’s god of the earliest civilizations in western Asia. The Company has communications in 1975. It was later positioned as an easy-to-read interpreted Ahura Mazda, the god of wisdom, intelligence, and corporate mark, in line with the establishment of the brand symbol harmony, as a symbol of the origin of both Eastern and Western in 1997. civilizations, and also as a symbol of automotive culture. It incorporates a desire to achieve world peace and the development of the automobile manufacturing industry. It also derives from the name of the Company’s founder, Jujiro Matsuda. Mazda Brand Symbol Mazda Brand Slogan, “Zoom-Zoom” The brand symbol expresses Mazda’s Mazda’s creativity and innovation continuously delivers fun and dedication to continuous growth and exhilarating driving experiences to customers who remember the improvement. It is a symbolic development emotion of motion first felt as a child (Announced in April 2002). of the Mazda “M,” and shows the Company stretching its wings as it soars into the future (Established in June 1997). Other Information Official websites A N N UA L R EPORT 2 0 1 9 2019 年 3 月期 URL Content Mazda’s CSR initiatives and CSR https://www.mazda.com/en/csr/ other general information Financial and governance Investor relations https://www.mazda.com/en/investors/ information Mazda Sustainability Report Annual Report 2019 Overview and business/ 2019 [In-Depth Version] https://www.mazda.com/en/ Company https://www.mazda.com/en/about/ production bases of the https://www.mazda.com/en/ investors/library/annual/ Mazda Group csr/report/download/ Information on brand, Brand https://www.mazda.com/en/innovation/ technologies News releases, SNS, News https://www.mazda.com/en/news/ animations Information on products and Mazda Technical Review Sales/Customer https://www.mazda.com/en/about/d-list/ ＊ others to customers before/ https://www.mazda.com/ja/innovation/ service technology/gihou/ after purchase ＊ Choose the country/area to be searched. (For English, Summary is available) 141 Mazda Motor Corporation CSR & Environment Department, Corporate Services Division TEL +81-82-287-4066 FAX +81-82-287-5315 E-mail csre-sr@mazda.co.jp Head Office: 3-1 Shinchi, Fuchu-cho, Aki-gun, Hiroshima 730-8670, Japan Issued: November 2019
