Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Contents About Kamstrup...................................................................................................................................................................5 Supply management......................................................................................................................................................... 11 Climate and environment.................................................................................................................................................15 Working conditions .......................................................................................................................................................... 23 About the report Kamstrup’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) report Thus, the purpose of Kamstrup’s CSR Report 2019 is for 2019 displays the management’s account of the to provide stakeholders with a clear impression of our company’s actions and goals within sustainability. The processes concerning: report is written in accordance with the Danish Financial Suppliers Statements Act, section 99a and covers both Kamstrup’s Climate and environmental impacts headquarters in Denmark, subsidiaries, representative Work environment offices and branches. An independent auditor has Human rights confirmed the reports compliance with The Danish Anti-corruption. Financial Statements Act. Additionally, we assess the initiatives we take to In connection to the UN Global Compact, we want to be counteract these impacts. transparent in our communication about our corporate social responsibility. 2 CEO statement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is embedded in Kamstrup’s DNA. We exist to provide better ways to manage water and energy distribution all around the globe. As an organisation, we share the serious concerns regarding the way the earth’s scarce resources are managed and strive to make a meaningful contribution to the promotion of greater environmental responsibility. At Kamstrup, our intelligent metering solutions are helping organisations to run smarter, more efficient businesses. At the same time, we are helping them to make a significant impact on the conservation of natural resources by reducing water and energy loss and usage. Data has the potential to revolutionise distribution and supply networks and make a quantifiable contribution to some of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), especially goal no. 6, 7 and 12. In some parts of the world, waste of water is a huge challenge with a water waste level up to 50 % water that no one gets the benefits of. With technology like smart metering, we are able to reduce that number drastically, sometimes even to a level of 10 %. And when you are able to do this, you simultaneously reduce the energy consumption and thereby the level of CO2 emission. Our focus is to develop technology that makes an impact and provide sustainable solutions for societies all over the world. At the same time we work on minimising the use of resources for producing our products and solutions. Our commitment We are committed to complying with the principles of the UN Global Compact and we continuously follow up on our policies and processes to comply with these principles. We are dedicated to act responsibly in all we do and we hold ourselves and all of our stakeholders to high standards. We advocate ethical behaviour and take a zero-tolerance approach to any kind of corruption and actions that violate human rights. Our ambition is to revolutionise the supply of clean energy and water through intelligence. I am proud to be part of a united team of highly skilled inventors and achievers, who put both hearts and heads into delivering technology and solutions that help our customers and partners succeed in a future still in the making. We always do our utmost to ensure that our team members have everything at their disposal to be healthy, happy and productive. Our CSR 2019 report highlights our contribution within areas such as supply management, anti-corruption and bribery, climate and environment and working conditions. I hope you will enjoy reading about our sustainable responsibilities and engagements. Kim Lehmann, CEO Highlights Purpose € 28 mill. profit before tax We ensure clean water and energy to a maximum number of people Ambition € 320 mill. We revolutionise the supply of clean water and energy through turnover intellligence Comsumption meters Services • Employees: 1,500 Production sites: 4 Products Meter reading • & • Sales offices, contries: 20+ solutions • Distributors, contries: 60+ Hosting Analytics Meter data management 2019 • Winner of “3F’s Best workplace 2019” in Denmark • Best internship company in Eastern Jutland, Denmark Who we are... • 60+ students joined our intern programme Our smart metering solutions enable utilities and societies all over the globe to reduce water loss and increase energy efficiency. By using • No cases of corruption data from our intelligent solutions – including consumption meters, and • Development of new technology for reduction of operation cost, infrastructure, remote reading systems, leak detection to save water and analytical tools and services, our customers get insight to target their reduce energy consumption and efforts, detect leakages and locate loss of heat and water. Besides operation costs. optimisation of the distribution network, smart metering solutions also • 1 out of 4 is employeed in R&D in enable consumers to be more aware about their consumption. both technology and production With more than 70 years in the industry, our experience is extensive. • Visualisation of own consumption However, we want to be leading in technology and therefore we continuously invest in research and development while keeping in mind that our customer’s needs and challenges remain the starting point for all our product development. With fully automated production facilities in both Denmark and the US, we continue to ensure a high quality level 13,5 % of turnover used for innovation in our deliveries to our customers. 4 About Kamstrup Kamstrup offices About Kamstrup Striving for sustainable development Generating impact on the global agenda through SDG At the same time we take responsibility for minimising Besides the UN Global Compact, we strongly advocate the the use of resources for producing our solutions and for UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which we perceive reducing waste in general. We have integrated the SDGs as a central global foundation to establish high standards in our long-term strategy to ensure that they become a towards a more sustainable world. We are committed to central part of our business. This means we have chosen to continuing the development of sustainable solutions and focus our contribution to goal no. 6, 7 and 12, because this technology that help our customers reduce water loss and is where we can create the biggest impact on the global increase energy efficiency. agenda. Clean water and sanitation One step in the process towards a sustainable and stable water supply for all is increased transparency in the distribution network. Too much of our clean and safe drinking water disappears on the route to the consumers and too much is consumed without being metered, which makes it difficult to know when and where to take action. Our smart metering solutions help light up the distribution network and create a continuous overview of how much water is being consumed and how much is lost through leaks and bursts. This enables water utilities to reduce Non-Revenue Water, bring down waste, limit the risk for ingress of contaminants and preserve our resources. Affordable and clean energy Improving energy efficiency and facilitating the transition to renewable energy sources requires a level of transparency in the energy system that can only be derived from frequent and accurate measurements. Data and smart metering solutions enable utilities to continuously monitor, evaluate and improve the efficiency of the distribution network, the energy performance of buildings and the involvement of end users. This makes smart metering an important factor in creating an integrated energy system and utilising the opportunities that come with it. Among other things, frequent and accurate data can be used to differentiate prices to balance supply and demand according to the impact the consumption will have on the available resources. In partnership with our customers we are able make to a difference within sustainable energy and reduction of CO2 emissions. Responsible consumption and production Our goal is to impact the surrounding environment as little as possible. We focus on optimising the energy and water consumption in our own production facilities, and we continuously identify where we can reduce waste across the company. One focus area for 2020 will be a 10 % reduction of energy consumption at our headquarters in Denmark. Secondly, our solutions help promote responsible consumption by providing the knowledge and data needed to give consumers access to accurate information about their own use. This gives them the necessary insight to adjust their consumption pattern if needed. 6 About Kamstrup Responsible solutions Components Dealer Disposal Human rights, quality, Anti-corruption, working Recycling of waste working conditions, conditions and safety, according to WEEE. anti-corruption, RoHS, energy, environment, conflict minerals. human rights. Production Transportation Data hosting End-user Human rights, working Fuel use and CO2 reduction, Data histing and Saving energy and conditions, equality, product safety, anti-corruption. analytics to reduce water. Meters have quality, waste, reduction of grid loss. long life time. energy, reduction of dangerous Consumption substances, reduction of waste insights. water, packaging, reduction of waste. Kamstrup’s responsible solutions In each of the steps in Kamstrup’s model for responsible i solutions, we focus on ensuring sustainability and strive to reduce the impacts caused by our production, transport, use and end-of-life treatment of our products and solutions. Policies CSR Policy We are updating our level of responsibility with a Code of Based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, Conduct to be introduced in 2020. Kamstrup has formulated a CSR policy. Every new employee is enrolled in a mandatory course and presented to the policy to ensure awareness and compliance. All the above mentioned principles comprise the foundation for Kamstrup’s corporate social responsibility. In accordance with the UN Global Compact, we support and Our CSR policy is implemented in the organisation i.e. from respect the protection of human rights and do our utmost our handling of suppliers to sales, production and disposal to prevent being involved in human rights exploitations. of products. We consider all forms of forced labour including child labour as completely unacceptable and take action if we come across violation of human rights. Additionally, we acknowledge and support the freedom of association and Environmental, energy and occupational health and the right to create collectives. safety policy Apart from our CSR policy, we have formulated a policy In respect of current and future employees, we do not covering environmental, energy, health and safety issues. discriminate in terms of age, sex, race, sexual orientation, The policy highlights that our impact on the surrounding national origin, physical or mental ability, marital status, environment must be considered when establishing new financial or social status. Furthermore, we take pride in a business objectives. Additionally, we focus on being a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and company with a high level of health, safety and well-being undertake initiatives that promote greater environmental among employees. responsibility. We also encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies for our products. Finally, we oppose all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 7 About Kamstrup Anti-corruption and bribery Kamstrup conducts business in a fair and legal way, and information. Furthermore, we continuously update our we have a zero-tolerance approach towards any form of information security to be able to handle challenges in an bribery and corruption. Hence, we will not pay or receive any everchanging world. direct or indirect bribes, just as we will not accept that third parties such as agents or representatives pay a bribe on Due diligence behalf of Kamstrup or in the interest of Kamstrup. Our main due diligence processes include general We will not make facilitation payments intended to secure information to all employees about our way of conducting or speed up routine government actions, which you are business without corruption and bribery. Employees working already entitled to without the need for such payment; or to in Sales and Sourcing are informed on how to handle these obtain unlawful preferential treatment. situations during their introduction to Kamstrup. Kamstrup will also not grant any benefit or gift which might In addition, Kamstrup also has a whistle blower scheme that unduly influence the decisions taken in Kamstrup or among employees can use to notify cases of misconduct. Criminal Kamstrup’s business relations. actions are an example that should be reported to either We understand that there are situations in a grey zone area. the manager, the Executive Board or the Chairman. The If in doubt we urge employees to contact their manager or scheme is a reflection of the open culture we have and the to reach out to our Commercial & Legal Services. We have a way we typical handle issues at Kamstrup. responsibility to ensure that all our business partners live up to our commitment to conduct business ethically. What did we do in 2019? CSR associated risks • We informed all employees not to accept large We do acknowledge the possibility of corruption and bribery Christmas gifts. taking place, in particular when doing business related to • We have not have any cases of corruption or suppliers and in sales negotiations. Also, there is a risk of bribery in our business in 2019. employees being offered large gifts to promote business. To mitigate these risks, we emphasise our way of conducting business to employees through a mandatory course. Additionally, we are very explicit in our way of doing 2020 and in the years ahead business and therefore the likelihood of being involved in corruption and bribery is assessed as small. • Implementing a whistle blower scheme to be handled by an external company with guaranteed anonymity. Data security Kamstrup protects data privacy by handling customer • Setting up an e-learning session on anti-bribery and employee data in a secure way. We comply with legal and corruption for all Kamstrup employees to requirements and set a high standard when handling ensure appropriate awareness. data and developing new products. In that regard, it is our • Continuing our work with resisting corruption and responsibility to develop secure solutions that ensure our bribery and taking the necessary action and adcustomers compliance with legislation and the General Data justments to detect criminal aspects. Protection Regulation. The ISO 27001 certificate demonstrates our continuous effort and dedication to ensure confidentiality and information integrity throughout the lifecycle of valuable At Kamstrup, we did not have any corruption in our business in 2019. 8 Fighting water scarcity in South Africa Facts • 30,000 water meters • 1.8 million litres of water savings in 4 months Saldanha Bay is a municipality in a water scarce area in South Africa. During 2017 they faced one of the worst droughts on record. The muncipipality needed to save water and manage water differently to ensure sustainability of their supply. Along with a programme of pressure management they also decided to install a smart water metering solution. One of the focus areas was better water conservation and in a period of just 4 months during 2019, Saldanha Bay was able to save 1.8 million litres of water. “The smart metering solution makes it possible to get real-time data of the consumption and water balances, which gives us valuable information about our distribution network. We have already seen massive improvements since we implemented the solution” Galvin Williams, Saldanha Bay Municipality. Water conservation at Indian schools Facts • 22 schools • 6600 students Water conservation at Indian schools In the Indian city of Shirpur-Warwade, we launched a Water Awareness Programme for Young Citizens (WAPYC) in 2019 in close cooperation with the local utility to raise awareness of water conservation at schools in ShirpurWarwade. The programme made a difference in the way the citizens of Shirpur-Warwade consumed water and the young children became change agents for this progress. Little effort resulted in much greater awareness of water consumption. Supply management Supply management Setting clear directions Modern Slavery Act Working with different suppliers all around the world raises In accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act, we impose various challenges regarding compliance with relevant strict standards and demands against compulsory labour regulations. We will not compromise on our policies, and human trafficking. but instead set clear directions for the way we conduct On our website, you will find our Slavery and Human business. Therefore, we have drawn up standards for our Trafficking Statement, where you can read more about how suppliers to mandatory comply with. we take action against modern slavery. Supplier responsibilities and due diligence Kamstrup prioritises its CSR efforts and has systematised suppliers and our partners. We demand that they fully these efforts within CSR and supplier management focusing comply with our requirements and standards. on the purchase of materials, semi-finished products, Additionally, suppliers must sign a statement covering subcontracted activities and deliverables included in the themes: Environment, anti-corruption, human rights, Kamstrup’s product range. labour issues, RoHs and conflict minerals. They also have to confirm that they comply with our Code of Conduct and that Supplier information statement they deliver products in compliance with current legislation. We continuously work on reducing our impact on the Finally, we oblige our suppliers to comply with health and environment caused by our products and services. In order safety requirements in accordance with the UN Global to do so, we look at the entire supply chain including our Compact principles 1-6 about human rights and working conditions. We work in 2 levels… Level 1 • Only delivers products not containing: Supplier information statement 1. Substances listed in the REACH Candidate List of • Is not complicit in human rights abuses Substances of Very High Concern for Authorisation – • Does not use any form of forced or compulsory labour ECHA, as published at the echa.europa.eu website • Does not use child labour 2. “Conflict minerals” as defined in Section 1502 of the • Does not discriminate in respect of employment and Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer occupation Protection Act (2010) • Works against corruption in all its forms, including All requirements and demands for supplier compliance are extortion and bribery revised at least once a year. • Have a written policy describing quality, environment, health & safety and information security aspects Level 2 • Complies with all relevant environmental and CSR risk-based approach occupational local health and safety laws Working with suppliers, Kamstrup mainly faces risks related • Urges sub suppliers to comply with the above mentioned to human rights, labour, corruption, environmental aspects principles and compliance obligations. The likelihood of a risk vary • Only delivers products in compliance with the RoHS from country to country and to mitigate risk, we have II and III directive. Furthermore is aware of the legal implemented the supplier programme described above. requirement that possibly prohibited materials and Moreover, we take a risk-based approach to our supply materials subject to declaration must without prior management. Hence, our suppliers are categorised request be communicated to Kamstrup according to their business importance and to CSR risk they • Only delivers products in compliance with REACH represent. CSR risk refers to the Country risk based on an regulation, including meeting requirements for actual corruption perception index. See figure. Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC). See www.echa.europa.eu for info on REACH. Supply management CSR Supplier risk assessment The suppliers with low CSR risk (level 1-2) as well as with low If the self-assessment report is satisfactory, the supplier business importance (level 1-2) can be approved by signing will be approved. However, if the self-assessment report is the CSR Supplier Information document and by confirming unsatisfactory, a CSR audit will be carried out. Also, if both compliance with our Code of Conduct described in our CSR the CSR risk and the business importance scores are high, Policy. a CSR audit will also be conducted. In addition to the CSR documentation described above, suppliers within the orange coloured areas must fill out a Kamstrup self-assessment report containing various questions within human rights, environment, health and safety. CSR Risk 5 HIGH Supplier information Supplier information 4 Code of conduct Code of conduct Self Assessment CSR Audit 3 Supplier information Supplier information Code of conduct 2 Code of conduct Self Assessment LOW 1 Business importance 1 2 34 LOWHIGH Supplier categorisation scheme Corruption perceptions index 2019. Source: www.transparency.org 13 Supply management CSR audits All results from CSR audits are handled and evaluated the In addition, a Kamstrup employee will act as an observing same way as quality audits and Segregation of Duties (SoD), party and coordinator between participating parties before, ensuring that no purchaser is able to implement a new during and after the audit. If an audit results in a workplace supplier single-handedly. assessment, the supplier has to formulate an action plan and perform on-going evaluation of the action plan for To obtain a professional and objective evaluation according findings. This will ensure that all Kamstrup’s partners to local law and practice, we have formed a partnership with provide a safe working environment for all employees. an external company to perform audits of suppliers. The purchase department at our headquarters coordinates all audits performed by the external auditing company. What did we do in 2019? What do we expect in 2020? • Implemented our updated CSR procedure • Improve KPI result from 2019 • Established KPI for returning updated and signed • Follow up on CSR audit findings supplier information • Continue to ensure that materials comply with • Included CSR as a topic in our audits for both new ROHS and existing suppliers • Apply a more systematic control of drinking water • Established further resources in Asia to strengthen approvals the level of follow up on CSR findings from • Update reporting on conflict minerals, and include suppliers gold on the smelter list • Updated reporting documents on conflict minerals including all the tin smelters To obtain a professional and objective evaluation according to local law and practice, we have formed a partnership with an local consultant to perform audits of suppliers. We use these in our supplier follow-ups. 14 Climate and environment Climate and environment Striving for a sound climate and environment In accordance with our policy regarding energy and Likewise, through our business and products we collaborate environment, we aim to find ways of minimising our with and help water and energy distributors to secure a negative impact on the climate and environment. One of green integrated energy supply and with energy users to our primary contributions to reducing climate impact is secure reduction in usage (SDG 6 and 7). through continuous optimisation of energy usage and product materials (SDG 12). Hence, we take a proactive approach to reduce our impact. Type of impact Stilling, DK Atlanta, US PL and FR Sales offices (incl. production) (incl. production) (incl.product services) Electricity High High Low Low Heating Medium Low Low Low Water High High Low Low Waste water High Low Low Low Waste High Medium Medium Low Materials High Low Low Low Emissions to air Low Low None None Visual, noise and vibration Low Low None None Fuel Medium High Medium Medium Environmental impact from Kamstrup’s locations High impact: Impact originating primary from production units and improvement activities are ongoing. Medium impact: Significant impact in a level we take action to reduce. Low impact: No significant impact in a level we do not handle. CSR associated risk The risks are shown in the table below with their respective consequence and likelihood. The green area indicates risks Our main CSR risks include: with no action points, risk in yellow areas require action 1. Excess use of utilities (water, electricity, heating) whereas risks in red area must be handled immediately. 2. Negative impact on waste water from process and The risks in the yellow area are all being mitigated through chemical spills the Energy Group who works on implementing actions to 3. Wrong waste handling reduce excess use of utilities. The materials for our products 4. Excess use of materials for products and buildings are constantly selected according to the functionality and 5. Negative impact from process emissions the material consumption. Handling of chemicals take place according to procedures, but in 2019 we experienced 6. Negative impact from external noise, vibrations and visual one spill. Climate impact from excess transport is primary 7. Excess impact from transport mitigated through promotion of carpooling and use of video meetings to minimise travelling. Likelihood > 10 yrs <10 yrs Yearly Monthly Daily 1 None 6 4 2 Little 5 3 2,7 1 Consequence 3 Medium 4 Major 5 Severe Risk matrix showing Kamstrup’s CSR associated risk. Numbers refers to list above. 16 Climate and environment Kamstrup impacts and processes Materials and technology During our development and production of products, we balance the selection of materials with the required functionality of our products. We focus on: • Using a small number of different materials and components and if possible use recyclable materials. • Having available information about the type of material at disposal and according to legislation by printing the information on plastic material. • Developing new generations of meters with reduced electricity/battery usage. • Where possible, designing meters for recycling so that components are easy to take apart. Processes • Packaging material having a printed code referring to We monitor and evaluate environmental performance the type of material to ensure correct disposal after enabling us to take action if irregularities occur. As an installation. example, in 2019 Kamstrup’s emergency plans were used • Designing products with a lifetime up to 20 years for alerting authorities due to a chemical spill, a false fire without power supply and else even longer lifetime. alarm and evacuation drills. It had no impact on Kamstrup’s In addition, some heat meters have a self-monitoring facility and emergency plans were followed. Minor changes function so the meter can be used for the whole time it to evacuation plan were made subsequently. measures legally correct and not scrapped prematurely. • Using the crossed-out bin symbol on our products In every aspect we aim to minimise our environmental to ensure reuse of materials according to legislation. impact, and we continue to optimise our processes Additionally, we offer to take back used meters. according to SDG 12. Furthermore, our water meters are designed in compliance with strict regulation related to drinking water. Instructions on disposal of worn out products can be found in either the technical description or in the data sheet for the product. Certification and due diligence Since 1997, Kamstrup’s headquarters has been ISO 14001 accidents, handling of waste and measurement of metals in certified. Today our offices in Norway and Sweden are waste water. also certified due to customer requirements. Kamstrup´s requirements to non-certified locations are similar to those Compliance obligations being certified. At our headquarters we also make annual We follow relevant legislation and contract agreements with energy mappings and reviews complying with part of ISO stakeholders and we constantly work towards compliance. 50001. Our headquarters in Denmark is regulated by two waste Being ISO 14001 certified, we work according to the model water permits and works in close collaboration with Plan-Do-Check-Act. We make goals and action plans, Skanderborg municipality to ensure low impact on the local implement, check and follow up. Our main due diligence surroundings from our production. processes include goal setting, action plans, audits and an Likewise, our subsidiaries review local compliance annual management review. In particular, we work with due obligations yearly. diligence processes related to compliance with legislation, reduction of energy and water usage, registration of 17 Climate and environment Energy The Energy Group, founded in 2017, is still active and Our production in the USA used less energy totally in terms working on proactive ways to coordinate and initiate of gas and electricity per manufactured meter. This can activities reducing use of energy and water waste at our be explained by a smaller facility associated with only headquarters . assembling production. We use electricity for both production, administration Our total heat consumption per product for 2019 was similar and in the canteens. In 2019, our total electricity usage to that in 2018. In 2019, our heat was primarily used for per product for the headquarters had increased slightly heating, cooling and ventilation. This is illustrated below: compared to the usage in 2018. This was primarily due to construction, use of our new administration facility and additional personnel. Electricity (kWh) per meter Consumption of energy per produced meter Heating 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 2002 2005 2008 2001 2014 2017 2020 Water Kamstrup’s main water consumption at the headquarters In 2019, the consumption of water had increased due to new comes from testing our products, humidification in the test facilities and a higher production efficiency according production and for sanitary use. to number of employees. This is illustrated below: (m3) Water consumption per employee (m3) 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2002 2005 2008 2001 2014 2017 2020 18 Climate and environment Waste water Waste Our waste water mainly originates from test benches used We optimise our waste disposal by sorting waste in more in our production of meters and from sanitary usage. Our than 70 categories. We co-operate closely with a waste waste water contains small amounts of remains from our handler to find new ways to sort and recycle our waste. meters tested with water. In 2019, a large fraction of our waste originated from one We analyse our waste water yearly to monitor and act on customer with whom we agreed to take back used meters. the results. In 2019 we complied fully with our waste water This increased our total amount of waste and resulted in permits. more waste for deposit. Our site in the USA produced waste related to transportation only. See table below. Waste from production facilities at Kamstrup headquarters and life expired returned meters Waste 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Recycling (%) 49 52 61 50 74 69 72 64 60 Incineration (%) 50 47 38 49 25 31 27 32 37 Deposit (%) 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 4 3 Total ton 256 289 336 296 541 568 532 649 582* * In addition, in 2019 we handled 480 tons of returned meters from one big customer. Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions The table above illustrates the numbers of individual Greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities in Denmark sources of energy contributing to the global carbon and the USA are calculated by converting greenhouse footprint. Electricity and district heating from scope 2 gasses to metric tons expressed in CO2-equivalents as CO2e. account for more than 70% of Kamstrup‘s total emissions. Kamstrup makes standard climate calculations based on the The CO2 footprint has increased slightly compared to last Greenhouse Gas Protocol that includes scope 1 and scope year primarily due to expansion of sales activities in USA 2. Scope 1 comprises direct emissions derived from the resulting in increased fuel usage. consumption of fuel from company cars and trucks and gas Greenhouse gasses related to scope 3 deriving from waste, used for heating at our office in the USA. Scope 2 includes materials, employee transportation, shipping and actual indirect emissions from purchased electricity and heating. use of product during lifetime are not included above. We Scope 1 Total CO2e 2019 calculate greenhouse gas emissions based on the product itself. This we state as carbon footprint of the product. Gas, heating, US 38 Greenhouse gas emissions from locations without production Gas, truck 1 are not included due to a small impact totally, primarily from Petrol and diesel 225 heat and electricity usage in smaller office units. Total scope 1 264 Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions from our products Electricity 1248 We calculate the carbon footprint of Kamstrup’s products by using the internationally recognised programme SimaPro. District heating, DK 293 Total scope 2 1541 Electricity Heat and Water meters cooling meters Total CO2 from Kamstrup’s production 1805 meters units in DK and US ton CO2 Carbon footprint 0,040,0250,02Greenhouse gas emissions from our production facilities in Ton CO2eq per product 0,14 0,08 0,054 Denmark and the USA. Source: www.klimakompasset.dk. depending on product size Carbon footprint of our selection of products based on the raw materials, phase to end-of-life and disposal phase, packaging material, 12 years of operation and 500 km. 19 Climate and environment What did we do in 2019? What do we expect in 2020? Our environmental goals include energy reduction In 2020, we will continue to measure and map our through activities at our headquarters in Denmark energy usage across our facilities with the aim of saving 10% electricity and heating compared to 2019 We have saved energy and reduced our levels at the headquarters. environmental impact by: • Saving of 15.000 liter fuel yearly by – carpooling – mounting of locked bike sheds We are planning to • Saving 250 MWh by – LED lighting • React proactively on deviating on-line data of – mounting of switches at workstations energy and water – Repair of leaks in pipes with pressured air • Install new ventilation system in the heat/cooling – new ventilation equipment production to save heat and electricity • Development of meter with leak detection and the • Install LED lighting in the heat/cooling production system Analytic helping utilities to save water and • Maintain and repair leaks in pipes with pressured air energy • Create awareness to stakeholders about Kamstrup´s energy usage through monitors • Reduce scrap in production Other environmental initiatives included • Detailed mapping of consumption at our headquarters in order to reduce usage at relevant places • Vegetarian menus served in the canteen to inspire meat-free dishes and thereby reduce CO2 emission • Donating excess food delivered to Kamstrup at a running event to different shelters serving more than 500 people • Achieved Krärnmarkt by Swedish Vatten AB 20 Saving energy through meter data Facts • Return temperature lowered by 5 degrees • Forward temperature lowered by up to 10 degrees • Reduction of heat loss by 8% • Savings up to 10% on billings More frequent meter data has created great results for the Danish utility Næstved District Heating. By using hourly values from intelligent meters, the utility has reduced their heat loss with 8 %. They have also lowered the temperature of the water that runs between the consumers and the utility with 5 and 10 degrees, respectively. At the same time, supply customers have saved up to 10 % on their district heating bills. With the installation of smart metering, Næstved District Heating has reduced the environmental impact and invested in a more sustainable solution. Reducing our energy consumption 2020 goal • Reducing our energy consumption with 10 %. We continuously work to reduce our own energy consumption and both district heating, electricity, water and cooling have our attention. Especially at our production sites where we have the highest consumption. In 2019 we made an investment to replace an older ventilation system with a new energy efficient ventilation system resulting in noticeable energy reduction with 70 %. Another example is our in-house Energy Group, who identifies potential activities such as carpooling and new ways to promote awareness of water and energy usage. “Measuring our energy consumption is the solution to save more energy. Our goal for 2020 is to reduce our energy consumption with 10% at our headquarters in Denmark”. Allan Søgaard, Facility Manager. Working conditions Working conditions Employees In accordance with our Occupational, Health and Safety Providing a healthy and safe environment Policy, we aim at a high level of health, safety and wellWe strive to ensure that employees are provided with a being for all employees. We work hard to accomplish that healthy and safe working environment through a certified by preventing damages, work-related illness and accidents occupational health management system. related to our activities. Furthermore, our policy contributes to working conditions Globally, Kamstrup employs people with different sex, in compliance with relevant legislation and monitors sexual orientation, age, ethnicity and religion. We also applicable legislation and regulations. employ people with special needs. All employees age 60 and older are offered a talk with their manager in order to get an CSR associated risk individual plan going forward until retirement. Colleagues who retire from Kamstrup can be part of an active senior Our main CSR risks include club in Denmark with a variety of activities and have 1. Lack of qualified resources access to training facilities free of charge. We compensate employees for extra or atypical working hours according to 2. Lack of risk awareness among employees local law, and where possible we offer flexitime and remote 3. Stress caused by organisational changes work options. 4. Incidents caused by driving In this section, you can read about our accomplishments The green area indicates risks with no action points, risk in from 2019, our goals for 2020 and more details about our yellow areas require action whereas risks in red areas must efforts to accommodate UN Global Compact principles on be handled immediately. working conditions. Likelihood > 10 yrs <10 yrs Yearly Monthly Daily 1 None 2 Little Consequence 3 Medium 1 2, 3 4 Major 4 5 Severe Risk matrix showing Kamstrup’s CSR associated risk. Numbers refers to list above. The risks referred to in the yellow area are all being mitigated: HR Department and The Health and Safety Organisation constantly make campaigns and advertisements to get qualified staff. Lack of risk awareness is handled through campaigns, analysis of accidents and focus from management. To mitigate stress we have introduced courses in stress management and leadership education. Safe driving is handled locally. All employees are given the opportunity to develop skills required to handle their tasks and to seek future career options in Kamstrup. We train employees in risk and good workmanship practices. 24 Working conditions Certification and due diligence We acquired the recertification of OHSAS 18001 in processes include goal setting, action plans, audits and a November 2016. Being OHSAS certified ensures approval yearly management review. In particular, we work with due from the Danish Work Environment Council. diligence processes related to well-being, education and development of employees, registration of near misses and Being OHSAS 18001 certified at our headquarters means accidents. that we work according to the model Plan–Do-Check-Act. In 2019, the OHSAS 18001 standard to been replaced with We make goals and action plans as well as implement, ISO 45001. check and follow up on these. Our main due diligence Safety We have based our production processes on precautionary from when we started collecting data more frequently. measures to ensure that there is no special risk of harm In 2015, we changed focus from finding near misses to from unforeseen incidents. focusing on preventing accidents. Towards the end of 2016, we started increasing our focus on Benchmarking with other companies of lost time in incident recording near miss incidents at the headquarters. We have frequency (LTIF) is not comparable and available. continued to focus on recording accidents and near misses as seen in 2019. The table below shows the collected totals 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Accidents per 1,000,000 8 3 3 12 6 6 5 4 5 6 working hours (LTIF) Near miss incidents 6 1 1 6 7 22 50 47 45 109 Collected totals. The purpose of conducting safety assessments is to prevent unsuitable indoor climate, noise and stress. Safety assessments are carried out regularly, and help us significantly reduce heavy lifting, pushing and pulling. 25 Working conditions Employee development In 2019, we employ approximately 1500 in 60 countries and Educating and motivating employees close to 1200 at our headquarters in Denmark. It is essential to have a skilled and well-educated workforce. Therefore, all new Kamstrup employees in all countries Employee satisfaction surveys go through an introduction programme when they join. Additionally, all employees can attend in-house courses and The employee satisfaction survey has been conducted educate themselves further. In Denmark we also continued since 2010. Countries participating are Denmark, Sweden, a project for all employees in the production, testing their Norway, Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the USA. basic skills in reading, writing and IT. If the test displayed The results for 2019 are showing a high level of overall deviations we offered training during work hours to ensure satisfaction from the organisation and there has been a basic level of academic competence as the foundation improvements in almost all areas compared to 2018. for future learning and development. Moreover, we ensure However, there are always practices to improve, and in individual development and career plans for all employees. 2020 we will focus on top management visibility and communication. Job rotation At Kamstrup, we welcome job rotation and consider it part Health and well-being of our corporate identity. We believe that applying for a It is of the utmost importance to have a healthy working job elsewhere within Kamstrup is a token of loyalty. Job environment. Good health equals happier and more rotation provides an opportunity to learn and help us stay productive employees, which in the end leads to a better innovative and agile. working environment. Therefore, we encourage employees Every manager at Kamstrup ought to support job rotation to take advantage of the activities we offer at Kamstrup’s internally and should contribute to the development of the own premises such as dentist, fitness and health clinic. employees through rotation and the capability to generate As part of our well-being initiative, we offer all employees at value in other departments. our headquarters the opportunity to get a free health check, Being a dynamic company with a wide range of free use of health clinic and free use of fitness centre. We opportunities for career development is the key to hold on believe that both employees and Kamstrup benefit from to skilled employees when they seek new challenges. a good health. Subsidiaries and branches choose relevant benefits to suit their needs. Thus, job rotation gives the opportunity to learn new skills and gain experiences in new positions. It is important for We should also consider the benefits as rewarding outside us to be open to this kind of development because we want working hours – a good health also benefits the employees to keep our skilled employees when they search for new outside work. challenges. 26 Working conditions What did we do in 2019? What do we expect in 2020? Our overall goal for 2019 was to continue to develop It is our ambition to provide a healthy and safe employees and our organisation according to working environment for all of employees. In addition, Kamstrup’s growth and needs. we continue expanding our company in terms of acquiring talented people that can develop and push Kamstrup forward. Accomplishments in 2019 • Winning the price for the “Best workplace in Denmark” by the union 3F Our 2020 goals are • Winning the price for Best Internship company in • Attract top candidates within natural science e.g. Eastern Jutland, Denmark IT, technology and development to support future business • Completing safety walkways in all production areas together with work environment counsellors • Offer more tailor-made courses to help employees meet future challenges • Carrying out the physical workplace assessment, via questionnaire • Continue to plan social and cross-functional events promoting teamwork, health and social • Enrolling 60+ students for our intern programme in respect 2019 divided across the divisions and functions at Kamstrup headquarters • Define and describe in which projects, and when, it is required to involve the Health, Safety and Envi• Organising 50+ courses for employees designed to ronmental organisation improve required competences • Define, implement and communicate escalation • Establishing an intern Leadership Development & plan for work accidents Training function • Increase focus on health and safety, by generating • Supporting health and sports activities in local at least four health and safety campaigns in 2020 communities through various sponsorships • Participating in the initiative “Girls’ Day in Science”, which aims at motivating women to become engineers and software developers, to promote job possibilities at Kamstrup • Receiving and handling +10,000 job applications with respect for applicants and through a transparent recruitment process • Handling all applications in compliance with GDPR • Participating in running and walking event focusing on health and socialising across departments and sponsored homeless shelters with excess food • Arranging social events for employees and their families • Fire education at Kamstrup Sweden • Running groups at Kamstrup Sweden • Flu vaccine for employees at Kamstrup Norway 27 Think forward Kamstrup A/S Industrivej 28, Stilling DK-8660 Skanderborg T: +45 89 93 10 00 F: +45 89 93 10 01 info@kamstrup.dk kamstrup.com
