Bens Electronics Services Communication on Progress 2018/2019 Statement of Commitment I am pleased to confirm that Bens Electronicssupports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are increasingly making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. We are also engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Bens Electronics also makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders, and the general public. We recognise that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: 1) A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact, and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. 2) A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-corruption). 3) A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Benedict Makokha. CEO, Bens Electronics Limited Introduction During the fiscal year 2018-2019, Bens Electronics has continued working actively to integrate sustainable business practices in its daily operations. Bens Electronics strives to develop the business with maintained sustainability, and is committed to continuously working with environmental issues to make as small an environmental footprint as practicably possible. Bens Electronics believes that having excellent working conditions increases productivity, and is important for our business conduct – as well as our partners and our suppliers’ business conduct. Holding high standards is the best way forward for the continued success of our business. Bens electronics remains fixed to its sustainable business model to ensure a stable supply of sustainable products and services to its clients. We are confident that our continued adherence to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact provides a suitable means to achieve this goal, and, in effect, engender an opportunity to learn and share our experience and innovations with all partners and stakeholders. About Us Service, Collaboration and EfficiencyThese words aptly describe Bens Electronics leading data and networking services, but they also represent the foundation of our company, from the high level of our local customer service and technical expertise to the honesty and integrity of our technicians, staff and leadership. It is our goal to earn your trust and to meet or exceed your expectations in every way, from first contact and beyond. From small companies to enterprise-level corporations throughout Coastal Region of Kenya, Bens Electronics’ expert team delivers a broad range of fast, customized network and telecommunication services, backed by our highest level of local customer service, security and support. Our Mission It is the mission of Bens Electronics to build on our legacy of innovative and reliable data and network services and to anticipate and exceed the unique and changing needs of our clients. We’ll be there for you every step of the way with innovative products and services, personalized customer service and the expertise of our highly trained technical staff when you need it. Most importantly, at Bens Electronics, we believe how you do business is as important as what you do as a business. We practice our core values of honesty, integrity and trust every day and in everything we do. Our Vision Bens Electronics is committed to forging itself into regionalleading broadband communication and information service provider. To that end, the company will work to take a leadership role in the expansion of network and telecommunication services while improving its brand image and overall competitiveness. 1. Labour Practices 1.1 Priorities Bens Electronics supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced, compulsory or child labour. Bens electronics company complies fully with all aspects of Kenyan labor law. Our company has clearly set out its policies to all employees by providing a contract of employment clearly stating their terms and conditions of employment with clearly stated pay rates, sick leave, maternity and paternity leave, etc and also refers to the Staff Handbook and/or relevant guide where additional information can be found regarding these policies, principles, commitment and procedures. All Bens Electronics employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms, conditions and base compensation. All newly employed staff are presented with an Employee Handbook, which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, compensation for overtime work, flexible working hours, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Bens Electronics complies with all relevant Health & Safety legislation, and provides relevant training to employees and other staff. Risk assessments are conducted and followed up regularly. Contractors are issued with contracts stating terms, conditions and requirements of their assignment, and work under the same health and safety regulations as regular Bens Electronics employees. All Bens Electronics employees and other staff have the right to form and/or join labour unions and to bargain collectively, provided that this right is not in conflict with any local laws. 1.2 Implementation Bens electronics maintains and continues to develop a comprehensive recruitment procedure and complies with the Kenyan laws and regulations in all aspects. Records are maintained within the HR department. We monitor all areas concerning Labour Principles and aim to continually improve processes and policies. All our employees and associates are provided with excellent working conditions, including payment of wages and benefits that comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not contribute directly or indirectly to human rights abuses and will not engage with any organization that does not uphold their social responsibility to basic human rights which includes any form of forced labor, physical punishment, or other abuse. 1.3 Measurements of outcomes There has not been any form of legal cases brought against the company in the area of labor relations. Labor principles are reviewed regularly by Senior Management. In the FY 2018-19, all Bens Electronics employees had performance and development talks with their respective managers. Individual development plans have been created, and training requirements have been met, provided they are in line with company policy. Overtime work and sick leave have remained low during the fiscal year, with no employees on long-term sick leave. During 2019, new field technicians have been trained in general employee health and safety. Bens Electronics has not been subject to any Health & Safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. 2. Fair Business Practices & Anticorruption 2.1 Priorities Bens Electronics is compliant with UN Global Compact Principle 10 “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery”. Bens Electronics supports the UN Convention against corruption. The Bens Electronics Code of Conduct clearly describes what could be considered bribery in terms of business operation. The policy also covers gifts, hospitality, extortion and money laundering. Bens Electronics goal is to continue to have no cases of unfair business practices, bribery or corruption. 2.2 Implementation The Bens Electronics Code of Conduct is easily available on the company intranet for all the staff to access. All new employees are provided with the Bens Electronics Code of Conduct as part of their employee contract, and are required to read it through. The Bens Electronics Management Team, headed by the Chief Executive Officer, is ultimately responsible for making sure the Bens Electronics Code of Conduct is followed. During this Financial year, the company chose to install a water project for the locals in Mtwapa instead of handing out gifts to clients or suppliers. The company also distributed hand-held solar lamps to pupils from poor households and primary schools which lack electricity in Ganze constituency and beyond. a) Zero Tolerance Policy Statement Bens electronics uphold good ethics and morals as essential components in its business operations and does not tolerate any form of fraudulent or corrupt activities even if such activities would be beneficial to the Company. Thus, to ensure our Personnel will not disregard the risk of fraud and corruption, all our personnel must understand and strictly follow the Company's Anti-bribery-and-Corruption Policy, Code of Conduct Handbook, and all other relevant policies, procedures, protocols, and guidelines without exception. b) Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy -This policy is implemented in tandem with the national anti-corruption policy to ensure the highest ethical standards throughout our supply chain, as well as internally. These policies are communicated to all stakeholders and compliance is imperative. We take this matter very seriously and enforce these policies firmly. Regardless of the scale, corrective action is taken if there is a violation from any supplier. All our suppliers are expected to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct and comprehensive Service Level Agreements (SLA) to ensure contractual obligations exist in the areas of ethics, quality, and privacy. c) Whistleblowing -The Company has a policy to receive information regarding wrongdoing, violations of the law, regulations or Good Corporate Governance principles, or corruption, directly through the Audit Committee. d) Bens Electronics as a policy of choice does not do business with organizations or individuals who are involved in graft or kickbacks.Within the company, we have put in place measures to encourage ethical behavior among our employees and in the way we do business or interact with other companies that give us business. e) Our major business partner Safaricom LLC has a comprehensive Code of Ethics that we are signatories to and do all we can to comply by ensuring that our employees are aware and indeed practice its key points. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes Bens Electronics accounts are subject to a yearly external audit. This is one of the methods we use to find any suspicious business transactions. Bens Electronics has successfully trained all line managers and key staff in fair business practices and has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption, extortion, money laundering or bribery. The Company’s financial report for the year ended July 2019, was prepared per generally accepted accounting principles, and the information was accurate, complete, and reliable; The Company's internal control systems are adequate and appropriate; • All related party transactions are part of the Company's normal course of business with regular commercial terms, sensible and fair conditions and for the maximum benefit of the Company. 3. Human Rights 3.1 Priorities At Bens electronics, we continue to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principles. We don't engage in human rights abuses at any cost. Bens Electronics is committed to upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international, regional, and/or local laws that apply to Bens Electronics, such as the Bill of Rights as enshrined in the Constitution of Kenya 2010. We continue to uphold international conventions on human rights such as the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, Convention against Torture and Other Cruel; Inhumane or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW); Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (ICRMW); Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). 3.2 Implementation We have placed various Policies in Place to ensure that Bens Electronics is constantly improving its commitments to the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, our company has continually reviewed and revised our policies and strategies to support human rights. Bens Electronics has a comprehensive policy on social and labor accountability with a formal declaration, expressing the intention to confirm the requirement of human rights, employment conditions, and working condition standards. Bens Electronics does not encourage the engagement of children in its work. We continue to carry out our businesses entirely within our borders and hence least exposed to any potential of practicing Human Trafficking. Additionally, it's our policy to condemn and not to do any business with any known drug or human trafficking individuals or organizations. 3.3 Measurement of Outcomes There has seen zero occurrence at our workplace, related accidents or incidents over the past three years due to our stipulated mitigation measures that we have put in place to minimize the impacts that might arise. Bens Electronics promotes a spirit of equality within the company, and gender equality is solidly one of our basic tenets. We value our female staff and are committed to their development and wellbeing within our company. This year, we affirmed our commitments through the following: i) Offering training opportunities to improve the skills necessary to complete their jobs. ii) We promote new female hires and the retention of female staff. By encouraging women to take up technical roles, we are also promoting professional development for women within our company. 4. Environment 4.1 Priorities Our products and services make it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our solutions, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Our solutions make it possible for people in different cities or countries to have conversations without the need for travel. In this way Bens Electronics and its Partners help in minimizing the overall carbon footprint associated with movement of people and goods. Bens electronics continuously strive to improve our environmental performance and recognize the growing importance of our responsibilities around environmental issues and the community and world that we live in. All our employees have a general duty of care and are required to take all reasonable steps to comply with our environmental policy and agreed with procedures and to demonstrate a personal commitment to a safe environment at all times. We are committed to promoting environmental awareness ensuring that we comply with all relevant legislation and, where no legislation exists, we set our own standards. As we work internationally, we strive to make ourselves aware of global and regional specific codes of conduct wherever we operate, and we achieve this by utilizing a host of supporting services including government agency websites and third-party consultants. 4.2 Implementation Our Environmental policy is made available to employees, associates, and all stakeholders and the public upon request, and whilst our environmental impact is minimal, we aim to recycle as much as possible. We have and continue to ensure our employees are aware of our environmental procedures to reduce waste and increase recycling. Our employees and those that we work with all reasonable steps to comply with our environmental policy and agreed with procedures, and to demonstrate a personal commitment to a safe environment at all times. Bens Electronics promotes operational practices that reduce any environmental burden associated with our activities. Bens Electronics continuously improves and seeks innovative environmentally friendly solutions in products and services. If possible, meetings are held over the phone, or internet based media rather than travelling. When travelling is required, we choose the train whenever possible. Bens Electronics measures and monitors its energy consumption. We rely on Solar Energy to power our offices and workshops. We have also has taken actions to keep energy consumption low, and will continue to work on this. Among other things, our office is fitted with various innovative power saving features. We also have a recycling system in place for paper, cardboard, aluminium, batteries and glass. Discarded electronic equipment is sent to licensed recycling stations. 4.3 Measurement of Outcomes Bens Electronics is determined to keep on monitoring carbon emissions, aiming to keep them as low as possible, and doing whatever is reasonably practical to reduce them. Measurements over the years have shown that transportation cost go up and down, this is influenced by factors that the company cannot control. On many occasions, we are required to fulfill customer needs this often includes assistance/support which involves movement to the client’s location. To minimise environmental impact, Bens Electronics encourages staff to choose train travel whenever possible rather than going by air, and to choose economy class, enabling more travelers to fly in the same airplane, rather than choosing business class when travelling by air. Bens Electronics Services Limited P. O. Box 726 Nyali, MombasaKenya E-mail: info@benselectronics.co.ke We have achieved significant progress in 2019 and we hope to carry all of this forward into 2020, ensuring that these high standards are preserved throughout our Supply chain and reflected in our service to our clients.
