sustainability report 2019 WE LIGHT UP THE WORLD IN GREEN Chapter Title 1 TGBS2019 LEGEND Wind Environmental Soy sustainability Biomass Labour Geranium Photovoltaic Human Rights Maize Hydroelectric Fight against Auditory impact corruption Renewable energy Economic impacts Visual impact Rural Electrification Employment impacts Water resources Agriculture Development Waste of human capital Corporate Services Chapter Title 2 TGBS2019 CONTENTS Letter from the CEO to stakeholders 2 2.4 Creating value 32 WE SHARE WELL-BEING 2.4.1 The development strategy 33 AND DEVELOPMENT WITH THE COMMUNITIES 73 WE CREATE SUSTAINABLE VALUE OVER TIME 5 2.4.2 The Investments 36 4.1 Development of local areas and support 2.4.3 Added value produced and distributed 38 of their populations 74 1.1 Our vision 5 2.4.4 Suppliers Sustainability Partners 40 4.1.1 Socio-economic impacts: direct, 1.2 Group highlights in 20196 indirect and induced 75 2.5 Our team 42 A PRESENT THAT COMES FROM AFAR 9 2.6 Health and Safety 48 4.2 The community in Italy 76 2.1 The Group today 12 4.3 The community in Peru 82 OUR COMMITMENT TO THE FUTURE 2.1.1 The activities 12 OF THE PLANET 51 4.4 The community in Madagascar 84 2.1.2 Markets served and positioning 13 2.1.3 Local presence 14 3.1 Research and innovation 52 4.5 Tozzi Green Book: 2.1.4 Group organisation education for sustainability 92 3.2 Rural electrification in Peru 56 and structure 16 3.3 Agriculture in Madagascar 60 2.2 Governance 18 Note on methodology 96 2.2.1 The Model 231/2001 19 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 Tables of data and indicators 98 2.2.2 The Code of Ethics and values 20 3.4.1 Environmental protection policies 65 Analytical index 110 3.4.2 Usage of energy resources 66 2.3 Tozzi Green's approach 3.4.3 Usage of water resources 69 to sustainability 22 3.4.4 Visual and acoustic impacts 69 2.3.1 The guiding principles: UN Global Compact 22 3.4.5 Waste management 69 2.3.2 Adherence to the Objectives 3.4.6 Environmental aspects of the of Sustainable Development 24 rural electrification project in Peru 69 2.3.3 Stakeholder engagement 26 3.4.7 Environmental aspects of 2.3.4 Material issues 29 agricultural activity in Madagascar 70 1 TGBS2019 Letter from the CEO to stakeholders The pages you are about to read are Tozzi Green’s first Sustainability Report. We deFor Tozzi Green, its relationships with communities, development and growth are the cided to produce it because of all that we have been doing in the world of renewable cardinal points of action. The term “sustainability” is not merely an obligation to be energy for more than thirty years now. It was a highly challenging step for all of us, fulfilled before our stakeholders and planet Earth, but is an integral part of the combut at the same time one that harmonised perfectly with our history, our identity pany culture, its business management and its relationship with people, employees, and our roots. internal and external associates and institutions of all levels, in Italy and abroad. After all, we are a family business that was founded in the 50s and has evolved and Today we can consider ourselves to be one of the leading players in the world in rural expanded, constantly placing as the company’s object and purpose the creation of electrification by virtue of a project that in the two-year period 2018-2019, thanks sustainable added value over time for all the stakeholders. Precisely for this reason to our winning bid in response to the international invitation to tender promoted and aware of the great challenge that the United Nations launched on 25 Septemby the Peruvian Government, has brought stand-alone electricity to 218 thousand ber 2015, when it approved the Global Agenda for Sustainable Development (Agenda homes scattered across the most remote areas of Peru not yet connected to the 2030) and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved by 2030, durnational electricity grid. All through small systems (Solar Home System) that store ing 2019 we decided to officially join the UN Global Compact by committing ourselves energy from photovoltaic systems installed on the roofs of houses or nearby, enato incorporate the 10 principles that inspire the initiative into our corporate mission. bling the improvement of the living conditions of thousands of people, generating social inclusion and contributing significantly to the right to education, as well as to We Light up the World in Green is the title of our Sustainability Report, in which we the functionality of Emergency facilities and medical clinics. want to tell the story of our company in the world, measuring the environmental, economic and social impacts of its various activities, using the sustainability reporting The process that prompted us to invest and focus our efforts on such a delicate parameters, the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, which are the guidelines for front has added value to our Code of Ethics through which we are committed to measuring and communicating the impact that any activity can have on the various ensuring fairness towards the enterprise as a whole, and transparency, loyalty and dimensions of sustainability. consideration for the areas where we operate. The Peruvian project represents the essence of Tozzi Green's modus operandi which, without the need to attach any label, 2 TGBS2019 introduces an ethical vision into its work, in other words it is something that comes by. In fact it has been a response to the goals of the UN, namely to bring into the areas totally from within. where companies operate, opportunities for the socio-economic development and growth of the populations involved. The correctness of this approach, i.e. of a holistic vision of social, environmental and economic development, is evident in the fact that ethics and profit are never in The objectives we have achieved and those we have set ourselves for the future alconflict, but represent the business model closest to guaranteeing the well-being ways centre around people. The key to our success lies in the dedication and ability of future generations, while protecting the entire Planet. of our employees to continually renew themselves at all levels of the business chain in all the countries where we operate. For Tozzi Green safety, reward and continuous Sustainability takes shape through an ethical relationship with financial instruments, training are the must-haves on which we try to improve every year, in order to make as well as the building of virtuous relationships with governments and stakeholders. the commitment of every single worker more and more stimulating. All our projects are based on this principle: fostering the development of local communities and responding with concrete actions to the needs of the local areas. If this first Sustainability Report were a book, we would have to dedicate it to every employee, to the communities that host us and to all the Peruvian and Malagasy Ethics and development, sustainability and dynamism are part of our corporate DNA children who we have had the pleasure of meeting along the way. and represent the very essence of our business. A clear expression of this can be found in what we have been doing in Madagascar in the agricultural sector for many years now. Although it does not represent our company's core business from a finanAndrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green cial perspective, it accounted for 15% of our turnover in 2018 and 8% in 2019. There Tozzi Green has initiated the largest maize farming operations on the island, as well as the production of essential oils for perfumery, spices and oil plants, generating over 1,500 jobs. This undertaking has enabled us to build a hospital and a school, and to support the development of instruction and education through the playing of rug3 TGBS2019 Chapter Title 4 TGBS2019 WE CREATE SUSTAINABLE VALUE OVER TIME Our vision. We work together with companies and local communities to create a world running on clean energy. We pursue a new growth model based on economic development, social progress and environmental friendliness for a better life today and to build together the foundations of the well-being of future generations. Chapter Title 5 TGBS2019 Group highlights in 2019 8 mln€ 144.8 mln€ Revenues from normal operations 82.3 mln€ Income taxes 217,025 kits +17% Amount paid to suppliers SHS (Solar Home Systems) installed as at 31.01.2020 WE LIGHT UP THE 57.0 mln€ EBTDA 9.5 mln€ Remuneration +28% 44.5 mln€ Added Value distributed of staff +38% 10 plants Plants belonging to Companies in which the Group has majority shareholdings to stakeholders 3 wind / 2 hydroelectric / +11% 4 photovoltaic / 1 biogas +19 small wind plants We create sustainable value over time 6 TGBS2019 120.5 MW 25 % Total installed capacity 152,736 Proportion of women among employees 39 % tonnes of Percentage of training CO2 avoided hours devoted to women WORLD IN GREEN 290,516 MWh 420 173 New recruits Energy produced Number of employees 616 MW 4,250 In the period +5% +20% Capacity under Training hours provided management +89% We create sustainable value over time 7 TGBS2019 Chapter Title 8 TGBS2019 A PRESENT THAT COMES FROM AFAR Our story. “We started at the beginning of the twentieth century by providing light to a small town, when light was still a precious commodity available to the few. We crossed the “short century”, we structured ourselves, and we expanded our knowledge and know-how. Today we bring clean energy to entire communities that are still without it, building together with them the history of the third millennium. Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green Chapter Title 9 TGBS2019 BRIEF HISTORY OF THE GROUP At the dawn of the 20th century The post-war years “... It is an entrepreneurial story that has its roots in the his home village. Returning from the front he set about Immediately after the war the family started a small “short century”, that of the Tozzi family. A seed that alconstructing a grain mill and a small hydroelectric powshop selling electrical equipment. Father and brothers ready at the beginning of the 20th century, in the Italian er station capable of meeting the energy needs of the soon set up a small company involved in industrial plant socio-economic context of the time, characterised by whole village. engineering in the electro-technical sector, dealing in backwardness and ongoing endemic poverty, was able He and his son Arturo, who joined him in the business at those early years with the modernisation of electrical to germinate, giving breath to that can do spirit that a very young age, were the first distinctive elements of systems on ships, then building new systems in sugthen characterised the Italian family-centred capitalwhat over the years has become the entrepreneurialar factories belonging to Eridania, through to working ism of the economic boom after the Second World War. vocation of the Tozzi family. In their attempt to satisfy with major companies such as Eni, Enel and Snam ProThe scene of events is the town of Casola Valsenio the energy needs of that community of people eager to getti. Over time they became an industry leader in plant which, along with Brisighella, makes up the mountainescape from a typically medieval darkness, using the engineering and electrical panel boards. ous part of the Province of Ravenna and the Romagna waters of the Senio river, they were completely unaApennines. It was here that Domenico Tozzi, grandware that they were intuitively laying the foundations father of Franco (current Chairman of the Group), as for the formation of that DNA that makes the green early as 1911, before the outbreak of the Great War, as economy the core business of the current Group based an aside to his work as a bricklayer, put forward the in Mezzano . (Franco Tozzi, Qualcosa abbiamo fatto, Published by first concrete hypotheses for providing electricity to Itaca, 2014, Fabio Cavallari) A present that comes from afar 10 TGBS2019 From the '50s to the end of the century The new millennium In the 1950s the Tozzi brothers founded the company The beginning of the 2000's saw the birth of Tozzi Fratelli Tozzi, which in 1982 became Tozzi Sud and esHolding, the family’s financial company, which today tablished itself on the market as an industry leader in is responsible for a plethora of companies in Italy and plant engineering and electrical panel boards. By the abroad, in the industrial services and renewable ener90s Franco and his son Andrea (respectively the Chairgy sectors. At the end of 2015 the founding brothers man and CEO of the Group today) had started the develand their respective children continued along differopment of the first hydroelectric plants, after the libent paths, following different vocations and giving rise eralisation of the energy market in Italy. This vocation to two independent industrial entities. TRE built on its for renewables has continued for 30 years, through the experience in renewable energies and, with its distinct establishment of TRE S.p.A. Tozzi Renewable Energy, brand of expertise, became Tozzi Green. the green heart of the group. Tozzi Green develops, builds and operates plants for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources (RES), both in Italy and abroad and is the only company that integrates the entire horizontal development > EPC > O&M chain. A present that comes from afar 11 TGBS2019 2.1 Tozzi Green is a company specialising in solutions, services and projects for the development of plants and the generation of power from The Group today renewable sources. Innovative ideas and forward-looking solutions are its key characteristics. Active in Italy and abroad, it integrates the entire horizontal 2.1.1 DEVELOPMENT > EPC > O&M chain for all renewable energy source (RES) Activities plants: hydroelectric, maxi wind, photovoltaic and biogas. DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT OPERATION & MAINTENANCE (O&M) In addition to participating in international tendering AND CONSTRUCTION (EPC) The maintenance and operation of a plant are fundafor the construction of plants from renewable energy The EPC (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) mentally important aspects for ensuring optimal funcsources around the world, with a particular focus on activity is part of the DNA of Tozzi Green, which has detioning and maximum efficiency. Tozzi Green offers a Italy and the developing countries in Africa and Latin veloped the skills to build its own assets and to provide complete O&M service for medium and large renewable America, Tozzi Green has always identified areas of its partners and/or clients with engineering services, energy source plants, consisting of: interest where it has then built its own plants. In parprocurement of materials necessary for the execution routine maintenance; ticular, after identifying a project to be developed, it of the project and complete management of the site. special maintenance for refurbishment and prepares all the specialist studies and carries out the start up; design work needed in order to obtain authorisation to remote monitoring and operation; carry out the project and financing for it. full service maintenance. In addition, in countries where there is the possibility The service is provided by means of a specialist team of developing projects independently through bilaterthat supports the activities of running and maintainal negotiations for energy contracts, it follows all the ing plants located around the world and of monitoring preliminary stages before the start-up of new plant them in order to guarantee high levels of technical perconstructions through: formance and of availability of the plants. identification of areas with suitable physical characteristics, availability of natural resources and suitable access infrastructures; contacts and consensus management in local communities; procedures and authorisation processes of the relDEVELOPMENT EPC O&M evant administrative and monitoring authorities. A present that comes from afar 12 TGBS2019 One of the leading players in the world 2.1.2 in rural electrification and sustainable Markets served and positioning rural development, Tozzi Green A feature of Tozzi Green compared to its competitors, is the complete and transversal management of the enresponds to the need for electricity tire renewable energy supply chain. This is a distinctive in developing countries. element of the Group which, through its member companies, is able to offer its customers the convenience of dealing with a single, complete and credible partner, since it guarantees control over the entire process chain. ASSET MANAGEMENT CONSOLIDATED PRESENCE IN THE 4 TYPES OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES Through its Asset Management activity, Tozzi Green offers its clients a wide range of services for handling all the administrative, regulatory, tax and environmental requirements connected with running plants powered from renewable energy sources, the sale of the energy produced and related incentive schemes. The objective is to increase the profitability of the plants and the PHOTOVOLTAIC HYDROELECTRIC WIND BIOGAS value of the investment over time and to ensure compliance with current regulations. For over 15 years Tozzi Green The Group owns 2 Tozzi Green holds among its The Group is active in Italy has been carrying out the hydroelectric plants assets, 3 wind farms and in the biogas sector with development, construction in Madagascar. 19 small wind plants in an installation in the and management of The development of new Italy, and is engaged in municipality of San Giovanni large photovoltaic plants. plants in Italy, Madagascar development activities, in Persiceto (BO). Currently among the assets and Latin America is in the particularly in the southern owned are 3 photovoltaic pipeline. regions of Italy. plants located in Italy. ASSETS IN THE PORTFOLIO ASSETS IN THE PORTFOLIO ASSETS IN THE PORTFOLIO ASSETS IN THE PORTFOLIO 44.66 MW 19.4 MW 53.5 MW 1 MW A present that comes from afar 13 TGBS2019 One of the world’s leading players in the field of rural 2.1.3 electrification and sustainable rural development, ToIts local presence zzi Green is meeting the needs of developing countries for the supply of electrical power. The Group is carrying out a unique project of rural electrification in Peru In over 30 years of activity, Tozzi Green has built on aries, in Italy (photovoltaic, wind and biogas) and Madwhich aims to bring electricity to areas not connected its own account and on behalf of third parties a large agascar (hydroelectric). In Peru, the Group is engaged to the national grid through innovative distributed minumber of plants totalling about 700 MW of installed in implementing a rural electrification plan in partnercro-generation systems, called Solar Home Systems capacity, powered by renewable energy sources and ship with the national government. In Madagascar Tozzi (SHS), which make use of solar energy. distributed over a wide and diversified geographical Green is the largest player in the sector in the country area. Tozzi Green’s main site and the Group's headand directly and indirectly owns a portfolio of hydroquarters are located in Mezzano di Ravenna, in the arelectric plants with an installed capacity of about 164 ea where the company has its roots, while the foreign MW consisting of 6 plants, specifically, 2 operational offices are located in Lima in Peru and Antananarivo in (Maroansetra Project and Sahanivotry Project), 1 unMadagascar, i.e. in the two main countries in which the der construction (Mahitsy Project) and the remaining Group carries out its activities outside Italy. 3 under development (Tsinjoarivo Project, Talaviana Currently the Group holds assets, through its subsidiProject and Sahanivotry Down Project). 120.5 MW OWNED FACILITIES PERCENTAGE BREAK DOWN OF THE TOZZI GREEN % Installed GROUP’S INSTALLED POWER BY TYPE Technology Plants/Company ownership Country capacity OF RENEWABLE SOURCE Installed capacity Chahak 48.4% Iran 10 Italy & Madagascar Photovoltaic S. Alberto (Ravenna) 65% Italy 34.6 1% 44% Podere Cavallo 100% Italy 1.0 217,025 kits Anita (Augusta SR) 100% Italy 1.0 BIOGAS 39% Sahanivotry 65% Madagascar 17 Hydroelectric WIND POWER Solar Home System Maroantsetra 65% Madagascar 2.4 installed as at 31.01.2020 Butera (CL) 100% Italy 18 PHOTOVOLTAIC Peru Cerignola (FG) 100% Italy 18 Wind 616 MW Siculiana (AG) 100% Italy 16.5 Small Wind Turbines 100% Italy 1.0 16% Biogas San Giovanni 90% Italy 1.0 (S. Giovanni Persiceto) Capacity under RER Ergon Perù 90% Peru 217,025 SHS management 120.5 MW Total 217,025 SHS HYDROELECTRIC A present that comes from afar 14 TGBS2019 ITALY SOUTH AMERICA AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST OPERATIONAL PHOTOVOLTAIC OPERATIONAL HYDROELECTRIC OPERATIONAL WIND POWER 120.5 MW in operation POWER PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER HYDROELECTRIC WIND POWER UNDER CONSTRUCTION 28 MW under construction POWER UNDER DEVELOPMENT POWER UNDER CONSTRUCTION WIND POWER 63 authorised MW OPERATIONAL BIOGAS HYDROELECTRIC POWER UNDER UNDER DEVELOPMENT OFFSHORE WIND POWER 703,5 MW under development UNDER DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT A present that comes from afar 15 TGBS2019 2.1.4 Group organisation and structure The management of the industrial and commercial tems and management of compliance with health, The internal organisation and the organisation chart processes of the Tozzi Green Group is entrusted to safety and environmental regulations. reflect the complete horizontal integration of the EPC the parent company Tozzi Green S.p.A. which is fully In addition, the parent company directly carries out acchain (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) and controlled by Tozzi Holding S.r.l., in turn wholly owned tivities across the Group as a whole, such as: O&M (Operation & Maintenance) through the creation of by the Tozzi Family. The current structure of the Group Energy Management, unifying all three energy gen dedicated and closely related Business Units that reis the result of a rationalisation activity that has led in eration technologies with which the Tozzi Green port directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer. the last two years to the concentration of all activities Group operates; related to renewable energies under the control of ToOperation & Maintenance of renewable energy gen zzi Green S.p.A., separating them from other manufacerating plants both owned directly and those turing activities, which have remained under the direct owned by subsidiaries and third party customers. control of the holding company, with a view to providing clarity and transparency to investors and stakeholders In addition to providing intra-group services, Tozzi Green in general. S.p.a. operates, both directly and through its subsidiaries, in the activities of electricity generation from wind, The Group’s recent reorganisation process has led to hydroelectric, photovoltaic and biogas sources. the centralisation in Tozzi Green S.p.A. of intra-group services such as accounting, administration, finance, human resources, management of information sysA present that comes from afar 16 TGBS2019 90 90 100 100 100 100 100 100 49.4 39 90 99 100 65 51 100 Ofogh Fanavar Smart Solar Power Tozzi Tozzi Tozzi Green Daunia Solar S. Giovanni Geas Tecnoteam Lucera FV Alfonsine Cerignola plant of Bir El Ergon TRE Perù SIMTO Energy Sabz Solar Green Green Hydro Madagascar Cell Srl Biogas Srl Srl Srl Wind Srl Srl Wind Srl Haffay sa Perù sac sac Ltd Pars LLC Invest--1 Japan KK Maurice sarlu 100 99 99 65 Aftab Taban Tozzi Green Mahitsy Hydro Solarwind 2 Srl Goumes LLC Tinogasta sa sa 100 99 99 Tozzi Green Madagascar sa Khorshide Energy Kavir Drakhshane Kavir Kumesh LLC LLC 65 70 70 92 100 100 Solar Farm Idroliri Tozzi Green TG Srl Energie Hydelec Tsinjo Hydro Srl Srl International Rinnovabili Madagascar sau sarlu Development Srl 100 Jatropha Technology Farm Srl (JFT Italy) 100 ATG sau 1 100 100 60 49 99 JTF Madagascar TG Aromatics TG Logistique Sambava Epices FDM TANY sarl sarlu sarlu sarl sci A present that comes from afar 17 TGBS2019 2.2 Governance MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Franco Tozzi Chairman MATERIAL ISSUE: born in 1936 Andrea Tozzi Business integrity and ethics Chief Executive Officer born in 1969 MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: Propriety and honesty must be seen as the two essential guiding principles of a company if it wants to establish itself within an area and become accepted, Roberto Fagnocchi because only by keeping faith with these two princiDirector ples is it possible to gain the loyalty of customers and born in 1969 business partners. Reliability is a guarantee with no time limit. These are principles that apply to the Group and to the family that leads it and that are nurtured and passed on to its emThe Tozzi Green Group has a system of rules and orTozzi Green S.p.A. is administered by a Board of Diployees. ganisational structures that guarantee correct and rectors, which in turn has appointed a Chairman and efficient corporate governance and protection of the a Chief Executive Officer. The accounts are audited by rights and interests of shareholders, of investors who an independent firm of auditors. The Company has also have put faith in the Company and stakeholders as a appointed a Board of Internal Auditors. The Board of whole. Directors, whose powers are established by the Shareholders' Meeting, is vested with the broadest of powers for the ordinary and extraordinary management of A present that comes from afar 18 TGBS2019 WHAT WE HAVE COMMITMENTS 2.2.1 DONE FOR THE FUTURE The model 231/2001 231/2001 Organisation, Management and Control Model introduced in 2013 Since 2013, Tozzi Green has adopted an Organisation, The Model is based on and integrated with a structured Control & Risk Self Assessment Management and Control Model as set out in Italian and organic internal control system, consisting of proactivities Legislative Decree No 231 of 8 June 2001, as amended, tocols and rules, tools for defining responsibilities, as in order to guarantee shared standards of ethical conwell as mechanisms and tools for monitoring company Subsequent updating Structured Audit plan duct and to seek to comply with the principles of legitprocesses, which existed before the Model itself was of the 231/2001 Organisation, Management and Control Model across the imacy, propriety and transparency in carrying out comissued. completed in 2019 activities and pany activities. Periodically, risk assessment analyses companies are carried out with the aim of identifying the activities The principles that inspire the architecture of Tozzi Code of Ethics extended of the Group that expose the companies, among others, to crimes Green's internal control system, with particular referto all Group companies of corruption (active and passive, public and private), ence to the sensitive activities outlined by the Model, Training plan Participation in the Business Integrity on 231/2001 offences resulting from violations of health and safety are: Forum promoted by Transparency issues and in the workplace and environmental offences. clear identification of the roles, duties and responInternational Italia and subscription to sustainability The 231 Model is reviewed periodically to take into acsibilities of the persons participating in the carrying the SME Charter of Ethical Principles count changes in the business model, significant orout of the company's activities (internal or external Establishment of a “whistleblowing” ganisational changes and new regulations. As a result to the organisation); system as part of the Group's internal it was reviewed and updated for the first time during segregation of the duties of those who actually carcontrol activities 2016 and subsequently, by a resolution of 3 April 2019, ry out an activity, those who monitor it, those who Signing up to the UN Global Compact the Board of Directors approved the latest adjustment authorise it and those who report it (where applicato the new structure put in place by the Group following ble); the reorganisation process that was started in 2018. the ability to check and document operations exthe Company, without exception, with all the authorpost through appropriate formal procedures; ity needed to implement and achieve the corporate The Model provides for the rules of operation of the identification of preventive controls and checks purposes. governing bodies in order to prevent corporate offencex-post, manual and automatic. During 2019, the Board of Directors, whose memes, the rules of conduct of personnel and associates of bers had an average age of 58 years, met 17 times various kinds and the related training and disseminaBased on the risk self-assessment activity, which (15 times in 2018). tion initiatives, the system of sanctions that governs preceded the adaptation of the most recent model, The current Board of Directors was appointed by the the way the corporate bodies operate, the Code of EthTozzi Green identified the aspects to be improved and Shareholders' Meeting of 2 January 2020 and will reics, the Supervisory Body, corporate controls and the defined the action plans to achieve the objectives set main in office until the approval of the financial stateintegrated assessment and management of the risks out in the Model. ments for the year ending 31 December 2022. of committing a crime. A present that comes from afar 19 TGBS2019 2.2.2 Tozzi Green adopts a Code of Ethics that sets out exTozzi Green adheres to the Business Integrity Forum plicitly the values to which all directors, employees and promoted by Transparency International Italia and has The Code of Ethics and values associates of the Company itself and of all its subsidadopted the Charter of Ethical Principles in its busiiaries must adapt their behaviour, sharing structures, ness practices to help create a climate of transparenOur Code of Ethics provides a guide to the conduct exroles and rules and assuming personal responsibility cy, integrity and trust, for activities carried out inside pected of all, orientated toward the essential values of ininside and outside the Company for any violations of and outside its organisation. tegrity, fairness and transparency. This compass provides them, even though they may not result in any liability bearings for our conduct and that of all the various players 1. COMMITMENT to third parties. that interact with our company and constitutes the basis Compliance with current laws and the principles of necessary for guaranteeing the excellence of service for all The principles and rules of conduct and behaviour set integrity, transparency and anti-corruption is the our stakeholders. out in the Code are also binding for persons acting first pillar on which a responsible business is based. In truth, the way the ethics are expressed in the code in the name and on behalf of each Tozzi Green Group is nothing more than the graphic representation of a moPublicly disseminating ethical principles reinforces Company on the basis of a mandate or other contracdus operandi, of a vision of the world and of the business their value and their ability to have an impact beyond tual relationship, external consultants, suppliers, cusitself. We do not operate ethically by relying on an extensive their mere fulfilment. tomers, agents, contractors and other partners also written document; rather, the cornerstone of our shared protocol could be viewed as the summation of the way we being deemed to be included in this definition. 2. INTEGRITY perceive our work. It is not a necessary evil to be complied To this end, the Code is made available on the website Moral integrity, honesty and rectitude in daily business with, but a reflection of what we are. www.tozzigreen.com, and can be consulted by all those practices are principles that inspire and guide us in our with whom Group Companies have business relations, daily work activities. Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green both in Italy and abroad. 3. TRANSPARENCY Transparency, i.e. the openness of the organisation and the communication of data and information relevant to the community, is a basic principle. We believe that obscurity and lack of clarity provide fertile ground for improper practices and behaviour, which should in no way be encouraged. 4. ZERO TOLERANCE OF CORRUPTION We recognise in corruption, in all its forms, an evil capable of causing serious and negative effects of a soA present that comes from afar 20 TGBS2019 cial, reputational, economic and civil nature, capable THE TOZZI GREEN MAP OF VALUES of impoverishing the country and damaging the companies operating within it. incoming outgoing Therefore, in addition to unlawful conduct, we reject all conduct that in any way is not in line with the princiCuriosity and the capacity to think outside the box, Ability to create original solutions, ples of propriety and honesty, even if of minor financial INNOVATION optimising and streamlining through research and development, technical the organisation and processes. skills, experience and cutting edge technology. significance, such as small payments, gifts or improper advantages given in order to expedite processes or The ability always to get involved Consulting services and integrated obtain favours. DYNAMISM in constantly differing projects, with an open and customised solutions that meet the specific cooperative spirit. needs of clients, partners and investors. 5. CONFLICT OF INTEREST People who work together with enthusiasm, We are determined and careful to avoid conflicts of inExperts who work with precision and care to PASSION determination and the constant desire to achieve ensure reliability, efficiency and effectiveness. terest and, if they do arise, we will manage them with a new goals and increasingly ambitious objectives. sense of responsibility and transparency. A stable, healthy company with an effective A team of dedicated and determined expert and well-established business model. A 6. LOYALTY SOLIDITY professionals who work with precision and care history built on tangible results, precision and to ensure reliability, efficiency and effectiveness. Loyalty to colleagues, as well as to business partners, professionalism. competitors and institutions, is expressed in correct Integrity and commitment to the company Loyalty, integrity and transparency. Care for the behaviour that respects the principles of fair compeETHICS as a whole: teams, colleagues, clients, suppliers, environment, land and people. Commitment to partners and investors. the well-being of future generations. tition. 7. RESPONSIBILITY We promote maximum responsibility in the execution The Whistleblowing of various kinds, business Any reports should be sent System partners and suppliers in to the Supervisory Body at of all activities that may affect the community and soDuring 2018 Tozzi Green set order to report situations, the email address ciety at large. All this, of course, with full respect for up a whistleblowing system, requests or initiatives specified on the web-site human rights, safety and the environment. as part of its internal that do not comply with www.tozzi green.com/it/ control activities with the the principles laid down etica-dimpresa/ 8. CULTURE OF LEGALITY aim of preventing offences. in the Code of Ethics and There were no such reports A working climate that respects applied ethical princiThis system can be used the Charter of the Ethical during 2018 and 2019. ples reinforces employees' recognition of and adherby employees, associates Principles. ence to the company's values. A present that comes from afar 21 TGBS2019 2.3 Tozzi Green's business activities and development projects have Tozzi Green's approach a direct or indirect impact to sustainability on 13 of the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2.3.1 The guiding principles: UN Global Compact In 2019 Tozzi Green officially signed the UN Global ComTozzi Green is firmly committed in all the 4 areas highpact and committed itself to incorporating the princilighted, as can also be seen from the process of deples that inspire the initiative into its strategy, culture fining its material issues which was addressed during and business operations and to embracing the objec2019 and which is reported in the following pages. tive of promoting corporate social responsibility. The UN Global Compact is a voluntary initiative of the United Nations, created with the aim of guiding all companies worldwide towards the adoption of sustainable policies in the 4 main areas of activity (human rights, labour, environmental sustainability and the fight against corruption). The initiative provides for the application of 10 principles aimed at promoting the values of sustainability in the long term through actions, policies, business practices, and responsible social and civil behaviour, which also take into account future generations. A present that comes from afar 22 TGBS2019 The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENTAL ANTICORRUPTION SUSTAINABILITY 1 Support and respect 3 Uphold the freedom 7 Support a precautionary 10 Work against universally recognised human of association of workers approach towards corruption in all its forms, rights in the context of a and recognise the right environmental challenges. including extortion and bribery. business’s respective sphere to collective bargaining. of influence. 8 Undertake initiatives that 4 Support the elimination promote greater environmental 2 Make sure the business is of all forms of forced and responsibility. not, even indirectly, complicit compulsory labour. in human rights abuses. 9 Encourage the development 5 Support the effective and diffusion of environmentally elimination of child labour. friendly technologies. 6 Support the elimination of all forms of discrimination in employment and occupation. A present that comes from afar 23 TGBS2019 2.3.2 Adherence to the Sustainable Development Objectives On September 25, 2015 the United Nations approved theGlobal Agenda for Sustainable Development (Agenda 2030) and the related 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved by 2030. The implementation of the Agenda requires a concerted involvement by all the players within the community: companies, public sector, society at large, philanthropic institutions, universities, research centres, and information and cultural bodies. In this regard, during the initial work for the preparation of this 2019 Sustainability Report, the SDGs and related targets on which Tozzi Green's business activities have the greatest impact were identified. Chapter Title 24 TGBS2019 The Tozzi Green Group contributes to 13 of the Making clean sources Maize crops in of energy available Madagascar, the product 17 SDGs proposed by the UN through its core to those who do not of which is reserved business in the renewables sector and through yet have access to it, mainly for the internal as an opportunity for market. its vocation to bring about opportunities for the emancipation from development and socio-economic growth of the extreme poverty (Madagascar and Peru). people living in the areas where it operates. The rural electrification Construction of a Women's empowerment Implementation projects that bring school in Madagascar through the support of the of drinking water electricity to local medical and the supply of national women's rugby distribution systems for facilities. Construction teaching materials for team in Madagascar and the rural community in of Satrokala Hospital in environmental education through training in the use of Madagascar Madagascar. in Italy, Peru and domestic energy in Peru. Madagascar. Producing and Tozzi Green's core activities Building infrastructure in distributing energy from provide the conditions areas without it and creating renewable sources and for economic growth in favourable conditions making it accessible to the areas that benefit for the development of new entire sections of the from the energy produced economic activities population who are still and the development of and for the strengthening without it is part of the local agriculture. These of existing ones that are company's mission. conditions also favour fragile. qualitatively better jobs. Activities in Madagascar The company's Reduction of emissions Farming practices and Peru aimed at commitment to the of CO2 and experimentation for the conservation of narrowing the poverty development of with and cultivation of new heavily degraded land, gap compared renewable energy drought-resistant species together with the creation to developed countries. is accompanied by suitable for reforestation of new ecosystems initiatives aimed at also and enrichment of arid to protect, restore applying the principles and uncultivated soils. and promote the of sustainability to Environmental education sustainable use agricultural production initiatives for young people of the Earth's ecosystem. and the synergies that and children are also part of can be created between this policy. industry and agriculture. Chapter Title 25 TGBS2019 The relationship based on listening, This relationship also represents on continuous dialogue a valuable source of information, and on the active involvement hints and ideas for understanding of stakeholders is first and foremost the needs of the local areas and a form of responsibility. responding to them in an effective and innovative way, for promoting local development, preventing any critical issues and, ultimately, 2.3.3 promoting our business Stakeholder engagement in a sustainable form. In developing its activities and in relation to its various Tozzi Green is an organised family business and repTozzi Green's financial results and the satisfaction of areas of expertise, the Group's management maintains resents a synthesis of the positive characteristics exthe people who work there are not alternatives, but two relations with the main categories of stakeholders on pressed by the two concepts. Being a family allows aspects that are inextricably linked to each other. an ongoing basis, through channels structured in variyou to let your employees enjoy an environment that ous ways. Moreover, its presence in different countries is enriched with opportunities for daily interaction and External stakeholders who contribute to the value and continents leads Tozzi Green to interface with respect for traditions, for example at Christmas or on chain, such as suppliers and business partners, are different stakeholders and consequently to adapt its special anniversaries. Being organised allows it to first of all asked to adhere to the values and commitcommunications and reports in order to respond better grow and develop its business thanks to the specific ments set out in the Code of Ethics and in its 231/01 to the needs of different areas. skills of its managers and workers. Model. The Group’s normal activities in many cases presuppose the establishment of long-term relationships Tozzi Green's Code of Ethics requires that relations Tozzi Green is constantly evolving, changing its organwith customers and suppliers with whom there is an with all stakeholders be based on clear and transparisational structure in accordance with its strategic exchange of know-how that promotes effective probent communication, in a climate of fair competition, needs, and, above all, it is constantly investing in trainlem-solving. The relationship with this type of stakerespecting the legitimate interests of each and based ing. Training involves all aspects of the development of holder is also structured through the fulfillment of conon the company's core values. human resources and of the company, in terms of both tractual obligations and periodic checks on orders that technical skills and managerial and personal skills. involve meetings and collaboration in problem-solving. A present that comes from afar 26 TGBS2019 INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS VALUE CHAIN STAKEHOLDERS OTHER EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS The Group's internationalisation strategy has preresentatives in the local areas through continuous and and dialogue. The potential impacts on the local areas sented an opportunity for a more intense dialogue transparent dialogue is a central and strategic issue. and the way the activities are managed, are thought with the financial community with which the compaEspecially in developing countries, interaction with lothrough, not only keeping in mind the purely financial ny has shared its development plans. The preliminary cal and central institutions is often aimed at finding the impacts but including in the processes themselves, as investigations that precede the granting of loans are best solutions to basic community problems, such as far as possible, the dynamics relating to the anthropoan opportunity to improve the process of formulating the availability of electricity. logical character of the different peoples. policies and procedures that will enable Tozzi Green The relationships that Tozzi Green establishes in the to apply on international financial markets and at the places where it carries out its business is not limited The activities of involvement in formalised meetings same time to refine its sustainability policies. to the formal agreement, and the right and proper recover all phases of the project, from design to execulationship with the Institutions but also involves, in the tion of the works, for which, where possible, local conAs a producer of electricity from renewable sources, simplest ways possible, the local populations. The retractors are preferred. the Group operates in a market that is strongly regulatlationship with the community becomes an added valed by national, European and non-European standards ue, a way to ensure that the encountering of different and requires constant monitoring of current legislation cultures never becomes an obstacle, but rather a tool and its evolution. In this context, maintaining and defor cross-fertilisation and a basis for growth. Each proveloping relations with the institutions and their repject is always preceded by an activity of involvement A present that comes from afar 27 TGBS2019 STAKEHOLDER MAPPING Employees Peru Employees Italy Employees Madagascar Seasonal workers Subcontractors EMPLOYEES Tozzi Family AND ASSOCIATES National governments Service providers (engineering and specialist Landowners and Ministries responsible consulting) SHAREHOLDERS INTERNAL for development and VALUE CHAIN energy issues STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS EIA stakeholders Guarantor and Providers of capital supervisory bodies (banks, private equity funds, development banks, international VENDORS PUBLIC financial institutions) ADMINISTRATION Suppliers of materials Local governments Revenue Agency Clients for the Local construction of plants OTHER EXTERNAL communities Local communities CLIENTS STAKEHOLDERS in Peru in Madagascar Clients for O&M services BUSINESS Local communities and Asset Management PARTNERS in Italy Local Distributors COMMUNITIES Non-profit associations Purchasers of electricity Intermediaries, (direct grid operators energy brokers, agents, Universities, traders) Business partners lobbyists Research Centres on individual projects A present that comes from afar 28 TGBS2019 2.3.4 Material issues It was in 2019 that Tozzi Green, for the first time, carand their relevance to stakeholders emerged from a ried out a materiality analysis for the preparation of combination of subjective assessments, expressed by the Sustainability Report drawn up in accordance senior management during dedicated interviews, and with the GRI Standards. It was felt that the process of of external analyses from sector-specific and generattributing materiality provided an important opporal sources. The interviews with managers, who on an tunity for management to be involved in an analytical almost daily basis are in direct contact with many of reflection on these matters, so that the concept of the stakeholders included in the mapping, due to their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) could be placed roles in the company and because they are representat the heart of the company’s strategies. The issues atives of the local community concerned, identified were identified as a result of an analysis of the genthe main expectations and positions of the stakeholderal context and the one in which the Group operates, ers that the Group has to deal with in its relationship with the local spokespersons. For further information on the stages involved in determining the material issues, please refer to the Note on Methodology at the end of the document. A present that comes from afar 29 TGBS2019 TOZZI GREEN Development of local MATERIALITY MATRIX areas and support of populations Creation of sustainable value over time Combating climate change and protecting Research and innovation biodiversity Business integrity and ethics Respect and Quality employment protection and engagement of human rights of human capital Health and safety relevance to Stakeholders relevance to the Company A present that comes from afar 30 TGBS2019 The table below, which correlates the Tozzi Green CORRELATION TABLE Group's sustainability issues, the SDGs and the princiOF THE TOZZI GREEN GROUP'S SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES, ples of the UN Global Compact, shows the chapters of THE SDGS AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES the document in which the individual issues are examined in depth from the point of view of their importance to the Group, the policies implemented to manage them and the results obtained. MATERIAL ISSUES CHAPTER SDG'S UN GLOBAL COMPACT paragraph 2.2 Business integrity and ethics art. 10 Governance Creation of sustainable value paragraph 2.4 over time The creation of a value chapter 4 Development of local areas We share well-being and support of populations and development with communities Quality employment paragraph 2.5 art. 3 / 4 / 5 / 6 / 7 and human capital engagement Our team Combating climate change paragraph 3.4 art. 7 / 8 / 9 and protection of biodiversity Environmental impacts paragraph 3.1 Research and innovation Research and innovation paragraph 2.6 Health and safety Health and safety chapter 4 Respect and protection of human rights We share well-being art. 1 / 2 and development with communities A present that comes from afar 31 TGBS2019 2.4 In the coming years Tozzi Green intends to grow significantly in international markets, starting from the places where it has already been present for some The creation time, to expand its sphere of activity into countries that are opening up to the of value introduction of renewable energy as an opportunity for sustainable development. Projects under 147.3 mln Value of production construction 28 MW 44.5 mln Projects at the authorisation phase or already authorised and in the 57 mln MATERIAL ISSUE: implementation phase 63 MW Creation of sustainable value over time Added value produced and distributed EBITDA +141 % MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: 222 mln $ Tozzi Green has decided to place the combination of sustainable development, environmental protection Plan for developing and technological innovation at the heart of the creNet profit activites 703.5 MW ation of shared value. The legitimate expectation of Green Bond issue investors to obtain a return is accompanied by a vision capable of involving and satisfying the needs of stakeholders, communities and the planet as a whole. WHAT WE ACHIEVED FUTURE COMMITMENTS IN 2019 A present that comes from afar 32 TGBS2019 2.4.1 “Sustainable energy for all is the motto that guides the Group, driven The development strategy by its historical propensity for innovation and the discovery of new markets. The Group's presence in Madagascar and Peru, where of Tozzi Green in other international markets such as as a friendly tool to be integrated into and support it has invested resources and carried out major works South America and Africa where there are countries their economic and social growth. that have then stimulated local development and in with numerous new investment opportunities. some cases genuine processes of civil and cultural The business models already developed, are exactly the The national and international development strategy is emancipation, has enabled the entire management kind of experience necessary for addressing new vendivided into four main lines of action, which converge team to acquire a wealth of experience of undoubted tures. For each of them, in addition to complying with on a medium and long-term target of approximately value. It is precisely the ability to understand, to crethe reference legislation, it is important to apply the 700 MW of installed capacity at power plants producing ate relationships, to set out shared pathways, that lays blueprints that have allowed the Malagasy and Peruvian energy from renewable sources. extraordinary foundations for the further expansion communities to perceive the presence of Tozzi Green A present that comes from afar 33 TGBS2019 34 TGBS2019 During 2019, as part of the RENOVARround 3 proELÉCTRICO SOCIEDADAD ANÓNIMA for the sale of the During 2018, as part of an invitation to tender issued by gramme managed by the Argentine Ministry of Enerelectricity produced. the Tunisian Ministry of Energy and in connection with gy and with reference to a 10MW photovoltaic plant a 10MW photovoltaic plant located in the province of located in the province of Catamarca, Tozzi Green The signing of the contract and the completion of the Sidi Bouzid, Tozzi Green signed a 20-year contract with was awarded a 20-year contract with the COMproject are planned for the period 2020-2021. the Société Tunisienne de l'Electricité et du Gaz for the PAÑÍA ADMINISTRADORA DEL MERCADO MAYORISTA sale of the electricity produced. The project is expected to be completed during the year 2020. PLANTS UNDER PLANTS AUTHORISED PLANTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION 28 MW FOR CONSTRUCTION 63 MW DEVELOPMENT 703,5 MW hydroelectric wind photovoltaic 297 MW 43 MW South Africa Peru Italy Madagascar Tunisia Madagascar Italy 190 24 58 15 10 28 MW photovoltaic hydroelectric 126,5 MW 10 MW Madagascar 107,9 Italy 9 Peru 9,6 Argentina wind 10 MW 280 MW Tunisia South Africa Italy 140 140 A present that comes from afar 35 TGBS2019 2.4.2 Tozzi Green intends to collect and invest resources to be allocated Investments to the development, construction and management, also at an international level, of major projects for generating energy from renewable sources and for sustainable and long term rural electrification and development. During the two-year period 2018-2019 Tozzi Green through its subsidiaries Ergon Peru and Tre Perù The Group's development programmes are financed was involved in the construction of plants in Italy and Sac, Tozzi Green is implementing the rural electhrough methods of project financing involving both loabroad: trification plan sponsored by the Peruvian govcal commercial banks and large supranational financial ernment in areas not connected to the electricity institutions, especially in developing countries. through its investee company Solarwind 2 Srl it grid, throughout the country. The installation procompleted the construction of 2 wind farms one gramme for photovoltaic devices was completed by In July 2019 Tozzi Green, through its subsidiary Ergon with a total capacity of 18 MW in the Municipality of the first quarter of 2020. Peru, concluded its first Green Bond issue by the priButera (CL), which became operational in May 2018, vate placement of a fixed-interest bond worth $222 and the other with a total capacity of approximately Total investments made by Tozzi Green during the million. The proceeds from the issue are intended to 16.5 MW in the Municipality of Siculiana (AG), which two-year period 2018-2019 amounted to 189.4 million, finance the rural electrification project in Peru and will became operational in December 2018; of which 40.9 million went to the hydroelectric sector be used partly to extinguish existing project financing for the plants being built in Madagascar; 41.5 million and partly to offset the financing of the remaining prothrough its investee company Mahitsy Hydro, Tozzi to wind farms whose construction was completed in ject costs. Green is building a 28 MW hydroelectric plant in Ma2018 in Italy and 107 million to the rural electrification hitsy, in the Analamanga region of the Central Highproject in Peru. lands of Madagascar. The works are scheduled for completion by the end of 2020; A present that comes from afar 36 TGBS2019 The offering was four times over-subscribed and the PERCENTAGE OF INVESTMENTS IN THE TWO-YEAR PERIOD 2018-19 investors who participated in the bidding were among BY TYPE OF INSTALLATIONS the largest financial institutions worldwide. S&P assigned the bond issue a BBB rating (with a positive Outlook), giving the bonds an E1 rating, the highest value of the green rating tool (Green Evaluation). During the year, other refinancing operations for ex22% isting projects were completed in order to optimise HYDROELECTRIC financial leverage and pre-existing commercial terms and conditions. The Green Bonds are relatively new financial Europeans , according to which from 2021 there will 20% instruments that are issued be a need for an additional WIND POWER for projects with aspects EUR 177 billion per year to relating to environmental achieve the climate and sustainability such as clean energy objectives identified energy production, energy efficiency etc. Recently the European Commission for 2030, for which these new financing and investment mechanisms 56% RURAL ELECTRIFICATION emphasized the potential could play a key role. and functioning of the Green Bond market by presenting a package of The first Green Bond issued by Tozzi Green is in line measures entitled with the strategy of diversifying our financial structure toClean energy for all wards solutions offered by international capital markets. The transaction confirms the confidence of the financial markets in our innovative projects and our internationally sustainable strategy. Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green A present that comes from afar 37 TGBS2019 2.4.3 Tozzi Green is committed to generating value over time and not only The added value produced for the legitimate profit expectations of its investors, but also and distributed to support the environmental and social investments needed. From a sustainability perspective this translates into generating and distributing added value for the benefit of the main categories of stakeholders and the community at large, in support of long-term objectives. By calculating the added value generated during the PERCENTAGE BREAKDOWN year, Tozzi Green intends to show the Group's ability to REVENUES AND OTHER PROCEEDS create value to the benefit of the overall geographical and social context in which it carries out its activities. The value added, calculated on the basis of the consolidated and reclassified Income Statement, represents the wealth produced for the stakeholders most directly 8% CORPORATE SERVICES interested in the company's activities. During 2019, the Group generated revenues and other proceeds of 147.3 million euros, 28% from renewable 28% energy production, 64% from rural electrification acRENEWABLE ENERGY tivities in Peru and 8% from corporate services including Energy Management and agricultural activities in Madagascar. Having incurred production costs of Euro 84.8 million, Tozzi Green produced in 2019 a global net added value of 44.5 million after depreciation of 14.2 million. 64% RURAL ELECTRIFICATION Peru A present that comes from afar 38 TGBS2019 This is even more significant By calculating the distribution of the added value creCentral Public Administrations received income ated, it is possible to quantify how the wealth produced taxes of 7.96 million, equal to 18% of the added value in some of the countries where was distributed among the stakeholders who benefit produced. the Group operates because of the from it in various ways. Short, medium and long term loan capital repayments, charges and interest paid totalled 12.2 million impact that the value created can Employees received 9.5 million euros (up 38% comeuros, corresponding to 27% of the added value. have on the socio-economic system pared to 2018), which includes gross wages and In the communities where the activities take place, salaries, social security contributions, severance local taxes and duties paid represented 4% of the as a multiplier of development. indemnities and pensions and represents 21% of added value. total added value. THE CREATION OF ADDED VALUE (GRI 201-1) THE DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 VALUE OF PRODUCTION 147,299,488 127,204,430 STAFF REMUNERATION 9,489,578 6,892,640 Revenues from sales and services 144,763,525 124,051,382 Staff and related costs 9,223,751 6,697,025 Other revenues and proceeds 2,535,963 3,153,048 Employees’ severance indemnity (TFR) and pensions 265,826 195,615 COSTS OF PRODUCTION 84,775,334 76,125,641 REMUNERATION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 7,961,730 8,373,226 Raw materials, consumables and goods 62,281,000 54,885,018 Taxes on income 7,961,730 8,373,226 Services 14,590,675 16,092,745 REMUNERATION OF LOAN CAPITAL 12,165,684 5,860,295 Leases and rentals 551,880 3,286,217 Shortand long-term capital charges 12,165,684 5,860,295 Provisions and depreciation 5,853,911 1,416,119 REMUNERATION OF RISK CAPITAL 32,186,808 2,368,821 Other operating expenses 1,497,868 445,542 Distributed profits 32,186,808 2,368,821 ADDED VALUE FOR ORDINARY OPERATIONS 62,524,155 51,078,789 COMPANY REMUNERATION* -19,180,055 15,035,327 Extraordinary income components (-) -3,865,507 Undistributed profits -19,180,055 15,035,327 TOTAL GROSS ADDED VALUE 58,658,647 51,078,789 TRANSFER TO THE COMMUNITY 1,873,143 1,411,791 Depreciation 14,161,759 11,136,689 Local taxes and duties 1,873,143 1,411,791 TOTAL NET ADDED VALUE 44,496,888 39,942,100 TOTAL NET ADDED VALUE 44,496,888 39,942,100 A present that comes from afar 39 TGBS2019 2.4.4 Tozzi Green considers its suppliers and subcontractors Suppliers Sustainability Partners strategic business partners with whom to establish stable and transparent long-term relationships. The Group, aware of the important role that its supply The Group's supply chain includes suppliers for the purA very important category for the business in which chain plays in the quality and sustainability of the prochase of: Tozzi Green operates is subcontractors, third party jects carried out, has adopted a selection and qualicompanies to which, where expressly authorised by the fication procedure that applies to all suppliers that GOODS AND MATERIALS contract manager, the Group subcontracts the supply influence the production cycle of Tozzi Green in terms Group companies purchase plant comof parts of turnkey plants such as wind turbines or othof impact on the quality of the product and service proponents such as turbines, generators, er equipment fed from renewable sources. Other ocvided, as well as compliance with legal requirements pipelines, sluice gates, panels, invertcasions, when subcontracting services are called for, regarding health, safety, the environment and adminers, etc. from specialist suppliers. may be, for example, civil works for the infrastructure istrative responsibility. During the last two years a significant percentage of supporting the installations (work sites, access roads, the purchases of goods have related to the Solar Home storage, foundations, connections, etc.) and some of Systems kits used in the rural electrification project in the maintenance activities of the installations. Peru. In order to manage relations with subcontractors Tozzi Green has adopted a specific policy that is part of the SERVICES wider QHSE policy, aimed at ensuring the manageThey mainly relate to engineering and ment of the requirements of Quality, Health and Safedesign consultancy, maintenance and ty, the Environment and Administrative Responsibility professional technical advice of a lein accordance with applicable laws and international gal and administrative nature. standards ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001. A present that comes from afar 40 TGBS2019 With this in mind, it has chosen to select only contracWhenever possible and where there are local suppliDuring 2019 Tozzi Green incurred costs to support its tors and subcontractors who undertake to comply with ers and contractors meeting the requirements, Tozinvestments in various ways totalling 82.3 million. the Group's Code of Ethics and operate in accordance zi Green selects suppliers that are based in the local Of this: with strict standards on the issues specified in Tozzi areas in which it operates and in which the plants are 31% was spent on investments in Peruvian suppliers Green’s 231/01 model and in compliance with specific located. who the Group uses for the transport, installation and quality, hygiene, occupational safety and environmenmaintenance of photovoltaic devices in homes; tal protection requirements. During 2019, the Tozzi Green Group made use of the 31% was spent on suppliers in Madagascar, where The procedure provides for the possibility of Tozzi work of employees of subcontracted companies, for a the Group is building a hydroelectric power plant and Green carrying out inspections by its properly qualitotal of 3,758,433 hours, 97% of which was in the enwhere it has agricultural activities; fied QHSE Service personnel to verify that the requireergy sector and particularly in Madagascar, for local 38% was spent in the rest of the world on the supply ments are being met and that the rules are being comhydroelectric development projects. of materials and plant components. plied with. These hours equate to 2,357 jobs if we apply a divisor of 1,550, which is an estimate of the net hours worked annually by a full-time worker in the private sector in 2018. SUBDIVISION OF SUPPLIES SUBDIVISION OF SUPPLIES 7% FOR INVESTMENTS IN 2019 IN 2019 BY GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE FOR INVESTMENTS CONSTRUCTION 31% INSTALLATION SERVICES 38% 31% Rest Peru 23% of the world ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS 39% AND WORKS SHS KITS 31% Madagascar A present that comes from afar 41 TGBS2019 2.5 Our team Launch of MBO project Management By Objectives 81 % 420 Permanent work contracts Employees +18 % Employees at the end of 2019 MATERIAL ISSUE: 24.5 % 51 % Staff holding 87 % Quality employment and human capital engagement Women in the workforce Degrees in Italy of the Group Group personnel 35 % MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: The Company is a complex organism that depends on under 50 years of age its human resources, their work and their commitment. One of the key factors in the success of the business Women in the workforce is the right people who enable it to be competitive. The lifeblood of the company is found in a team of motivated personnel who feel that the Company is theirs in Italy 163 % Ratio of incoming to 4,250 and who, for the common good, contribute their ideas outgoing to solving critical problems every day. personnel Training hours provided +89 % Training hours provided WHAT WE ACHIEVED IN 2019 A present that comes from afar 42 TGBS2019 As at 31 December 2019, the Tozzi Green Group had a total staff PERCENTAGE BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY of 420 persons (+19% compared to 2018), primarily divided between 3 countries that accounted for 99% of the total: 22% of the staff in Italy, 0.7% 19% in Peru, 58% in Madagascar. Rest of the world 22.2% Italy Most of the people who work in the companies have much more talent, intelligence, skills and creativity than is required by the activity they carry out or than would permit them to do it. At the basis of the Tozzi Green Group's personnel management lies the belief that motivated and profesThe Group's Code of Ethics provides for respect for the fundamental rights of individuals, protecting their phys57.6% 19.5% Peru sionally excellent human resources are an essential ical and moral integrity and guaranteeing equal opportuMadagascar strategic lever for competing and establishing itself in nities for all. Likewise, it rejects all forms of discrimination its business. To this end, the Companies of the Group based on age, sex, sexual orientation, health status, race, promote working conditions and environments that nationality, cultural background, political opinions and refavour proactivity, creativity, active participation, the ligious beliefs.Tozzi Green addresses the heterogeneity PERCENTAGE BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES ability to work in a team and the inclination to assume of local regulations for the protection of personnel, conBY SECTOR OF ACTIVITY responsibility in the search for Organisational Wellforming to the principles contained in its Code of Ethics, ness 2 in the definition of a psycho-physical-organnational regulations and inspired by the social policy of 40% isational-relational environment such as to produce the International Labour Organization (ILO), which estabsatisfaction and well-being, if not happiness, in the lishes minimum international standards for working conpeople who work in and for the company throughout ditions and the fundamental rights of workers. AGRICULTURE its business process . Tozzi Green believes in change Madagascar management, i.e. a structured approach to change in individuals through a continuous process of creating the conditions for widespread innovation within the organisation, stimulating the creative contribution of the individuals who are part of it. 60% ENERGY 2 Organisational wellness. Benessere e capitale umano nella Nice Italy, Madagascar, Peru, Company Walter Passerini, Marco Rotondi Franco Angeli ed. 2011 Rest of the world A present that comes from afar 43 TGBS2019 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN Of the 242 employees (+22% compared OF PERSONNEL to 2018) operating in Madagascar 31% are engaged in the Energy sector IN 2019 IN 2018 and the remaining 69% in agriculture. 420 total 353 total 103 women 86 women 317 men 267 men ITALY MADAGASCAR IN 2019 IN 2018 93 total 85 total PERU 33 women 31 women IN 2019 IN 2018 60 men 54 men 242 total 198 total 50 women 41 women 192 men 157 men IN 2019 IN 2018 82 total 67 total OF WHICH IN THE ENERGY SECTOR 74 total 52 total 19 women 13 women REST OF THE WORLD 23 women 17 women 63 men 54 men 51 men 35 men IN 2019 IN 2018 3 total 3 total OF WHICH IN AGRICULTURE 168 total 146 total 1 woman 1 woman 27 women 24 women 2 men 2 men 141 men 122 men A present that comes from afar 44 TGBS2019 The total workforce consists of 24.5% women and ees, 6 of whom work in Italy and are women. About 50% of the Group's employees are blue-col75.5% men. When making any organisational changes and issuing lar workers. The figure is strongly influenced by the In Italy, the Group's female employment equates to related communications to personnel, the Group folcomposition of the staff in Madagascar where 70% of 35%, while it is around 23% and 20% in Peru and Madlows procedures that comply with the legislation of the the employees are employed in JTF's agricultural acagascar, respectively. At Group level, 81% of staff are countries in which it operates. tivities. 70% of the staff in Italy and 49% in Peru are employed on permanent contracts. The proportion of white-collar workers. permanent contracts to the total number of contracts varies from 91% in Italy, to 96% in Madagascar, to 70% STAFFING STAFFING in Peru where a large part of the staff is recruited for BY TYPE OF CONTRACT OF THE GROUP BY GRADE installation activities in the area that must be contracpermanent fixed period 2019 2018 tually completed within a short timescale. Where the 420 characteristics of the activities permit it, Tozzi Green 400 250 353 tends to offer stability in its working relationships. 232 During 2019, 7 fixed-term contracts were converted 200 300 into permanent contracts (4 men in Italy, 2 men and 1 150 209 woman in Madagascar). There are 8 part-time employ200 176 155 100 85 133 57 100 50 25 3 41 31 8 10 0 15 13 0 0 Italy Peru Madagascar Rest Executives Managers White-collar Blue-collar Total of the world workers workers STAFF COMPOSITION BY GRADE, GENDER AND COUNTRY 2019 2018 ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD Total Total W M W M W M W M W M W M W M W M Executives 0 5 0 2 1 7 0 0 15 0 4 1 5 1 2 0 0 32 Managers 3 10 1 3 10 14 0 0 41 3 9 0 0 7 12 0 0 67 White-collar workers 30 35 14 26 22 25 1 2 155 28 31 10 26 19 16 0 2 97 Blue-collar workers 0 10 4 32 17 146 0 0 209 0 10 2 23 14 127 0 0 157 Total 33 60 19 63 50 192 1 2 420 31 54 13 54 41 157 1 2 353 W = Women; M = Men A present that comes from afar 45 TGBS2019 STAFF COMPOSITION cal regulations3 that have stringent requirements with Training and enhancement of skills BY AGE GROUPS regard to the protection of workers, the prevention of 28% the risks of child labour, vocational training and safety The achievement of the business goal is determined 13% up to 30 years old at work and specify which authorities are responsible for inspections and monitoring. The legislation of both by people's knowledge and skills. Tozzi Green properly trains its personnel, both to enable new skills related over 50 countries provide for the registration of employees in to new business processes to be acquired and to enyears old social security lists and for the payment of income taxhance individual qualities by making them clear and es. During 2019, eighteen Group employees (9 women usable. The goal is to find the right place for everyone, and 9 men) took parental leave, 13 of whom returned to so that people can do the things they know how to do work after the period of leave; 13 of the 17 employees well and where they can get the best results. On-thewho took leave during 2018 are still employed after 12 job training remains the day-to-day method of training 59% months. that allows the acquisition of practical skills and which is carried out daily during working hours, both in onfrom 30 to 50 going operations and as part of the induction training years old of new employees. Particularly in Madagascar, in the 3 Ley General de Inspección del Trabajo Ley Nº 28806 in Perù. Loi n° agricultural sector, a method of continuous training is 2003-044 du 28 juillet 2004 portant Code du travail. 28% of employees are under 30 years of age and overall used that involves workers living in the villages in the 59% are between 30 and 50 years of age. 87% of staff are under 50 years of age. The combination of junior and senior professionals ensures an interchange of innovation and different perspectives in a mix of shared experiences. This union is also seen in the complementary nature of the two generations of the owners, the Chairman and the CEO. TRAINING HOURS BY GRADE AND GENDER In Italy, more than 50% of employees have a university 2019 2018 degree. At Group level, the average number of graduITALY PERU MADAGASCAR ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR ates is 44% but the percentage rises to 68% if we inTotal Total W M W M W M W M W M W M clude holders of a bachelor’s degree or a secondary Executives 0 85 0 0 0 0 85 0 27.5 0 150 0 0 177.5 school diploma. In Italy, 100% of the staff are covered by a collective labour agreement under the private Managers 109 231 0 348 232 68 988 63 7 0 0 180 0 250 metalworkers contract. White-collar 258 294 771 1,486 300 68 3,177 102 70 450 900 260 45 1,827 Labour relations in Peru and Madagascar are regulated workers by specific contracts drawn up in compliance with loTotal 367 610 771 1,834 532 136 4,250 165 104.5 450 1,050 440 45 2,254.5 W = Women; M = Men A present that comes from afar 46 TGBS2019 area and that helps to achieve a widespread knowledge The company results depend on the performance of sponsibility for the achievement of corporate obof agricultural techniques, which can also be employed those who work to achieve those results, i.e. the busijectives; outside the workplace. ness owner, the manager and the human resources reward behaviour that is consistent with the stratDuring 2019, 4,250 hours of training were provided at involved in the strategic/operational process. It goes egies and policies of the company and of the indiGroup level to employees (1,670 to women and 2,580 without saying that the better the performance, the vidual's function; to men), an increase of 88.5% over the previous year. better the results. Therefore, when meaningful percultivate employee loyalty. On average, each Group employee received 10.12 hours formance indicators or KPIs are set, all actions aimed of training (16.21 hours for women and 8.14 hours for at improving performance by increasing positive KPIs In Tozzi Green each participant is assessed against a men). have a direct and immediately measurable impact on maximum of 8 objectives: the results obtained. 2 Group objectives, the same for all participants in The inclusion of the MBO (Management by Objectives) the system; project in 2019 is a measure to support business strata maximum of 6 individual objectives, linked to the egies. The company is aware that this is a tool that will position held. need to be integrated into the corporate population and will require some years of work before it can be Each target is given a weighting and a share of the overall considered to be effective. monetary incentive.The Group's objective, which is the The aim is to: same for all the persons involved, is 50% of the incentive align the interests of management with the strateamount and is measured through two financial indicators: gic vision of top management; EBITDA and NFP/EBITDA in accordance with the Plan and increase people's involvement in and degree of reBudget approved each year by the Board of Directors. HOURS OF TRAINING PER GRADE 2019 2018 AVERAGE GENDER PAY RATIO MADAGASCAR MADAGASCAR ITALY PERU REST OF WORLD 4,250 ENERGY AGRICULTURE 4000 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 3,177 Executives 0% 0% 0 0 150% 27% 0% 0% 0 0 2,254.5 Managers 95% 93% 72% 63% 88% 216% 28% 21% 0 0 2000 1,827 White-collar 71% 76% 79% 71% 64% 33% 85% 126% 155% 155% workers Blue-collar 988 workers 0 0 163% 100% 190% 18% 65% 81% 0 0 85 177.5 250 General average 69% 72% 47% 35% 113% 105% 84% 78% 155% 155% 0 * the data relate only to TRE Perù, which accounts for 85% of the Group's employees in Peru Executives Managers Employees Total because TRE Perù does not record the presence of women among its staff. A present that comes from afar 47 TGBS2019 2.6 Health and safety Mapping business processes and identifying areas for improvement 2,089 hours Safety training +47 % MATERIAL ISSUE: Health and safety Identifying MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: training needs of By health and safety we mean the management syspersonnel on risks tems applied in the workplace to protect the physical and responsibility and moral integrity of personnel, and the systems for Developing managing the safety of operations and facilities in orIntegrated QHSE der to protect those who work there and those who live Management System Certification nearby. Action plan for ISO:45001 developing for managing an HSE culture health and safety by spring 2020 WHAT WE ACHIEVED FUTURE COMMITMENTS IN 2019 A present that comes from afar 48 TGBS2019 We believe in the importance of educating about the course starting with the managers, to make the way they exIn Peru, the Group, in its subsidiaries Ergon and TRE, ushealth and safety of people, and the protection of the enviercise their leadership in safety matters more effective and es an occupational safety management system aimed ronment in which we live, the source of our energy and work. aware. We are aware that positive examples within the orat complying with the technical and legal requirements We have started a journey of sharing values and experiences ganisation become a source of inspiration for all personnel. established by Law No 29781 and by its regulations. To to promote a culture of safety at work and in everyday life. We who are responsible are the first agents of change. We intend to nurture safety at work, creating places and opthis end, an Occupational Health and Safety Committee portunities for debate and discussion, where knowledge can Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green is operating within each company, and is responsible be exchanged and new ideas and reflections can be stimulat(from the QHSE video) for the monthly meetings and for evaluating the effied, with the involvement of all employees and stakeholders. ciency and effectiveness of the Occupational Health For this reason, we have adopted an unconventional training and Safety Management System. During the year therewere no accidents among personTozzi Green has an integrated QHSE Management In particular, the action plan for developing an HSE culnel working in Italy and Peru. There were 3 accidents System, compliant with the highest international refture within the Group involved the following activities among staff in Madagascar, two of whom were agriculerence standards, which it is committed to certify by carried out in 2019: tural workers and one was in the energy sector. Out of 2020 in accordance with international standards ISO a course for managers on HSE leadership, based on a total of 1,275,276 hours worked by Group personnel in 9001:2015 (Quality), ISO 14001:2015 (Environment) and experiential teaching methods, which was complet2019, the accident frequency index stood at 0.47. ISO 45001:2018 (Health & Safety). ed; In order for the management system and the objectives a series of workshops that was conducted with the that the Group has set itself to become an integral part aim of involving participants in the contents of the Health and safety in EPC management of the being and conduct of every employee of the comcompany's safety policy and in the creation of an pany, the company is committed to developing specific HSE logo that encourages a sense of belonging and One of the main areas in which the Group is involved technical skills and to creating the conditions for the involvement; in health and safety issues is the management of the development of a QHSE culture within the organisation an event that was organised at the end of April on entire supply chain making up the EPC contracts, in and to carrying out an annual review of the company's the occasion of the World Day of Health and Safety particular with regard to the identification and manhealth, safety and environmental performance. at Work (28/04). agement of the main risks that the activities of the supply chain present. In this regard, in addition to specific The plan to improve the Safety Management System To givemore visibility to the path being taken in the Comprocedures, a targeted set of QHSE related KPIs has initiated by Tozzi Green has led to a significant inpany and to encourage the participation and awareness been defined for each individual project and for Tozzi crease in training hours on the subject: 2,089 hours of the staff, Tozzi Green took part in the Italia Loves SiGreen's activity as a whole. By monitoring them it will of training in 2019, an increase of 47% over the precurezza (#ILS19) Road Show, an important movement be possible to assess the actual performance of the vious year. that was started recently in Italy, based on the desire to project. revolutionise the way in which health and safety are communicated and lived, adopting channels of communication focused on participation, involvement and emotion. A present that comes from afar 49 TGBS2019 Chapter Title 50 TGBS2019 OUR COMMITMENT TO THE FUTURE OF THE PLANET We make our know-how and our entrepreneurial ability available for the creation of new development models capable of combining economic growth with environmental protection and respect for the principles of social equity. Chapter Title 51 TGBS2019 3.1 We want to embrace the challenge of providing electricity and light to those who are without it today. We can do it with our experience in the energy sector and our knowlResearch edge of energy storage technologies. and innovation Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green MATERIAL ISSUE: Research and innovation Research in the field of alternative sources of applied technology Nufid Project MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: (24 months starting The search for new alternative sources to produce energy and innovative tools to use the energy available from June 2018) in nature and to overcome the problems arising from Development of SHS technology their discontinuity, has guided the development of the (Solar Home Systems) Amaranth Project Group since its inception and has allowed its expansion for rural electrification (28 months starting into the rural electrification sector, which has become from January 2018) a significant part of its business, and into agriculture. Through these strands of research Tozzi Green has Search in the developed projects in countries where energy poverty agronomic sector still afflicts a large part of the population and is pursu(Jatropha Curcas as ing the objective of making electricity available in areas alternative source of energy) that it is difficult to reach with distribution networks. WHAT WE ACHIEVED FUTURE COMMITMENTS IN 2019 Our commitment for the future of the planet 52 TGBS2019 Development of mini-grid technologies They are relatively quick and easy to implement even The technical and engineering skills accrued over the in remote areas and can be powered by solar, wind, biyears, have enabled the Tozzi Green Group to present The objective of research at Tozzi Green is to overcome omass or hybrid plants, reducing operating costs and itself as a developer of mini-grid and Solar Home Systhe inherent limitations of renewable energy sources, associated emissions 3. tem (SHS) systems. The latter are for use in housedue to the inability to plan their production of energy. holds, small health care facilities and schools that do Energy storage makes it possible to optimise the use The main advantages of mini-grid technologies are: not have electricity. The SHS kits have ratings up to a of renewable energy sources, making it available at the short lead times: (less than one year); few kW and consist of a small photovoltaic system, a user's request, while distributed generation minimises modularity: the possibility of expanding the outcharge regulator and an energy storage and distribuenergy leakage in the grid, reducing the environmenput of the plant in line with the growth in energy detion system. Their maintenance is deliberately simplital impact. Tozzi Green's research is directed towards mand; fied and can be carried out by the local communities. making electricity available in developing countries environmental and social sustainability: directly Thanks to its research into innovative solutions, Tozwhere the difficulty of supplying energy is the main related to the small size of the installations and to zi Green has developed its own SHS system called RER cause of poverty, and is part of the mini grid technolthe intended uses strictly linked to the needs of the (Recurso Energia Renovable Renewable Energy Rearea and the populations in question; source) specifically for the needs of the rural electrifiogy sector. The term describes an off-grid electriciaffordability of the energy produced, when comcation project in Peru. ty distribution system that involves the production of pared to the cost of building a distribution grid to energy on a small scale (from a few kW to several MW). reach remote communities. In parallel with its research activities in the core busiOver 190,000 mini-grids are expected to be built around 3 ness of renewable energy, Tozzi Green has long been MINI GRIDS FOR HALF A BILLION PEOPLE Market Outlook and Handthe world by 2030 to provide access to energy for over book for Decision Makers, ESMAP, World Bank carrying out research into plant species for energy pro500,000 people. duction and for applications in the food and nutraceutical sector. Our commitment for the future of the planet 53 TGBS2019 NuFid Project In June 2018, Tozzi Green launched a project aimed at exploiting the by-products of the prickly pear from waste fruit, the seeds of the fruit The project is based on the use of waste products from prickly pear processing to obtain semi-finished and the cladodes (shovels) obtained from spring pruning. products with a high inherent value. Using a techniThe project lasts for two years and is entirely financed by Tozzi Green. cal-chemical-experimental approach, through the collection, treatment and chemical analysis of the by-products of Sicilian prickly pear production, the goal is to be able to prepare special flours, food supfrom the Etnean area and San Cono (Catania) have been of Agriculture, Food and Environment (Di3A) for a plements and products that can be used in the field of directly involved in this project. research contract called Study on the composition nutraceutics and cosmetics, and finally products for Two universities were involved in the pre-treatment of fruits, seeds and cladodes of Sicilian prickly pear feeding animals. This complete usage of waste fruit and chemical analysis of the product: for its nutraceutical and industrial usage . and pruning cladodes can be considered to be a cirthe University of Florence, through the Neurofarba cular economy process in which no part of the plant is Department, for the Study on the composition of Following promising results obtained in the first deemed to be waste for disposal. Sicilian prickly pear fruit for its nutraceutical usmonths of research, in January 2019, Tozzi Green subWith a view to safeguarding the production area, the age ; mitted an application to the Ministry of Economic Demajor Sicilian prickly pear producers' organisations the University of Catania, through the Department velopment for financial support for research and development projects within the applicable areas consistent with the National Strategy for Intelligent Specialisation (SNSI) Agrifood . The application has successfully passed the pre-preparatory phase and is now in the preparatory phase. In this context Tozzi Green has started a preliminary design of the waste products treatment plant to obtain the semi-processed vegetable matrices. With a view to environmental sustainability and the enhancement of the Sicilian territory, Tozzi Green has identified as the possible site of the industrial plant some buildings already located in the Etna area and made available by the local producers' organisations. Our commitment for the future of the planet 54 TGBS2019 Characterisation of essential oils Amaranth Project A service has been started for the characterisation of Tozzi Green has signed a 28-month contract effective Amaranth, a vegetable species rediscovered in the earessential oils produced and marketed by a company infrom January 2018, with the Department of Food Proly 70s, is a pseudo cereal with remarkable nutritional vested in by Tozzi Green based in Madagascar. duction and Environmental Sciences (DISPAA) of the properties, rich in protein, lysine and calcium. In addiTozzi Green's R&D laboratory has been equipped with University of Florence for a research project on the tion to being already used as a basis for food preparaa gas chromatograph with mass spectrometer for the Selection of Varieties of Amaranth (Amaranthus spp. tions for coeliacs, it could in the near future become analysis and characterisation of samples of essential L.) and the development of the cultivation technique”. a valuable food as a substitute for or complement of oils from Madagascar. animal-based proteins, the production of which presents greater problems of environmental sustainability. Research has led to the selection of a new variety of amaranth. Our commitment for the future of the planet 55 TGBS2019 3.2 Thanks to electricity, clean water can be pumped from deep water tables and vaccines can be stored in refrigerators at the appropriate temperatures. A simple light bulb is Can one say that the work of rural electrification in Peru is ethical because it does good? No! It is because it does good, without deviating from its inspiring principle, namely that of Rural electrification enabling these men and women to discover the possibility of extending the day beyond sunset, of listening to a radio doing business, that it is ethical. In that activity, Tozzi Green, without the need to attach any in Peru or weaving their fabrics with a small sewing machine, and children are able to read and study even after sunset. label, introduces an ethical vision into its work, in other words it is something that comes totally from within. Making electricity available is laying a sound foundation for combating poverty. Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green In April 2015 Ergon Perù S.A.C., a subsidiary of the Tozzi RER The rural electrification project in Green Group, won an international public invitation to THE SHS Peru is the largest project of its kind tender issued by the Peruvian State through its MinisFROM TOZZI GREEN try of Energy and Mines (MEM)for the supply of elecFOR THE PERU in the world to date. tricity from renewable energy resources in areas not PROJECT connected to the national electricity grid for the North, Centre and South of the country. The aim of the project is to promote the use of renewable energy sources to improve the quality of life of the poorest people living in remote areas of the country and at the same time contribute to safeguarding the environment. 208,526 Based on the contract and subsequent addendums, the latest of which was signed in March 2019, the Company undertook to design, build and install up to a maximum of 213,441 autonomous RER systems for the three geographical areas by 31 January 2020. It also undertook to 864 Private homes provide the necessary assistance and maintenance of the installed systems for the next 15 years, after which the concession acquired by Ergon Perù through the Healthcare facilities 4,051 Educational facilities award of the tender contract will expire. The installed systems will be transferred to a distributor to be designated by the Peruvian government at the end of the period. Our commitment for the future of the planet 56 TGBS2019 The SHS resulting from Tozzi Green’s research has different characteristics and is modular so that it can be adapted to different types of usage and to the needs of different users such as homes, healthcare and educational facilities. TYPES OF SYSTEMS RER 1 RER 2 RER 3 FOR PRIVATE HOMES FOR HEALTHCARE FACILITIES FOR EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES Direct current (12V) home Community photovoltaic Community photovoltaic photovoltaic system system RER 2 producing system RER 3 producing which has internal and alternating current (220V) alternating current (220V) external components consisting of internal and consisting of internal for installation in external components and external components selected homes. to be installed in to be installed in healthcare facilities educational facilities that that do not have access do not have access to to electricity. electricity. Our commitment for the future of the planet 57 TGBS2019 PROJECT DEVELOPMENT PHASES PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III PHASE IV PHASE V CONSTANT MONITORING OF DEVELOPMENT OF START OF LOGISTICS MONITORING INTERNATIONAL INVITATIONS TECHNOLOGIES MANUFACTURING AND INSTALLATION AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT TO TENDER AND PRODUCTS The monitoring of opportunities The strong development of the After winning the tender, the This activity involves the Activities aimed at ensuring the on the renewable energy market, Engineering division enables Group sets up and carries out the distribution of the products functionality and quality of the in connection with international the creation of innovative following activities directly: from the hubs to the warehouses, service rendered on the basis of the invitations to tender, is carried out products capable of meeting the supplier selection; located at strategic points in requirements set by the MEM and using the platforms dedicated requirements of the invitations to sourcing of materials the Country, and installation by specified in the concession agreement. to monitoring the trend tender and winning the contract. for production; specialist teams in the homes In particular, they include: in the market and through In particular, the Group presents quality control; previously identified preventive maintenance; channels opened with local itself as a developer of SHS transporting of products from by a census carried out on-call repairs; stakeholders. that are small in size, easily production sites to the hubs by the Group itself. connection or reconnection replaceable and requiring only a where they are stored. of the system; few hours of assembly work. ongoing training of users; monitoring of technological updates. 58 TGBS2019 number of factors, mainly geographical, such as the or in the middle of the forest after navigating a river distance between the various towns and villages lofor three days. By the end of January 2020 the project cated in the most remote and inaccessible areas and had achieved a good state of progress: a total of 213,441 the isolation of the population due to the absence or systems had been installed. inadequacy of means of communication. Each user has been provided with a list of appliances It is precisely the lack of road infrastructure that has suitable for use because of their low consumption, effectively prevented private investment in rural elecsuch as radios or televisions. trification projects and led the Peruvian Government to Training meetings were also organised to help people intervene in order to make use of renewable energy to understand how to use the system correctly and to ilovercome the energy poverty that still affects signifilustrate its full potential. The installation of more powcant parts of the population. erful kits in the healthcare and educational facilities, According to the contract awarded, Tozzi Green is rein accordance with the established plan, are bringing sponsible for the complex logistical organisation of about an extraordinary advance in health standards in the supplier chain that installs kits in exceptionally the area and are enabling previously undreamed culturremote areas of the country: at 5000 m in the Andes, al and educational opportunities. BREAKDOWN OF PLANNED SHS INSTALLATIONS BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA IN PERU The Peruvian project is an ambitious undertaking that 29% 39% has made it possible to bring electricity to homes that North 83,197 INSTALLATIONS APPROVED AS AT 31 JANUARY 2020 were still lacking in the most rudimentary forms of urCentre 62,143 RER 1 (private homes) 200,716* ban development, just as it has allowed the First Aid RER 2 (healthcare facilities) 639 centres and medical facilities to be provided with the RER 3 (educational facilities) 2,340 equipment needed to respond to emergencies, albeit Total 203,695 in a limited way. * another 6,097 RER1 systems have already been installed but are awaiting In countries such as Peru, the inequality between a rich approval. 32% minority and a rather poor majority is still, even today, a heavily discriminating element when it comes to the use of something, electric current, that Western counSouth 68,101 tries, wrongly, tend to take for granted. In Peru access to energy is made problematical by a Our commitment for the future of the planet 59 TGBS2019 3.3 By developing crop varieties adapted to the characteristics of the region and improving agronomic techniques that allow for an enhancement Agriculture and fertilisation of the soil through the improvement of its agricultural qualities, in Madagascar Tozzi Green’s activity has led overall to the reclamation of over 6,300 hectares of degraded and marginal land, reversing its desertification and turning it into fertile agricultural land. The Group's agricultural activity began in 2010 through sudden blackouts and power cuts are not uncommon. The agricultural activity carried out by Tozzi Green its subsidiary JTF Madagascar (Jatropha Technology In order to ensure a lasting and functional stabilisation confirms an entrepreneurial identity handed down from Farm), which launched a project in Madagascar, where of the electricity supply, combined projects using hygeneration to generation, aimed at the integrated and sustainable growth of the local area. Tozzi Green is already present in the energy sector, for droelectric, wind and photovoltaic technologies would In line with the Group's family roots, linked to the farming culthe intensive cultivation of Jatropha Curcas, which have to be implemented. ture, Tozzi Green sees productive agriculture as an essential grows wild in those areas because of the favourable entool for the development of the areas in which it operates. vironmental conditions. It is an oil plant in connection The daily survival of the population depends exclusively The entrepreneurial strategy is driven by the conviction that with which the company has developed a research proon the use of natural resources. a surplus capable of going beyond subsistence, triggers inject in collaboration with the Faculty of Agriculture of Aware, therefore, of the role that agriculture can play dustrial processes of transformation . the University of Florence for the production of biofuel. in growth and sustainable development, in the fight Franco Tozzi, Chairman of Tozzi Green At the same time that the research, which was running against poverty, in food and nutritional security, in 2013 into difficulties, was being carried out, Tozzi Green beTozzi Green launched a large-scale agricultural operagan to study the country and realised the enormous tion. It invested in industrial crops (geranium, spices) amount of labour that could be brought in play, on both but above all in crops such as maize and soy intended the energy and the purely agricultural fronts. for the domestic market for feeding farm animals, contributing to the growing food needs of the country to Madagascar is a country which, since its independence the point that JTF is now an accredited supplier within in 1960, has seen its population quadruple from 5 to 20 the World Food Programme. million inhabitants, but has not been able to develop at the same rate. Today three out of four Malagasy people MADAGASCAR live below the poverty line. In smaller towns, but also in major cities, the power supply is very unreliable and Ihosy District Our commitment for the future of the planet 60 TGBS2019 The company has chosen to land, of which only 3 million remains the main and leading Within this framework, one In Madagascar, JTF Madagascar has developed sevoperate in one of the poorest hectares are actually used sector of the Malagasy of the strategies identified eral varieties of crops covering a total area equivalent countries in the world, where for agricultural purposes. economy (30% of gross by the National Government to 0.25% of the Ihorombe region, in the southern part 75% of the population live on Agricultural productivity domestic product). The is the Programme Sectoriel of the country, in the Ihosy District and distributed less than two dollars a day, faces difficulties linked to primary sector continues to Agricolture-Elevage-Pêche and where there is one of the adaptability of the land be an important incubator (PSAEP) which provides across the municipalities of Satrokala, Andiolava and the highest rates of chronic (drought in the southern of development in the country the guidelines for developing Ambatolahy. malnutrition (47%) affecting region, erosion, depletion and at the same time, through competitive agricultural This is some of the most difficult land to cultivate in almost half of all children. On of soil fertility) and the lack sustainable cultivation, production methods, Madagascar, so much so that it has never attracted the the fourth largest island in of means of production and the main instrument incorporating family-type interest of agro-industrial entities. Crops are selected the world, there are 36 million intensive technologies. for preserving the country's agricultural activities with on the basis of their ability to adapt to the characterishectares of potentially arable Nevertheless, agriculture exceptional biodiversity. modern production units to ensure food security and to tics of the soil and the local climate. penetrate export markets by 2025. Over the years, after various experiments, JTF Madagascar succeeded in introducing different varieties of crops. Today, where once there were only arid lands destined to become desert, not only can green areas be observed, but mammals and birds, insects, chameleons and bees carrying seeds and pollinating have also appeared. The diversification of crops, including individual pineapple plants, fruit trees, as well as the care of the gardens, have resulted in the enrichment of biodiversity which, in those particular areas, risked a progressive and inevitable impoverishment. 61 TGBS2019 Agricultural performance 2018-2019 The area cultivated in the 2018-2019 season was 6,337.94 hectares for the main crops shown in the table. The cultivation of maize in the 2019 agricultural seaSoy was grown to assess the adaptability and varietal The cultivation of geranium allowed a production of son was affected by the limited availability of nitroproductivity of germplasm obtained from three differ2,489.5 Kg of essential oil which is marketed for the gen-based fertiliser which meant that in many areas, ent sources: Madagascar, South Africa and Zimbabwe. production of essences and perfumes and for which a complete growing and reproductive development The aim of this test was to select the most productive the company began the Ecolabel certification process cycle was not possible, with a negative effect on the fivarieties on the company’s land, as soy is part of future in 2019. nal production. At the end of the season, 15,556 tonnes programmes both for economic reasons (growing dewere produced at 12.5% average humidity for a final mand on the market) and for agronomic reasons (soil average yield of 3.82 t/ha (5.17 t/ha, down 26.3% comand climate adaptability and inclusion in maize rotapared to the previous season). tions). The final results were very encouraging with a Development of agricultural activities final average of 2.7 t/ha on 68 ha, but with production peaks of over 3 t/ha of some varieties. JTF is pursuing a dual track: in addition to traditional agricultural crops such as corn, soy, sunflower and legumes, which require the availability of thousands of AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES MADAGASCAR hectares of land and, therefore, mechanical ploughing, Cultivated area (ha) Production (tonnes) the company’s interest has focussed on all those crops Type of crop 2019 2018 2019 2018 with high economic density , such as saffron. Maize 4,085 3,502 15,556 18,041 The processing of this crop requires a lot of manpower Soy 68 18 185 17.2 (the pistils are separated by hand), but the added value Geranium oil 93.6 63.4 2.49 1.53 it produces is incomparable when set against traditionAromatic plants 1.03 0.2 0.021 0.028 al crops. It is an entrepreneurial strategy that is having Cover Plants* 2,039 2,373 0 0 a dual effect: the creation of jobs and the simultaneous Jatropha 33 50 2.6 2.17 Eucalyptus and reforestation 18.31 0 0 0 emergence of a kind of farming imbued with the use Total 6,337.94 6,006.60 15,746.11 18,061.93 and conservation of the local area. * These are leguminous plants that have the effect of preserving and restoring soil fertility. Our commitment for the future of the planet 62 TGBS2019 Although agricultural activity in Madagascar repreDespite the use of state-of-the-art technical and techIn March 2019, the Finnish Development Bank, Finnsents less than 10% of the Group's total revenues in nological means, at the end of 2019 agricultural activifund (Finnish Fund for Industrial Cooperation LTD), 2019, it is a very important initiative from an ethical ties in Madagascar employed 232 permanent employand the Belgian Finance Company BIO-Invest (Belgian and social point of view. Directly and indirectly, more ees, 10 temporary employees and about 200 temporary Investment Company for Developing Countries) after than 1,500 jobs have been created since 2005, accomemployees per month for land preparation, sowing and submitting JTF's agricultural activities in Madagascar panied by initiatives to support the educational, social harvesting activities. Of the staff employed, 80% are to due diligence to verify that they met the socio-enviand healthcare systems of an area that has always been from the local area. ronmental requirements of the investment, approved considered arid and unproductive, and where it would The villages near the areas worked by the company a financing plan of €7.5 million to invest in the agriculhave been extremely difficult to find opportunities to have seen the population grow over the years, attracttural project. improve the living conditions of the population living ed by job opportunities, and improvements in living there. Besides the continuous training of local workconditions resulting from the development of producers, JTF is also actively contributing to the reforesttive activities and social initiatives carried out by Tozation of the area whilst always, however, respecting zi Green in collaboration with local communities (see local traditions. chapter 4 The Communities). Our commitment for the future of the planet 63 TGBS2019 3.4 Tozzi Green develops industrial plants and products that generate, distribute and control electricity both efficiently and sustainably and through its activity Environmental contributes to the achievement of the objectives of reducing emissions impacts of CO2 as provided for in the Kyoto Protocol (for the period 2013-2020) and the Paris Agreement (after 2020). MATERIAL ISSUE: Action against climate change MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: Much of the scientific evidence in recent years recWIND POWER HYDROELECTRIC PHOTOVOLTAIC BIOGAS AND ognises human activities as being co-responsible for PLANTS PLANTS PLANTS BIOMASS PLANTS: 85,515 ton. 34,821 ton. 30,000 ton. 2,400 ton. ongoing climate change, which poses a threat to future generations and is already having major consequences in many parts of the planet. This correlation is parCO2 avoided CO2 avoided CO2 avoided CO2 avoided ticularly strong when we consider the increases in CO2 152,736 tonnes of CO avoided in 2019 (+8.5% compared to 2018) emissions into the atmosphere in recent decades and their effects on global warming, which the international 2 scientific community now recognises as unequivocal. New policies on the part of supranational institutions thanks to Tozzi Green's production of energy from renewable sources and individual states that are joining forces are driving the search for innovative solutions that will guarantee a growing world population the clean energy needed to fuel ever-changing development processes. Our commitment for the future of the planet 64 TGBS2019 Through the entrepreneurial experience acquired over These are lengthy and demanding processes during nally, and to ensuring that the objectives and committhe years, Tozzi Green has shown that the projects it is which Tozzi Green is dedicated to a collaborative diaments are respected, not only by employees, but also working on, not only respect and protect the environlogue, offering maximum cooperation and transparenby contractors and partners operating within Group ment and the rights of future generations, but contribcy to local and central institutions, communities and company sites. ute to their improvement. the monitoring and verification authorities that, in varThe development plan for the Group's activities in the ious ways, are responsible for taking the appropriate In line with the Policy described above, the managefield of renewable energy is the Group's main commitdecisions. ment of environmental issues is based on the applicament to environmental protection, as it provides for the In the subsequent phases of operation of the plants, tion of an integrated QHSE management system, degeneration of clean energy with a low environmental Tozzi Green, through its Operation & Maintenance and fined during 2019, which provides for the achievement impact. Energy Managementactivities uses all the technologiof ISO 14001:2015 certification for plants in Italy, MadIn developing its plant construction projects, the Group cal and procedural tools available to monitor their enagascar and Tunisia by spring 2020. The certification pursues objectives of full compatibility with the local ergy performance and to plan activities for maintaining will be extended to the activities in Peru by 2021 and area, natural resources and the surrounding environthem in order to minimise their environmental impact. then to the agricultural activities in Madagascar. ment as a whole. During 2019 the company voluntarily submitted the ofThe authorisation procedures that precede the start of fices of the headquarters and the biogas plant in San the operations, both in Italy and abroad, are carried out 3.4.1 Giovanni in Persiceto to an energy audit in accordance in full compliance with current regulations and include with the UNI CEI 16247-1-2-3-4 standards. Environmental protection policies The audit was then sent to ENEA, even if it was not all the necessary assessments of the characteristics of the physical environment, climatology, hydrogecompulsory to do so. omorphology, geology, biological environment and The Tozzi Green Group has instituted a QHSE (Quality, landscape of the site identified for the installation of Health, Safety & Environment) function that, for each the plant and the analysis of the potentially significant technology and across all Group companies, provides effects of the project on the environment and local support for regulatory monitoring, inspection of EPC ecosystems. activities and of those for overseeing the correct implementation of operating procedures on environmental issues. The new Corporate Policy for Health, Safety and Environment, adopted in 2019, states that the protection of the environment, as well as the continuous improvement of company performance in these areas, are an integral part of the company strategy pursued through the minimisation of risks and the promotion of positive examples. The Group is also committed to spreading knowledge about its policy both internally and exterOur commitment for the future of the planet 65 TGBS2019 3.4.2 HEADQUARTERS AND OFFICES The self-consumed energy from the photovoltaic sysThe electricity to power the buildings located in the tem on the roof of the headquarters in Mezzano is 18% Usage of energy resources Municipality of Mezzano, where Tozzi Green S.p.A. is of the total energy consumed that is purchased from based and where the Group's management offices the grid. PLANTS and research laboratories are located, comes partially The Tozzi Green Group's renewable energy plants (wind, from photovoltaic panels placed above the structures, The head office also consumes natural gas for use in photovoltaic, hydroelectric, and biogas) produce their owned by Tozzi Industries and therefore outside the the kitchen attached to the staff cafeteria/restaurant own electricity for their own needs during normal operscope of the Group considered in this document, and which, although owned a company belonging to the ation and, if necessary, purchase from the grid (indirect from the purchase of electricity from the grid for the holding company, are recorded under consumption consumption) only that which is necessary to guaranportion not covered. and emissions of the Group, as they are considered tee the continuity of auxiliary or safety systems. During 2019, the aforementioned photovoltaic system, relevant. Ten percent of the energy withdrawn from the grid to located on the roof of the headquarters, produced a During 2019, the buildings at the Mezzano headquarpower the auxiliary systems of the production plants total of 376,351 kWh of energy, 369,180 kWh of which ters underwent a voluntary energy audit to analyse and controlled by Tozzi Green is produced from renewable was self-consumed. monitor consumption in order to identify possible savsources, according to the option signed in the conings; this energy audit was subsequently sent to ENEA. tracts with AXPO, the Group's broker. The biogas plant is fuelled with biomass consisting of 90% maize with the remaining part made up of sorghum flour, waste flours, and wet material. During 2019, the San Giovanni Biogas plant underwent TOTAL GROUP ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GRI 302-1) a voluntary energy audit to analyse and monitor conUM 2019 2018 sumption in order to identify possible savings; this enDIRECT CONSUMPTION from non-renewable sources ergy audit was subsequently sent to ENEA. Natural gas for heating m3 33,726.00 24,950.67 Diesel fuel litres 594,041.35 609,035.56 Fuel oil litres 35,805.01 6,910.30 Natural gas for motor vehicles m3 1,832.80 1,837.60 Diesel for motor vehicles litres 77,351.26 82,928.28 Petrol for motor vehicles litres 8,260.20 7,412.24 DIRECT CONSUMPTION from renewable sources Self-produced and self-consumed electricity (100% renewable sources) kWh 21,637,002.00 11,815,010.39 Maize, sorghum flour, and by-products (biogas) ton. 18,438.00 18,672.50 INDIRECT CONSUMPTION (SCOPE II) Electricity purchased from third parties from non-renewable sources (90%) kWh 2,240,847.90 2,126,694.06 10% from renewable sources kWh 248,983.10 236,299.34 Our commitment for the future of the planet 66 TGBS2019 The Group's direct energy consumption from non-reTOTAL GROUP CO2 EMISSIONS newable sources refers to various uses. The natural UM 2019 2018 gas is used by the kitchen of the in-house company DIRECT CONSUMPTION from non-renewable sources * restaurant in Mezzano. Diesel oil and fuel oil are used Natural gas for heating t CO2 73.62 54.44 for JTF's activities in Madagascar to power the geraniDiesel fuel t CO2 1,546.12 1,585.14 um oil distillation plants. The rest of the consumption Fuel oil t CO2 97.06 18.73 is related to the fuel used by the company's vehicles in Natural gas for motor vehicles t CO2 2.79 2.80 use at the headquarters (fringe benefit cars and plant Diesel for motor vehicles t CO2 201.32 215.84 maintenance vehicles) as well as vehicles used in agriPetrol for motor vehicles t CO2 18.80 16.87 culture and at the biogas plant. DIRECT CONSUMPTION from renewable sources Direct consumption from renewable sources regards Self-produced and self-consumed electricity (100% renewable) t CO2 0.00 0.00 the electricity that the Group produces (100% renewaMaize, sorghum flour, and by-products (biogas) t CO2 0.00 0.00 ble) and self-consumes for powering the plants and for TOTAL DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE I) (GRI 305-1) t CO2 1,939.71 1,893.83 use at the headquarters. It also includes raw materials such as maize, sorghum flour, and various by-products INDIRECT CONSUMPTION ** that are used to supply the San Giovanni in Persiceto Electricity purchased from third parties from non-renewable sources t CO2 713.04 676.71 biogas plant. Electricity purchased from third parties from renewable sources (10%) t CO2 0.00 0.00 The surplus electricity consumed, which is shown in TOTAL INDIRECT EMISSIONS from non-renewable sources (SCOPE II) (GRI 305-2) t CO2 713.04 676.71 the table as indirect consumption, is purchased from TOTAL EMISSIONS t CO2 2,652.75 2,570.54 third parties through the Group’s broker supplier, which *Source of conversion factors for direct CO2 consumption: Table of national standards published by the Ministry of the Environment declares that the energy from renewable sources for the period 01 January 31 December 2019. makes up from 11% to 13% of the total. It was decided **Source of conversion coefficients for indirect CO2 consumption: Greenhouse gas emission factor of the electrical power sector for electricity generation (gCO2/kWh) in Italy Ispra Report 2019 to conservatively apply a 10% share for calculating the Group's CO2 emissions. At the headquarters in Mezzano The energy consumption of the offices and warehousall employees have been provided es in Lima, where Ergon Perù and Tre Perù are based, with a Tozzi Green 24 clima stainless steel thermos bottle and have access is included in the services covered by the office rental to energy-efficient water dispensers. contract; this consumption is not currently disclosed by the company, but its monitoring is part of the Group's certification commitments. Our commitment for the future of the planet 67 TGBS2019 Our commitment for the future of the planet 68 TGBS2019 3.4.3 3.4.5 The environmental impact of the companies regards: the activities of the Lima headquarters where the Usage of water resources Waste management offices are located and where the materials to be installed in the housing units are stored; The usage of water resources changes according to Waste management is constantly monitored by the the development of the rural electrification project. the plants' power sources. For wind, photovoltaic, and Group, which conducts plant operations in accordance biogas plants this is not relevant because water conwith best practices and in compliance with current For both aspects, the companies are committed to sumption is low and not particularly significant. In hylegislation. For waste produced by Operation & Mainimproving their environmental management system droelectric plants water is used to generate electricity tenance activities at the plants managed in Italy by the in order to optimise resource and waste management and cool the systems and is then returned to the waterGroup, logistical storage bases are used to temporarily and reduce environmental impacts. The detection and courses in the same quantity and with the same quality. store the waste produced by the various plants, which monitoring of impacts is an objective that the company is then disposed of according to its classification as has set itself with the extension of ISO 14001:2015 cerhazardous or non-hazardous waste and, where possitification to activities in Peru planned for 2021. 3.4.4 ble, striving to maximise its recovery. The rural electrification project launched in Peru was preceded by an environmental impact assessment that certified that the impacts of the operations are reduced to a minimum, requiring no invasive actions in the area or use of polluting resources. However, the Peruvian Government has requested a commitment from Ergon Perù to implement a series Visual and acoustic impacts 3.4.6 of measures for preventing, mitigating, and correcting impacts that mainly regard the methods of transEnvironmental aspects of the porting materials to the installation sites via existing These aspects are assessed by the competent authorities as part of the authorisation process. Specifically, rural electrification project in Peru routes, battery maintenance and disposal methods, all Italian plants are subject to EIA (Environmental Imand solid waste management, according to a pre-espact Assessment) authorisation issued by the Ministry The companies Ergon Perù and Tre Perù, which opertablished disposal plan and in strict compliance with of the Environment. In the foreign countries where Toate on behalf of the Group, have developed a specific current legislation. zzi Green operates, there are environmental protection environmental policy aimed at minimising the impact regulations in force which must be complied with in orof their activities in compliance with the regulations der for operations to be authorised. in force in the country, including in their installation and maintenance procedures all measures for the efficient use of available resources, and aimed at training and raising the awareness of workers, associates, and communities on environmental protection issues. Our commitment for the future of the planet 69 TGBS2019 3.4.7 Through the agricultural activities of Tozzi Green, site's electricity needs throughout the year and provide over 6000 hectares of virgin land has been reclaimed public lighting for the nearby municipality of Satrokala, Environmental aspects of agricultural and transformed into fertile agricultural land. The rewhere Tozzi Green has installed 13 solar panel poles. activity in Madagascar claimed and cultivated land is a natural barrier against In 2019 the company started the Ecolabel certification savannah fires, which are also an ecological problem process for the production of geranium essential oil, The company JTF Madagascar pursues an environin the region. now in its final stages. mental policy based on agroecology, i.e. the use of Although Madagascar is known for its unique fauna In its farming practices, Tozzi Green uses fertilizers and means and techniques aimed at optimising crops while and beautiful forests, a large part of the island has plant protection products to protect crops. improving soil fertility, taking account of ecosystems suffered serious environmental damage (the wooded All the active ingredients and formulations used are inand striving to minimise pressure on the environment. area has decreased from 28% of the national territocluded in the list of pesticides approved in Madagascar. This involves using nature's resources as a factor ry to 17% in 50 years). Deforestation, which each year They are not included on the list of Persistent Organof production, maintaining its capacity for renewal, results in a 0.4% reduction in wooded areas, is essenic Pollutants (POPs) nor they are subject to the Prior adapting crops to the climate and the specific chartially due to the cutting of timber for domestic use and Informed Consent (PIC) procedure pursuant to Regacteristics of the soils cultivated and practising crop the fires set to make the land arable. Wood is used as ulation (EU) no. 649/2012. Furthermore, they are not rotation. It is through this systemic approach that good a subsistence activity for building houses and cooking included in class I of the WHO classification. (Source: technical and economic results can be achieved while food. In addition to domestic use for subsistence, timMEC / EIE environmental compliance). simultaneously improving environmental performance. ber is harvested, without any planning, for marketing Tozzi Green carries out its activities in compliance with both within the country and abroad, with export. JTF JTF's agroecological policy, based on the reduction of IFC Performance Standards, which are internationally operates on marginal land, which has been deforested environmental impacts, can be well exemplified by the accepted standards, and with national environmental and degraded by more than two centuries of unsound extreme attention paid to saving water. Maize fields legislation, in particular those of the current Malagasy traditional practices. are fed exclusively through the natural cycle of rain. Environmental Charter introduced in 1990 and the Aware of this dramatic problem, the Group allocated In the same manner, with regard to the production of MECIE Decree, which establishes the rules and proover 100,000 trees in 2019 to tackle the serious probgeraniums for oil extraction, a drip irrigation system cedures for verifying the compatibility of investments lem of reforestation. was installed to provide targeted irrigation by deposmade in the country with the natural environment. iting water on the surface of the land adjacent to the By working in synergy with local populations and sharplant and then directly to the root zone. ing knowledge about sustainable agriculture, the company helps to spread awareness of environmental protection. Tozzi Green Madagascar's commercial farm is powered entirely by renewable energy sources. Two hybrid wind and solar power systems cover the Our commitment for the future of the planet 70 TGBS2019 There are no other examples of the same size anywith the peppercorns fall to the ground. This method, The modern farmer is the custodian of knowledge and where on the island, just as the wild pepper domeswhich is contrary to any logic aimed at preserving the acts as a sentinel for the territory itself. tication project is also unique. Discovered in 2009, land, contributes to the long-standing problem of deFranco Tozzi, President of Tozzi Green this pepper, which is unique in terms of its distinctive forestation, also causing a change in light and humidity character and aroma, is generating interest outside of conditions that alters the microclimate, thus making it the country. Used locally mainly for certain traditional impossible for the plant to grow. Malagasy medicine preparations, its use in the kitchAs a result of the emergence at an international level of en has piqued the curiosity of many Michelin-starred a specific interest in this wild pepper, JTF has launched chefs. Production is very limited and the plant is even a project to help protect the species' existence. at risk of extinction. In fact, its peppercorns grow at a This project involves training farmers how to sustainaheight of more than 10 to 20 metres above the ground, bly harvest spices and domesticate the plant, choosing as they are only produced from the youngest and tallthe strips of land adjacent to green areas as the place est branches of the plant, which is a spontaneous liana of cultivation. As a result, buffer zones have been crethat clings to tall trees in the area. ated between the forest and the desert, which guarAccording to local practices, in order to harvest large antee, besides the reproduction of the plant, also a quantities of this pepper with a minimum of effort, certain natural environmental control. the lianas are often cut directly so that the branches Our commitment for the future of the planet 71 TGBS2019 Titolo capitolo 72 TGBS2019 WE SHARE WELL-BEING AND DEVELOPMENT WITH COMMUNITIES For generations, the trait that distinguishes the entrepreneurial spirit of Tozzi Green has been the desire to develop business opportunities with the aim of generating added value and fostering the development of local communities, responding with concrete actions to the needs of the territories in cooperation with local administrations and stakeholders. Titolo capitolo 73 TGBS2019 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the populations The production of energy from renewable sources, the Group's core business, is in itself a response to the development needs of the territories and offers communities the opportunity to have access to clean energy at sustainable costs, from both an economic and environmental point of view. This is particularly important for the populations of those countries where energy MATERIAL ISSUE: MATERIAL ISSUE: poverty is still an emergency and does not allow basic Development of local areas Respect needs relating to food, education, and health to be met. and support of the populations of human rights Tozzi Green's presence in Madagascar and Peru also addresses such needs, which are planned and developed MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: MATERIAL ISSUE DESCRIPTION: in a context of co-operation with national governments Renewable energy and innovation are essential eleIn addition to the inalienable civil rights that must be committed to implementing sustainable development ments for the future of the Earth, and it is important to guaranteed by governments, the well-being of individprogrammes. bring the best entrepreneurial experiences to develuals also depends on the recognition and protection Each development project requires a knowledge of the oping countries, promoting their economic and social of social, economic, and cultural rights that include, socio-economic characteristics of the populations growth. It has become indispensable to reassemble the among others, the right to work, the right to education, that will be involved, and to this end the willingness to overall mosaic of our planet, bearing in mind that we and the right to social assistance. engage in dialogue and to cooperate leads to the emerlive in a globalised world where a large number of peoTozzi Green operates in areas of the world where it has gence of the context and needs of communities in reple still live below the poverty line. The development the opportunity to contribute, to the extent possible, lation to environmental and social impacts, including of health and education services and support for local to translate these rights into concrete opportunities. potential impacts on human rights. activities while respecting traditions makes it possible to improve the daily living conditions of local populations and the integration of individuals in a context that better meets the basic needs of all. art. 1 art. 2 We share well-being and development with communities 74 TGBS2019 4.1.1 Latin America, where the ability to manage relations Table of impacts with stakeholders and local communities, consolidated Socio-economic impacts: direct, in previous experiences, represents a success factor The result of the analysis of the impacts that the presindirect, and induced because it provides the key to access sensitivity and ence of Tozzi Green entails for the territories in which it traditions that must be respected and protected. operates has led to the creation of the following table, Plant development projects produce direct, indirect, which identifies the direct impacts (which the company and induced socio-economic impacts, both during the Our activities in Peru and Madagascar contribute to the is able to report below), indirect impacts, and induced construction and opening of new work sites and durmeeting of basic needs (drinking water wells, schools, impacts that derive from the former ones and that are ing subsequent plant maintenance and monitoring achospitals), generate development, and bring opportuniconsidered from a qualitative point of view. tivities. The intensity and manner in which the Group's ties for work and handicraft activities, not according to activities impact local conditions depends on the sopre-packaged or strictly Western standards, but rather cio-economic characteristics of the areas and their difthrough an effort to adapt to local priorities and cusferent levels of development. Tozzi Green has plants and toms, addressing the true needs of the territory, trying operates in Italy, Madagascar, and Peru and is gradually to produce a cultural process capable of going beyond developing its activities in other countries in Africa and simply preserving what exists. Impact categories Direct effect Indirect effect Induced effect Payments to local suppliers for the purchase of goods and services Expenditure on goods and services along the supply chain Wages to local employees Multiplier effect on consumption caused by ECONOMIC Wages to local employees in the the wage expenditure of direct and indirect IMPACTS Taxes and duties paid to supply chain employees within the local economy local and central governments Taxes paid by suppliers Investment in infrastructure EMPLOYMENTTozzi Green Group's local employees Jobs created as a result of increased RELATED on permanent, temporary, Local employees along the supply chain consumption and increased demand IMPACTS seasonal, and subcontractor contracts for services in the private and public sector Training organised as courses and day by day for temporary, permanent, seasonal, and The meeting of basic needs creates the DEVELOPMENT subcontractor employees Sharing knowledge and expertise prerequisites for lifestyles in which OF HUMAN CAPITAL with local suppliers and business partners culture and knowledge become Support for social, educational, drivers of development and health protection activities We share well-being and development with communities 75 TGBS2019 4.2 We have never presumed to do anything without being convinced that it was good for the environment. Tozzi Green was one of the first Italian operators to produce energy from renewable sources, and its activities are guided by a principle of sustainability that cannot The community Andrea Tozzi, CEO of Tozzi Green ignore the protection of the areas where it chooses to operate, from both an environmental and development in Italy point of view. In addition to building plants that are as compatible as possible with the surrounding environment, Tozzi Green demonstrates its commitment to the local area through redevelopment works, according to the needs expressed by the community. Investment in infrastructure, Taxes and duties paid DIRECT Wages and salaries to employees Local taxes and duties in the two-year period 2018on income 2019 6.1 mln 195 thousand ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2.7 mln 41.5 mln Subcontractor employment** EMPLOYMENTEmployees Female employment RELATED IMPACTS 93 people (+9%) 35% 4 Work units equivalent to full time Educational activities on Visitors to the “Educational Farm” Collaborative activities DEVELOPMENT Hours of training provided energy, agriculture, and the with local communities environment OF HUMAN CAPITAL 977 over 400 students Primary schools in Ravenna adopt a social project in the two-year period 2018-2019 *2019 data unless otherwise specified **This corresponds to the number of hours worked by subcontractors in 2019, i.e. 6,394, divided by 1,550, which is an estimate of the net hours worked annually by a full-time worker in Italy according to the National Collective Bargaining Agreement for metalworkers. We share well-being and development with communities 76 TGBS2019 EXAMPLE OF MITIGATION ties. A small wind turbine has been installed near the and their supporting structures are built entirely withOF THE PLANTS: dairy, which, combined with a rooftop photovoltaic out reinforced concrete foundations, in order to allow PHOTOVOLTAIC GRAZING MEADOW system, is able to cover the energy needs of the enthe complete reversion of the site at the end of the life tire complex. The structures for the photovoltaic pancycle of the plant (estimated to be about 30 years). In Sant'Alberto (Ravenna), Tozzi Green has built a 34.6els in the field were designed and installed in such a This project has generated and continues to produce MW photovoltaic plant on an area of about 70 hectares, way as not to hinder the movement of the sheep which, work for activities related to managing the dairy and capable of satisfying the energy needs of ten thousand by grazing, contribute to maintaining the agricultural the production and marketing of dairy products in a families. The plant, in terms of installed power and size, areas and the grass cover. context of interconnection between environmental is one of the largest in Italy and the only example of a From a purely agronomic point of view, the choice of and economic sustainability which is the key to modphotovoltaic plant conceived for perfect integration the photovoltaic meadow, in addition to allowing a ern development. with an extensive sheep farm, which in turn is concomplete elimination of pesticides and plant protecnected, through the creation of a dairy, with an entire tion products from the soil, plays an important role in dairy supply chain. The dairy, called Buon Pastore, is fertilizing the soil through a careful selection of seeds. located in the area adjacent to the milk storage faciliThe photovoltaic modules used are totally recyclable We share well-being and development with communities 77 TGBS2019 EXAMPLE OF EDUCATION ON SUSTAINABILITY: “THE EDUCATIONAL FARM” Through the “Educational Farm” initiative, the plant and food quality; young people are introduced to the The company has signed an agreement with the Facin Sant'Alberto (Ravenna) and the adjoining dairy are subject of renewable sources and the importance of ulties of Veterinary Medicine, Food Technology, Agrimade accessible to technicians, researchers, and a rational and efficient use of energy, learning the mecultural Technology, and Environmental Sciences of schoolchildren with the clear objective of scientific chanics of photovoltaic solar technology and its enthe University of Bologna. A specific four-hour course dissemination and public awareness of energy issues vironmental benefits. Through concrete examples of at the farm provides undergraduates with in-depth and redevelopment of the local area. the integration of industry and agriculture and by covinformation on agricultural, zootechnical, food, and Guided tours and educational programmes are organering the most significant aspects of the creation of environmental issues. In the last three years about 60 ised for students for each course of study, from kinthe photovoltaic meadow, they are made aware of the university students have had the opportunity to visit dergarten to high school. About 400 students have fundamental concepts of environmental protection the Photovoltaic Meadow. visited the facility in the last three years. This project and biodiversity, as well as the importance of animal aims to educate about environmental sustainability welfare and quality dairy production. We share well-being and development with communities 78 TGBS2019 Other activities The Group has fully financed the restoration of Piazza of the wind farm. All the work was carried out in full benefiting Pasquale Bona in the city of Cerignola (FG), where the compliance with the conditions and requirements set the Community in Italy company operates a wind farm. In October 2018 the out in the authorisations issued by the Caltanissetta in the last two years, town square was returned to residents, to the beneCultural and Environmental Heritage Office, making the 2018-19 fit of the businesses located in the surrounding area. relevant area accessible to the public. The renovation project approved by the Municipality of Cerignola and in particular the choice of materials were In October 2019, Tozzi Green completed and put back based on the utmost respect for the local architectural into operation the 850-kW wind turbine owned by the and urban planning heritage. Municipality of Butera (CL) and located in the 18-MW wind farm it built. The company has carried out and In the Municipality of Butera (CL), Tozzi Green has completed all the activities necessary to ensure its completed work relating to the temporary and urgent proper operation and start-up, after having completed protection and conservation of the archaeological the authorisation process and the construction of the finds that were discovered during the construction connection and user systems that had previously been vandalised, as well as the replacement of all damaged components. We share well-being and development with communities 79 TGBS2019 THE FOUNDING OF THE TOGETHER ASSOCIATION In 2018 and 2019 the company joined the initiative In October 2019, Tozzi Green contributed to the foundThis initiative's aim is to raise children's awareness promoted by the Municipality of Ravenna “Adotta un ing of ToGether, a volunteer association recognised by about renewable energy and environmental sustainaprogetto sociale, diventa un’azienda solidale” (Adopt the Emilia-Romagna Region with the aim of promoting bility in general, starting from knowledge of their own a social project, become a socially supportive comand supporting environmental education through the area. The Award is inspired by the message contained pany), which was created to put companies in contact conscious and rational use of natural resources, the in the book “Una casa piena di sole” (A House Filled with with volunteer associations in order to finance specific replacement of fossil fuels with all types of renewable Sunshine), published by Tozzi Green Book, which tells projects. Tozzi Green took part, as a supporting comenergy, and the dissemination of a culture of ecology. the true story of a project that is changing the lives of pany, in the initiative “La Scuola Bottega” (The SchoolToGether, which will pursue civic, solidarity and socialthousands of people, who have lived without electricity Shop), which was developed by the Social Cooperative ly useful aims by organising and managing educationuntil now, in the rural areas of Peru. Il Faro for high schools. The School-Shop offers stual, artistic, and recreational activities, seeks to raise At the same time, widening the range of action beyond dents alternative learning opportunities within artiawareness, through public events and initiatives, on the region, ToGether in November 2019 established a sanal or business environments, at no cost to schools. the practice of preserving human-environment relapartnership with Fondazione Lombardia Ambiente, Tozzi Green sponsors a work-study initiative to enations, with an eye to the future and the new challenges an institution of a moral and scientific nature based in ble at least two fourth-year students from the Istituto of a globalised world. Seveso (MI), in order to share its experience and proTecnico Agrario Luigi Perdisa in Ravenna to participate The association immediately began its social activity fessionalism to produce three children's books to be in educational activities at the Buon Pastore dairy in by establishing the “L’energia della Natura” (Energy of distributed free of charge to schools, on issues relating Sant'Alberto, with the support of a tutor. The students Nature) award for the third, fourth, and fifth grades of to the protection of biodiversity, moving beyond plasare engaged one morning a week during school hours, the primary schools of Ravenna. tic, and using renewable sources. for 3 to 5 hours, for workshop activities related to dairy production and sheep barn management. We share well-being and development with communities 80 TGBS2019 Illustrations by Valeria Fogato, taken from “Una casa piena di sole”, Tozzi Green Book We share well-being and development with communities 81 TGBS2019 4.3 The Group's presence in Peru, where it is carrying out one of the largest rural electrification projects in the world, perfectly combines the company's core business states that in order to lead a decent life, the minimum daily electricity consumption per person should be 0.5 kWh, recognising that inclusion and fairness in the use The community with a project of extraordinary social orientation. In the of energy resources is synonymous with economic and rural areas of the country, in fact, only 70% of the popsocial development. The changes taking place in the in Peru ulation have continuous access to energy, which is why areas involved in the project are groundbreaking: prothe Government in Lima is committed to closing this viding four or five hours of electricity per day to each gap in access to electricity within the next ten years. household, not only provides lighting, but also allows The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) access to communications and the possibility to use Income taxes and duties Payments to local suppliers DIRECT ECONOMIC for the purchase of goods and services Wages and salaries to local employees 4.1 mln Investment in infrastructure, in the two-year period 2018-2019 IMPACTS 25.2 mln 1.6 mln Local taxes 107 mln 1.2 mln Employees Subcontractor employment* 82 people (+22%) Direct Female employment EMPLOYMENTRELATED IMPACTS of which 168 agriculture 23% 63 Work units equivalent to full time and 74 energy Rural electrification goal Technology empowerment and Rural households Hours of training in Peru after completing environmental education provided reached by electricity the Tozzi Green project to over DEVELOPMENT 2,605 96% 200,000 families about 210,000 OF HUMAN CAPITAL Rural healthcare facilities Rural educational facilities reached by electricity reached by electricity 864 more than 4,000 * This corresponds to the number of hours worked by subcontractor service providers in 2019 who worked for the Group's companies in Peru, including technical installers, warehouse workers, etc., i.e. 97,941, divided by 1,550, which is an estimate of the net hours worked annually by a full-time worker in Italy according to the National Collective Bargaining Agreement for metalworkers. We share well-being and development with communities 82 TGBS2019 modern working tools, all opportunities that were deusers' awareness on the proper use of the system and The Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic of nied to these communities before they were reached illustrate its full potential, and this, in itself, is an inPeru issued a note in which it thanked the company for by electricity. Experience shows that access to energy itial opportunity for the technological empowerment the rural electrification project, precisely because of has already stimulated small local handicraft initiaof the rural population. Since women are primarily rethe possibility of bringing people together more. tives, for example for some women who, with the use sponsible for running the household, it is mainly them of a sewing machine, have started small businesses in who attend the meetings; these meetings become an Every year the Group Lucio” pre-school with the the field of textiles. opportunity for the growth, responsibilisation, and emcompanies Ergon Perù and active involvement of their The solar module installation programme, contracted powerment of women. Tre Perù take part in the employees. Approximately out to Tozzi Green by the Peruvian government, will inMaking energy accessible also entails addressing an Christmas celebrations 40 to 45 children take part crease the electrification rate in rural areas to 96% in issue that is often overlooked when it comes to deand give presents to the in this activity, which has a little less than five years. This is an extraordinary and velopment: the importance of socialisation. Without children of the “La Casita de taken place for 3 years now. inexpensive result, both in economic and environmenelectricity, the hours of sunlight are consumed during tal terms, which was obtained in a short time compared the working day, leaving no room for study or family. to the time needed to adapt and expand the convenCommunity moments that may seem trivial, such as tional power grid. gathering together for a football match or reading a The installation programme for the devices envisagbook, are exceptional catalysts for development in es that training meetings will be organised to raise disadvantaged areas. We share well-being and development with communities 83 TGBS2019 4.4 In the environment in which it operates, Tozzi Green represents the only solid and managerial company capable of generating significant employment for deon-the-job training on sustainable agricultural practices. The existence of the commercial farm has had an enormous impact on the community. Since the compaThe community veloping the community in Madagascar. Tozzi Green ny arrived, there has been a significant increase in the employs 242 people, 96% of whom are permanent number of residents. in Madagascar employees. In addition, the use of temporary staff for The commitment and attention to the local area and sowing and harvesting operations, according to seathe community that has always inspired the Group's sonal needs, can be quantified as approximately 3,600 philosophy can make a real difference in a difficult and people per year, and each of them is offered specific complex situation such as in Madagascar, where only Income taxes and duties Payments to local suppliers Investment in infrastructure, DIRECT ECONOMIC for the purchase of goods and services Wages and salaries to local employees 1.2 mln in the two-year period 2018-2019 IMPACTS 25.4 mln 1.8 mln (+37%) Local taxes 41 mln 500 thousand Employees Subcontractor employment** (energy) Seasonal employment in 242 (+22%) Direct Female employment agriculture per year EMPLOYMENTRELATED IMPACTS of which 168 agriculture 20% 2,357 Work units 3,600 people and 74 energy equivalent to full time Families reached Hours of training provided by rural electrification Litres of drinking water per day 11,000 children DEVELOPMENT 668 about 200 12,000 litres treated every year in the village healthcare facility OF HUMAN CAPITAL Access to secondary school education for 537 young people 826 students involved in the Rugby Academy of Ihorombe *2019 data unless otherwise specified * This corresponds to the number of hours worked by subcontractors in 2019, i.e. 3,654,098, divided by 1,550, which is an estimate of the net hours worked annually by a full-time worker in Italy according to the National Collective Bargaining Agreement for metalworkers. We share well-being and development with communities 84 TGBS2019 20% of the total population have access to electricity as. In addition to these, there are others consisting of (a rate that drops to 5% in rural areas). The production donations of equipment for school, health, sports, agriof clean energy, the company's core business, involves cultural, and reforestation activities planned each year a burden of social responsibility that the company does in the agreement protocols and which contribute to the not shirk; on the contrary, it considers it to be an opfunctioning of the local organisational structures. portunity. Tozzi Green is the largest player in the sector in the country, and when the third power plant with installed capacity of 28 MW, which is currently under construction, comes on line at the end of 2020, Tozzi Green will supply one-third of the capital's energy needs. Most of the company's initiatives aimed at local communities are included in protocols and formal agreements signed from 2013 onwards by Group companies operating in the country in collaboration with local authorities and associations. Based on the priorities that result from formalised processes of dialogue with the communities themselves and their representatives, municipal development plans are drawn up that set specific objectives. Below are listed a few of the most significant projects carried out for the benefit of local communities, classified according to their macro areWe share well-being and development with communities 85 TGBS2019 RURAL ELECTRIFICATION Through the “Luce per tutti” (Light for all) project, Tolocal community. The project, which involves about 200 zzi Green has brought electricity to Malagasy homes, families, provides for the establishment of an associawhich are little more than small huts, in the village of tion for the local community, to which energy is sold at Satrokala near the commercial farm run by JTF Madaan agreed price. The association has the responsibility gascar. The project involved the installation of 30 poles of managing the distribution process through the elecwith a solar panel and battery (50 off-grid modules), catrical system provided by Tozzi Green and dividing up pable of providing the population with enough electricconsumption and costs among user households. The ity for their daily needs. agreement stipulated with the association is reviewed by the Ministry of Energy and the Monitoring Agency Tozzi Green, which owns and operates the Sahanivotry that deals with rural electrification. hydroelectric plant, supplies the local rural community These are development actions that are tailored to with 200 kW of electricity through 5 km of power lines, local needs: energy is planned in line with the needs which were built by the Group as a commitment to the of the population in order to create a sustainable economic exchange for the country. We share well-being and development with communities 86 TGBS2019 THE CREATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE As the only major player in the area, Tozzi Green reThe infrastructure, which is essential for starting work Since the company has been present in Madagascar, it ceives numerous invitations to support initiatives on the construction of the hydroelectric power plant has taken part in the construction of a number of public from local authorities as well as the community, and that will produce 28 MW of electricity for the Jirama buildings (the city hall, the new city hall, the regional they both acknowledge the company's significant connetwork, is the result of a public-private partnership. bank), all of which are powered by photovoltaic panels. tribution to infrastructure development. The ceremony turned into a real folk festival with singIn 2017 more than three thousand people attended the ing and dancing. It is an ancillary work, but also one that inauguration of the Farahantsana bridge in the municis highly symbolic. The connection between the two vilipality of Mahitsy, about fifty kilometres from the capilages, in fact, now allows different people, previously tal Antananarivo, which connects the municipalities of separated by the watercourse and therefore unable to Ampanotokana and Ambohimasina, which were previbuild shared paths and practices, to be concretely unitously separated by the Ikopa river. ed. The bridge, a metaphor of union and community, represents a link to the future, the possibility of having technological progress coexist with environmental sustainability and social development. We share well-being and development with ourcommunities communities 87 TGBS2019 THE MAHITSY POWER PLANT AND THE LOCAL COMMUNITY The agreement consists of an action plan that the The agreement also provides for the renovation of a The project for the construction of the Mahitsy hydrocompany has committed itself to start in 2019 and finboat for crossing the river and maintenance work on electric power plant by the subsidiary Hydelec was ish by the end of 2022 in support of local infrastructure, the main road connecting the villages as well as the accompanied by the signing of a Memorandum of Unwhich provides for the construction of: restoration of the local religious building. derstanding between the company and the village of a well for drinking water; In addition, priority is given to hiring local workers deVodiriana, which is about 1 km from the power plant. flooring in the primary school; pending on the skills required. the village chief's office; a health centre; a public toilet; a football pitch for the children. We share well-being and development with communities 88 TGBS2019 ACCESS TO DRINKING WATER THE MEDICAL FACILITY Bringing energy where there was none before means A radical improvement in the life and development Pregnant women, even from nearby villages, have being able to make water drinkable and especially to prospects of the local population took place in 2012 started to go to Tozzi Green's medical facilities to give distribute it: in Satrokala, Tozzi Green built distribution when Tozzi Green financed the construction of a medbirth, effectively eliminating post-natal mortality. points that deliver 12,000 litres of drinking water a day, ical facility run by specialised Malagasy personnel. The For patients needing major treatment that the medical giving the villagers access to guaranteed and hygieniclinic is the only healthcare facility in an extremely clinic is unable to provide, the company has donated an cally safe water for the first time ever. large area: many patients are cared for after making ambulance to allow them to reach the hospital, which To this end, drinking fountains have been placed at a long journey, often on foot, to find someone to take previously could only be reached in 12-15 hours by mule. several points in the village. The villagers themselves, care of their medical needs. aware of the importance of protecting their use and Since it began, more than 250,000 people have been presence, have placed signs on the fountains indicattreated free of charge, including children under 5 ing the times when they can be used. years of age who are given free medicine (11,000 children treated every year), thus helping to significantly reduce the very high infant mortality rate in the area. We share well-being and development with communities 89 TGBS2019 EDUCATION THROUGH SPORT of the villages, promoting the values of sport and alIn 2017, two players from the Academy of Ihorombe lowing young people from the region to travel all over were invited to Paris to kick off the opening ceremony The multidisciplinary approach of the company in the country to participate in competitions. In order to of the Six Nations Rugby Tournament. terms of impact on the local area has given rise to an attend the Academy, it is compulsory to participate In 2018 a partnership was established with the French innovative project of education through sport. Tozzi in school activities, so sport becomes an incentive company MANE in order to create an educational proGreen, together with the NGO Terres en Mêlées, foundfor literacy and an effective lever to bring many more ject focused on the issues of gender equality, cultural ed the Rugby Academy Ihorombe in 2017, attended by children closer to school. In an environment that is still diversity, and environmental sustainability. 537 young people between 7 and 18 years old. In May strongly patriarchal, this represents a valuable oppor2018, the first stadium ever in the province was inaugutunity of empowerment and emancipation for girls. rated. The project offers an opportunity for inclusion, A pass, a smile , the motto of the girls of the Rugby emancipation, and socialisation to the boys and girls Academy Ihorombe, clearly expresses the synthesis A pass, between sustainable development, solidarity, and human emancipation. a smile. We share well-being and development with our communities communities 90 TGBS2019 PELA’S STORY RUGBY AND THE GIRLS ciété Générale they asked her why she was so strong, EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES and in front of photographers and journalists she anPela, a top 15-year-old player in the Rugby Academy swered simply: “I learned to play on a hard, red ground. The development of communities living in disadvanIhorombe, was noticed in the provincial championships, I played against teams of boys. Of course, my training taged areas cannot disregard the progress of their edwhere she contributed to the rise of her team until she was was more tiring. Since I have been able to play on the ucational system. selected, in the summer of 2018, to train with the junior napitch built by Tozzi Green everything is better; we train Tozzi Green has accepted the challenge and over the tional women's team. This is a record, since it is the first time that a player from the coast has measured up to the girls of like professionals”. Pela spoke in France, knowing that years has built a pre-school and a high school and, for the national team, who typically come from the elite of the she was the spokesperson for all the Malagasy girls. It the children of its employees, a nursery school. highlands . was very clear to her that being there, in addition to fulPaola Turroni, writer, taken from the website filling a personal dream, had a strong symbolic value for www.tozzigreen.com/it/rugby-academy-ihorombe/ all the young women of her country. The younger girls look at her, admire her, and say I want to play like Pela . She lived alone, away from home, for four months. Her For the first time in the isolated inland villages of Madatenacity and desire for redemption took her all the way gascar, where life for women is predefined by rigid soto Paris, where on 1 February 2019 she, together with cial patterns, girls can think differently, stand as equals In 2019, a total of 826 her companions Marcelia and Sonia, participated in the on the pitch with boys, emancipate themselves from children had access kick-off of the Six Nations Rugby Tournament at the the roles that cultural tradition has assigned them, also Stade de France. At the press conference at the Soshowing their parents that another life is possible. to secondary education. We share well-being and development with communities 91 TGBS2019 4.5 Tozzi Green Book: education for sustainability Tozzi Green concretely promotes through all its busiThe first book “L’energia della natura” (The Energy of In September 2019 Tozzi Green presented its new pubness activities an idea of economic progress based on Nature) tells young children the story of the Photovollishing project, entitled “Le soin de la terre”, at the Inrespect for the environment and social progress, in ortaic Meadow of Sant'Alberto (Ravenna) and the ecoternational Agricultural Fair FIA in which it took part. der to ensure sustainable well-being for future generasystem that surrounds it, showing the benefits and The book describes the efforts and techniques used tions. Educating young people, who are the future, on opportunities of sustainable innovation in a form that to make the red earth of Ihorombe fertile again. It is these issues becomes an indispensable challenge that is attractive and engaging for everyone. intended primarily for the children of the villages where the company has accepted also through the publishing The second book, “Una casa piena di sole” (A House Tozzi Green operates, and was designed with the intenactivities of Tozzi Green Book, a brand launched in OcFilled with Sunshine) is dedicated to the community of tion of educating the local population on the environtober 2018 and aimed at school-age readers and their Peru and the story of the rural electrification project. mental and economic implications of using the land in parents. Renewable energies, the future of the new The use of simple language that is suitable for young a respectful manner. The aim is to ensure the mainmillennium, are presented in the captivating form of children makes the message clear to everyone, includtaining of a series of correct methodologies aimed at an illustrated story. The Group's activities in Italy, Peru, ing their parents and the adult population in general. ensuring the food autonomy of the population. and Madagascar are described, going beyond a merely Telling the details of the project allows the community didactic approach, through stories whose protagonists to become involved, making it more responsible and are children and sometimes their best friends, animals. competent. The book also becomes a cultural tool for learning the national language and for broadening the prospects for social integration. We share well-being and development with communities 92 TGBS2019 We share well-being and development with communities 93 TGBS2019 94 TGBS2019 NOTE ON METHODOLOGY DATA TABLES AND INDICATORS ANALYTICAL INDEX We share well-being and development with our communities 95 TGBS2019 1. 3. Note • Andrea Baruzzi, O&M Objectives and reference standards The process of defining • Angelo Coppacchioli, the relevant (material) issues on methodology (GRI 102-50; 102-51; 102-52; 102-54) Head of the Peru Project The 2019 Sustainability Report of the Tozzi (GRI 102-46; 102-47) • Nicola Armaroli, Group controller Green S.p.A. Group, with headquarters in The GRI Sustainability Reporting • Roberto Fagnocchi, CFO Mezzano (Ra) at Via Brigata Ebraica 50, Guidelines, which Tozzi Green has decided • Alessandro Berti, refers to the period between 1 January to adopt as a reporting standard in the Head of the Madagascar Project and 31 December 2019. This document Referenced mode (see Content Index), • Giampaolo Cimatti, Engineering represents the first non-financial reporting require the report to state the so-called • Grazia Ramponi, HR & Communication practice carried out by the Group. material aspects, i.e. the impacts deemed • Marco Alessandra, Communication As a methodological reference, this Report significant for the organisation • Massimo Lo Rizzo, BoD employs the principles defined by the from an economic, environmental, • Fabio Cavallari, Editorial and association Sustainability Reporting Standards and social point of view, which affect projects consultant of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) its business and which are relevant to according to the referenced approach. stakeholders' interests and expectations. The working group was involved The process of identifying the material both in the presentation of the project 2. aspects to be reported in the and in the subsequent phases through inScope of Reporting Sustainability Report was carried out depth meetings, during which the relevant (GRI 102-45; 102-48) according to the following four phases: stakeholders for the Group were identified The 2019 Sustainability Report describes and the individual categories were defined. the environmental, social and economic 1 _ PLANNING PHASE in which performance of the Tozzi Green Group the objectives to be pursued, according to the scope of reporting the scope, and the people within corresponding to the company's the Group involved in the process consolidated financial statements as at 31 were defined. To this end, a working December 2019 summarised in the 2018group coordinated by the Communication 2019 Scope of Consolidation Comparison Department was set up, consisting of: Table in the data and tables section. • Andrea Tozzi, CEO Unless otherwise specified, this document • Luca Dallaglio, Procurement compares the qualitative and quantitative • Cristiano Vitali, information for the two-year period 2019International Business Development 2018. Any exceptions and changes in the • Riccardo Masetti, QHSE scope are indicated in the note below • Franco Salcone, the tables or in the text. Italy Business Development Note on methodology 96 TGBS2019 2 _ IDENTIFICATION PHASE External sources: 3 _ ASSIGNMENT OF THE DEGREE via the mapping, the main expectations OF THE RELEVANT ISSUES. b. GRI Standards. OF RELEVANCE OF THE ISSUES and positions from the outside world that This phase was carried out through the c. Due diligence and impact studies IDENTIFIED. the Group faces in its relationship with its analysis of a number of internal sources on agricultural activities in Madagascar. In order to define priorities, each relevant stakeholders were identified. closely linked to the company's business d. Text of the tender for the issue was assessed on the basis of two Relevance to the company. situation and external sources in order Rural Electrification Project in Peru. aspects: The issues identified were analysed from to gain a broader understanding of the e. EIA impact studies for plants built in relevance to stakeholders; the point of view of their impact on the relevant issues that have arisen at the Italy. impact on corporate strategies. company's strategies, through one-onnational and international level. The f. Reporting documents for renewable Relevance to stakeholders. one interviews with the heads of the main analysis started with the identification of energy operators. Tozzi Green dealt for the first time with the company departments belonging to the the issues reported in the sustainability g. EU and Italian Government materiality analysis for the preparation working group. guidelines most often applied at the institutional documentation. of the Sustainability Report drawn up international level (GRI Standards), which h. Analysis of articles taken from selected according to the GRI Standards. Therefore, 4 _ Validation. are considered representative of the press review, using the keyword Energy the Company considered it premature The list of issues that arose was perspective outside the company, since production from renewable sources for to immediately initiate a stakeholder therefore validated by the Group's CEO, they are identified in multi-stakeholder the period 01/09/2019 30/09/2019 in the engagement process specifically aimed at Andrea Tozzi. comparisons at the international level. major national newspapers. systematically identifying These issues were then contextualised i. Analysis of articles taken from the priorities expressed by its stakeholders with respect to the business sector of the selected press review, using the keyword on the issues identified, despite the Calculation criteria. Tozzi Green Group through the benchmark Tozzi Green for the period 01/03/2019 fact that it has extensive experience in The employment effect produced by the conducted on the sustainability reports of 30/09/2019 in the major national dialoguing with and involving stakeholders companies under contract was calculated several of the main companies operating newspapers. in various aspects of its activities. by dividing the total number of hours in the renewable energy sector at the The identification of the issues and worked during 2019 by 1,550, which is an national and international level and Through the analysis of the sources and in their relevance to stakeholders is, estimate of the net hours worked annually through an initial analysis of the main light of the expertise of the management therefore, based on a combination of by a full-time worker in Italy according issues that arose from the systematic involved in the process, a list of relevant subjective assessments, expressed by top to the National Collective Bargaining examination of the press reviews of the issues was defined and grouped by their management during dedicated interviews, Agreement for metalworkers. last 6 months. aspects. and based on external sources. a. Internal point of view: Through interviews with managers who, website; almost on a daily basis, due to their roles Consolidated financial statements; within the company and because they are Code of Ethics and Model 231; representatives of the local community of documentation written over the years reference, are in direct contact with many available to the company. of the stakeholders that were identified Note on methodology 97 TGBS2019 Tables of data TABLE COMPARING THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION, 2018-2019 31 DECEMBER 2019 31 December 2018 Company and indicators Tozzi Green S.p.A. Country Italy Share capital Shareholding % Country 2,300,000 Holding AREA Italy Share capital Shareholding % 2,300,000 Holding AREA Idrorivello S.r.l. ---Italy 25,000 70% TG S.r.l. Italy 50,000 92% Italy 50,000 80% Daunia Solar Cell S.r.l. Italy 10,000 90% Italy 10,000 90% JTF S.r.l. Italy 10,000 100% Italy 10,000 100% Solarwind 2 S.r.l. Italy 10,000 100% Italy 10,000 100% Solar Farm S.r.l. Italy 3,000,000 65% Italy 3,000,000 65% FV Alfonsine S.r.l. Italy 10,000 100% Italy 10,000 100% Tecnoteam S.r.l. Italy 10,320 100% Italy 10,320 100% S. Giovanni Biogas S.r.l. Italy 10,000 90% Italy 10,000 90% Tozzi Green Madagascar Madagascar 122,703 65% Madagascar 125,836 100% Ergon Perù Peru 23,182,022 90% Peru 22,744,701 90% Tre Perù Peru 203,501 99% Peru 283 99% Hydelec Madagascar 674,866 65% Madagascar 692,099 100% Geas S.r.l. Italy 10,000 100% Italy 10,000 100% Cerignola Wind S.r.l. Italy 100,000 100% Italy 100,000 100% Pars Green Technology Horizon Iran 837 100% Iran 832 100% Mahitsy Hydro Madagascar 24,053,567 33% Madagascar 16,034,046 51% Lucera Wind S.r.l. Italy 100,000 100% Italy 100,000 100% Idroliri S.r.l. Italy 10,000 70% Italy 10,000 70% JTF Madagascar Madagascar 736,218 100% Madagascar 755,017 100% Tozzi Green Japan Japan 41,004 100% Japan 39,730 100% Tozzi Green Hydro Madagascar Madagascar 245,406 100% Madagascar 252 100% Tozzi Green Maurice Mauritius 4,519,619 65% Mauritius 6,260 100% TG Aromatics Madagascar 2,454 100% Madagascar 2,517 90% TG Logistique Madagascar 2,454 100% Madagascar 2,517 90% Sambava Epices Madagascar 19,632 60% Madagascar 20,134 60% Tozzi Green Int. Development Italy 10,000 70% Simto Madagascar 14,684,265 51% ATG Madagascar 2,454 100% Tsinjo Hydro Madagascar 2,454 65% Tables of data and indicators 98 TGBS2019 EMPLOYEES BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY CLASSIFICATION (GRI 102-8) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total Blue-collar 0 10 10 0 10 10 4 32 36 2 23 25 17 146 163 14 127 141 0 0 0 0 0 0 21 188 209 16 160 176 workers White-collar 30 35 65 28 31 59 14 26 40 10 26 36 22 25 47 19 16 35 1 2 3 1 2 3 67 88 155 58 75 133 workers Managers 3 10 13 3 9 12 1 3 4 0 0 0 10 14 24 7 12 19 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 27 41 10 21 31 Executives 0 5 5 0 4 4 0 2 2 1 5 6 1 7 8 1 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 14 15 2 11 13 Total 33 60 93 31 54 85 19 63 82 13 54 67 50 192 242 41 157 198 1 2 3 1 2 3 103 317 420 86 267 353 W = Women; M = Men BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT (GRI 102-8) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total With permanent 29 56 85 30 48 78 4 21 25 11 47 58 50 182 232 40 154 194 0 0 0 0 0 0 83 259 342 81 249 330 contract With temporary 4 4 8 6 1 7 15 42 57 2 7 9 0 10 10 1 3 4 1 2 3 1 2 3 20 58 78 5 18 23 contract Full-time 27 60 87 26 54 80 19 62 81 13 54 67 50 192 242 41 156 197 1 1 2 1 1 2 97 315 412 81 266 347 Part-time 6 0 6 5 0 5 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 6 2 8 5 1 6 W = Women; M = Men During 2019, seven temporary contracts were converted into permanent contracts (6 men and 1 woman). Tables of data and indicators 99 TGBS2019 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUPS (GRI 102-8) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total up to 30 years old 3 2 5 7 1 8 13 23 36 7 23 30 19 56 75 17 45 62 1 1 2 1 1 2 36 82 118 32 70 102 from 30 to 50 26 40 66 22 41 63 5 34 39 5 26 31 27 113 140 90 23 113 0 1 1 0 1 1 58 188 246 50 158 208 years old over 50 years old 4 18 22 2 12 14 1 6 7 1 5 6 4 23 27 1 22 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 9 47 56 4 39 43 TRAINING HOURS BY CLASSIFICATION AND GENDER (GRI 404-1) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total Blue-collar 0 85 85 0 27.5 27.5 0 0 0 0 150 150 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 85 85 0 178 177.5 workers White-collar 109 231 340 63 7 70 0 348 348 0 0 0 232 68 300 180 0 180 0 0 0 0 0 0 341 647 988 243 7 250 workers Managers 258 294 552 102 70 172 771 1,486 2,257 450 900 1,350 300 68 368 260 45 305 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,329 1,848 3,177 812 1,015 1,827 Executives 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 367 610 977 165 104.5 269.5 771 1834 2,605 450 1,050 1,500 532 136 668 440 45 485 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,670 2,580 4,250 1,055 1,200 2,254.50 AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY CLASSIFICATION AND GENDER (GRI 404-1) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total Blue-collar 0 17 17 0 6.88 6.88 0 0 0 0 30 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.07 5.67 0 16.13 13.6 workers White-collar 36.33 23.1 26.15 21 0.78 5.83 0 116 87 0 0 0 23.2 4.86 12.5 25.71 0 9.47 0 0 0 0 0 0 24.3 23.9 24.1 24.3 0.33 8.06 workers Managers 8.6 8.4 8.49 3.64 2.26 2.92 55.07 57.15 56.43 45 34.62 37.5 13.64 2.72 7.83 13.68 2.81 8.71 0 0 0 0 0 0 19.9 21 20.5 14 13.53 13.74 Executives 0 29.4 0 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.47 0 0 0.35 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.34 0 Total 11.12 10.17 10.51 5.32 1.94 3.17 40.58 29.11 31.77 34.62 19.44 22.39 0.71 10.64 2.76 10.73 0.29 2.45 0 0 0 0 0 0 16.21 8.14 10.12 12.27 4.49 6.39 W = Women; M = Men Tables of data and indicators 100 TGBS2019 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY GENDER, AGE GROUPS, AND COUNTRY (GRI 01-1) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total Number of people hired 3 9 12 1 5 6 16 37 53 3 26 29 24 83 107 23 57 80 0 1 1 0 0 0 43 130 173 27 88 115 during the period up to 30 years old 1 2 3 1 0 1 12 13 25 2 12 14 11 32 43 9 14 23 0 0 0 0 0 0 24 47 71 12 26 38 from 30 to 50 years 2 3 5 0 4 4 4 20 24 1 14 15 10 42 52 13 37 50 0 1 1 0 0 0 16 66 82 14 55 69 old over 50 years old 0 4 4 0 1 1 0 4 4 0 0 0 3 9 12 1 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 17 20 1 7 8 Number of people who left 2 7 9 0 3 3 10 27 37 3 7 10 15 44 59 20 48 68 0 1 1 0 0 0 27 79 106 23 58 81 during the period up to 30 years old 0 1 1 0 0 0 6 8 14 3 1 4 6 18 24 5 12 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 27 39 8 13 21 from 30 to 50 years 2 4 6 0 2 2 4 15 19 0 5 5 9 19 28 14 32 46 0 1 1 0 0 0 15 39 54 14 39 53 old over 50 years old 0 2 2 0 1 1 0 4 4 0 1 1 0 7 7 1 4 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 13 13 1 6 7 W = Women; M = Men TRAINING HOURS BY SUBJECT, 2019 ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR GROUP 2019 2019 2019 2019 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total Management 88 309 397 255 388 643 0 0 0 343 697 1,040 skills Foreign 215 285 500 516 1,446 1,962 0 0 0 731 1,731 2462 Languages Other 64 16 80 0 0 0 444 136 580 508 152 660 Total 367 610 977 771 1,834 2,605 444 136 580 1582 2,580 4162 W = Women; M = Men Tables of data and indicators 101 TGBS2019 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE BY GENDER, AGE GROUPS, AND COUNTRY (GRI 401-1) ITALY PERU MADAGASCAR REST OF THE WORLD GROUP 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total W M Total Turnover rate at entry up to 30 years old 33% 100% 60% 14% 0% 13% 92% 57% 69% 29% 52% 47% 58% 57% 57% 53% 31% 37% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 67% 57% 60% 38% 37% 37% from 30 to 50 years 8% 8% 8% 0% 10% 6% 80% 59% 62% 20% 54% 48% 37% 37% 37% 57% 41% 44% 0% 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 28% 35% 33% 28% 35% 33% old over 50 years old 0% 22% 18% 0% 8% 7% 0% 67% 57% 0% 0% 0% 75% 39% 44% 100% 27% 30% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 33% 36% 36% 25% 18% 19% Turnover rate at exit up to 30 years old 0% 50% 20% 0% 0% 0% 46% 35% 39% 43% 4% 13% 32% 32% 32% 29% 27% 27% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 33% 33% 33% 25% 19% 21% from 30 to 50 years 8% 10% 9% 0% 5% 3% 80% 44% 49% 0% 19% 16% 33% 17% 20% 61% 36% 41% 0% 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 26% 21% 22% 28% 25% 25% old over 50 years old 0% 11% 9% 0% 8% 7% 0% 67% 57% 0% 20% 17% 0% 30% 26% 100% 18% 22% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 28% 23% 25% 15% 16% W = Women; M = Men Tables of data and indicators 102 TGBS2019 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE THE CREATION OF ADDED VALUE (GRI 201-1) THE DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 VALUE OF PRODUCTION 147,299,488 127,204,430 STAFF REMUNERATION 9,489,578 6,892,640 Revenues from sales and services 144,763,525 124,051,382 Staff and related costs 9,223,751 6,697,025 Other revenues and income 2,535,963 3,153,048 Employees’ severance indemnity 265,826 195,615 (TFR) and pensions COSTS OF PRODUCTION 84,775,334 76,125,641 Raw materials, consumables and goods 62,281,000 54,885,018 REMUNERATION OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 7,961,730 8,373,226 Services 14,590,675 16,092,745 Income taxes and duties 7,961,730 8,373,226 Leases and rentals 551,880 3,286,217 REMUNERATION OF LOAN CAPITAL 12,165,684 5,860,295 Provisions and writedowns 5,853,911 1,416,119 Shortand long-term capital charges 12,165,684 5,860,295 Other operating expenses 1,497,868 445,542 REMUNERATION OF RISK CAPITAL 32,186,808 2,368,821 ADDED VALUE FOR ORDINARY OPERATIONS 62,524,155 51,078,789 Distributed profits 32,186,808 2,368,821 Extraordinary income components (-) -3,865,507 COMPANY REMUNERATION* -19,180,055 15,035,327 TOTAL GROSS ADDED VALUE 58,658,647 51,078,789 Undistributed profits -19,180,055 15,035,327 Depreciation 14,161,759 11,136,689 TRANSFERS TO THE COMMUNITY 1,873,143 1,411,791 TOTAL NET ADDED VALUE 44,496,888 39,942,100 Local taxes and duties 1,873,143 1,411,791 TOTAL NET ADDED VALUE 44,496,888 39,942,100 *These are extraordinarily distributed profits higher than the consolidated profits achieved CLASSIFICATION OF SUPPLIERS BY AMOUNT AND LOCATION (thousands of euros) CLASSIFICATION OF SUPPLIERS BY AMOUNT AND TYPE OF SUPPLY (thousands of euros) 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Suppliers, Italy 28,300,763 Construction works 6,235,134 21,137,178 Suppliers, Peru 25,181,459 15,359,134 Electrical installations and works 19,131,561 35,901,134 Suppliers, Madagascar 25,366,695 15,537,549 RER systems 31,756,002 34,690,423 Rest of the world 31,756,002 47,890,423 Installation services 25,181,459 15,359,134 Total 82,304,156 107,087,869 Total 82,304,156 107,087,869 Tables of data and indicators 103 TGBS2019 MULTI-YEAR INVESTMENTS (thousands of euros) WAGES AND SALARIES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 two-year total 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Investments in plants and infrastructure 82,304,156 107,087,869 189,392,025 Remuneration of staff in Italy 6,111,738 4,535,364 Remuneration of staff in Madagascar 1,759,016 1,443,944 of which: Remuneration of staff in Peru 1,593,319 884,504 Italy 0 41,500,763 41,500,763 Remuneration of staff in the rest of the world 25,505 28,828 Madagascar 25,366,695 15,537,549 40,904,244 Total 9,489,578 6,892,640 Peru 56,937,461 50,049,557 106,987,018 of which: Hydroelectric 25,366,695 15,537,549 40,904,244 Wind 41,500,763 41,500.763 Rural Electrification 56,937,461 50,049,557 106,987,018 INCOME TAXES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA LOCAL TAXES AND DUTIES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 31.12.2019 31.12.2018 Taxes and duties paid in Italy 2,686,355 4,095,468 Local taxes and duties paid in Italy 195,026 211,634 Taxes and duties paid in Peru 4,094,930 2,036,441 Local taxes and duties paid in Peru 1,176,195 377,966 Taxes and duties paid in Madagascar 1,508,035 2,240,746 Local taxes and duties paid in Madagascar 500,104 821,849 Taxes and duties paid in the rest of the world 22,410 571 Local taxes and duties paid in the rest of the world 1,850 342 Total 7,961,730 8,373,226 Total 1,873,175 1,411,791 Tables of data and indicators 104 TGBS2019 ENERGY SECTOR PRODUCTION INSTALLED CAPACITY* ENERGY PRODUCTION* UM 2019 2018 UM 2019 2018 Wind Farms ** MW 53.5 37 Wind Farms MWh 122,164.81 66,748.85 Hydroelectric Plants MW 11.4 17.4 Hydroelectric Plants MWh 49,744.50 91,900 Photovoltaic Plants MW 29.3 24.5 Photovoltaic Plants MWh 44,033 33,286.86 Biogas plants *** MW 13.1 13.1 Biogas/Biomass plants * MWh 75,745.7 89,332.68 Total MW 107.3 92 Total MWh 291,688.01 281,286.39 * The installed capacity was calculated according to the percentage owned by the Group of the * The energy production shown in the table is in proportion to Tozzi Green's equity interests in companies owning the plants at the end of 2019. each plant. The scope includes the AGRITRE photovoltaic plant owned by the Group holding ** This figure includes 1 MW produced by small wind turbines. company. *** This figure includes the power of the Sant'Agata biomass power plant, which is no longer owned by the Group as at the date of publication, but was part of the Group during 2019. Tables of data and indicators 105 TGBS2019 CO2 AVOIDED * (GRI 305-5) ENERGY CONSUMPTION FOR ENERGY PRODUCTION (GRI 302-1) UM 2019 2018 UM 2019 2018 Wind Farms tonnes 85,515.00 46,724.00 Wind* Hydroelectric Plants tonnes 34,821.00 61,732.00 Self-produced and self-consumed electricity kWh 1,834,244 834,614 Photovoltaic Plants tonnes 30,000.00 23,300.00 Photovoltaic Biomass and Biogas plants tonnes 2,400.00 54,445.00 Self-produced and self-consumed electricity kWh 2,246,137 1,448,584.49 Total tonnes 152,736.00 186,201.00 Energy purchased from third parties** kWh 824,741 423,563.40 Biomass and Biogas * CO2 emissions are reduced by approximately 0.7 tonne per MWh produced compared to the Italian thermoelectric production mix. Maize, sorghum flour, and by-products (San Giovanni Biogas) ton 18,438 18,672.5 (https://www.sunearthtools.com/it/tools/CO2-emissions-calculator.php) Self-produced and self-consumed electricity kWh 17,187,441 9,168,759 * Does not include small wind turbines ** Approximately 10% from renewable sources (estimated based on the energy supply mix indicated in the bills from the broker AXPO, the Group's supplier, with reference to its purchase portfolio, which varies between 11 and 13%). ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF HEADQUARTERS AND OFFICES* (GRI 302-1) ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF COMPANY VEHICLES (GRI 302-1) UM 2019 2018 UM 2019 2018 From non-renewable sources Diesel for motor vehicles litres 77,351.26 82,928.28 Natural gas m³ 33,726.00 24,950.67 Petrol litres 5,896.44 6,439.99 From renewable sources Natural gas for motor vehicles m³ 1,832.80 1,837.60 Electricity from renewable energy produced kWh 369,180.00 363,052.90 * Scope limited to vehicles belonging to the Mezzano office plus bulldozer of the San Giovanni and self-consumed (rooftop photovoltaic system) plant (biogas). Energy purchased from third parties** kWh 1,665,090.00 1,939,430.00 *Scope limited to the Tozzi Green S.p.A. headquarters in Mezzano. ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF AGRICULTURE SECTOR (GRI 302-1) **Approximately 10% from renewable sources (conservative estimate based on the energy supply mix indicated in the bills from the Group's broker supplier, with reference to its purchase portfolio, which varies between 11 and 13%). UM 2019 2018 ** Tozzi Green has a lease contract with TSS (Tozzi Shared Services) for the headquarters; therefore, it is TSS that owns the two photovoltaic systems and the gas and electricity supply contracts. With the exception of waste, Diesel fuel litres 594,041.35 609,035.56 which is collected as Tozzi Campus (Buildings A, B, and C) and therefore it is not possible to distinguish them, the consumption is that specific to Building B and part of Building C (due to the presence of Daunia Solar Cell Laboratory). Fuel oil (for generators) litres 35,805.01 6,910.30 Petrol litres 2,363.76 972.25 Tables of data and indicators 106 TGBS2019 TOTAL GROUP ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GRI 302-1) UM 2019 2018 DIRECT CONSUMPTION from non-renewable sources GJ 26,659.64 25,996.75 Natural gas for heating GJ 1,315.65 973.33 Diesel fuel GJ 21,013.34 21,543.73 Fuel oil GJ 1,266.55 244.44 Natural gas for motor vehicles GJ 71.50 71.68 Diesel for motor vehicles GJ 2,736.19 2,933.47 Petrol for motor vehicles GJ 256.42 230.09 DIRECT CONSUMPTION from renewable sources GJ 77,893.21 42,534.01 Self-produced and self-consumed electricity (100% renewable sources) GJ 77,893.21 42,534.01 INDIRECT CONSUMPTION (SCOPE II) GJ 8,963.39 8,506.78 Electricity purchased from third parties from non-renewable sources (90%) GJ 8,067.05 7,656.10 10% from renewable sources GJ 896.34 850.68 TOTAL GROUP CO2 EMISSIONS WASTE (GRI 306-2) UM 2019 2018 Biomass and DIRECT CONSUMPTION from non-renewable sources Wind Photovoltaic Hydroelectric Biogas Natural gas for heating t CO2 73.62 54.44 UM 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Diesel fuel t CO2 1,546.12 1,585.14 Waste ton 0 8.12 398.7 320.2 0 1.67 38.43 11.7 Fuel oil t CO2 97.06 18.73 Hazardous waste produced ton 0 0 0.86 0.5 0 0.31 3.88 3.28 Natural gas for motor vehicles t CO2 2.79 2.80 portion sent for recovery ton 0 0 0.63 0.37 0 0.01 3.88 3.28 Diesel for motor vehicles t CO2 201.32 215.84 portion sent for disposal ton 0 0 0.23 0.13 0 0.3 0 0 Petrol for motor vehicles t CO2 18.80 16.87 Non-hazardous waste produced ton 0 8.12 397.84 319.7 0 1.36 34.55 8.4 DIRECT CONSUMPTION from renewable sources Self-produced and self-consumed electricity (100% renewable) t CO2 0.00 0.00 portion sent for recovery ton 0 5.45 166.36 4.16 0 0.12 32.86 4.69 TOTAL DIRECT EMISSIONS (SCOPE I) (GRI 305-1)* t CO2 1,939.71 1,893.83 portion sent for disposal ton 0 2.68 231.48 315.5 0 1.24 1.69 3.71 INDIRECT CONSUMPTION Electricity purchased from third parties from non-renewable sources (90%) t CO2 689.51 654.38 Electricity purchased from third parties from renewable sources (10%) t CO2 0.00 0.00 TOTAL INDIRECT EMISSIONS t CO2 689.51 654.38 from non-renewable sources (SCOPE II) (GRI 305-2)** TOTAL EMISSIONS t CO2 2,629.22 2,548.21 *Source of conversion factors for direct CO2 consumption: Table of national standards published by the Ministry of the Environment for the period 01 January 31 December 2019 **Source of conversion coefficients for indirect CO2 consumption: Greenhouse gas emission factor of the electrical power sector for electricity generation (gCO2/kWh) in Italy Ispra Report 2019 Tables of data and indicators 107 TGBS2019 AGRICULTURE SECTOR CULTIVATED AREA (ha) PRODUCTION (tonnes) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Maize 4,085 3,502 Maize 15,556 18,041 Soy 68 18 Soy 185 17.2 Geranium 93.6 63.4 Geranium 24,895 1,530 Aromatic plants 1.03 0.2 Aromatic plants 0.021 0.028 Cover plants 2,039 2,373 Cover plants 0 0 Jatropha 33 50 Jatropha 2.6 2.17 Eucalyptus and reforestation 18.31 0 Eucalyptus and reforestation 0 0 Total 6,337.94 6,006.6 CONSUMPTION OF MATERIALS WASTE* (GRI 306-2) UM 2019 2018 UM 2019 2018 Maize seed kg 85,194.35 67,159.17 Batteries kg 800 310 Soy seed kg 5,756.8 799.4 Filters kg 330 60 Cover crop seed kg 73,978.37 90,940.86 Used oils kg 8,330.00 2,400.00 Peanut seed kg 259.9 291.0 * waste is collected and disposed of through specialised companies. Grains kg 3,368,150.06 3,047,705.92 Plant protection products litres 7,605.95 5,166.5 Plant protection products kg 1,279.5 733.0 Tables of data and indicators 108 TGBS2019 109 TGBS2019 GRI indicators Indicator description Sections Page Notes Analytical Organisational profile 102-1 Name of organisation 2.1.4 Group organisation and structure 16 index 102-2 102-3 Activities, brands, products, and services Registered Office 2.1 The Group today 2.1.3 Local presence 12 14 102-4 Operating headquarters 2.1.3 Local presence 14 102-5 Ownership structure and legal status 2.1.4 Group organisation and structure 16 102-6 Markets served 2.1.2 Markets served and positioning 13 102-7 Size of the organisation 1.2 Group highlights 7-8 Information about employees and other 102-8 2.5 Our team 42 GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURE workers 102-9 Supply chain 2.4.4 Suppliers Sustainability partners 40-41 (2016) 102-11 Prudential principle or approach 2.3 Tozzi Green's approach to sustainability 22 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 102-12 External initiatives 74 populations Strategy 102-14 Statement of the senior decision-maker Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 3 Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards, and rules 102-16 2.3 Tozzi Green's approach to sustainability 22 of conduct Governance 102-18 Corporate governance structure 2.2 Governance 18 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder mapping table 28 102-42 Stakeholder identification and selection 2.3.3 Stakeholder engagement 26 102-43 Mode of stakeholder involvement 2.3.3 Stakeholder engagement 26 102-44 Main issues raised 2.3.4 Material issues 29 Reporting procedures Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 Note on methodology 96 financial statements Definition of the contents of the report 102-46 Note on methodology 96 and scope of issues 102-47 List of relevant issues 2.3.4 Material issues 31 102-48 Repeat information Note on methodology 96 102-49 Changes in reporting Note on methodology 96 102-50 Reporting period Note on methodology 96 102-51 Date of most recent report Note on methodology 96 102-52 Reporting cycle Note on methodology 96 102-54 Reporting statement under GRI standards Note on methodology 96 102-55 GRI Standards Content Index Content Index 110 Analytical index 110 TGBS2019 GRI indicators Indicator description Sections Page Notes SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE (2016) GRI 201: Economic performance Material issue: Creation of sustainable value over time 201-1 Added value produced and distributed 2.4.3 Added value produced and distributed 38 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 103-1 2.4 Creating value 32 and related scope 103-2 Management approach and related components 2.4 Creating value 32 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.4 Creating value 32 GRI 205: Anti-corruption Material issue: Business integrity and ethics The company is not aware of Confirmed occurrences of corruption any incidents of corruption 205-3 and actions taken during the period in question. GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 103-1 2.2 Governance 18 and related scope 103-2 Management approach and related components 2.2 Governance 18 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.2 Governance 18 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts Material issue: Development of local areas and support of the populations 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 203-2 Indirect economic impacts populations et seq. 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 203-1 Investments in communities populations et seq. GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-1 and related scope populations et seq. Management approach and related 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-2 components populations et seq. 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach populations et seq. GRI 204: Procurement Material issue: Development of local areas and support of the populations Percentage of expenditure on local 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 82204-1 suppliers populations 84 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-1 and related scope populations et seq. Management approach and related 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-2 components populations et seq. 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach populations et seq. Analytical index 111 TGBS2019 GRI indicators Indicator description Sections Page Notes SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE (2016) GRI 302: Energy consumption 302-1 Energy consumption 3.4.2 Usage of energy resources 66 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 64 103-1 3.4 Environmental impacts and related scope et seq. Management approach and related 64 103-2 3.4 Environmental impacts components et seq. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 et seq. GRI 304: Biodiversity 3.4.7 Environmental aspects of agricultural activity 70 304-3 Protected or restored habitats in Madagascar et seq. GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 3.4.7 Environmental aspects of agricultural activity 70 103-1 and related scope in Madagascar et seq. Management approach and related 3.4.7 Environmental aspects of agricultural activity 70 103-2 components in Madagascar et seq. 3.4.7 Environmental aspects of agricultural activity 70 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach in Madagascar et seq. 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 3.4 Environmental impacts 67 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 3.4 Environmental impacts 67 305-3 CO2 avoided 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 103-1 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 and related scope Management approach and related 103-2 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 306 Waste 306-2 Waste 3.4 Environmental impacts 64 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 103-1 3.4.5 Waste management 69 and related scope Management approach and related 103-2 3.4.5 Waste management 69 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3.4.5 Waste management 69 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.5 Our team 42 et seq. Analytical index 112 TGBS2019 GRI indicators Indicator description Sections Page Notes SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE (2016) GRI 401: Employment Material issue: Quality employment and human capital engagement 2.5 Our team 42 401-1 New hiring and staff turnover Tables and indicators in the appendix 101 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 42 103-1 2.5 Our team and related scope et seq. Management approach and related 42 103-2 2.5 Our team components et seq. Material issue: Quality employment and human capital engagement Average annual hours of training 404-1 2.5 Our team 46 per employee GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of relevant issues and related scope 2.5 Our team 46 Management approach and related 103-2 2.5 Our team 46 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.5 Our team 46 GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunities Material issue: Quality employment and human capital engagement Diversity in relation to corporate 405-1 2.5 Our team 46 Limited to employees. governance bodies and employees Ratio of base salary 405-2 and remuneration of women compared 2.5 Our team 47 to men GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 42 103-1 2.5 Our team and related scope et seq. Management approach and related 42 103-2 2.5 Our team components et seq. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.5 Our team 42 et seq. GRI 406: Principle of non-discrimination Material issue: Quality employment and human capital engagement The company is not Incidents of discrimination and corrective aware of any incidents of 406-1 actions taken discrimination during the period in question. GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 42 103-1 2.5 Our team and related scope et seq. Management approach and related 42 103-2 2.5 Our team components et seq. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.5 Our team 42 et seq. Analytical index 113 TGBS2019 GRI indicators Indicator description Sections Page Notes SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE (2016) GRI 403: Occupational safety and health Material issue: Health and safety 403-2 Accident frequency rate 2.6 Health and safety 49 GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 48103-1 2.6 Health and safety and related scope 49 Management approach and related 48103-2 2.6 Health and safety components 49 48103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.6 Health and safety 49 GRI 413: Local communities Material issue: Development of local areas and support of the populations Operations with the participation 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 413-1 of local communities, impact assessments, populations et seq. and development programs GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-1 and related scope populations et seq. Management approach and related 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-2 components populations et seq. 4.1 Development of local areas and support of the 74 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach populations et seq. GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance Material issue: Compliance with regulations and combating illegal activities Failure to comply with social and economic There were no cases of non419-1 laws and regulations compliance in 2019. GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 103-1 2.2 Governance 18 and related scope Management approach and related 103-2 2.2 Governance 18 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2.2 Governance 18 Material issue: Research and innovation GRI 103: Management approach Explanation of relevant issues 52 103-1 3.1 Research and innovation and related scope et seq. Management approach and related 52 103-2 3.1 Research and innovation components et seq. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 3.1 Research and innovation 52 et seq. Analytical index 114 TGBS2019 115 TGBS2019 Tozzi Green S.p.A. Editorial design: Via Brigata Ebraica, 50 Agenzia Image 48123 Mezzano (RA) Italy Graphic design and layout: www.tozzigreen.com Francesca Zini Photographs: Tozzi Green Photo Archive © 116 TGBS2019 www.tozzigreen.com
