ANNUAL REVIEW 2019 SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Annual Review 2019 CONTENTS CARGOTEC SMARTER CARGO FLOW Year 2019 ................................................................. 3 Cargotec in brief .......................................................................... 4 FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Business areas in brief ................................................................ 5 Cargotec is a leading provider of cargo and load handling CEO review ................................................................................. 6 solutions with the goal of becoming the leader in intelligent Highlights of the year .................................................................. 8 cargo handling. Our solutions and services make global trade Key figures ................................................................................... 9 smarter, better and more sustainable. As leading players in ports, on roads and at sea, our business areas Kalmar, Hiab Strategy ................................................................... 11 and MacGregor can optimise global cargo flows and create sustainable customer value. We want to lead the industry Megatrends drive growth ............................................................ 12 transformation and turn cargo and load handling into an Refined strategy in execution ...................................................... 14 intelligent and sustainable business for a better everyday. Targets and outcomes ................................................................. 16 Value creation .............................................................................. 18 Sustainability .......................................................... 19 Cargotec is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and through our operations we also support the UN Sustainable Sustainability as a business driver ............................................. 20 Development Goals. More information is available in this document’s Sustainability section, our GRI index, and from the Personnel ............................................................... 25 Sustainability section on our website www.cargotec.com. Empowering our people through learning and collaboration ...... 26 Business areas ....................................................... 29 Kalmar ...................................................................................... 30 Hiab .......................................................................................... 33 MacGregor ................................................................................ 36 2 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas YEAR Our comparable operating profit was good, our service business developed well, and our order book is strong. Our strategy proceeded as planned. MacGregor’s situation continued to be challenging. Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas CARGOTEC IN BRIEF Sales, MEUR 3,683 Comparable operating profit, MEUR 264.4 AMERICAS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST ASIA-PACIFIC (AMER) AND AFRICA (EMEA) (APAC) Services and software, % of sales 33% Share of sales 34% Share of sales 48% Share of sales 18% Share of personnel Share of personnel Share of personnel 13% 68% 19% Total personnel 12,587 Assembly/ Brazil Assembly/ Ireland Sweden Assembly/ China R&D United States R&D Italy United R&D India Norway Kingdom Malaysia Finland Poland South Korea Germany Spain Singapore Countries with assembly/R&D activity are highlighted on the map 4 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas BUSINESS AREAS IN BRIEF KALMAR HIAB MACGREGOR Kalmar offers cargo handling equipment and automated Hiab is the global market leader in on-road load MacGregor is a world-leading provider of terminal solutions, software and services used in ports, handling solutions with customers operating maritime and offshore cargo and load handling terminals, distribution centres and various industries. in the land transport and delivery industries. equipment, services and solutions. Share Services and software, Share Services, Share Services, of total sales share of Kalmar’s sales of total sales share of Hiab’s sales of total sales share of MacGregor’s sales 47% 37% 37% 25% 16% 42% Number of personnel Number of personnel Number of personnel 5,625 4,028 2,350 5 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas CEO’S REVIEW DEAR READER, We made good progress in many areas in 2019. Our service business developed well. With an 8 percent overall growth in services sales, each business area increasing their services sales, and our software sales going up by 15 percent year-on-year, we are well on track towards reaching our targets. Customer interest towards port automation is growing. Customer confidence in the benefits of port automation has increased and instead of trying to decide whether to automate container ports at all, they are now considering how to automate them. We received a substantial number of automation orders in 2019 and have 10 automation delivery projects ongoing. This had a positive effect on our software sales also. Our comparable operating profit was good, with Kalmar’s profit increasing by 13 percent and Hiab’s by 27 percent. I would also like to note the determined work both Hiab and Kalmar have put into solving their supply chain challenges that stemmed from 2018. This paid off positively with improvements in supply chain operations towards the end of the year and had a positive effect on the performance of both business areas. On the other hand, MacGregor’s challenging situation continues. Cost overruns in certain offshore projects, low capacity utilisation, and lower sales margins led to a negative result in MacGregor. Sluggishness in the MacGregor market has now continued for about six years and has not yet shown any clear signs of recovery. Our streamlining actions in MacGregor will continue in 2020. On a positive MacGregor note, we completed the TTS acquisition at the end of July. The transaction will ultimately make MacGregor stronger 6 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas and support its ambition to restore its profitability in the future. The scale 2019. As for our plans to reach a 10 percent operating profit target, we benefits of the acquisition and synergies thereof create an opportunity are progressing according to our plans in most areas: good growth in to further improve MacGregor’s productivity and global presence. services and software, increasing demand for port automation and good profitability development in Hiab and Kalmar support us in reaching this Good progress in strategy execution target. In MacGregor we unfortunately have headwind due to the difficult Our strategy proceeded as planned in 2019, and we worked hard on market situation. our four strategic must-win battles – customer centricity, services, digitalisation and productivity1. We enable sustainable performance for our customers In 2019, discussion and concerns about climate change rose in I already mentioned the good progress in services and software. importance, and our industry was no exception. In a stakeholder survey On the digitalisation front, we introduced several new digital services, that we conducted in 2019, results showed that our customers want solutions and applications during the year. MacGregor’s OnWatch – even expect – us to provide eco-efficient and low-carbon solutions Scout (a digitally-enabled predictive maintenance service), Kalmar that help them mitigate climate change in their own operations. One (the first open automation system for container terminals), and Hiab’s new waste collection crane are just some examples of those. We have for years worked consistently to reduce our own environmental footprint and, even more importantly, developed solutions that allow our Our productivity programmes have already provided us with centralised customers operate in a more sustainable fashion. In 2017, we launched global support services as well as various productivity initiatives across our Offering for eco-efficiency portfolio which consists of solutions the company, and this work continues in 2020. In customer centricity we that enhance our customers’ sustainability with cleaner technologies, made good progress in transforming our processes and mindset to meet software solutions or services supporting circular economy. We have The TTS acquisition was completed in July. the requirements for a more customer centric company. regularly added solutions to the portfolio, and in 2019, it constituted 21 percent of our total sales. This shows that sustainability is not only good With regards to growing faster than the market and providing an for the environment, it is also good for business. In our market outlook for 2020 we expect our comparable operating increasing dividend, we have delivered on our targets. Our business profit for 2020 to improve from 2019 (EUR 264 million). We need to be areas have #1 or #2 positions in their respective markets, and our Looking ahead prepared and agile during the year to deliver on that estimate. We must dividend has continued to increase for five consecutive years. Our The market sentiment in 2019 was somewhat uncertain. Things that prepare scenarios for any changes that the market may put before us earnings per share in 2019 was burdened by high restructuring costs caused concern within the industry include items like the US-China during the year. We face this task with confidence and proceed with but our cash flow improved significantly from the previous year. This trading dispute, Brexit, and the economic and regulatory uncertainty determination into 2020. enables a dividend increase also for 20192. that impacted the maritime industry and MacGregor customers in particular. I want to thank our shareholders and customers for their confidence We still have work to do in achieving some of our financial targets. and trust in our operations, and our employees for their hard work and While our ROCE has improved from 5.0 percent (2013) to 7.3 percent Some challenges from 2019 may carry over to 2020. However, I feel we dedication. in 2019, it is still behind our set target of 15 percent. In addition, our are well prepared for this year. Our strong order book and the expected gearing is presently above our 50 percent target, having been negatively benefits of the TTS integration, for example, give us solid tools to realise Mika Vehviläinen affected by the application of the IFRS 16 accounting standard in our promises in 2020. CEO, CARGOTEC 1 Have a look at this report’s strategy section to learn more about our strategic targets for 2019 and our achievements and ambitions for each of the must-win battles. 2 Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 7 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas Navis acquired Octopi, To support its further growth, Kalmar was In a record-breaking agreement, Hiab MacGregor designed the cargo system Kalmar signed a service contract a cloud-based terminal reorganised into three strategic business units: provides MOFFETT truck mounted for the world’s largest containership, with Metsä Fibre, Finland, covering operating system. Later in the Kalmar Mobile Solutions, Kalmar Automation forklifts with ProCare Essential service MSC Gülsün. The design was developed the Kalmar fleet at a pulp mill in year, it acquired the assets of Solutions and Navis. Cargotec’s financial contracts and HiConnect™ for each in close collaboration with MSC to Northern Finland. The performancethe mixed cargo terminal TOS reporting continues to be based on the Kalmar, unit to one of the largest home maximise cargo intake, provide a high based agreement includes the provider Jade Logistics. Hiab and MacGregor business areas. improvement chains in the USA. degree of operational flexibility and provision of equipment, operators, reduce emissions per carried cargo unit. operations management and maintenance services. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR TOWARDS INTELLIGENT AND SUSTAINABLE CARGO HANDLING SOLUTIONS Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 The Hiab MULTILIFT test Cargotec’s new social MacGregor started MacGregor completed the Kalmar was awarded Cargotec Business Services (CBS) set area in Raisio, Finland, intranet was launched to functional testing of the acquisition of the marine the first prize in the Port up a hub in the US and announced opened for testing strengthen open dialogue, OnWatch Scout digitallyand offshore businesses of Equipment Manufacturers a plan to establish another hub for skiploaders and hooklifts collaboration and knowledge enabled service, focused the TTS Group. Together, Association Innovation the APAC region in Singapore. CBS on trucks. The area allows sharing. The modern digital on optimising critical MacGregor and TTS are Awards for the Kalmar Electric provides company-wide support with examining equipment in platform drives leadership, equipment availability, with stronger and more impactful Terminal tractor and Kalmar Finance, HR and Indirect Procurement difficult conditions and employee engagement and pilot customers in Europe in supporting their customers FastCharge™ charging services, covering 17 countries in terrain. interaction. and Asia. and the maritime industry. solutions. Europe and the US. 8 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas GOOD DEVELOPMENT IN MANY AREAS SALES MEUR 4,000 3,729 3,683 3,514 3,250 3,304 29% 33% Kalmar and Hiab had an excellent year, while MacGregor was 3,000 31% loss-making. The service business developed well, and our 34% 34% order book is strong. Cash flow increased significantly. 2,000 The comparable operating profit for 2019 increased by nine percent from the comparison period to EUR 264.4 million, representing 7.2 percent 1,000 of sales. Sales increased by 11 percent to EUR 3,683 million. Cash flow increased to EUR 361.1 million. Our orders received declined slightly while our order book increased by five percent to EUR 2,089 million. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Service sales increased by 8 percent to EUR 1,062 million, and software Services and software Equipment sales by 15 percent to EUR 168 million. Service and software sales represented 33 percent of our sales. COMPARABLE OPERATING PROFIT ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK2015 2016 2017 2018 MEUR % Equipment MEUR 2,651 2,433 2,159 2,177 8.0 Services and software 1,078 1,080 1,090 1,126 300 7.3 7.2 8 4,000 3,756 3,714 7.1 Yhteensä 3,557 3,729 3,514 3,250 3,304 6.2 3,283 3,190 29% 31% 34% 34% 225 6 3,000 2,064 1,995 2,089 150 4 2,000 1,783 1,566 75 2 1,000 231 250 259 242 264 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Comparable operating proﬁt Orders received Comparable operating proﬁt margin, % Order book 9 1 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas Dividend increase proposed INDUSTRIAL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE* OFFERING FOR ECO-EFFICIENCY Cargotec’s Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that IIFR MEUR % a dividend of EUR 1.19 per class A share and EUR 1.20 per outstanding class B share be paid. This would make 2019 the sixth consecutive year 80 8 5,000 25 7.0 6.7 21 21 when our dividend increases compared to the previous year. One of our 6.1 20 financial targets is to offer our shareholders an increasing dividend. 5.8 5.7 4,000 18 20 60 6 IIFR increased from 2018 3,000 15 Following the inclusion of sites acquired during 2018, the Industrial Injury 40 4 Frequency Rate (IIFR) for the assembly sites increased in 2019 to 7.0 2,000 10 (2018: 6.7). The slight increase stems from occupational health and safety 20 2 risks, which are higher at these locations and impacted the result. Our 1,000 5 plans to improve the IIFR on these locations are already in place. Our 43 46 48 54 65 3,514 3,250 3,304 3,683 target for the year 2020 in assembly sites is IIFR 5.0. 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016* 2017 2018 2019 Offering for eco-efficiency portfolio consists of solutions aiming to provide Number of lost time injuries Total sales Cargotec IIFR** Offering for eco-efﬁciency, % of sales tangible environmental benefits to our customers, such as low carbon * Cargotec assembly sites ** Number of injuries per million hours worked * The 2016 share of sales is a company estimate and the figure has not been audited solutions to mitigate climate change. Sales of the offering accounted for 21 percent of total sales in 2019 (2018: 21%). 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016* 2017 2018 201 EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) AND DIVIDEND DIVIDEND/EPS, CLASS B SHARE BREAKDOWN BY SHAREHOLDER CATEGORY ON 31 DECEMBER 2019 Number of lost time injuries 43 46 48.0 54.0 Total sales 65 3,514 3,250 3,304 3,68 EUR % 86.4 Finnish 7.0 households Nominee registered and 2.5 90Cargotec IIFR** 5.8 5.7 6.1 6.7 for eco-efficiency, 20 non-Finnish18 21 2 Offering % of sales 15.21% shareholders 2.21 2.05 27.01% 2.0 1.95 66.4 1.66 60 51.1 Pivosto Oy 1.5 1.39 48.7 10.59% 1.20 1.05 1.10 36.1 1.0 0.95 0.80 30 Mariatorp Oy 0.5 12.27% Finnish institutions, 0.0 0 companies and foundations 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* Wipunen varainhallinta Oy 20.81% 14.13% Earnings per share (EPS) Dividend/EPS, dividend policy 30–50% Dividend per B class share Dividend/EPS, % Based on ownership records of the Euroclear Finland Ltd. 1 1 * Board's proposal for dividend * Board's proposal for dividend 10 1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* Dividend/EPS, dividend policy 30–50% Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas STRATEGY Our strategy aims to secure our profitable growth by focusing on four must-win battles: customer centricity, services, digitalisation and productivity. Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas MEGATRENDS DRIVE GROWTH Long-term macroeconomic and societal development trends impact and change the world around us. The following megatrends support the successful implementation of our strategy, shifting weights as we continuously adapt our business model. Increasing concern for the environment Population growth Urbanisation Customer need: Customer need: Customer need: The scientific community and public opinion accept climate The world’s population today is 7.7 billion and it is estimated to In the coming decades, the share of the world’s population change as a fact, creating demand to reduce the environmental reach 10 billion by 2056 (UN estimate). The increasing global living in cities will grow from 55 percent to almost 70 percent. impact of world trade. Legislation, our customers and their population drives the consumption of goods and materials. This Urbanisation requires infrastructure and housing construction customers require ships, ports, terminals and surrounding cities fuels global trade which in turn increases the demand for cargo in cities, with city logistics to sustain them. This creates demand to be quieter, safer, more energy-efficient and low in emissions. transportation. for efficient load handling and waste management equipment and solutions. In densely populated cities, load handling Our answer: Our answer: solutions must be quiet, safe and low in emissions. Our eco-efficient portfolio includes digitalisation and automation With our advanced solutions, equipment, services and software solutions, electric and hybrid offerings that reduce the all across the global cargo flow network, we continue to seek Our answer: environmental impact of our customers’ operations. The demand ways to meet the increasing demand, and improve the efficiency Our load handling solutions are used in urban locations and for eco-efficient products and solutions is estimated to grow in and productivity of cargo handling in all our business areas. surrounding areas. Hiab’s advanced on-road load handling the future, creating growth opportunities for us. An example: Kalmar One (an open automation system for solutions are well suited for construction, logistics and waste An example: Electric versions of Kalmar’s empty container container terminals). handling use in urban locations. handlers, terminal tractors, forklift trucks, etc. An example: Electric MOFFETT truck mounted forklifts. 12 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas GDP per capita growth / World trade growth Energy demand Digitalisation Customer need: Customer need: Customer need: GDP per capita is expected to grow roughly by four percent Global energy demand is estimated to grow by 1–2 percent per The rapid development of digital solutions continues in all areas over the next years, indicating continued growth in economic year during the next few decades. The growing energy demand of the society. Customers seek intelligent cargo handling solutions productivity, economic wealth, and ultimately, consumption power. creates a need to further explore, produce and transport energy that can support them in optimising their operations, improve The demands of the global cargo flow network will expand as from various sources. Global energy mixes are also changing, with productivity and safety and reduce inefficiencies and emissions. more developing countries rise. This not only drives world trade, increasing focus on renewable energy and energy conservation. but also expands the global trade network across the world. Our answer: Our answer: Our business areas are present across the cargo flow network, Our answer: Our reliable products and efficient solutions are required to support enabling us to draw valuable insights across the value chain. With As cargo moves across land and sea, Cargotec’s business areas the production and transportation of energy, both in traditional fossil these insights, we are able to shape the cargo handling industry by are present throughout the global cargo flow network – maritime, fuels and renewable energy. We provide advanced solutions to help providing digital software, automation and intelligence solutions. ports and on-road. This puts us in a prime position to truly customers reduce inefficiencies and environmental impact. These solutions seek to solve inefficiencies in the global cargo influence efficient global cargo flow with our premium load An example: MacGregor’s offshore solutions. flow, helping our customers succeed in their endeavours while and cargo handling solutions. reducing environmental impact. An example: MacGregor’s Cargo Boost solution, aimed at An example: Hiab’s HiVisionTM crane operating system and the improving ship utilisation and reducing fuel consumption. HiConnect platform. 13 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas Purpose Vision GLOBAL LEADER IN INTELLIGENT CARGO HANDLING SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Must-win WIN THROUGH ACCELERATE battles CUSTOMER CENTRICITY DIGITALISATION #SMARTERBETTERTOGETHER We help our customers achieve their goals by We build and expand our digital solutions to aligning our offering and way of working to serve offer a great customer experience and more them better efficient business processes ADVANCE IN SERVICES PRODUCTIVITY FOR GROWTH We extend our offering towards intelligent We focus on activities that add value and benefit solutions that enable us to serve our customers our customers and us by developing our business wide across their lifecycle operations and common platforms Our way LEAD WITH EMPOWER FOR COLLABORATE of working PURPOSE PERFORMANCE TO WIN 14 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas REFINED STRATEGY IN EXECUTION Kalmar aims to become a service-driven solutions provider who guarantees availability and performance for its customers. As a market leader, Kalmar is able With a refined strategy for the period 2019–2021, we continue to shape the future of its industry. It drives the transformation of cargo and material to work towards our vision of becoming the global leader in handling through openness and collaboration as well as with innovative, digitally intelligent cargo handling. The refined strategy aims to secure enabled and eco-efficient solutions. our profitable growth by focusing on four must-win battles: customer centricity, services, digitalisation and productivity. We strive to be the leader in intelligent cargo handling. Cargo traffic and load handling are among the vital services that sustain our global society. Every day, millions of items, from raw materials to consumer products, are transported across the globe. Cargotec is strategically present across the global cargo handling network – across land, ports and at sea. This unique position allows us truly influence and shape Hiab is committed to strengthening its market position by focusing on customer the industry for the better. With the help of digitalisation, data and centricity. Its goal is to be the number one partner and load handling solutions provider intelligence, we strive to lead the industry in intelligent cargo handling, in all of its prioritised markets and segments. Hiab continues to focus on services, to make global trade smarter, better and more sustainable. innovation and taking advantage of the digital opportunities for improving its customers’ efficiency and helping them manage the increased complexity of load handling. Cargotec exists to bring our business areas together for a common purpose – enabling smarter cargo flow for a better everyday. Through providing strategic direction, common business platforms, leadership development, facilitating best practices and so on, we build a business that is better than the sum of its parts, supporting our business areas to create lasting value for society, the environment, our customers, our employees and our shareholders. MacGregor aims to be recognised as the leader in intelligent maritime cargo and Our three business areas are in a strong position to capitalise on load handling by becoming the preferred provider of lowest total cost solutions for their established brands, long-term customer relationships, excellent shipbuilders, and the preferred partner for ship owners and operators by providing equipment reputation and global service network. By combining our the highest lifecycle value. equipment, service, and software into intelligent offerings, we support our customers to efficiently and sustainably perform their businesses. For us, this creates significant opportunities for profitable growth. 15 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas TARGETS AND OUTCOMES Cargotec’s refined strategy for 2019–2021 aims to secure profitable growth by focusing on four must-win battles: customer centricity, productivity, services and digitalisation. Must-win battles 2019–2021 2019 targets 2019 outcomes 2020 targets Win through customer centricity Enhance customer insight capabilities. Develop and CRM and analytics deployed with improvements and Upkeep high levels of customer delivery. Improvements in drive adoption of customer relationship management driving utilisation. Field services tools under deployment CRM and customer data quality. Enhance mechanism to We help our customers achieve their goals by aligning and field service tools. Engage teams and leaders in and closer to completion. Customer centricity councils listen and respond to customer needs. Various strategic our offering and way of working to serve them better. customer centricity and collaboration. established among sales management to promote marketing initiatives based on business area needs, e.g. customer-focused collaboration. Cross business area strategic account management activities, customer journey councils to share best practices. mapping, segmentation and differentiated offerings. Productivity for growth Review operating models and practices to empower Cargotec development office established to prioritise Continue improvement of operating models and frontline to act for customers and to increase internal and drive business cases in internal initiatives. Operating practices for internal efficiency. Execute supply chain We focus on activities that add value and benefit efficiency. Continue implementation of in-house models improved for efficiency and performance. development projects in Hiab and Kalmar. Continue our customers and us by developing our business shared services operations for administrative activities. Lean community of practice established to enhance consolidation and implementation of shared services operations and common platforms. Improve internal and external business processes by capabilities in Lean. Shared service implementation on operations. Improve internal and external business utilising digital solutions. track with ½ of planned countries completed, covering processes by utilising digital solutions. ~¾ of our business (sales). Advance in services Continue to drive service sales. Enhance service Service sales grew by 8 percent. New offerings added Continue service sales growth. Improve service offerings, earnings models and internal service to portfolio. Service agreements continue to grow in our profitability by improving pricing practices and We extend our offering towards intelligent solutions processes by utilising digitalisation and connectivity. sales mix. New service units established in countries with effective sourcing. Streamline low performing that enable us to serve our customers wide across Improve service excellence and operations. high installed base. New performance based earnings operations. Continue deployment and adoption of field their lifecycles. models introduced in some business areas. Field service service tools. tools under deployment. Accelerate digitalisation Expand digital customer offering to complement Wider customer adoption of existing services, such Continue adoption of new digital services. Enhance equipment and service business. Accelerate as Hiab HiConnect and Kalmar Insight. New offerings service and maintenance with data and digital We build and expand our digital solutions to offer development of new data-driven business models. like MacGregor OnWatch Scout launched. Connected solutions. Continue developing new data-driven a great customer experience and more efficient Utilise digital solutions to optimise internal and equipment exceeded its target by 10 percent. Cargotec business models. Invest in data analytics. Improve and business processes. external processes. Drive connectivity in all new digital solutions hub established to speed up software automate internal and customer processes with data, equipment. and product development. Customer and internal automation and machine learning. process digitalisations continued. 16 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas Financial targets • Grow faster than the market • Operating profit margin 10 percent in 3–5 years* • Service and software sales 40 percent of net sales, minimum EUR 1.5 billion in 3–5 years* • Increasing dividend in the range of 30–50 percent of earnings per share (EPS), dividend to be paid twice a year • 15 percent return on capital employed (ROCE) in 3–5 years* • Gearing below 50 percent * Targets announced in September 2017 Sustainability targets 2020 (2021) • Define an action programme for managing climate-related risks and opportunities • Audit 50 percent of suppliers that failed the 2019 sustainability risk assessment • IIFR 5.0 in assembly • 40 percent of electricity in own operations will be renewable (50 percent by 2021) • Process for global chemical risk management defined and implemented (2021) • Offering for eco-efficiency product group to achieve double sales growth compared to traditional products (2021) 17 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas VALUE CREATION Vision LEADER IN INTELLIGENT CARGO HANDLING Purpose SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Input Business activities Outputs Impact Human capital Enhancing innovation • Motivation and willingness of 12,500 employees operating • Intelligent cargo flow shapes world trade in 46 countries, realised by world-class leadership • more connected, more digital and safer development and performance management • added value for customers • Global reach; the ability to allocate and direct global resources • Intellectual capital increases in our sphere of influence to support diversity and backup individual businesses through strategic partnerships • Our way of working: lead with purpose, empower for performance, collaborate to win Services Responsible growth Intellectual and social capital • Employee experience and wellbeing • Unique customer experience and collaboration as basis MacGregor At seas • Financial performance: profitability gains benefit shareholders for long-term relationships • Stakeholder trust, brands, reputation management • Intelligent cargo expertise, best practice sharing Climate action • R&D activities in the Americas, Asia and Europe. Expenditure • Shaping the industry to reduce inefficiencies and avoid emissions on R&D totalled EUR 101.9 million in 2019, representing 2.8 • Biggest climate impact and opportunity through percent of sales Digital eco-efficient product offering • Development programme with strategic suppliers solutions • Strategic partnerships with the logistic industry, universities and software Fair society and research organisations to accelerate industry innovation Kalmar In ports and industries • Good governance and global commitments strengthen and digitalisation societal prosperity • UN Global Compact signatory since 2007 Financial and manufactured capital • Working capital • Fixed assets (assembly sites, non-assembly sites, competence centres) Natural capital Products United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Purchased goods (structural parts, hydraulics, Hiab On roads SDGs are a set of 17 goals that target achieving prosperity for the people and the planet by 2030. Companies have an power trains, etc.) important role to play since the goals cannot be reached with the actions of public sector only. We firmly believe that with • Electricity use 33 percent from renewable sources in 2019 our ambition of being the leader in intelligent cargo handling, we are particularly impacting the six goals marked above. 18 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas SUSTAINABILITY Addressing climate change through eco-efficient, low-carbon solutions is of key importance to our customers. Our offering for eco-efficiency portfolio provides tangible environmental benefits to customers. 19 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas SUSTAINABILITY AS A BUSINESS DRIVER Cargotec is connected to industries that produce the majority of world GDP (Gross Domestic Product). These industries also produce most of the global greenhouse gas emissions. Trade-related freight is estimated to cause more than 7 percent of global CO2 emissions (OECD/ITF 2015). Cargotec’s products and services offer great opportunities for climate change mitigation and decarbonisation. For example, developing more efficient products running with electricity instead of fossil fuels contributes to a more sustainable logistics industry and gives a competitive advantage to Cargotec. Digitalisation plays a key role in decreasing emissions in the maritime and transportation industries. It will also be a major enabler for a wider societal change towards a more circular economy. In the future, data sharing, common platforms and collaboration will act as key drivers in achieving these targets and connecting industries. Cargotec’s offering for ecoefficiency portfolio provides tangible environmental benefits for customers. Cargotec signed the UN Global Compact in 2007. The Global Compact is a call for companies to align their strategy and operations with ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact is advancing the business contribution on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SDGs are a set of 17 goals that target achieving prosperity for the people and the planet by 2030. Companies have an important role to play since the goals cannot be reached with the actions of the public sector alone. We firmly believe that with our ambition 20 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas Material topics Environment Social Governance Climate solutions Safety and wellbeing Compliance • Low-carbon solutions for customers • Employee health, safety and wellbeing • Compliance with legal and ethical standards • Extended product life cycles • Safety of products and services • Air quality • Supplier and subcontractor safety Communication • Environmental impacts in the supply chain • Open communication internally and externally Working conditions and human rights Impacts from own operations • Employee engagement and satisfaction Sustainability management • Greenhouse gas emissions, waste, effluents and spills in • Diversity and equal treatment of employees • Leadership commitment to sustainability Cargotec’s own operations • Fair wages • Systematic sustainability management • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Human rights risks in the supply chain of being the leader in intelligent cargo handling, we are in a position to Employee and product safety were also highlighted throughout the entire business practices. As an example, they discussed the climate-related advance especially the six goals marked on the previous page. value chain. Cargotec has focused on the safety of its own operations matters during a Climate Day that was held in March 2019. and products and has set clear targets for the safety performance. We conducted a materiality assessment in autumn 2019 to update There has been good development and we continue to focus on safety Highlights and targets of our sustainability our sustainability focus areas with feedback from the key stakeholder improvement programmes and actions across the organisation. work in 2019 groups. The results of the assessment prove that climate solutions The Industrial Injury Frequency Rate (IIFR) for Cargotec assembly and safety remain high on the agenda. The key material topics We consider good governance and practices, including efficient risk sites was 7.0 in 2019. We were able to bring the rate down at many are summarised above according to the Environment, Social and management processes, the foundation for conducting business. We of our assembly sites, with about 24 percent of them achieving IIFR Governance (ESG) themes. promote transparent communication and uphold open dialogue with zero levels. Kalmar assembly sites have performed exceptionally well, key stakeholders. The Board of Directors is committed to sustainable achieving an IIFR of 3.8. All in all, the assembly unit IIFR has increased, The responses of all the stakeholder groups indicated that addressing climate change through eco-efficient, low-carbon solutions for customers is of key importance. This reflects the fact that through Cargotec’s product offering we make the greatest contribution towards mitigating climate change. The logistics industry has a big carbon “CLIMATE SOLUTIONS AND SAFETY REMAIN footprint which can be abated by delivering innovative and efficient solutions to our customers. THE KEY SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS” 21 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas after four new sites that account for a significant amount of lost time injuries, were added to the evaluation. The occupational Sustainability targets 2019 Performance Sustainability targets 2020 (2021) health and safety risks are higher at these locations than at others. Improvement plans have already been put in place and we expect to • IIFR 5.0 in assembly • IIFR was 7.0 in assembly • Define an action programme for managing see results during the upcoming months. The non-assembly sites’ IIFR climate-related risks and opportunities has improved to 6.8. We continue our efforts to further improve health • Audit 50 percent of suppliers that failed the 2019 • 40 percent of electricity in own • 33 percent electricity was sustainability risk assessment and safety in all our operations. operations will be renewable renewable • IIFR 5.0 in assembly • 40 percent of electricity in own operations will be We have initiated an action programme for managing climate-related • Global chemical risk management project • Launched in Kalmar and Hiab renewable (50 percent by 2021) risks and opportunities, and have planned to define it during 2020. To launched • Process for global chemical risk management reduce the climate impact of our own operations, we have committed defined and implemented (2021) • Re-audit 50 percent of suppliers • 82 percent of suppliers were to increase the share of renewable energy in our operations. At the end audited • Offering for eco-efficiency product group to that failed the 2018 sustainability of 2019, 33 percent of our electricity use was renewable. All our sites self-assessment questionnaire achieve double sales growth compared to in Finland and Sweden, as well as three sites in Italy, one site in the • Risk assessment renewed traditional products (2021) • Renewed human rights risk assessment US and one in the Netherlands, are powered by certified renewable implemented in M&A cases electricity. Our target for 2020 is to increase the share of renewable electricity to 40 percent and further to 50 percent by the end of 2021. Mitigating climate change with low carbon solutions for customers is a great opportunity for us. Our eco-efficiency portfolio consists of products that enhance our customers’ sustainability with cleaner technologies, intelligent solutions and services promoting circular economy. The offering consists of equipment, software and services that meet at least one of the four portfolio criteria. The criteria is built around four themes: systems efficiency, efficiency for environmental industries, emission efficiency, and resource efficiency. All new solutions need to pass an external review process prior to inclusion in the portfolio. During the year 2019, two new products were added to the portfolio. Sales of the offering amounted to 21 percent of total sales in 2019 (2018: 21%). Read more at cargotec.com. One of our targets for this year was to launch the global chemical risk management project. Kalmar and Hiab have initiated a current state analysis at the non-assembly sites (i.e. service sites and frontline units), which are considered higher risk sites. MacGregor had to postpone the launch due to organisational changes throughout the QEHS organisation. We will continue our work in this area during the next year based on the results of assessments across the organisation. 22 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas In our sourcing functions, we continued upgrading our supplier To ensure that targets match business area operations, the management sustainability management programme. 93 percent of our strategic teams of Kalmar, Hiab and MacGregor hold a sustainability review A worry-free working environment suppliers have been invited to adopt the sustainability self-assessment at least bi-annually for their respective business areas, reviewing for everyone tool, which focuses on screening human rights and other sustainability and approving possible adjustment needs of the corporate level risks in our supply chain. In addition, we proceeded with our supplier sustainability targets. Safety begins with a mindset allowing everyone to feel safe. code of conduct process, which aims to mitigate any risks for breaching The safety programmes of each business area focus heavily international human rights. Suppliers within the process now cover 89 Operationally, sustainability is managed both at the corporate and on prevention with multiple proactive safety management tools percent of our direct sourcing spend. business area level on a monthly basis. The key responsible organisations in use. What is common to all is the use of the safety pyramid. are units working with strategy, quality, R&D, sourcing, QEHS (quality, Keeping our eyes open for any unsafe conditions or actions During the year, we carried out an analysis of the most important environment, health and safety), corporate audit, HR and legal. contributes to a more safe working environment for all. Safety operational aspects related to human rights risks and measures to is definitely a team effort. mitigate those risks. We identified the main risks related to human rights The corporate level sustainability targets are proposed, reported on violations in our supply chain and in activities concerning mergers and and monitored by Cargotec’s Corporate Sustainability function, and acquisitions (M&A). In terms of M&A-related human rights risks, we each business area has its own function responsible for coordinating its Safety pyramid 2019 conducted a review and updated the process of screening possible risks sustainability work. in each M&A case to be more straightforward. Fatalities 0 The business areas and the Corporate Sustainability function jointly During the period we maintained a satisfactory level of sustainability implement and monitor the sustainability targets in both shared and Lost time injuries 159 reporting at all Cargotec sites. This is the second consecutive year we separate processes. In general, the results and anomalies are reported have the whole organisation included in the consolidated figures, and to the Cargotec Leadership Team. In addition, certain sustainability Other injuries 436 we have seen good overall progress in the timeliness and quality of perspectives, when relevant, are presented separately as part of other the reporting. We continued to develop safety campaigns and building projects. Sustainability issues are always addressed separately as and Near misses 757 the safety culture throughout the company, focusing our efforts on when needed. improving the overall performance. Widening the reporting scope to Unsafe acts 2,991 include consolidated data for the recent acquisitions had a clear impact, The Cargotec Sustainability Council aligns and agrees on actions taken especially on the health and safety figures reported. More information on the corporate and business area level regarding the development, Unsafe conditions 9,718 about these can be found in the separate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) implementation and follow-up of sustainability targets and policies. index on our website: cargotec.com. The Sustainability Council consists of the Corporate Sustainability function (SVP Communications and VP Sustainability) and the corporate Sustainability governance strategy and business area management team members responsible for Sustainability is on the agenda of the Cargotec Board of Directors, and the sustainability issues in their own operations and sourcing. Board reviews sustainability at least on an annual basis. During the period, “THIS YEAR 5 OUT OF 21 the Board also reviewed sustainability megatrends as well as related Policies, management approach business and corporate responsibility actions. Cargotec Leadership Team and grievance mechanisms ASSEMBLY SITES HAD conducts bi-annual sustainability reviews and approves corporate level The main goals and principles of our sustainability work are defined by sustainability targets. Cargotec’s Senior Vice President, Communications Cargotec’s Code of Conduct and other related policies. The Code of NO LOST TIME INJURIES” is responsible for sustainability issues within the Leadership Team and Conduct defines our way of working. It describes the basic principles reports to the CEO. of ethical integrity together with our Anti-Corruption Policy, which 23 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas categorically prohibits transgression of any kind in our actions. The In the supplier assessment checklist, 20 percent of the questions Cargotec Code of Conduct can be reviewed at www.cargotec.com. are related to issues regarding the environment, labor, ethics and compliance, or health and safety. All new suppliers are audited against Our social responsibility principles are defined in more detail in our this supplier criteria prior to acceptance. Additionally, new suppliers Employment Policy and in other related HR policies. The implementation receive the sustainability self-assessment tool. of HR policies is monitored primarily through our human resource information system ZONE, which has been in use globally since January Cargotec’s economic responsibility principles are prepared in 2015. ZONE offers good visibility of our workforce, enabling us to accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) assess the implementation rate of certain HR policies and processes. as endorsed by the European Union. To ensure that our social responsibility principles are understood everywhere at Cargotec, the Code of Conduct review is also included in Code of Conduct concerns and potential misconduct are reported to Cargotec’s Performance and Development Plan discussions. the Ethics and Compliance team either directly or through the SpeakUp line. The Speak-Up line is operated by an external provider and Cargotec’s EHS (environment, health and safety) policy determines our managed by the Ethics and Compliance function. principles regarding environmental and safety management. The EHS policy is included in our integrated management systems, including During 2019, 40 cases of potential misconduct were reported to the processes described in the EHS and Quality management standards Ethics and Compliance team (2018: 55). All reported cases were ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 (OHSAS18001). The coverage referred to the monthly Code of Conduct Panel of the Cargotec of externally certificated systems at Cargotec’s assembly sites based Leadership Team, which is chaired by the CEO. The Code of Conduct on sales volume are as follows: ISO 9001: 93 percent, ISO 14001: 88 Panel decides upon case closure, remediation and disciplinary percent and ISO 45001 (OHSAS18001): 85 percent. The EHS matters action. During the year, 54 cases were closed and improvement are also integrated into the R&D processes in each business area to actions were initiated. Some cases resulted in disciplinary actions ensure that the environmental, health and safety aspects are taken such as warnings, personnel dismissals and termination of third party into account in product development at a reasonable level within each relationships. Nine cases reported during 2019 concerned HR issues, individual product type. two cases related to health and safety issues, nine reported cases related to possible conflict of interest, one case related to privacy Cargotec’s supply chain management consists of Cargotec Sourcing matters and 19 cases were related to unethical business conduct Council, which includes Cargotec’s CEO, business area presidents and such as fraud, corruption or policy violations. There were no case sourcing heads. In its annual meetings, the council reviews sourcing reports related to suspected human rights violations, nor were there development including sustainability. All three business areas have reports about environmental grievances. The Code of Conduct cases supply management teams that report directly to the business area in were reported to the Board of Directors’ Audit and Risk Management order to better support the needs of the business. Teams collaborate Committee on a quarterly basis, and the Chief Compliance Officer closely in, for example, supplier development and sustainability areas provided an annual update to the full Board of Directors. As part of to gain synergies across the entire corporation. the investigation process, the Ethics and Compliance team agrees with relevant business area management team members on remedial The supplier criteria applied on both the corporate and business actions, such as improved controls, training or disciplinary actions. area level aim to ensure that our suppliers conduct their business in The final decision on disciplinary actions is made by the Code of compliance with international human rights and environmental laws. Conduct Panel. 24 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas PERSONNEL Our success as an organisation depends greatly on the performance of our employees. As a company we can only thrive when we engage our people and offer them opportunities to enhance their expertise. Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE THROUGH LEARNING AND COLLABORATION We recognise that our success as an organisation depends greatly To help guarantee that we have the right leaders as well as people on the performance of our employees. We can only truly thrive as with the right capabilities in place to allow us to effectively implement a company by engaging our people and offering opportunities for our strategy, we adopted a more sustainable model for succession them to enhance their expertise. As for our leaders, they work at the planning in 2019. The planning work aims to make the talent process interface between individual teams, team members, and the rest of the more effective and raise our preparedness, should the need to organisation. Skilled and inspiring leaders are therefore essential to find an appropriate successor for a critical position arise. In 2019, enable our people to turn our strategy into reality. we also started cooperating with an external partner to make the talent acquisition process more transparent and systematic, while Persistent leadership development work bears fruit simultaneously introducing substantial cost savings. Over the past few years, we have invested significantly into cultivating skilled and inspiring leaders while methodically gathering data that Capability renewal enables them to enhance their performance. To sustain our work to As we continued on the path of fulfilling our strategy in 2019, we build world-class leadership, our group-wide leadership development focused greater attention towards renewing our capabilities as well as programmes LEAD and GROW were launched in 2016 and 2017, and planning and transforming our workforce. In reaching these aims, one they will continue in 2020. So far over 2,000 leaders have participated in vital task is to foster an environment and practices that promote learning these programmes. and collaboration. Our drive to train ourselves as well as make use of our leaders’ skills LEARN is Cargotec’s new e-learning experience platform. The purpose of the and experience in training other leaders is a great source of pride within platform is to support our competence and skills base, while creating a our organisation. We have been striving determinedly to develop our firm foundation for Cargotec as a knowledge company at the head of leaders, and our leadership and employee engagement survey results the industry. Our employees have shown strong drive and willingness to prove that this effort is fruitful. All the indices measuring our leaders’ continuously develop their talent, and as a result LEARN has been well effectiveness continue to rise. received. Another method we have employed to tap into the rich wealth of Launched in October 2019, LEARN expands on tools and practices expertise within the organisation is mentorship. Cargotec comprises already existing in the organisation. It also facilitates the task of offering different businesses and cultures, and mentorship enables us to grow mandatory and elective training modules of various types throughout the closer together by supporting collaboration and knowledge sharing. year. Employees have already begun to use the platform to share content Mentoring programmes throughout Cargotec will continue. and exchange insights. In 2020, we will promote the platform further and gather feedback to guide us in its development. 26 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas In March 2019, we launched Connect, our new social intranet to boost In order to encourage teams to maintain constant dialogue on their employee experience and strengthen cross-organisational collaboration. performance, roles, and work climate, information systems for The modern digital platform enables easy access to relevant information continuous performance management were rolled out in 2019. These whenever and wherever needed. Our goal is to build a culture of systems allow annual targets to be divided into shorter-term targets, inclusion, openness, interaction, knowledge sharing and dialogue across and for progress towards them to be discussed in a flexible manner. the company and within teams, projects and communities. Employee This advancement towards an agile model promotes a feedback-rich interaction builds a foundation for executing our strategy. culture where team members can easily seek from and offer input to their colleagues. Furthermore, with financial planning increasingly Connect enables strong leadership and employee engagement to carried out on a continuous basis, managing performance in an agile pursue Cargotec’s goals. Employees have been eager to adopt the new way allows for greater responsiveness towards business areas’ current collaboration and communication channel, and in 2020 we will continue circumstances. to engage and activate our leaders and personnel further. Motivating high performance with rewards Agile performance management nurtures At Cargotec, our incentive programmes reinforce our high-performing a feedback-rich culture culture and pay-for-performance philosophy. In 2019, we focused efforts To transform strategy into reality, strategic targets must be connected on cascading financial targets and ensuring that all senior business to the individual performance plans and goals set for employees. To roles have clear and correct information on their responsibilities in accomplish this, performance management processes have been relation to their business area goals. The business area -specific targets among the focus areas in developing our HR work in recent years. cascade down to the divisions of the different business areas, with the The Performance and Development Plan (PDP) serves as the basis for management teams’ as well as mid-level managers’ division-specific managing the performance of each employee at Cargotec, making it an financial targets contributing towards attaining their respective goals. essential process for both managers and employees. Line managers set and review appropriate business targets for the year with each team To ensure a close and well-functioning link between financial member, taking care to link individual tasks and targets to the company performance and bonus pay-outs, the weight of financial targets for strategy. The PDP concept is now systematically and fully implemented senior business managers was increased during the year, with incentives in all Cargotec entities globally. attached to the attainment of those figures. Approximately 7,300 of our employees were covered by our incentive programmes in 2019. “OUR INCENTIVE PROGRAMMES REINFORCE OUR HIGH-PERFORMING CULTURE AND PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE PHILOSOPHY” 27 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas CBS harmonises global processes and safeguards their activities support and contribute to equal treatment of employees Cargotec’s strategic ambitions. At the end of the year, Cargotec Business Services (CBS) organisation served 57 percent of our total headcount, as compared to 25 percent “Communities distribute learnings at the end of 2018. At this volume, the opportunity to introduce throughout the organisation, as we want to productivity and efficiency improvements and effectively optimise our break down silos and get people to share ways of working is within reach. Once implementation is complete, CBS success stories as well as hear about will truly become a strategic enabler for the organisation, instituting a failures and what we’ve learned from them. unified way of delivering all business support services. CBS HR Services Secondly, people can share experiences are expected to serve 75 percent of the personnel by the end of Q2 and talk to each other. A third advantage 2020 and, according to the current roadmap, CBS would cover all we’ve gained is solving problems together. significant operating countries by the end of 2020. For instance, if anyone has a challenge, we can collaborate and find answers In tandem with the increasing implementation of the CBS organisation, together. Lastly, we benefit from the Communities contribute to Cargotec’s strategic ambitions. the importance and functionality of ZONE as Cargotec’s master data joy and advantage of learning,” says system has also grown. ZONE facilitates the synchronisation of our HR Alisa Knuutinen, Digital Transformation policies, processes, and tools across business areas and operating Communities of Practice seek help with challenges and access Specialist at Cargotec. countries by gathering all personnel data into a single interface. It serves connect and engage employees expertise, while also benefitting from as the main platform for planning and analysing people-related activities, opportunities to network, boost their “A Community of Practice is a great such as performance management processes, development needs, Open to all employees at Cargotec, personal development, and make work catalyst to connect colleagues from external and internal recruitment as well as salaries and incentives. In Communities of Practice are made up of more meaningful. For the organisation, different parts of the organisation. It helps this way, ZONE also helps to ensure fair and equal treatment of our people who share a passion for something advantages include closer alignment in build a culture of mutual support. It’s also a employees globally. they do and interact regularly to learn to ways of working, shared problem solving, way to create a movement from within the do it better. Some communities refer to and finding synergies across business company, where enthusiastic people bring When it was launched in 2017, CBS focused primarily on providing themselves as Tribes. About 800 members areas – not to mention the development of topics forward. I receive many messages operational services; however, its input in and coverage of strategic currently belong to ten active communities, competencies and better talent retention. on how the Lean Community’s webinars processes have increased. Not only have operational HR activities been and more are being started. have inspired changes in ways of working, transferred to CBS, but ownership of strategic process implementation Furthermore, many of the communities and how we helped people to connect and people analytics as well. One example is the Compass survey, Communities of Practice meet primarily – like the Lean, Change Management, and start collaborating around an issue. which is managed by CBS. online, for instance, in virtual meetings Data Enthusiasts, and Software Robotics Many people ask for further hands-on lean and workshops, and by using the communities – are closely linked to support – feedback that shows we’re on community channels of Connect, Cargotec’s vision to become the leader the right track, and there is potential for “COMMUNITIES DISTRIBUTE Cargotec’s new social intranet. They also in intelligent cargo handling, particularly more!” enthuses Brigitte Guttenberger, organise activities to create a shared the organisation’s must-win battles of Programme manager, Cargotec Lean LEARNINGS THROUGHOUT body of knowledge. Employees can productivity and digitalisation. In this way, initiative and MacGregor Strategy PMO. THE ORGANISATION” 28 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas BUSINESS Kalmar and Hiab achieved record-high comparable operating profits, while MacGregor’s result was negative. Digitalisation and automation, as well as interest towards sustainable performance, were the main trends in 2019. The finalising of the TTS acquisition enables MacGregor’s productivity and global presence improvement in the future. 29 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas KALMAR INTEREST IN AUTOMATION INCREASED Kalmar’s sales increased in 2019, and its orders remained stable. Customer interest in automation and eco-efficient solutions increased. Services sales grew slightly. In 2019, the market proved to be more active than estimated during the year. Many of our customers faced strong competition, which led them to look for new ways to improve their productivity. Major trends in 2019 were electrification and outsourcing non-core activities. Our order intake increased compared to the previous year. Software sales increased by 15 percent with orders for Navis terminal operating systems developing favourably. The Bromma container crane spreaders division performed well. We had 10 automation delivery projects ongoing in 2019. Interest towards automation is growing Customers’ approach towards automation is becoming more positive. In 2019, they started to think about when and how to automate, rather than whether they should automate their operations at all. In October, we brought to market Kalmar One, the first open automation system for container terminals. Kalmar One enables automated container handling operations regardless of vendor, equipment type, operation mode or level of terminal automation. We also introduced automated truck handling (ATH) to our Kalmar AutoStradTM solution for automating quay, stack and landside operations. ATH enables a fully automated container flow between quay cranes and trucks and automates the container placements to road trucks. 30 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas During the year, we had ten automation delivery projects ongoing, and received several new orders. For example, in April we concluded an Kalmar in brief Offering agreement to deliver eight AutoStrads to Patrick in Australia, and in May Kalmar offers cargo handling solutions and services for ports, Kalmar’s product range includes ship-to-shore cranes, rubberwe announced that Dublin Ferryport Terminals will extend its Kalmar terminals, distribution centres and the heavy industry. Our vision tyred and rail-mounted gantry cranes, straddle and shuttle carriers, AutoRTG system with two new AutoRTG cranes. is to be the preferred partner to our customers. Our mission is to reachstackers, empty container handlers, terminal tractors, forklift help our customers to improve their productivity. trucks and automated guided vehicles. Kalmar’s offering also covers maintenance contracts, technical support, spare parts, training Determined steps to enhance eco-efficiency and crane upgrades. The Kalmar One automation system, Navis In 2018, we announced our commitment to provide electrically powered N4 terminal operating system (TOS) and the Navis Smart suite of versions of our full offering by 2021. Our customers have reacted positively terminal applications, Octopi SaaS TOS, loading computer, stowage to the announcement, switching increasingly to electric or hybrid solutions. planning and fleet performance monitoring software, and Bromma spreaders are also part of the Kalmar business area. In March, our long-time customer DP World, one of the world’s leading operators of marine and inland terminals, placed an order for 63 Kalmar hybrid straddle carriers to its four European container terminals. The hybrid straddle carriers significantly reduce both the fuel consumption and Sustainability Customers CO2 emissions of a terminal’s straddle carrier operations when compared Our solutions and services help customers reduce fuel Our customers are ports and terminals globally as well as to traditional machines. Compared to diesel versions, hybrid machines consumption and emissions, optimise cargo flows, cut costs and distribution centres and heavy industry mainly in Europe and in also generate much less noise. Eco-efficient solutions were also delivered improve operational safety, equipment availability and lifetime. We the United States. to customers in the US, Turkey and Germany, for example. are committed to having our full offering available as electrically powered versions by 2021. We drive a high-performing safety culture. COMPARABLE OPERATING PROFIT ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK SALES MEUR % MEUR MEUR 200 9.4 10 2,000 1,919 2,000 8.9 8.3 1,764 1,721 1,776 1,663 1,700 1,723 7.8 8.0 1,598 1,618 160 8 1,555 1,500 1,500 34% 33% 37% 37% 37% 120 6 1,012 1,049 1,000 877 900 1,000 786 80 4 500 500 40 2 129.9 135.3 133.1 143.6 161.8 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Comparable operating proﬁt Orders received Services and software Comparable operating proﬁt margin, % Order book Equipment 31 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas We brought several new electric offerings to market in 2019, such as the industry’s first fully electric empty container handler and a medium electric forklift powered by emission-free lithium-ion battery technology. Kalmar’s electric offering is designed to help customers to reduce fuel costs and comply with airborne and noise emissions standards without compromising performance. Services are being outsourced In 2019, customer demand for maintenance outsourcing grew, which contributed to our services sales. The interest increased especially in industrial segments and smaller terminals. We assumed the responsibility for log handling operations at Iggesund Paperboard, Sweden. The three-year contract includes the provision of equipment, operators, maintenance services as well as the Kalmar Insight performance management software. Our five-year software maintenance and support agreement with PSA Singapore – also signed in 2019 – covers their entire automated guided vehicle (AGV) fleet software development, maintenance support as well as professional services. In addition, we concluded a comprehensive software maintenance and support agreement with Australian terminal operator Patrick Terminals. The agreement covers the equipment automation systems at the DP World cooperation continued PTP mega-terminal NFI selects Kalmar to support company’s Brisbane and Sydney terminals. in Antwerp uses Navis N4 lower emissions Kalmar delivered 19 hybrid straddle carriers PTP upgraded its terminal operating system Kalmar supplies NFI Industries with 25 (HSC) to DP World Antwerp Gateway, (TOS) in Malaysia to Navis N4 to improve Kalmar Ottawa Electric T2E Terminal Belgium. The terminal is semi-automatic, performance and scalability. PTP is now Tractors to be used in selected NFI and with its expanding hybrid Kalmar the largest single terminal running on N4, distribution centres in California. NFI straddle carrier fleet, its fuel consumption moving 12.5 MTEU per year. This is a fine continually seeks innovative ways to reduce and CO2 emissions are expected to be example of how Navis’s advanced TOS its environmental impact. The T2E tractor “CUSTOMERS’ APPROACH significantly reduced in the future. technology can support even the largest features the latest battery technology and mega-terminals of the world. a fully electric powertrain, producing zero TOWARDS AUTOMATION IS emissions at source. BECOMING MORE POSITIVE” 32 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas HIAB STRONG RESULT, ADVANCEMENTS IN DIGITALISATION Hiab achieved a strong comparable operating profit in 2019. Hiab’s services developed favourably, and it won significant orders during the year. Customers appreciated Hiab’s commitment to continuously develop its digital offering. The supply chain issues we had in 2018 were for a large part solved during 2019, and we focused on efficient delivery. Our orders received increased by four percent compared to 2018. Towards the end of 2019, this amounted to a record delivery level, especially for loader cranes and truck mounted forklifts. Construction activity, our main business driver, remained on a healthy level both in Europe and in the US. We have also successfully diversified our business exposure to other industries and decreased our dependency on the construction sector. The demand for services improved during the year. “DEMAND FOR HIAB’S SERVICES IMPROVED DURING THE YEAR” 33 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas Customers appreciate our advancements Hiab in brief Offering in digitalisation Hiab is the world’s leading provider of on-road load handling Hiab’s class-leading load handling equipment includes HIAB, Customers appreciate our commitment to continuously develop our equipment, intelligent services and smart and connected EFFER and ARGOS loader cranes, LOGLIFT and JONSERED digital offering to increase the safety, productivity, reliability and ease of solutions. Our vision is to be the number one partner and forestry and recycling cranes, MOFFETT and PRINCETON truck use of our solutions. preferred load handling solution provider to our customers. mounted forklifts, MULTILIFT skiploaders and hooklifts, and tail lifts under the ZEPRO, DEL and WALTCO brands. Hiab ProCare™ service, the award-winning HiVision™ crane operating system and From the second half of 2019 onwards, connectivity is a standard the HiConnect™ platform demonstrate Hiab’s constant drive to feature on the majority of new Hiab equipment, starting with HIAB provide intelligent services and smart solutions that add value to loader cranes and MULTILIFT hooklifts. Usage and equipment status its customers. have been stored on our advanced equipment for years already and used in service instances. Connectivity allows all that data to be accessed anytime and anywhere, enabling business-critical insight for Hiab customers. Connectivity also enables a new level of service Sustainability Customers support – remote diagnostics and troubleshooting, for example – and We at Hiab are committed to safe and compliant operations and Hiab’s customers come from a broad range of industries and it also provides our customers with the possibility to switch to using regular supply chain sustainability assessments. Hiab’s business segments, for which our load handling solutions create value. We Hiab’s Connected Services, like HiConnectTM, even at a later stage. lines and production units are ISO certified for quality assurance, serve customers ranging from single truck and small fleet owners Digital intelligence can help secure a best-in-class product lifetime sustainability and occupational health and safety. Our equipment to international fleet operators across private and public sectors. value for our customers. can be run on alternative power sources and we have developed emission-free solutions to help our customers enhance their operations. COMPARABLE OPERATING PROFIT ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK SALES MEUR % MEUR MEUR 200 14.5 16 1,500 1,500 1,350 13.5 1,310 12.6 1,259 11.7 1,250 1,250 1,084 1,149 25% 10.8 1,116 1,036 150 12 1,016 1,000 967 1,000 928 27% 27% 27% 100 8 750 750 28% 500 453 406 500 50 4 305 286 300 250 250 100.5 140.0 157.2 134.5 170.2 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Comparable operating proﬁt Orders received Services Comparable operating proﬁt margin, % Order book Equipment 34 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas During the year, we continued developing autonomous and semiautonomous features in our offering. As an example, combining our HiVisionTM system with these features can lead to interesting and differentiated outcomes, in particular in loader cranes. Celebrations, innovations and commitments Hiab celebrated its 75th year in 2019. It all started in Sweden in 1944, when a ski manufacturer Eric Sundin needed to get heavy timber from the woods into his ski factory. The Hiab Method that he developed not only solved his challenge but also pioneered the load handling industry, which is still going strong. Another “75th” anniversary took place in May, when we delivered our 75,000th truck mounted forklift to Die Behrens-Gruppe of Germany. The milestone unit was an emission-free electric MOFFETT E-series that was specially painted and decorated to mark the occasion. In June, we launched a new crane for the waste collection market. The HIAB S-HiPro 230W is designed to be used with underground refuse containers. The crane makes the operator’s work easier in increasingly crowded and hectic urban centres. HiVisionTM makes operating Service excellence Hiab helped a customer reshape In August, we extended the standard warranty to two years for a hooklift easier, safer and faster accelerates growth its business model all LOGLIFT and JONSERED forestry and recycling crane models globally. The warranty is valid for all cranes ordered as of 1 August Hiab’s HiVision™ creates an augmented Hiab’s services growth strategy is built In a record-breaking agreement with one 2019. Terms and conditions remain the same, including the threereality (AR) experience by combining around digital solutions, M&A and service of the largest home improvement chains in year warranty on steel components. With the extension, we want to operational information with real-life excellence. Hiab’s service sales have grown the USA, Hiab provides the customer with emphasise our commitment to our customers and assure them that footage. HiVision™ was expanded by eight percent per year since 2014, MOFFETT truck mounted forklifts equipped Hiab is a safe choice year after year. to MULTILIFT hooklifts in 2019. With especially in maintenance. About half of the with Hiab HiConnect™ platforms, supported HiVision™, the driver sees a virtual maintenance sales comes from spare parts. by a ProCare Essential service contract. presentation of the work area from inside In 2019, Hiab’s spare parts webshop served This allows the customer to realise the the truck cabin on a display that can also be over 50 countries. transformation it has seeked: an increased used to operate the machine. efficiency in fleet management. 35 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas MACGREGOR MILESTONE ACQUISITION, DISAPPOINTING RESULT MacGregor’s market situation continued to be challenging, and its comparable operating profit for 2019 was negative. The TTS acquisition was completed during the year, with teams cooperating effectively and with determination. The merchant and offshore businesses faced continuing challenges in 2019. The seaborne trade growth forecast dropped from previous estimates, and merchant ship contracting did not show signs of improvement. Shipowners were cautious about their spending, prioritising expenditure on environmental regulation compliance. On the offshore side, overcapacity issues still prevail. In 2019, our orders received and sales grew, mainly because of the TTS acquisition. We won several promising contracts, some of which already demonstrated the additional strengths gained from the TTS acquisition. We implemented several cost reduction actions during the year. For example, we have significantly re-structured our offshore activities and simplified our organisational structure. This work continues in 2020. “WE WON PROMISING CONTRACTS IN 2019” 36 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas TTS acquisition strengthens our capabilities The acquisition of the marine and offshore businesses of TTS Group ASA MacGregor in brief Maritime markets and offerings was completed in July, with the TTS results consolidated into MacGregor’s MacGregor aims to be recognised as the leader in intelligent We offer engineering and lifetime service solutions for merchant financial figures as of 1 August 2019. The integration work started after maritime cargo and load handling by being the preferred provider cargo and passenger vessels; the offshore oil and gas and that, making material progress during the remainder of the year, aligned to of lowest total cost solutions for shipbuilders, and the preferred renewable energy sectors; fishing, research and marine-resource realising forecast synergies. partner for shipowners and operators through enabling the highest vessels; naval operations and logistics vessels, and ports and lifecycle value. terminals. Our strong portfolio of MacGregor, Hatlapa, NMF, Porsgrunn, Pusnes, Rapp, Triplex and TTS products, services and The combination of MacGregor and TTS will produce greater scale solutions are all designed to perform with the sea. and diversification and strengthen our portfolio of offerings and market positions. Together we can add more value to our customers’ business activities through, for example, a more extensive global service network. Sustainability Customers We support sustainable development by providing our customers Our customers are shipbuilders, owners and operators whom we Creating additional customer value with TTS with eco-efficient solutions and services that help them optimise serve in maritime and offshore segments with our solutions and cargo and load handling flows, improve safety, extend equipment services. • Enhanced knowledge and expertise service life, and reduce environmental impact and emissions. • Broader product portfolio • Increased innovation and technical development capabilities • Larger installed base and wider global service network COMPARABLE OPERATING PROFIT ORDERS RECEIVED AND ORDER BOOK SALES MEUR % MEUR MEUR 2.6 2.3 1,139 40 1.9 3 1,000 1,200 883 30 1 828 24% -0.3 1,000 20 -0 750 778 598 630 633 800 546 580 611 10 -2 521 481 530 28% 571 500 600 538 30.1 17.9 10.6 -4.6 0 -4 42% -1.6 36% 41% 400 -10 -6 250 -20 -7 200 -28.2 -30 -9 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Comparable operating proﬁt Orders received Services Comparable operating proﬁt margin, % Order book Equipment 37 Annual Review 2019 Year 2019 Strategy Sustainability Personnel Business areas In terms of the TTS acquisition, the Chinese competition authority approval includes certain temporary requirements, which we are fully committed to complying with. Some of these requirements will be concluded by the summer of 2021, while the remainder will end during the following three years. Advances in orders, service and R&D Despite the market challenges, we secured several major orders during the year. We delivered MacGregor products to a naval project in Europe and TTS products to a RoRo project in Asia, with a total value of more than EUR 20 million. The contracts include ramps, car deck and lifting platform equipment. We also signed an important framework purchasing agreement with COSCO Shipping, one of the world’s largest shipowning groups, to provide support for MacGregor equipment installed on their fleet of more than 1,000 ships operating globally. We also made progress in developing new, digitally enabled offerings, such as OnWatch Scout, our condition monitoring and predictive maintenance solution. During the year we commenced work with several offshore and merchant crane-focused pilot customers based in Europe and Asia. In December, we announced a collaboration with Kongsberg Digital, part of KONGSBERG, to test the OnWatch Scout interface within their Vessel Insight data infrastructure solution. MacGregor cargo system Startup cooperation supports Efficient vehicle loading in Japan design to the world’s largest digital development Also in December, we introduced our Breakbulk Optimiser offering to the containership market. Breakbulk Optimiser is an automated, cloud-based application that increases breakbulk cargo planning efficiency, optimises vessel MacGregor designed the cargo system Cargotec addresses the biggest challenges Following a two-year period working in close capacity utilisation and reduces emissions per unit of cargo carried. and supplied the majority of components in maritime, cargo transport and logistics collaboration with a Japanese domestic for the world’s largest containership, MSC by collaborating with innovative startups. ferry operator to develop a customerFollowing the acquisition of Rapp Marine in 2018, we continue to develop Gülsün. The ship’s capacity is more than MacGregor and Arundo Analytics, Norway, specific replacement linkspan, MacGregor and provide integrated system solutions for the fishery and research 23,000 TEU. The design was developed in are working together on data analysis installed the new solution in early 2019. The vessel markets worldwide, including the first electric submersible pump close collaboration with MSC to maximise within our condition-based digital offering, solution enables smooth, efficient loading for pelagic fishing vessels. This innovative system provides higher cargo intake, provide for a high degree of OnWatch Scout, which maximises and unloading of vehicles on the daily ferry pumping control and efficiency at lower power requirements without the operational flexibility, and reduce emissions equipment availability and minimises service. risk of lubricant spillage, and supports the need for high quality, prime per unit of cargo carried. unplanned downtime. condition fish to meet growing consumer demand. 38 CONTACT US Cargotec corporation Porkkalankatu 5, Helsinki, Finland P.O. Box 61, FI-00501 Helsinki Tel. +358 20 777 4000 Websites www.cargotec.com www.kalmarglobal.com www.hiab.com www.macgregor.com Business identity code 1927402–8 Follow us Cargotec (Nasdaq Helsinki: CGCBV) enables smarter cargo flow for a better everyday with its leading cargo handling solutions and services. Cargotec’s business areas Kalmar, Hiab and MacGregor are pioneers in their fields. Through their unique position in ports, at sea and on roads, they optimise global cargo flows and create sustainable customer value. Cargotec’s sales in 2019 totalled approximately EUR 3.7 billion and it employs around 12,500 people. www.cargotec.com Cargotec’s reporting for the year 2019 consists of three documents: the Annual review, the Financial review, and the GRI index. The financial review includes the Board of ANNUAL REVIEW 2019 FINANCIAL REVIEW 2019 GRI INDEX 2019 SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY SMARTER CARGO FLOW FOR A BETTER EVERYDAY Directors’ report, the financial statements, the auditor’s report, the corporate governance statement and the remuneration statement. All documents are available on the company website www.cargotec.com. Annual Review 2019 Financial Review 2019 GRI Index 2019
