Contents Editorial Policy “A Love for People. A Love for the City” The Spirit of Mitsubishi: The Three Principles/The Mission of the Mitsubishi Estate Group/The Mitsubishi Estate Group 2 The Mitsubishi Estate Group began publishing its Environmental Report in fiscal 2000. Since fiscal 2005, the Group has published the CSR Report, expanding the coverage of the report to include corporate social Forever Taking On New Challenges—The Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Corporate Conduct/Guidelines for Conduct responsibility. In fiscal 2019, the Group began publishing the Sustainability Contents/Editorial Policy 3 Report as a means of disclosing information on Group efforts to realize a sustainable world. Message from the President 4 To accelerate Group efforts to resolve social issues through its business The Spirit of Mitsubishi: Three Principles activities and realize a sustainable world, the Group formulated the Messages from the Sustainability 8 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Vision 2050, a vision of the Group’s Director and Outside Director future through 2050, and the Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals for SDGs, “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” which set mediumand long-term targets for achieving its vision for 2050. 所期奉公 処事光明 立業貿易 Reporting structure Sustainability Strategy Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business The Sustainability Site is conceived as a complete version of our Strive to enrich society, both materially and Maintain principles of transparency and Expand business, based on Mitsubishi Estate Group Value Creation Model 10 Sustainability Report with the full range of information regarding the Group’s spiritually, while contributing toward the openness, conducting business with an all-encompassing global perspective. sustainability activities, including technical numerical data. The printed preservation of the global environment. integrity and fairness. Basic Approach to Sustainability 14 digest edition is made available for general readers and provides selected parts of the website’s content. Further details regarding the company profile Feature: Passing the Legacy of More Than a Century of 15 and performance can be found on the Mitsubishi Estate website. Urban Development to the Next Generation Websites Sustainability Highlights 20 Sustainability: https://www.mec.co.jp/e/sustainability/index.html The Mission of the Mitsubishi Estate Group Investor Relations: https://www.mec.co.jp/e/investor/index.html Corporate Information: https://www.mec.co.jp/e/company/index.html We contribute to society through urban development. Materiality Our Business: https://www.mec.co.jp/e/business/index.html By building attractive, environmentally sound communities where people can live, work, and relax with Environment 24 Scope contentment, we contribute to the creation of a truly meaningful society. The organizations covered by the 2019 Sustainability Report are Mitsubishi Globality 25 Estate and 59 Group companies (48 in Japan and 11 overseas) that share the Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Conduct. Community 26 The Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Corporate Conduct Refer to the website for a list of organizations covered in the report In order to carry out the Group’s Mission, we pledge to observe the following Code of Conduct: Diversity 27 Period Declining Birthrate and Aging Population 28 The report covers fiscal 2018 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019), but also includes information pertaining to other fiscal years. 1. We will act with integrity. Leveraging Existing Properties 29 We will base our conduct on laws and ethics and always reflect with humility upon our behavior, valuing our communication Reference guidelines Digital Innovation 30 with society and placing priority in our corporate activities on earning trust through fairness and transparency. • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (2018 edition), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Corporate Governance 31 • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 edition), Ministry of the 2. We will strive to earn the trust of our clients. Environment, Japan We will approach all objectives from our clients’ point of view, providing safe and reliable products and services, Compliance 34 • ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, International Organization and make information available as appropriate. for Standardization Risk Management 36 Refer to the website for the GRI Standards Content Index Human Resource Initiatives 38 3. We will strive to create a vibrant workplace. Publication date March, 2020 While aiming at personal growth, we will respect the human rights and diversity of opinions of others and Human Rights Initiatives 40 Next issue The next issue is scheduled for publication in October 2020. increase our creativity and professionalism, while displaying our collective strengths as a team. Production overseen by Sustainability Management and Promotion Department, Supply Chain Management 41 Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. External Evaluations 42 Contact address Otemachi Park Building, 1-1, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct Tokyo 100-8133 Japan ESG Data Highlights 43 Tel: +81-3-3287-5780 Formulated: December 1, 1997/Revised: August 1, 2002/Revised: January 1, 2006/Revised: April 1, 2018 2 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 3 Message from the President Sustainability increasingly important The first approach is implementing management with both in and outside Japan enduring values and a long-term perspective based on the characteristics and history of urban development. Drawing on The Spirit of Mitsubishi: The Three It has been about a year since Japan began a new Principles of the Mitsubishi Group, the Mitsubishi Estate Imperial era with the transition from the Heisei to the Group proclaims the mission of contributing to creating a Reiwa era upon the accession of the new emperor. On truly meaningful society, by building attractive, the start of this new era, I feel once again that the environmentally sound communities where people can Mitsubishi Estate Group must strongly emphasize live, work and relax with contentment. In accordance with contribution on a global scale in addition to Japanese this Mission, the Mitsubishi Estate Group has been society. This is felt even more keenly against the backdrop developing the Marunouchi area for over 120 years and of diverse environmental and social issues emerging both has expanded that area’s spirit and vibrancy to Otemachi in and outside Japan. and Yurakucho as well as further afield in Japan and In 2019, several large typhoons and storms, thought overseas. At the heart of this development is the concept to be due to climate change, caused devastation across that urban development consists not only of the latest Japan. Meanwhile, in addition to extreme weather, such infrastructure such as building, utilities, and transportation as high temperatures and rainfall, a series of natural infrastructure. Rather, its value reaches full potential when disasters such as large-scale wildfires have struck around the unique attractions of its time and place, including the globe. The problems of refugees and poverty creativity, entertainment, and sense of security take shape. resulting from regional conflicts remain unresolved. In Cities should be places where diverse people come view of food and water issues that will come from future together, interact and create the next new attractions global population growth, as well as transport and waste while continuing to grow and develop. In other words, the problems due to urbanization, we realize that main actors of a city are the people living through this “sustainability” has become an even more important time and, naturally, there is considerable variability in what keyword inside and outside Japan. makes a truly meaningful society. Moreover, there is growing interest and hope Embracing these human values, in the Marunouchi surrounding the United Nations Sustainable area, for example, we transitioned from an era of Development Goals (SDGs) for addressing these issues. Even without needing to cite Goal 17 “Partnerships for the goals,” corporations are working together with diverse stakeholders in Japan and overseas to pursue sustainable business frameworks. In light of this, we must now take on greater responsibilities than ever, both in Japan and in the international community. The Mitsubishi Estate Group, with its core business of urban development, is We will fulfill social expectations through determined to go beyond the confines of a single company and work with government organizations, local the enduring values of community development companies, and other partners to articulate a vision for sustainable cities. We hope to enhance our sustainability while embracing the new challenge of enhancing management with this in mind. sustainability-focused management. Putting the long-term perspective essential for urban development at the heart of management Junichi Yoshida President & Chief Executive Officer Based on this recognition of the social and environmental Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. issues, we hope to focus on two approaches to management to bring about concrete action. 4 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 5 Message from the President expanding and upgrading office facilities when the unique asset of value creation capability to the next peripheral domains and promote company-wide projects Company was established to an era when we enhanced generation? And how do we maximize this value and aimed at achieving sustainability, developing initiatives in commercial and cultural facilities with the aim of creating creativity as benefits for stakeholders? In order to achieve each business unit, reforming our organization and a vibrant urban district. Then we moved to drive the these aims, we need to incorporate the sustainability raising the awareness of our employees. In addition, by strengthening of seismic and disaster preparedness perspective into daily management and business incorporating these initiatives into Long-Term functions and formulation of BCPs in light of the Great activities and deepen our efforts continually and Management Plan 2030, our new management plan East Japan Earthquake. In the interest of sustainability in systematically using the PDCA cycle based on clear starting in April 2020, we will continue with the steady recent years we have promoted the initiatives for energy objectives. This is what our second management implementation of the PDCA cycle. and resource conservation, utilization of renewable approach is about. energy, and ensuring biodiversity. Furthermore, more To implement this approach, we announced the *1 RE100: An international initiative operated by The Climate Group, an international climate change NGO, in partnership with CDP. Consists of recently, we have worked on a variety of experimental Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Vision 2050 in companies aiming to use 100% renewable electricity in their business initiatives to utilize cutting-edge technologies such as AI, February 2020. We formulated this long-term vision not activities, with 221 members (of which 30 are Japanese companies) joining globally (as of January 2020). IoT, and robotics. Our journey has been one of upgrading only by developing forecasts based on the strengths we *2 The Task Force on Climate Change-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) our initiatives to, as rightly expressed in SDGs Goal 11, have built up but also by implementing backcasting was established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB)* based on a G20 “make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, based on the vision we want to achieve in 2050 and our request to investigate how to disclose climate-related information and respond to financial institutions. The task force issued its final report in resilient and sustainable.” As such, I believe our work in purpose in society. The vision statement is, “Be the June 2017, encouraging companies and others to disclose climate urban development is one that gives shape to the Ecosystem Engineers.” We define the spaces and change-related risks and opportunities. concept of sustainability. infrastructure in which diverse individuals and corporations are able to coexist sustainably and thrive together as “ecosystems,” in which we aspire to leverage Passing on our credibility and Implementing sustainability-focused our diverse expertise as a developer and the coordination individual diversity as a corporation skills we have developed to date to address relevant management under a long-term vision issues in more conscious and active ways. This is what we mean when we say we are the Ecosystem Engineers. Our human resources are a source of creative power that Urban development can be described as highly creative We have also formulated the Mitsubishi Estate Group create something from nothing to achieve innovation work constantly breathing life into cities over 50 or 100 2030 Goals for SDGs in order to realize the vision to which and thus play the key role in the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s jobs or starting a business, and we also began operating years while engaging new people and realizing high we aspire. Based on the seven material issues we set out sustainable value creation aimed at achieving this a system for permitting employees to engage in second value in social and environmental aspects as well as in fiscal 2018, we established the four themes of long-term vision. We have established systems for jobs in January 2020. economic aspects. How do we pass on the Group’s Environment, Diversity & Inclusion, Innovation, and collaborating with startups and for internal proposals of The strengths of the Mitsubishi Estate Group are its Resilience as the long-term perspective essential for new businesses to enable each and every one of our credibility as a company cultivated throughout its history urban development, and we aim to become a corporate human resources to demonstrate their full potential. In and its employment of diverse professionals to realize group implementing world-class initiatives in these areas addition, when we relocated our headquarters in January comprehensive urban development. Based on these in 2030. For example, with respect to the environment, 2018, we introduced in each unit a free address work strengths, the greatest mission of management is not we have formulated individual, concrete action plans and environment and increased the number of common simply to create a cohesive team, but also to foster a KPIs for areas such as greenhouse gas emissions areas to facilitate casual conversations. By doing this, we corporate culture in which each and every employee is reductions (target approved by the SBT initiative) and tried to create opportunities for employees to come into united on sustainable urban development, creating local waste emission reductions. In addition, in order to contact with others and encounter diverse people communities, and creating international communities manage these individual initiatives appropriately and to throughout the office, allowing for people who have through active internal and external interaction, as they strengthen corporate governance, we joined RE100*1 and different values and ideas to exchange opinions and work to resolve each of the issues they confront. Taking decided to support the recommendations of TCFD.*2 We ideas freely, thereby leading to the creation of new this mission to heart, we will steadily implement are also examining the use of ESG information in businesses. The feedback suggests that communication measures related to sustainability-focused management determining the remuneration of officers and with superiors and people from other departments has as we strive to enhance corporate value. considering the matters deliberated by the Strategic increased. Going forward, we plan to reflect the Investment Committee in our aim to further improve know-how that we have acquired through these trust and evaluation of our company in capital markets. accomplishments in new office design. Additionally, in Naturally, we will continue to strive to improve the 2019, we established a system for the reemployment of Junichi Yoshida sustainability of our urban development in other areas as former employees who had left the company for reasons President & Chief Executive Officer well. We will establish targets and action plans in the such as raising children, providing nursing care, changing Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. 6 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 7 Messages from the Sustainability Director and Outside Director manner as we work with all stakeholders including Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions Targets, as our business partners. contribution to a society with a low-carbon footprint. In April 2019, these targets were approved by the Science Based Targets initiative for being based on scientific Working with All Stakeholders is Important evidence for limiting the increase in temperature to well Message from the Director below 2°C above pre-industrial revolution levels, as Responsible for Sustainability As encapsulated in our Vision 2050 statement, “Be the targeted under the Paris Agreement. Going forward, we Ecosystem Engineers,” we aspire to be a corporate group will actively adopt new technologies and promote the Tetsuji Arimori (=engineers) that provides spaces and infrastructure (=ecosystems) where all actors (individuals, corporations, development of real estate with a high standard of environmental performance as well as working to Executive Vice President Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. and more) are able to coexist sustainably and thrive introduce even more renewable energy. By so doing, we together—economically, environmentally, and socially. strive to achieve the targets we have instituted. In order for the entire Group to work toward achieving Moreover, we are currently making preparations for a sustainable society, we need to share and unify information disclosure that is in accordance with the common values and standards of conduct across the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate Group. In April 2018, we revised the Mitsubishi Estate Change-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which was Group Code of Conduct, which forms the basis for this, established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). aligning it with a more sophisticated level of globalized In order to further accelerate the Group’s initiatives corporate social responsibility. Additionally, we joined the aimed at solving diverse social issues, I believe it is United Nations Global Compact to work within the important for us to gain the understanding of constructs of international initiatives. We have also gained stakeholders and work together. Going forward, we will Establishing a Vision for 2050 themes of Environment, Diversity & Inclusion, Innovation, the understanding that initiatives are essential throughout promote dialogue and collaboration with stakeholders and Resilience. the supply chain from the Group’s business partners and and address social needs and the demands and The Mitsubishi Estate Group describes its mission as: “By have been sharing and promoting the Mitsubishi Estate expectations on the Group through our business. While building attractive, environmentally sound communities Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. further consolidating our management base through this where people can live, work and relax with contentment Engaging with All Stakeholders in a We consider the initiatives on climate change set out process of dialogue and collaboration, we steadily work we contribute to creating a truly meaningful society.” Responsible Manner in our 2030 Goals are also a critical issue for the toward achieving the themes set out in our 2030 Goals, to Throughout our 130 years of history in urban international community. In March 2019, we instituted enhance our corporate value and maximize the value we development, we have enhanced our corporate value I am the Director responsible for Sustainability, and I lead The Mitsubishi Estate Group Mediumto Long-Term provide to all stakeholders. and prospered as a corporate group by addressing social the Sustainability Management and Promotion issues from a long-term perspective and continually Department in the planning and drafting of measures for creating value for society. promoting sustainability across the Group. We formulate Over the past few years, there has been a growing measures following deliberations and reports at the sense of crisis about the global environment and social Sustainability Committee, which is chaired by the President sustainability, and there have been calls for corporations of Mitsubishi Estate and composed of the executives from Outside Director’s Message to shift to sustainable business models, as set forth in the respective business fields and the Corporate Group, as well Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the as presidents of major Group companies, among others. Communicating Efforts Toward SDGs from the People’s Perspective United Nations in 2015. We manage the concrete details of initiatives and The Mitsubishi Estate Group implemented internal targets for achieving the 2030 Goals at the Sustainability Climate change is no longer some distant problem, but serves to teach about life, preserve species, promote working groups throughout all of our business units in Committee using the PDCA cycle with the aim of an immediate reality. With Japan’s typhoons and research and nurture cultural understanding. One such fiscal 2018 in order to promote further Group-wide continually upgrading them. Moreover, we are also torrential rains of recent years, we have come to realize example is the aquarium’s collaborative project with considering introducing periodic progress management that all of us are being threatened and subjected to real Onna Village in Okinawa Prefecture to protect and integration of sustainability and management. Through by a third-party organization. risk by extreme weather conditions. The Mitsubishi Estate regenerate coral reefs. It also provides a place away from this process, we identified the themes on which the Group has established a framework with Mediumto home and work where adults can Group should focus in light of the SDGs. We established Urban development, our core business, involves more Long-Term Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Targets. come to be inspired and moved. the seven material issues, the key areas for the Group to than simply erecting office buildings and residential The challenge of meeting the SDGs is one of great In this sense, the aquarium pursue in its sustainable management. properties. The idea of fostering community while urgency, and companies face existential questions when symbolizes Mitsubishi Estate Furthermore, together with the Mitsubishi Estate considering the history, culture and traditions of the looking at the prognosis for business over the long term. Group’s business model to Group Long-Term Management Plan 2030, which we neighborhood and the desires of the people who live The path to increasing corporate value and a journey create value for society. announced in January 2020, we set out the Mitsubishi there is key. It is also important to make the utmost effort to create social value are inextricably coupled with one Estate Group Sustainability Vision 2050, “Be the in such areas as disaster preparedness and barrier-free another. In this regard, the Mitsubishi Estate Group offers Ecosystem Engineers.” By backcasting from our Vision accessibility so that diverse people can live, work and relax a number of invaluable possibilities. The Group’s Sunshine 2050, we also formulated the Mitsubishi Estate Group safely and securely. In order to achieve this, the Mitsubishi Aquarium, for example, is extremely significant in terms 2030 Goals for SDGs (“the 2030 Goals”) as an action plan Estate Group’s idea of urban development involves for achieving the seven material issues. In order to help engaging with customers and local community members of social education on biodiversity, water resources, and Setsuko Egami marine life, attracting 1.73 million visitors per year. Outside Director realize a sustainable world and provide even more to better understand all possible impacts our business Beyond mere recreation and entertainment, this facility Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. profound value to a wider range of stakeholders, the activities may have, such as on human rights and the Mitsubishi Estate Group is focusing on the four key environment. We promote every project in a responsible 8 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 9 Sustainability Strategy Mitsubishi Estate Group Value Creation Model We will share in growth with diverse stakeholders through urban development that looks 100 years ahead into the future. Customers In order to grow in partnership with diverse stakeholders, the Mitsubishi Estate Group formulated the Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals for SDGs by backcasting from the Group’s vision for 2050 from the long-term perspective commonly required both for urban development business and addressing issues of the international community. We will implement initiatives targeting each of these goals in our Long-Term Management Plan 2030, which we will launch in April 2020. Business partners Powerful real estate assets Shareholders/ Close relationships investors Aging society and with communities, population decline Planning and customers, and Robust in Japan financial base design partners Overview of the Global population Local Mitsubishi Estate Group growth and communities (Consolidated results for the fiscal year ending urbanization Segments from April 1, 2020 March 31, 2019) Water resource Asset Project and food acquisition and investment Commercial Residential management Revenue from Operations 1,263.2 billions of yen shortages Property Business Business Officers/ The Mission of employees Issues of the Mitsubishi Estate International Group International Investment Community Business Management Total Assets Creation of a truly meaningful Business Growing concern society through urban development Architectural Design & Competitors 5,774.1 billions of yen about ecosystem Engineering Business and resource Redevelopment, Other Businesses Leasing, sustainability asset sales and Real Estate Services Business sales Number of Employees Mounting concern about human rights Media 9,439 problems Diverse human Management Credibility as Manifestation of resources (AM, PM)* a reliable and climate change trusted brand Governments Varied information obtained from extensive range of business fields * AM: Asset management, PM: Property management NGOs, NPOs Anticipating Changes in the International Demonstrating the Group’s Strengths Community and Business Environment Cultivated through Diverse Business Educational institutions In addition to regularly researching needs and trends In formulating our growth strategy, we take in the international community and the regions advantage of our strengths, which include where we operate our business, the Mitsubishi urban development with an ultra-long-term Estate Group continually ascertains the opinions of perspective spanning 50 or 100 years, a diverse stakeholders on a daily basis in order to legacy of being ahead of the times, a wide continue to provide new value. The formulation of a range of contact points with stakeholders medium-to-long term growth strategy with an eye from residence to business and industry, and on the United Nations Sustainable Development far-reaching interests in real estate in Japan Goals (SDGs) is also part of this process. and overseas. 10 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 11 Sustainability Strategy Mitsubishi Estate Group Value Creation Model We will share in growth with diverse stakeholders Long-Term Management Plan 2030 through urban development that looks 100 years ahead into the future. Customers The Mitsubishi Estate Group will begin working on the Long-Term Management Plan 2030 in April 2020 in order to drive its strategy to increase both social value and shareholder value. In order to grow in partnership with diverse stakeholders, the Mitsubishi Estate Group formulated the Mitsubishi Estate Moreover, in order to increase the social value, we will work to achieve the Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals for SDGs by backcasting from the Group’s vision for 2050 from the long-term perspective commonly Group 2030 Goals for SDGs, which consists of four key themes. required both for urban development business and addressing issues of the international community. We will implement initiatives targeting each of these goals in our Long-Term Management Plan 2030, which we will launch in April 2020. Business partners Material Issues Powerful real Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals for SDGs P18 estate assets Shareholders/ Environment P24 Aging society and Close relationships investors In order to help realize a sustainable world, the Mitsubishi Estate Group with communities, population decline Robust Planning and customers, and prioritizes the four key themes of Environment, Diversity & Inclusion, in Japan partners financial base design Globality P25 Innovation, and Resilience and strives to provide even more profound value Mitsubishi Estate Group Global population Local to a wider range of stakeholders. Sustainability Vision 2050 growth and communities urbanization Segments from April 1, 2020 Water resource Asset Project Community P26 1 Environment 2 Diversity & Inclusion Be the and food Ecosystem Engineers acquisition and Commercial Residential management shortages investment Property Business Business Sustainable urban development that Urban development that responds to lifestyle The Mission of Officers/ proactively addresses climate change and and human resources trends and facilitates employees Mitsubishi Estate Diversity P27 environmental issues active participation for all Issues of the International Group Investment We aspire to be a corporate group (=engineers) International Management Community Creation of a truly meaningful Business Business that provides spaces and infrastructure society through urban Declining (=ecosystems) where all actors (individuals, development Competitors Birthrate and P28 Growing concern Architectural Design & Aging Population corporations, and more) are able to coexist about ecosystem Engineering Business 3 Innovation 4 Resilience sustainably and thrive together—economically, and resource Redevelopment, Other Businesses Leasing, asset sales and Real Estate sales sustainability Services Business Innovative urban development that Dynamic, flexible urban development that environmentally, and socially. Leveraging Mounting concern Media Existing Properties P29 continuously renews society builds disaster-resilient communities and about human rights prioritizes safety and security problems Diverse human Management Credibility as resources (AM, PM)* a reliable and Manifestation of Digital Innovation P30 P19 climate change trusted brand Governments Varied information obtained from ESG Value Creation through Business extensive range of business fields * AM: Asset management, PM: Property management Sustainability Quality Of Life NGOs, NPOs Value Propositions Social issue solutions Innovative services & experiences Anticipating Changes in the International Demonstrating the Group’s Strengths Community and Business Environment Cultivated through Diverse Business Educational institutions In addition to regularly researching needs and trends In formulating our growth strategy, we take in the international community and the regions advantage of our strengths, which include Identifying the Seven Material Issues (see page 16) Achieving the Goals for 2030 and 2050 where we operate our business, the Mitsubishi urban development with an ultra-long-term Estate Group continually ascertains the opinions of perspective spanning 50 or 100 years, a In order to ensure its growth strategy, the Mitsubishi Estate Group The Mitsubishi Estate Group formulated the Long-Term Management Plan 2030 in order to provide stakeholders with sustainable diverse stakeholders on a daily basis in order to legacy of being ahead of the times, a wide identified changes in the business environment and the strengths of value over the long term. It is based on our expected achievement of the numerical targets in the Medium-Term Management continue to provide new value. The formulation of a range of contact points with stakeholders each of the Group’s businesses and then established seven material Plan (fiscal 2018–2020) and our success in such areas as strengthening capital policy and corporate governance, and it sets out the medium-to-long term growth strategy with an eye from residence to business and industry, and issues, the key areas for the Group to pursue in its sustainability Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals for SDGs based on the material issues. In addition, the Group established Sustainability Vision on the United Nations Sustainable Development far-reaching interests in real estate in Japan management based on the future opportunities and risks. 2050, which illustrates the vision it aims to achieve by 2050, and is implementing initiatives on the four key themes of the 2030 Goals (SDGs) is also part of this process. and overseas. Goals with the aim of achieving this vision. 10 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Strategy Basic Approach to Sustainability Feature Prioritizing Dialogue with Stakeholders The Mitsubishi Estate Group’s business is built upon the community as partners in building a sustainable Passing the Legacy of More Than a Century of foundation of its relationships with a wide variety of stakeholders. Urban development involves many community. In the Marunouchi area, the Group maintains interactive communication with the community on a daily Urban Development to the Next Generation stakeholders by its very nature, and the Mitsubishi Estate basis through the Council for Area Development and Group has the responsibility to pursue its business activities Management of Otemachi, Marunouchi and Yurakucho and while living up to the trust placed in it by these other organizations. The Group engages in dialogue with stakeholders. Furthermore, going beyond its direct business stakeholders in various forms, including its investor relations Full-scale launch of sustainability management with an eye on 2030 and 2050 relationships, the Group pursues active involvement with activities, reflecting their feedback in the implementation of the tenants of its buildings and the stakeholders in the local sustainability-focused management. In the course of its 130-year history, the Mitsubishi communities over the next 10 or 20 years, while also Estate Group has created lively cities and clearly understanding what needs to be done now, Methods for Dialogue with Stakeholders neighborhoods around the world under the Mitsubishi and to steadily manage each and every initiative. Stakeholders Definition Opportunities for dialogue Primary themes Estate Group Mission: “By building attractive, Based on this approach, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Users of tenant buildings, Urban development to create safety and security environmentally sound communities where people reviewed its material issues in fiscal 2018. In February parties to housing and Customer satisfaction surveys, questionnaires, etc. Quality and safety management for products and services Customers condominium contracts, Communication through marketing activities Urban development to support declining birthrates and can live, work and relax with contentment, we 2020, the Group established the Mitsubishi Estate various subcontractors, etc. aging populations contribute to creating a truly meaningful society.” At Group Sustainability Vision 2050 as the vision for 2050 Local community and local Meetings with influential stakeholders Economic contributions to the community the same time, the world is beginning to recognize the and announced the Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Community and residents involved in the Dialogues through cooperation with Society Mitsubishi Estate Group’s administrations, local government and NPOs Promoting smart communities Sustainable use of forest resources threat of climate change, and there are growing Goals for SDGs, the goals to be achieved by 2030 business Social contribution initiatives concerns about water and food supply shortages due obtained by backcasting from the 2050 Vision, Communication via personnel evaluations Developing the capabilities of employees, utilizing diverse Employees Mitsubishi Estate Group Dialogue via compliance survey and other human resources and providing equal opportunities to global population growth and issues involving categorized into four themes. These goals are reflected employees internal platforms Maintaining safety as well as physical and mental health waste and transport resulting from urbanization. In in the 2030 Long-Term Management Plan, and the Communication during operations order to continue building upon the Group’s legacy of Group will implement the Group-wide initiatives aimed Construction Subcontractor evaluation systems, training Business subcontractors, sessions for registered construction firms, quality Supply chain management urban development in a sustainable manner, it is at contributing to achieving a sustainable society while Green procurement Partners cooperating companies, and safety promotion conferences, other Urban development to create safety and security important to address issues by understanding the striving for continuous improvement. suppliers, etc. Communication during procurement activities Notification of CSR procurement guidelines changes in the global environment and local Financial results briefings (twice a year) Small group meetings and property tours for Shareholders and Individual and institutional analysts Economic performance Investors investors Meetings with Japanese and foreign institutional Healthy corporate management investors Communication using IR tools Supporting International Initiatives Operational Framework for Sustainability The Mitsubishi Estate Group has set forth the goal of Mitsubishi Estate takes an active, group-wide approach to strengthening its international business as a sustainability. Chaired by the President & Chief Executive medium-to-long term growth strategy. The Group believes Officer of Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd., the Group’s Sustainability that it is vital for the Group to work with the international Committee comprises executives in charge of respective community to support global initiatives on sustainability, business fields and the Corporate Group, as well as managers while promoting communication with overseas of the major Group companies, and it ensures group-wide stakeholders to smoothly advance international business. implementation of sustainability initiatives. The Sustainability Based on such considerations, the Mitsubishi Estate Subcommittee serves as forum for detailed discussion to Group became a signatory to the United Nations Global prepare for Sustainability Committee meetings. Compact in April 2018. The Group has established business Board of Directors targets and policies in light of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact including respecting human rights, eliminating unfair labor, Sustainability Committee Risk Management Executive Committee Chair: President & Chief protecting the environment, Committee Executive Officer of Mitsubishi Estate & Compliance and avoiding corruption. In Deputy Committee Chair: Director in Committee charge of Mitsubishi Estate Sustainability pursuing these targets and Management and Promotion Department policies using the PDCA Committee members: Executives in charge of respective business fields management cycle, the Group Executive in charge of the Corporate Group Presidents of core operating companies will continue to contribute to Chairman, standing statutory auditors the development of a and others as observers sustainable world. Sustainability Subcommittee 14 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 15 Feature Passing the Legacy of More Than a Century of Urban Development to the Next Generation Action 1 Identifying Material Issues (fiscal 2018) The Mitsubishi Estate Group implemented internal working units throughout the Group in fiscal 2018 to newly identify seven material issues, the key areas that the Group should focus on in light of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), while also articulating the associated opportunities and risks. St ep 1 St ep 2 Step 3 Step 4 Set out strengths/characteristics Identified 55 changes in business Identified 24 key social issues and Set out the seven material issues in of each business unit environment related to business activities trends from the three perspectives of order to share awareness internally business unit operations, and externally • business Review process for each • Identified social issues and trends, such as SDGs the Medium-Term Management Plan • and Set out relationships between business processes (fiscal 2018–2020), and external evaluations • stakeholder Prepared draft of material issues and carried out • Clarified strengths/ social issues and trends, such as SDGs interviews • Submitted to management characteristics (source of value creation) of own • examined social In addition to relationships with business processes, environment and trends from the • issue Identified business opportunities and risks for each social and trend After mapping the relationships between the 24 key trends and the SDGs, company perspective of the Medium-Term Management Plan (fiscal 2017–2019) and the perspective of the • Grouped material issues based on opportunities and risks they were organized into seven material issues. Interviews were conducted with three outside experts to obtain third-party opinions. Each business unit analyzed business strengths/characteristics after clarifying individual business executive office • Careful review conducted by working group executive office Outside Experts (Affiliations and positions as of December 2018. Social issues represented by megatrends and the 17 goals of the Out of the 55 changes in the business environment, each business unit Listed in no particular order) processes and stakeholders. Based on SDGs were discussed and specified irrespective of organization to identified the opportunities and risks most relevant to their own business Dr. Mika Takaoka (Ph.D. in Economics) that, the SDG Compass was used to identify 55 changes in the business environment that the unit given the strengths/characteristics of the business. The key social Professor, College of Business, Rikkyo University clarify relationships between Mitsubishi Estate Group must focus on based on the relationships issues and trends were subsequently narrowed down to 24 based on the Mari Yoshitaka Chief Environmental and Social Strategist, Environmental businesses that contribute to with each business process and the targets in the perspective of the abovementioned Medium-Term Management Plan Strategy Advisory Division, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. achieving the SDGs. abovementioned Medium-Term Management Plan. and outside evaluations. Dr. Norichika Kanie (Ph.D. in Media and Governance) Professor, Graduate School of Media and Governance, Keio University 24 Social Issues and Trends 7 Material Issues Main Opportunities Main Values Provided • Worsening of climate change • health, Rise in interest in physical and mental Environment • Increasing need for development and management of real estate with • Sustainable, • and Deterioration of the natural environment medical care, and wellness low environmental impact and resilience following natural disasters resilient, safe and depletion of natural resources • working-age Decline in the total population and • Increasing opportunities for real estate investment and secure urban development • and Exhaustion of existing natural resources population of Japan Globality urban development outside Japan • Urban resultant changes in energy configuration in society as a whole • and changing position Acceleration of the aging population of the elderly in • Increasing need to accommodate diverse users, including international visitors development managed for climate change, waste, Community and energy • and Increase in social unease due to terrorism society in Japan • Increasing need for development and management of real estate with crime (including risks from the • (including Emergence of risks in the supply chain Diversity advanced security against terrorism and crime • Borderless urban development outbreak of infectious diseases) • (including Increase in frequency of natural disasters issues) worsening of human rights • Increasing demand for facilities and services tailored to diverse lifestyles and working and consumption styles with respect for diverse backgrounds worldwide earthquakes) • women Progress of the social advancement of Declining birthrate and aging population • Increasing need for cities to respond to demographic changes • Risk of rise in associated costs and the diversification of society • development Interactive, value-added urban • Things Further penetration of the Internet of • inIncrease Japan in number of foreign workers Leveraging existing properties • Increasing need for redevelopment and renovation as well as use of based on knowledge-building and (IoT) (including virtualization and existing properties in major cities networks acceleration of the proliferation of information) • and Growth in need for social integration universal design Digital innovation • Potential for utilization in smart communities, residences, and offices • (including Improvements in artificial intelligence (AI) • regional Restructuring and revitalization of • Development Socially Inclusive Urban the spread of automated communities (including Main Risks driving technology) regional depopulation and population • Falling asset values and rising expenses for maintenance and • urban • omni-channel Increase in e-commerce and increases of major cities) countermeasures due to large-scale natural disasters Abundant and comfortable commerce, and diversification of payment methods • infrastructure Increase in prevalence of aging public and housing stock • Intensifying global inter-city competition development responding to demographic and lifestyle changes • increases Progress of globalization (including (including vacant housing) • Increasing country-specific risks and compliance risks, including supply chain management in inbound and outbound • result Promotion of private sector vitality, as a • development tourism and rise in immigration) of the privatization of public facilities • Declining public order and falling asset values for surrounding areas Efficient and eco-friendly urban leveraging • principally Economic growth of emerging nations, • Changes in lifestyles and work styles due to aging buildings and rise in vacant housing existing properties in Asia • such Diversification of consumption patterns, • Changing office needs accompanying decline in working population and • of food supplies growth and shortage Global population as the sharing economy spread of diverse workstyles • Cutting-edge urban development • Changes in business practices and employment environment due to rise of AI with continual open innovation Goals formulated based on the seven material issues (toward Action 2) 16 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 17 Feature Passing the Legacy of More Than a Century of Urban Development to the Next Generation Action 2 Formulating the Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals Action 3 Formulating the Mitsubishi Estate Group for SDGs (Announced January 2020) Sustainability Vision 2050 (Announced February 2020) Together with the Mitsubishi Estate Group Long-Term Management Plan, we set out the Mitsubishi Estate Group 2030 Goals for SDGs based on seven material issues by backcasting from the Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Vision 2050, the vision it aims to achieve by 2050 (see the next page). The Mitsubishi Estate Group will provide even more profound value to a wider range of stakeholders focused on the four key themes of Environment, Diversity & Inclusion, Innovation, and Resilience. 1 Environment Sustainable urban development that proactively addresses climate change and environmental issues • Reduce GHG emissions 35% by 2030 (compared with FY2017) *87% reduction by FY2050 (target approved by the SBT*1 initiative) • Renewable power ratio: 25% *100% in FY2050 (joined RE100*2) Continue promoting transition to renewable power. Also, based on technological progress, investigate strengthening of power storage facilities, coordinated heat supply among district heating and cooling plants, and the use of demand-response. • Promote waste recycling and reduction of emissions focusing on food and plastic items • Waste recycling rate: 90% • Waste disposal: 20% reduction (compared to FY2019, per m2) Increase garbage storage facilities and drinking water supply equipment, etc. Enhance provision of information to educate tenants, building visitors and the public. Consider platforms and measures to facilitate garbage sorting. • Promote sustainable timber use Be the • Establish traceability of timber to be used in businesses Promote sustainable use of timber in consideration of human rights and protection of natural resources in logging areas for imported timber Ecosystem Engineers 2 Diversity & Inclusion Urban development that responds to lifestyle and human resources trends We aspire to be a corporate group (=engineers) and facilitates active participation for all that provides spaces and infrastructure • Strengthen hospitality and realize stress-free cities (=ecosystems) where all actors (individuals, • Respect different lifestyles, local customs, religions, and sexual orientation Provide services that support health promotion and health management, and establish bases where varied people can play active roles corporations, and more) are able to coexist 3 Innovation sustainably and thrive together— Innovative urban development that continuously renews society economically, environmentally, • Innovate business models and maximize performance and socially. • Support the creation of new ideas and businesses from the perspective of urban development, contribute to the growth of cities and industries Provide advanced workplaces and maximize the value of experience in the city 4 Resilience Dynamic, flexible urban development that builds disaster-resilient communities and prioritizes safety and security • Enhance disaster preparedness to minimize functional stagnation during disasters • Enhance BCP function through hardware measures and strengthen neighborhood communication Further strengthen water stoppage measures, including measures against unexpected flooding, and promote communication within the neighborhood related to disaster prevention *1 An acronym for Science Based Targets. In order to achieve the goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels set under the Paris Agreement, companies establish reduction targets in line with the reduction scenarios based on the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The Science Based Target initiative approves the targets. *2 An international initiative operated by The Climate Group, an international climate change NGO, in partnership with CDP. Consists of companies aiming to use 100% renewable electricity in their business activities, with 221 members (of which 30 are Japanese companies) joining globally (as of January 2020) Goals formulated by backcasting Goals formulated based on the seven material issues from the Vision 2050 18 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 19 Sustainability Highlights HIGHLIGHT 1 2 Developing Real Estate with Low Environmental Impact Mitsubishi Estate Group Mediumto Long-Term Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions Targets Approved by Taking Measures for a Net Zero Energy Building Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative (ZEB) at Miyako Shimojishima Airport Terminal in Okinawa Opened in March 2019, the Miyako Shimojishima Airport terminal is Japan’s first-ever airport terminal that has earned a Net Zero Energy Building (ZEB) rating. The Group has Setting Appropriate Targets Based on Scientific Evidence to Target incorporated a range of sustainable, energy-saving measures. Contribute to the Realization of a Sustainable Society It was designed based on a plan that will make primary energy Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. commits to reduce consumption around 68% less than a comparable structure In 2019,*1 Mitsubishi Estate instituted The Mitsubishi Estate Group Mediumto absolute scope 1+2+3 GHG emissions 35% by built to the national standard, and for which the project was Long-Term Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions Targets for the entire 2030 and 87% by 2050 from a 2017 base-year. accredited with the ZEB Ready rating by the Agency for Group, aimed at realizing a sustainable society with a low-carbon footprint. Natural Resources and Energy of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, These targets were approved by the SBT initiative*2 for being based on Trade and Industry. It has also earned the highest ranking of scientific evidence for limiting the increase in temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial revolution levels, as aimed under the Paris Agreement. (1,000 t) 4,000 -35% -87% the Building-housing Energy-efficiency Labeling System 3,500 3,336 (BELS), and is the first airport terminal in Japan to actively The Group aims to achieve these goals by actively adopting new technologies 3,000 adopt CLT* as a structural material for its roof. and promoting the development of real estate with high environmental 2,500 performance. The Group will also redouble its efforts to introduce renewable 2,000 2,168 energy, thereby contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1,500 * See page 22–23 for details. 1,000 500 434 *1 Formulated and published in March 2019, gaining SBT initiative approval in April 0 3 *2 The Science Based Targets initiative is a collaboration between the World Wide Fund for 2017 2030 2050 Nature (WWF), CDP, the UN Global Compact, and the World Resources Institute (WRI) to Installation of Solar Panels on encourage corporations to set targets in order to achieve the target of limiting the rise of temperature to well below 2°C under the Paris Agreement. Properties Managed by the Group Installation of Solar Power Panels on Condominiums Examples of the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Initiatives (“soleco” system) 1 The Group provides an environmental system known as Promoting Acquisition of “soleco” at condominiums it develops. The system combines high-voltage collective power reception with solar power Environmental Certification systems to help reduce electricity costs for condominium units and shared areas, making it an environmentally and economically friendly solution. Tokyo Tokiwabashi Project Building A to Acquire SITES® Environmental Certification For the Tokyo Tokiwabashi Project Building A, a project scheduled for completion in 2021, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Installation of Solar Panels on Large-Scale has implemented a range of initiatives to reduce Commercial Complexes environmental impact, such as using green electricity for 100% Beginning in April 2016, certain Premium Outlets operated of the power for the water garden and plazas on the premises by Mitsubishi Estate-Simon switched to renewable energy of the building, in an effort to create a property that is both using Renewable Energy Certificates for a portion of their people and environmentally friendly. With these initiatives, the energy use. The company has also introduced a carport-type project aims to acquire the SITES®* certification, the first for a solar power generator for captive consumption and uses the city center complex building development project in Japan. privately generated electricity for the communal areas at two Premium Outlet complexes. By implementing these * Sustainable Sites Initiative (SITES®): a rating system administered by Green measures, the company is working to reduce energy Business Certification Inc.™ (GBCI®) (USA) to certify projects with consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. sustainable landscapes. Projects are evaluated from the three perspectives of design (conservation of water resources, soil and plantings, and human A full-scale rendering of the Tokyo Tokiwabashi Project health and well-being), construction (material recycling and protection of the air environment during construction), and operation (management plan and explanations to users). 20 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 21 Sustainability Highlights HIGHLIGHT 2 Projects Utilizing CLT Promoting Utilization of CLT to Further Expand Use of Japan-grown Timber CLT PARK HARUMI In December 2019, Maniwa City, Okayama Prefecture, Kengo Kuma and Associates, Mitsubishi Jisho Sekkei, and Mitsubishi Contributing to the Environment and Society by Estate Home began the joint CLT PARK HARUMI. This project Using Japan-grown Timber will build a facility in Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, with design Japan’s forests account for some two-thirds of the country’s supervised by Kengo Kuma and Associates using CLT land mass, and 40% of these forests are said to be planted. produced in Maniwa City. Many such forests were planted after World War II, and The facility will be used as a site for the dissemination of today more than half of these planted forests are five culture and information for approximately one year, until decades old or more, having reached their harvestable age. autumn 2020, to communicate the attractions of CLT. After Expanding the use of timber sourced from these forests not that, it is planned to relocate the facility for use in the Hiruzen only helps promote Japanese forestry, but is also thought to Highlands in Maniwa City. The project will represent cyclic contribute to the preservation of Japan’s natural, exchange of natural and cultural resources between the city indigenous forests. and regional areas by realizing the application of the CLT It is against this background that the Mitsubishi Estate panels in a relocatable, sustainable construction system. CLT PARK HARUMI Pavilion Group has promoted the use of Japan-grown timber in construction projects for many years, including the active use of small-diameter trees and timber from forest thinning in 2x4 wooden-frame houses. PARK WOOD Takamori— Rental Apartments in Izumi-ku, Sendai City PARK WOOD Takamori, a 10-storey condominium complex completed in Sendai City in February 2019, is Japan’s first-ever high-rise building using CLT as CLT PARK HARUMI Exhibition Hall a flooring material. From the design stage onward, features such as fire resistance, sound proofing, and earthquake resistance were repeatedly verified CLT material image (courtesy of the Japan Cross Laminated Timber Association) to realize a hybrid wood and steel-frame structure through the use of fireproof coatings and other materials. This project has helped to amass the processes and know-how in design Expanding Timber Usage Opportunities— and construction required for building using CLT, thus allowing the Mitsubishi CLT in Large Structures Such as Airports Estate Group to utilize CLT in other projects going forward. Cross laminated timber (CLT) is a wooden building PARK WOOD Takamori material that the Mitsubishi Estate Group has increasingly utilized in recent years. CLT consists of large-dimension wooden panels Miyako Shimojishima formed by laminating layers of sawn lumber Airport Terminal perpendicular to one another. This building material has been developed since about 1995, primarily in Austria. Compared with conventional wooden Miyako Shimojishima Airport Terminal opened in March panels, its strength is more stable, and it also offers 2019 on Miyako Island, Okinawa, where there is outstanding heat insulation. It is gaining attention as abundant nature. It is the first airport terminal in Japan to a structural material that will expand the applications utilize CLT as a structural material for the roof and uses of timber since it can be used not only for low-rise the greatest quantity of CLT of any building in Japan (as detached housing, but also for large-scale structures reported by the Japan Cross Laminated Timber such as condominiums and office buildings. It also Association). The CLT was produced with regional wood has the advantage that any waste can be put to use designated by Okinawa Prefecture, thereby contributing as biomass fuel or pallet material. to the vitalization of the regional forestry industry. The Mitsubishi Estate formed the CLT Unit, a dedicated project has also implemented a range of energy-saving department in the Residential Business Planning measures and earned the Net Zero Energy Building Department, in fiscal 2017. The unit is working on Check in lobby using CLT as structural material for the roof (ZEB)* recognition, the first for airport terminals in Japan. research and development aimed at commercialization * See page 21 for details. of CLT and has already implemented several projects. 22 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 23 Materiality Materiality Environment Globality Working to Improve the Waterfront Sunshine Aquarium Coral Initiatives in Europe Initiatives in Asia Environment and Preserve the Ecosystem of Conservation Activities the Imperial Palace Moat Sunshine Aquarium, operated by the Mitsubishi Estate Since the establishment of Mitsubishi Estate London in Following the establishment of Mitsubishi Estate Asia in The Mitsubishi Estate Group undertakes a lot of projects Group, is an urban aquarium located in a high-rise building, 1986, the Mitsubishi Estate Group has handled a number of 2008 in Singapore, the Mitsubishi Estate Group established meant to protect biodiversity and improve the environment and it is the first of its kind in Japan. Since opening in 1978, office building development projects for more than 30 local subsidiaries in Shanghai, China (2013), and in Taipei, in the Marunouchi area. One example is the Moat Project at it has served the four roles of an aquarium: social education, years, mainly in the City of London. Signature projects Taiwan (2018). In Thailand, it has partnered with AP Hotoria Square, an environmentally symbiotic green space recreation, research, and nature protection. The aquarium is include Warwick Court (Paternoster Square (Thailand) Public Co., Ltd., a major local developer, to encompassing about 3,000 m², built in front of the Imperial particularly focused on conservation and protection Redevelopment Project), Bow Bells House (redevelopment establish Premium Residence, a joint venture company Palace moat. In the years prior to the project, the biota of activities, and it has provided visitors with “impressive project in the City of London), and Central St. Giles engaged in the residential business. Today the Group has a the Imperial Palace moat had become degraded, hindering discoveries” to stimulate their interest in the biological (redevelopment project in the West End). In 2019, the presence in eleven countries and regions in Asia/Oceania, the natural generation of its native water plants. In October environment. As part of its conservation efforts, the company completed 245 Hammersmith Road, a and is actively operating business in this area. 2017, Mitsubishi Estate signed an agreement with the aquarium in 2006 launched the Coral Project in cooperation redevelopment project in West London. Ministry of the Environment to promote use of natural with Onna Village in Okinawa Prefecture, and has been New projects in fiscal 2018 resources of the Imperial Palace Outer Garden, and implementing two initiatives: the Coral Restoration Project New projects in fiscal 2018 Singapore-Hangzhou Science & Technology Park Phase 3 launched the Moat Project in May 2018. The project aims to and the Coral Reef Regeneration Project. 8 Bishopsgate (tentative name) In January 2019, the Mitsubishi Estate Group joined the improve the waterfront environment of the Imperial Palace The coral reefs in Okinawa are in a gradual decline due to 8 Bishopsgate (tentative name) is a high-rise office building in Phase 3 development project for the Singapore-Hangzhou moat and conserve the endangered rare water plant factors such as environmental warming and abnormal London whose construction began in February 2019, Science & Technology Park, a large-scale complex and species. This is the first such project for a private company, occurrences of the crown-of-thorns starfish, the natural expected to be completed in late 2022. The building is office building development being implemented by major implemented through a collaboration with NGOs and other enemy of coral. In order to remedy this situation, Onna equipped with environment-friendly, sustainable features; for Singapore developer CapitaLand Group* in Hangzhou, institutions, including the Ministry of the Environment, the Village in Okinawa Prefecture has been implementing coral example, the closed double-skin glass façade, which provides China, and scheduled for completion in 2021. Nature Conservation Society of Japan, the Laboratory of conservation activities since 1969. In support of these good environmental performance and is easy to maintain, The project is located in the Hangzhou Economic & Conservation Ecology at Toho University, and the Natural activities, Sunshine Aquarium launched the Coral Restoration and advanced rainwater storage and harvesting systems. The Technological Development Area, where there is a highly History Museum and Institute, Chiba. Project, under which the aquarium grows coral in tanks and project is expected to earn a BREEAM* “Excellent” rating. developed cluster of corporations within Hangzhou, the Water plants and other species from the moat are then returns it to the seas of Okinawa. This makes it possible In an effort to meet London’s diversifying work-style central city of the Yangtze River Delta. The area is a transferred to a container biotope atop a building owned by to preserve the DNA of the coral of Onna Village even if the needs, there are plans to develop amenities on the large-scale development that aims to serve diverse office Mitsubishi Estate for reproduction. From there they are then coral in the Onna sea is damaged due to natural disaster or building’s middle floors that will boost productivity, such usage needs, and more than 100 Japanese companies have moved into green space and water features on the premises environmental degradation. Since 2014, the aquarium has as shared workspaces, event spaces, and a rooftop terrace. expanded into this area. In addition to plans to establish of nearby office buildings developed by the Company, also implemented the Coral Reef Regeneration Project, There are also plans to build a shared workspace not only facilities that will boost the satisfaction levels of office thereby creating a water environment alternating with the which aims to regenerate coral reefs via sexual reproduction, within but also outside of the security area in the lobby on workers, such as restaurants, shops, and fitness gyms on the moat environment. Beyond restoring and preserving the with the fertilization of coral eggs by sperm. the entrance floor to lower floors, there are also plans to prepare a central plaza rare species and their habitat in the moat, the project also improve convenience for to create a lively and vibrant atmosphere. contributes to the conservation of the environment as it tenant companies and serves as a base for connecting the ecological network in visitors. Underground, a * Ascendas-Singbridge Group at the time of the press release on the project. Ascendas-Singbridge Group acquired by CapitaLand Group in June 2019. the neighborhood centered on the Imperial Palace. large-scale cycle parking lot, shower spaces and lockers will be constructed to support diverse work styles. Coral returned in the Coral Restoration Project * BREEAM is a system for assessing the sustainability of buildings, conducted by the Building Artist rendering of 8 Bishopsgate Research Establishment. Artist rendering of Singapore-Hangzhou Science & Technology Park (tentative name) Hotoria Square, an environmentally symbiotic green space Coral spawning in the Coral Reef Regeneration Project 24 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 25 Materiality Materiality Community Diversity Donation of Rugby Balls Commemorating Works from the Kira Kira Art Competition Inclu Marunouchi, a Center for Supporting Universal Restaurant Embracing Diverse Rugby World Cup 2019 in Japan Exhibited in Taiwan for the First Time the Employment of People with Disabilities Food Cultures Mitsubishi Estate was an official sponsor of Rugby World In June–July 2018, Mitsubishi Estate collaborated with Nan Tokyo’s Marunouchi area has about 4,300 companies, each As more foreigners visit Japan, greater consideration for Cup 2019 in Japan, held from September to November 2019. Shan Life Insurance Co., Ltd. in Taiwan, to hold an exhibit of of which supports employee diversity and work-life balance food cultures and religious food restrictions have become The Company began working to build enthusiasm for the art work by children with disabilities in Japan and Taiwan at while also providing a working environment that welcomes an issue in the hotel and restaurant industry. In particular, event a year before the games began, with the Marunouchi the Taipei Nanshan Plaza skyscraper. A total of 100 works people with physical and mental disabilities. more than 1.8 million Muslim people visit Japan every year, 15-chome Project, which held events that allowed people were shown in this collaboration, including the 50 Award The Mitsubishi Estate Group is creating communities it and they can only eat halal food, made without alcohol or to experience the emerging appeal of rugby in the for Excellence winners in the Sixteenth Kira Kira Art hopes will be areas in which anyone, regardless of pork. However, few restaurants provide halal dishes, making Marunouchi neighborhood of Tokyo. Mitsubishi Estate also Competition and 50 award winners from the Ninth “Flower disabilities, can work comfortably in the Marunouchi area. such travelers anxious about their dietary needs. donated rugby balls to elementary and middle schools in Garden of Dreams” Art Competition held by the Yu-Cheng As part of these initiatives, the Group opened in October Flora, a restaurant and banquet run by the Yokohama the cities in which the games were to be held, to give back Social Welfare Foundation. 2018 Inclu Marunouchi, a center for supporting the Royal Park Hotel, caters to customers with a range of diets, to the community and help popularize rugby. Mitsubishi Estate has been holding the Kira Kira Art employment of disabled people and providing information, including vegan and gluten-free, as well as halal, under the In fiscal 2018, the Company donated a total of 4,500 rugby Competition every year since 2002, in order to support the on the fifth floor of the Shin-Kokusai Building, in concept of “universal food and hospitality.” The restaurant balls to the governments of Kumamoto Prefecture, Fukuoka full potential of children with disabilities. Nan Shan Life is a cooperation with Startline Co., Ltd., a company offering has put together a dedicated team for halal food in an Prefecture, Osaka Prefecture and Sapporo City, and donated a subsidiary of the Ruentex Group that the Mitsubishi Estate consultation and support for disabled people. effort to optimize the entire process from the purchase of total of 4,400 rugby balls in fiscal 2019 to the governments of has collaborated with in projects to develop the Ruentex Inclu Marunouchi provides companies with a wide food ingredients and seasonings to the management and Yokohama City, Shizuoka Prefecture, Kobe City, Aichi Group’s buildings and condominiums since 2013. The two range of support services utilizing the Marunouchi area’s preparation process, and the facilities and equipment. The Prefecture, Kamaishi City, Chiyoda-ku in Tokyo, Kumagaya companies share the same philosophy about sustainability convenience and sense of community, such as providing restaurant has received halal certification from the Japan City, and Oita Prefecture. The balls were distributed to activities, which inspired them to hold this joint exhibit as information on employment for disabled people, offering Halal Foundation, a public organization. elementary and middle schools in the regions. In Kumamoto the first overseas project for Kira Kira Art Competition. satellite offices, and supporting employees with disabilities. Prefecture, a rugby workshop for elementary school children Mitsubishi Estate is developing new programs to support was held in Mashiki, a town severely impacted by the 2016 companies using the center and to create a working Kumamoto earthquakes. Mitsubishi Estate employees with environment comfortable for employees with disabilities. rugby experience played a central role in the event. The Mitsubishi Estate Group hopes that activities such as these will give rugby deep roots in communities and help develop local society. View of the exhibit entrance A rugby ball with the World Cup logo is presented. Bright entrance of Inclu Marunouchi The menu is compatible with a wide range of diets. Rugby workshop in Mashiki, Kumamoto Prefecture Board for messages from visitors TM © Rugby World Cup 2015. All rights reserved 26 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 27 Materiality Materiality Declining Birthrate and Aging Population Leveraging Existing Properties Introducing the Cotooffice, the Working Renovation of 60-Plus-Year-Old Otemachi Fitness Club Supporting the Health of Seniors Promoting Effective Use of Building Stock Space with a Built-In Daycare Center Building as New Business Creation Site Located in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, Izumi Park Town* is an In an age with an ever increasing number of children on In 2018, Mitsubishi Estate began a major renovation of the Since May 2014, Mitsubishi Estate Residence has been ongoing development project of the Mitsubishi Estate waiting lists for daycare, businesses urgently need to Otemachi Building, completed in 1958 and now more than involved in the Building Renovation Business (renovation Group. Now, forty-five years since the first sale of subdivisions, support their child-rearing employees. To meet this social 60 years old. Adjacent to Otemachi Station, where users can and rental business for building stock), where the company and with the aging population becoming a social issue for need, in April 2018 Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management take five different subway lines, the building has large floor leases old smalland medium-sized buildings, and renovates Japan, expanding services for elderly residents has become opened a new business called “Cotooffice — Working with plates with a shape suitable for subdivision into small them to lease as rental properties. As of August 2019, the an important concern in this town as well. Your Children in the Office,” a working space with a daycare parcels to lease. Mitsubishi Estate opted for renovations so Re-building Business has 24 properties, including office and Izumi Park Town Service, which is responsible for the center attached, at the Shin-Kokusai Building in that it could quickly create diverse interaction and open residential buildings, with 20 renovations completed. administration and management of Izumi Park Town, Marunouchi, Tokyo. It is the first such endeavor for the innovation, bringing together the cutting-edge In 2017, the company finished the renovation of The predicted that as the residents in the Takamori area Mitsubishi Estate Group. In addition, Cotooffice Sanno Park technologies of multiple companies. ParkRex HIRAKAWACHO, the largest project it has (subdivided in the 1970s), aged, inadequate exercise would Tower was opened as a daycare center for residents of the The renovation includes an overall upgrade of the undertaken thus far. The structure, more than 40 years old become a growing health issue. Sanno Park Tower. In order to address the needs of workers building itself, with improvements to the exterior walls and when the repair work started, has been seismically With this in mind, Izumi Park Town Service joined forces and tenants, Cotooffice is equipped with safe and secure interior, and construction of lounge and terrace spaces. The retrofitted and renovated, using the building’s bare skeleton with the venture company Trirings and opened the Trirings facilities on par with licensed daycare centers. It also works Company also introduced features enabling venture frame as a primary feature. A café was created on the street Sendai Izumi, a fitness club studio in Shopping Garden together with Mama Square, a company with experience companies and start-ups to interact with large companies. level, helping to enrich the neighborhood. In January 2019, Caraway, a commercial complex managed and operated by managing childcare facilities on company premises, to The work also included the expansion of FINOLAB, Japan’s the company also completed The ParkRex HAKATA in Izumi Park Town Service. Trirings advocates fitness focusing provide safe, reliable childcare services. first hub for fintech ventures, in response to growing Hakata-ku, Fukuoka City, which was its first project outside on recovering body function with specialized equipment Cotooffice provides amenities such as laundry and demand for such facilities. the Tokyo metropolitan area. The old rotary press room that expands the range of motion in legs and arms, as diaper service*, and a daycare app, at no extra charge, to In addition, in February 2019, Mitsubishi Estate partnered (printing works), which had been owned by a newspaper opposed to hard exercise. After opening, seniors and reduce the burden on parents commuting to work with with SAP Japan, a subsidiary of the German software company, was renovated into office space, reviving the younger people alike joined the fitness club. Members are their children. They also offer unique education programs company, to open Inspired.Lab in the Otemachi Building. building into a new center for the creation and communicating not only with other residents, but also with such as an intellectual training program created in Inspired.Lab is a center for open innovation that serves as a dissemination of culture in the east Hakata area. fitness club staff as they improve their health. collaboration with Mitsubishi Ichigokan Museum, Tokyo. central point for cutting-edge technologies that could In addition, the company is promoting its Renovation * One of the largest development projects in Japan undertaken by a single Going forward, the company will extend these services and potentially change the future industrial structure, while Business, which buys individual units or whole buildings of private sector developer. The Group has promoted the town’s programs to buildings across Japan owned and managed creating an ecosystem to facilitate collaboration between development in partnership with local residents and Sendai City. existing condominiums to be renovated and resold, mainly by the Mitsubishi Estate Group. major companies and start-ups and to accelerate innovation. in the Tokyo metropolitan area. *Parents are charged for the cost of the diapers. The ParkRex HAKATA Work space Cotooffice in Shin-Kokusai Building Otemachi Building after renovation Former rotary press room After renovation (before renovation) Fiscal 2018 results Smalland medium-sized Condominium building renovations renovations 20 buildings 808 units Fitness programs that are sustainable for elderly people are offered. Cotooffice in Sanno Park Tower Inspired.Lab, a hub for interaction of various businesses 28 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 29 Materiality Corporate Governance Guidelines Digital Innovation Corporate The Company has established the “Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance Guidelines,” to set forth the basic policy and framework for the Company’s corporate Governance governance, and to serve as guidelines for the development and promotion of the corporate governance system, which contributes to the realization of the Group’s basic mission and the enhancement of its corporate value Other projects being tested and implemented include on a mediumto -long term basis. Marunouchi UrbanTech Voyager Speeds up Marble (Marble), an automatic delivery robot; Whiz Utilization of Cutting-edge Technology (Softbank Robotics), an AI cleaning robot which is easy to Basic Policy operate and offers high-quality cleaning; and EMIEW3 Overview of Corporate Governance System (Hitachi), which enables advanced customer The Company aims to realize the enhancement of Mitsubishi Estate offers the communication with conversations in multiple languages corporate value through a harmonious balance between Organizational Structure premises and buildings of the and autonomous movement. corporate growth and the interests of its various The Company’s organizational structure pursuant to the properties it holds in the stakeholders by following its brand slogan, “A Love for Companies Act shall be a company with Nominating Marunouchi area as places ® People. A Love for the City,” based on its basic mission of Committee, etc., in order to strengthen the function of where a range of advanced “contributing to society through urban development.” The management supervision of the Board of Directors as well urban planning technologies Company shall position the development and promotion of as promote clarification of authorities and responsibilities can be tested for future practical application. The initiative, the corporate governance system as one of the most and prompt decision-making concerning business named “Marunouchi UrbanTech Voyager,” promotes various important management issues in realizing this goal. execution while improving the transparency and objectivity projects with the goal of introducing cutting-edge In developing and promoting the corporate of management as the primary aim. technologies into future communities. governance system, to bring about greater clarity of roles and the strengthening of functions in both the supervision • Board of Directors Example of testing projects of management and the execution of business while also The Board of Directors makes decisions on both basic On-road testing for the fulfilling accountability to our shareholders and other management policy and important business execution of next-generation smart the Company, and also carries out supervision of the stakeholders, the basic policy shall work to ensure the mobility device RODEM* for The autonomous moving execution of duties of Directors and Corporate Executive security robot SQ-2 uses transparency and objectivity of management. use by tourists is carried out. Officers. As of June 27, 2019, the Board of Directors consists of proprietary 3D laser sensors. * Developed and manufactured by fifteen (15) Directors, of which seven (7) are Outside Directors. tmsuk company limited Corporate Governance Organizational Chart (as of April 1, 2019) Initiatives to Bolster Digital Transformation Meeting of Shareholders Promoting the Use of Robots to Establish Next-Generation Facility Management Board of Directors Mitsubishi Estate is promoting digital transformation, accelerating cooperative ventures and business tie-ins Delegate Cooperate Audit Committee Authority to Nominating Committee Remuneration Committee across industries, and striving to build an eco-system for the The AI cleaning robot Whiz Execute co-creation of customer value. As part of this effort, it is is easy to operate and Business and cleans on its own. Audit Supervise Cooperate currently introducing cutting-edge robots to various ©SoftBank Robotics Audit Committee Office facilities owned and operated by the Mitsubishi Estate Group. In so doing, Mitsubishi Estate not only realizes President and Chief Executive Officer efficient and high-value-added facility management, but Promoting Industry-Academia Collaborations Accounting Auditor also provides robot manufacturers sites on which they can In March 2019, Mitsubishi Estate and the Ritsumeikan Trust Cooperate Internal Audit Office actively introduce their robots for testing and verification, reached a strategic DX (digital transformation) partnership thereby facilitating early development with a high level of agreement. Under this agreement, the two partners will practical application. provide demonstrations on the university campus, a Risk Management & Strategic Planning Sustainability Committee Executive Committee Compliance Committee Committee At the end of August 2019, the autonomous moving microcosm of a city, and share information to develop a security robot SQ-2 was introduced at Otemachi Park new model of how facilities can be managed in Society Risk Management & Asset Management Audit Sustainability Subcommittee Building, the first such trial in Japan. Developed by 5.0,* in which humans and robots work in tandem. In May Compliance Subcommittee Committee SEQSENSE, in which Mitsubishi Estate invests, SQ-2 2019, they implemented joint testing of the delivery robot Strategic Investment perceives three-dimensional spaces using original laser Marble on the university’s Biwako-Kusatsu Campus. Committee Corporate Executive Officers sensors to automatically identify changes in the * Society 5.0 refers to a concept of future society advocated in Japan, Internal Audit environment. These robots can perform patrolling and balancing economic advancement with the resolution of social problems Business Groups and Corporate Group Departments gatekeeping functions in place of human personnel. through systems that integrate cyberspace and physical space. 30 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 31 The role of chairman of the Board of Directors is fulfilled by 1. Process of Evaluation Remuneration be decided upon individually taking into account factors the Chairman of the Board of the Company, who does not (1) Method of Evaluation such as their position and responsibilities as directors and concurrently serve as a Corporate Executive Officer. The All directors conducted self-evaluations in the form of a Total Remuneration Paid to Directors, Corporate Executive whether they are full-time or part-time. Board of Directors broadly delegates the authority to response to a questionnaire relating to the composition, Officers, and Statutory Auditors in Fiscal 2019 • Corporate executive officers execute business on matters other than those to be operation, effectiveness, etc., of the Board of Directors and Total Fixed Performance-based In consideration of their function and role of taking resolved by the Board of Directors as prescribed in laws and each of the Nominating, Audit, and Remuneration Category remuneration remuneration remuneration Recipients charge of business execution of the Company, their (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) regulations or the Articles of Incorporation to the Corporate Committees, and taking these results into consideration, they remuneration shall, in principle, comprise basic Internal Executive Officers, and promotes clarification of discussed the issues with each other and examined proposed directors 289 289 — 4 remuneration and variable remuneration. Variable responsibilities and authorities and prompt corrective measures at Board of Directors’ meetings. Corporate remuneration comprises monetary compensation that is decision-making concerning business execution. executive 1,142 568 573 14 paid based on short-term performance, etc., and stock officers (2) Items of Evaluation compensation, etc., (including monetary compensation Outside • Nominating Committee directors 107 107 — 8 paid based on indicators such as stock price) that is paid Composition of the Proportion of outside directors, number of The Nominating Committee makes decisions on the details Board of Directors members, and diversity with a view to realizing the mediumto long-term sharing Note: The above amounts include remuneration payments made to two of proposals of the General Meeting of Shareholders directors, one of whom was an outside director, who retired from their of value with shareholders. The standards and ratio of relating to the election and dismissal of Directors. As of Operation of the Frequency, required time, selection of agenda positions as of the end of the 119th Ordinary General Meeting of basic remuneration and variable remuneration, valuation Board of Directors items, content of handout materials, materials Shareholders held on June 28, 2018. June 27, 2019, the Nominating Committee consists of four other than handouts provided, questions and indicators for variable remuneration, and other matters (4) members, of which four (4) are Outside Directors. answers, training, etc. shall be decided upon taking into account mediumto Board Policies and Procedures in Determining the long-term performance targets, etc., aimed at in the Effectiveness of the Management plan, delegation of authority to • Audit Committee Board of Directors corporate executive officers, risk management Remuneration of Senior Management and Directors management strategy and the Medium-Term The Audit Committee conducts audits of the execution of systems, dialogue with shareholders and (i) Procedures for Deciding Remuneration Paid to Officers Management Plan and factors such as position and investors, election and dismissal of key duties of the Directors and Corporate Executive Officers, management personnel, successor training plan, The policy concerning decisions on the details of responsibilities as corporate executive officers. creates the audit reports relating to this, and makes remuneration paid to officers, composition, remuneration paid to directors and corporate executive operation, cooperation of each of the decisions on the details of proposals of the General Nominating, Audit, and Remuneration officers of the Company and the details of remuneration Composition of the Remuneration of Corporate Meeting of Shareholders relating to the election, dismissal committees, etc. for each person shall be decided upon by a resolution at Executive Officers or non-reappointment of the Accounting Auditor. As of the Remuneration Committee, which comprises solely Phantom stock Others Method of the evaluation of the effectiveness of June 27, 2019, the Audit Committee consists of five (5) the Board of Directors, etc. outside directors. Single-year, Restricted stock compensation members, of which three (3) are Outside Directors. The performance-based remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Outside Director. (ii) The Basic Policy for Deciding Remuneration for Officers Basic remuneration 2. Results of Evaluation and Future Initiatives The basic policy for deciding remuneration for directors and 50% 25% 12.5% 12.5% • Remuneration Committee (1) Main Items Improved Since the Previous Evaluation corporate executive officers of the Company is as follows. The Remuneration Committee makes decisions on the As a result of examination and discussions at Board of • The remuneration system shall be the one that is linked Short-term Mediumto policy concerning remuneration decisions for Directors and Directors’ meetings, one point was identified. with our mediumto long-term performance targets, etc., incentive long-term remuneration incentive Corporate Executive Officers and on the remuneration • Initiatives were conducted on the selection and scope of aimed at in the management strategy and the remuneration amounts for each individual. As of June 27, 2019, the topics, revision of reporting frequency, and other areas Medium-Term Management Plan and realizes sustained Fixed remuneration Performance-based remuneration Remuneration Committee consists of four (4) members, of related to the reporting status of the performance of corporate value improvement and the sharing of value which four (4) are Outside Directors. duties by corporate executive officers in order to enhance with our shareholders. deliberations at Board of Directors meetings. • The remuneration system shall be the one that allows for Overview of Performance-Based Remuneration • Corporate Executive Officers giving incentives to management executives’ taking up of Single-year, performance-based remuneration The Corporate Executive Officers are appointed by (2) Main Issues and Future Initiatives Aimed at Further challenges and appropriate risk taking in line with the • Form of remuneration: Cash resolution of the Board of Directors. They make decisions on Improvements in Effectiveness strategy’s targets and expectations of shareholders and • Method of evaluating performance: Evaluation based on business execution delegated to them by the Board of As a result of examination and discussions at Board of other stakeholders. four financial performance indicators in the previous fiscal Directors and carry out the execution of such business. As Directors’ meetings, two points were identified. • The remuneration system shall be the one that makes it year (EBITDA, operating income, ROA, and ROE) of April 1, 2019, the Company has thirteen (13) Corporate • As we prepare to formulate the next Management Plan possible to fulfill high accountability for the benefit of Executive Officers. commencing from fiscal 2021, the Board of Directors will our shareholders and other stakeholders through Mediumto long-term performance-based remuneration make time for deliberations and examine matters for objective deliberations and judgments at the (Restricted stock compensation) deliberation, with the aim of creating a Medium-Term Remuneration Committee. • Form of remuneration: Shares Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Management Plan based on the Company’s vision and • Restricted stock period: Approximately three years Board of Directors goals from a long-term perspective. In addition, the (iii) Remuneration Systems for Officers disclosure of information on the current business conditions The remuneration systems for directors and corporate Mediumto long-term performance-based remuneration The Company regularly conducts self-evaluations of each and issues to outside directors needs to be enhanced. executive officers shall be separately established in (Phantom stock) director with regard to the operation of the Board of • With the aim of further improving discussions at Board of consideration of respective functions and roles to be • Form of remuneration: Cash Directors and the content of deliberation. The results of Directors’ meetings, explanatory meetings on discussions fulfilled for the purpose of achieving sustained corporate • Performance evaluation period: Three years these evaluations shall be reported to the Board of at Board of Directors’ meetings and on the Company’s value improvement. In addition, directors who concurrently • Method of evaluating performance: Evaluation based on Directors, and the Board of Directors analyzes and business operations, as well as forums for the exchange of serve as corporate executive officers shall be paid the relative ranking of the Company’s total shareholder evaluates its effectiveness based on these self-evaluations opinions centered on outside directors, are to be held on remuneration as corporate executive officers. return and the rate of change in common stock price and other information. a continuous basis. • Directors (excluding directors who concurrently serve as among five peer companies (Nomura Real Estate The process and results of the evaluation of the corporate executive officers) Holdings, Inc., Tokyu Fudosan Holdings Corporation, effectiveness of the Board of Directors conducted in fiscal In consideration of their function and role of supervising Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd., Tokyo Tatemono Co., Ltd., and 2019 are as follows. the performance of duties by corporate executive officers Sumitomo Realty & Development Co., Ltd.) and directors, they shall receive, in principle, only basic remuneration in the form of cash, and the standards shall 32 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 33 address. Moreover, as the company continues to expand its Conduct was formulated to define the Company’s basic Holding Risk Management and businesses domestically and internationally, its social commitment to reform and was further refined in 2002. Compliance Lectures responsibilities increase in sophistication and global scale. Group-wide reform was implemented, with all employees This has led to a greater need for the whole Group to share a sharing the sense of urgency. In July 2005, a Compliance Mitsubishi Estate holds risk management and compliance Compliance sense of values and a standard of conduct. This is why the Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Conduct were revised Advisory Committee consisting of external experts was formed on a temporary basis to review the compliance lectures for managers and executives, including those at Group companies. The lecture topic is chosen from genres in April 2018 with the hope that they will increase true system in light of the soil and groundwater contamination related to risk management and compliance, in light of corporate value by being applied to the daily actions of problems discovered at Osaka Amenity Park. This social conditions in that particular year. In September 2018, individual employees and executive officers. The Mitsubishi committee worked to improve the corporate culture, for Takeshi Hirano, Standing Governor of Japan Exchange Estate Group aspires to build trusting relationships with its example, by revising the Code of Conduct. Regulation, spoke on the topic: “Principles for Responding stakeholders through a highly transparent management In April 2018, the Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for to Corporate Scandals.” Compliance Approach and Policies system and reinforced compliance. Not only does the Group Conduct were revised and the Company stepped up its comply with laws and regulations but it also works hard to compliance practices to meet changing demands in society The Mitsubishi Estate Group believes that compliance does meet all the expectations of clients and society as it strives to and an expansion in business areas. Compliance Surveys not simply involve legal compliance, but is also defined as achieve its basic mission of contributing to society through The current compliance promotion system is adherence to internal rules and corporate ethics. After urban development. The Group also identifies and responds administered by the Risk Management & Compliance The Mitsubishi Estate Group gives compliance surveys every Mitsubishi Estate was found to have violated some appropriately to various business risks. Committee and the Risk Management & Compliance two years to its approximately 16,000 executive officers and stipulations of the Commercial Code of Japan in 1997, the Subcommittee. The Risk Management & Compliance employees (including temporary employees) to ascertain Mitsubishi Estate Group Basic Mission and Mitsubishi Estate Committee is chaired by the Company president and the extent to which they are aware of compliance issues. Group Code of Corporate Conduct were formulated to System for Promoting Compliance comprises the executives from respective business fields and The Group uses the results, after analyzing them, to identify reflect the Company’s resolve to never repeat the same the Corporate Group and discusses issues concerning Group overall trends and characteristics of each business group mistakes. The Code of Conduct and Basic Mission were Mitsubishi Estate’s compliance system has its roots in the compliance and risk management. The Risk Management & and company, to plan activities to improve compliance. revised in 2006 as part of a serious and humble response to determination of its executives and employees to improve Compliance Subcommittee, which comprises general the discovery of soil and groundwater contamination their awareness and reform the organization after the managers, holds discussions before the CSR Committee problems at Osaka Amenity Park (OAP) in 2005. The company Company was found in violation of some stipulations of the meets. In addition, an executive director has been appointed Augmenting the Help Line regards compliance as one of its most pressing issues to Commercial Code of Japan in 1997. The Code of Corporate by decision of the Board of Directors as the Executive Director of Compliance to take responsibility for overseeing and The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established a compliance promoting compliance. All Mitsubishi Estate departments help line to receive inquiries and consultations on Mitsubishi Estate Group Risk Management and Compliance System (as of August 2019) and Group companies are working closely with the Legal & compliance issues. In January 2018 the Mitsubishi Estate Appointment Board of Directors Corporate Officer in Charge of Risk Management & Compliance Compliance Department, which serves as the executive Group help line consultation window was changed and Decision of Basic Policy =Responsible for overseeing risk management committee, to pursue compliance in a coordinated manner. unified with external organizations to make it possible for it Reporting =Responsible for overseeing compliance Supervision to receive calls on weekday evenings and weekends and Risk Management & Compliance Committee Overall Management Reporting holidays as well. The help line has both internal and external Risk Management & Compliance-Related Deliberation and Decision-Making Bodies Revising and Publishing contact points and can be used by Group employees, Mitsubishi Estate the Compliance Guidebook temporary employees, part-time employees and various Chairman Vice-Chairman Directions other part-time staff, and even the business partners of through Risk Management To accompany the revision of the Mitsubishi Estate Group Group companies. To ensure that employees know about Mitsubishi Estate Mitsubishi Estate Each Duty Compliance Promotion Corporate Officer in Charge Promotion Officers President & Officers Guidelines for Conduct in April 2018, the Compliance the help line, information is provided in the Compliance of Risk Management & (Line and Staff Chief Executive Officer (General Managers) Departments, Others) Guidebook was revised and published as a training tool. The Compliance Newsletter and on posters. Committee Members Report Guidebook uses illustrations and a Q&A format to explain There were 63 consultations and reports via the Mitsubishi Estate Directors, Representatives from Risk Management Compliance the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s five most important values in Mitsubishi Estate Group help line in fiscal 2018. Depending Main Group Companies Promotion Personnel Promotion Personnel an easy-to-follow format. It was distributed to all Group on the substance of the inquiries, they are studied and the Command Assistance Mitsubishi Estate officers and employees and helps to increase knowledge situation is confirmed so that an appropriate response can Chairman of the Board and understanding of what compliance involves. be made. A help line exclusively for business partners has Full-Time Members of Advisors Group Company the Audit Committee Outside Experts also been set up. General Manager of Internal Audit Office Risk Management Officer Compliance Officer Providing Compliance Training Measures Against Organized Risk Management & Compliance Subcommittee The Mitsubishi Estate Group uses opportunities such as Criminal Elements Risk Management & Compliance-Related Deliberation and training sessions for new hires and new managers to Reporting Bodies provide compliance training to raise compliance awareness The Mitsubishi Estate Group clearly stipulates its refusal to Consultation Advice among all executives and employees. countenance any relationship whatsoever with organized Corporate Officer in Charge General Manager of of Risk Management & Line and Staff Departments In particular, new hires from major Group companies criminal elements in its Guidelines for Conduct. Mitsubishi Compliance for Business Groups Executive participate in joint training together to learn about the Code Estate’s Legal & Compliance Department serves as a special Committee Risk Management Promotion Secretariat/ General Manager of People Designated by Compliance Promotion Secretariat of Conduct and basic compliance issues (333 participants department to take resolute measures for the Group, in Corporate Group Presidents of Departments Main Group Companies (Mitsubishi Estate Legal & Compliance Department) from 21 companies in April 2019). cooperation with the police, in the event of any contact Moreover, Mitsubishi Estate provides compliance from criminal elements. General Manager of education during training for newly appointed managers Internal Audit Office General Manager of Mitsubishi and level 2 professional career hires, and also trains all Estate Audit Committee Office officers and employees in compliance via e-learning. 34 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 35 Group’s risk management and formed the Risk Dealing with Major Risks Management & Compliance Subcommittee as a working-level consulting body responsible for such matters Below are some examples of risks that have come to light in as the collection of risk management-related information. the Group through risk management activities and various Risk Management The corporate officer in charge of risk management is appointed by resolution of the Board of Directors to take business activities and countermeasures that have been taken. responsibility for overseeing risk management, and general managers of each business group and general managers Major Risks from Group departments have been designated as risk management officers. We promote risk management In light of society’s growing concerns over the appropriate protection of personal information activities through the Mitsubishi Estate Legal & Compliance and information management, the Mitsubishi Estate Group comprehensively revised its rules related to information management in 2018 and updated its information management systems Risk Management Approach and Policies Department, which serves as the secretariat. to ensure scrupulous management. We are aiming to further improve information management We have also established and implemented action Risks of through continuous monitoring and supervision. The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established the Mitsubishi guidelines, contact and initial response systems, and Information Security Moreover, in order to raise the IT security level of the entire Group, we have positioned Estate Group Risk Management Rules and has set up and business continuity planning for use in times of crisis. Mitsubishi Estate‘s DX (Digital Transformation) Promotion Department at the center of efforts to operates a risk management system to manage risk in all its standardize the Group’s IT systems and make it more secure. We are also enhancing collaboration * See Mitsubishi Estate Group Risk Management and Compliance System (P34) business activities. for details. among DX Promotion Department personnel and between the department and external security The Group systematically carries out risk management companies, thereby providing Group-wide support. programs, focusing on the following two types of activities. Risk Management Related to The prevention of corruption is an important issue for our businesses both in Japan and overseas. (1) Individual risk management activities To that end, we have established and announced the Mitsubishi Estate Group Anti-Corruption Investment Projects Guidelines and developed a system to prevent corruption across the organization. Under these Individual Group companies and business groups identify guidelines, the Group has declared and put into practice several specific corruption prevention risks to focus on based on a risk analysis, and carry out Among the various risks recognized by the Group, risks initiatives while thoroughly preventing any acts of bribery or acts that may be suspected as such. activities throughout the year to reduce the risks identified. related to investment projects are based on the assessment Risks of Corruption These initiatives include carrying out due diligence on counterparties deemed to meet certain of business viability by Companywide research functions conditions, incorporating corruption prohibition clauses into contracts, and establishing approval (2) Group-wide priority risk management activities and under investment decision rules of the Strategic and reporting procedures for the provision of entertainment, gifts, and donations. In addition, we The Group identifies priority risks that require new Investment Office. Prior to the deliberation of important are seeking to gain a greater understanding of rules related to the prevention of corruption countermeasures from the entire Group, taking into account investment projects by the Executive Committee, which is through training for directors and are also constantly monitoring this position. the risks of focus identified by individual Group companies chaired by the president and CEO and is responsible for as described above and social trends, and carries out strategic planning for the entire Group and monitors the The occurrence of such natural disasters as earthquakes, floods, or climate change or man-made activities throughout the year to reduce these risks. progress of each business toward realizing this strategy, the Risks of Natural and disasters including accidents or fires may impact the performance, financial position, or other Man-Made Disasters, aspects of the Group’s business. The Group is redeveloping its properties to install advanced Strategic Investment Committee deliberates and evaluates etc. disaster-management functions and has established disaster-response measures through area profitability, the nature of risks and related management. Risk Management Activities countermeasures, and other matters. At each phase, risk assessments are also conducted from legal and financial In addition to those held in Japan, the Group is developing and holding assets in the United The Mitsubishi Estate Group has established the Risk aspects in order to grasp an overall picture of the risks. States, Europe, and Asia, for which the book values and income are accounted for in local Management & Compliance Committee to oversee the Risks of Fluctuations in currencies. Consequently, any fluctuation in exchange rates would affect the yen conversion rate Exchange Rates used for foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and business transactions. The Group minimizes these risks of fluctuations in interest rates using such methods as borrowing funds in local currencies when procuring assets overseas. Risk Management Activities The real estate market is closely correlated with movements in the economy. Deterioration in the 1 2 economy has a strong impact on declines in real estate prices and rental fees and the increase in Risks of Fluctuations in Risk Management Activities of Each Individual Identification and Monitoring of Key Risks That Need vacancy rates. In view of this correlation, the basic policy of the Group is to conclude relatively Business Group and Group Company Particular Attention from the Group the Real Estate Market long-term lease contracts with customers in its office building leasing business. The prospects of Individual Group companies and business groups identify To accurately grasp the risks facing the Group as a whole, stable lease revenue mitigate to a certain degree the risk of sharp movements in the economy. important risks based on a risk analysis and carry out and by selecting and mapping key risks that require activities throughout the year to reduce the risks identified. measures to be taken, the risks that must be addressed and In addition, general managers of each business group their level of priority are brought to light. While monitoring The Group acquires funding for its operations by borrowing from financial institutions or issuing ascertain the status of risk management activities of risks throughout the year, particularly key risks, support is corporate bonds. The Bank of Japan (BOJ) has implemented a policy of quantitative and different business companies under the jurisdiction of each provided as necessary. business group and provide coordination and support. qualitative monetary easing in response to the credit crunch in financial markets and the slowdown in the global economy. Should interest rates rise, however, because of a change in the BOJ’s policy or a deterioration in the demand–supply balance for Japanese government bonds Risks of Increases in (JGBs) caused by growth in the issuance of JGBs, it may negatively affect the performance, Risk Map Interest Rates financial position, or other aspects of the Group’s business. Moderate Risk Impact Large The Group hedges interest rate risk on a certain portion of its variable interest rate financing through interest rate swaps to convert its interest rate payments into fixed payments. In the Risks that necessitate the future, the Group plans to manage its interest rate risk by procuring funds based on a Candidates for risks needing Key risks requiring countermeasures consideration of its fixed and variable interest rate borrowings and its outstanding corporate Status of Control improvement of existing measures countermeasures in the future during fiscal year or introduction of new measures bond balances. Risks that are appropriately dealt with Ongoing risks requiring countermeasures Ongoing risks requiring by continuing existing measures (currently having impact) countermeasures (large impact) 36 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 37 six months via management by objective (MOB) encourage them to take paid leave. In fiscal 2017, an hourly paid consultations with supervisors. They also confirm the Occupational Health and Safety vacation program was introduced as part of the Company’s evaluation of their performance in these consultations, and efforts to create a comfortable working environment. Human Resource salary changes are decided based on the results of these *1 This program enables employees to use points allotted to them to appraisals. The Company also holds human resource Managing Employee Health through Initiatives choose programs from a menu set by the company (sports activities, consultations with every employee (with the exception of Medical Examinations checkups not covered by health insurance, etc.). general managers), aiming to solicit their views and requests *2 Five-member teams representing each department compete for rankings, with changes in fat and muscle mass and number of steps of the Company as well as to promote skill development. Mitsubishi Estate carries out a scheduled medical taken over the last two months converted into points. examination once a year for all employees to help them maintain and improve their health. In 2016, the company Equitable Salary System (fiscal 2018) added electrocardiographs and stomach ultrasounds (for Human Resource Development persons 35 and older) to further improve detection of Diversity in the Workplace At Mitsubishi Estate, regular wage raises were discontinued lifestyle diseases. We also take the time to provide follow-up in 2000, and a salary increase system based on skill examinations, urgent examinations and meetings with development was adopted. A performance-based bonus occupational physicians depending on the results of the Hiring of Persons with Disabilities Approach to Human Resource Development system based on MBO and an objective performance medical examinations. To improve the screening rate, evaluation and promotion system have also been adopted individual notices with information about medical Mitsubishi Estate actively seeks to hire persons with Mitsubishi Estate believes that human resources are a very to raise employees’ motivation to improve their work and examinations are sent to people who miss their disabilities, in response to social demands to ensure their important management asset and recognizes that skills. There are no salary discrepancies based on gender. examinations. (Fiscal 2018 medical examination rate: 96.67%) employment opportunities. As of the end of fiscal 2018, employee growth is essential to the Group’s continued Mitsubishi Estate’s employment rate of persons with Average annual salary at Mitsubishi Estate (fiscal 2018) Rate of personnel undergoing medical examinations growth. Accordingly, it upgraded its human resource (headquarters) disabilities was 2.21%, higher than the legally development programs in 2017. (%) recommended rate of 2.2%. Mitsubishi Estate strives to Average annual salary of employees 12,476,724 yen Mitsubishi Estate has defined the ideal traits it seeks in 100 94.77 97.30 97.90 98.90 97.95 96.67 create a workplace in which all employees can demonstrate its human resources: visionary, professional, with integrity, their unique skills without regard to their disability and Initial salaries at Mitsubishi Estate (fiscal 2018) 50 team-building skills, and a passion for challenges and provide the environment they need for success. innovation. Mitsubishi Estate develops its employees’ skills 0 Initial salary (monthly salary) Comparison to minimum wage* 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (fiscal year) using multiple approaches, combining training programs Establishment of Action Plan to Promote with job rotations and coordinated programs at the 240,000 yen 160% Women’s Success workplace level. Promoting Health Management * Calculated with reference to the Regional Minimum Wage Revision Mitsubishi Estate has established and published an action Conditions data for 2018 (Tokyo metropolitan area) published by the The Five Traits Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Mitsubishi Estate issued the Health Management plan in accordance with Japan’s Act on Promotion of Declaration in October 2016 to systematize the initiatives Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. and plans that the Company and the health insurance As the number of women hired and their years of Visionary Global Human Resource union had carried out thus far, articulate top management’s continuous employment increase, the number of female Development Initiatives commitment, and ensure further improvements in candidates for managerial positions has risen and the ratio With a passion for maintaining and improving employee health. The Company of female managers has also improved. Mitsubishi Estate challenges and innovation Professional As part of the Global Basic Skill Strengthening options to also makes commitments to safety and hygiene in its labor believes that creating an environment conducive to the develop human resources capable of thriving on the global agreements and strives to protect employee health and performance of both male and female employees will help stage, Mitsubishi Estate has introduced a system to safety through health checkups and safety education. raise the ratio of female managers. The Company will With teambuilding skills With integrity subsidize language skill training for all employees. It also The Company has introduced a work management continue to promote diversity, including the success of provides short-term overseas language training for some system that is linked with computer log-on/off times so that women in the workplace. employees. Additionally, under the Global Business Skills supervisors can follow employees’ work conditions. * Refer to website for details of the action plan. Strengthening option, employees can take part in a training Supervisors also meet one-on-one with their subordinates to Offering a Wide Range of HR Development system where they gain practical experience at Group discuss workload and task difficulty so they can understand and Training Programs companies in the U.S., the U.K. and Asia. There are also conditions that may impact their health. Any employee, Establishment of Work Reform study-abroad and business school programs available so including those in managerial positions, who works more Promotion Committee— The Mitsubishi Estate Group carries out a wide range of they can develop the capabilities needed to perform in a than 80 hours of overtime in a month is encouraged to have a Renamed BxS Promotion Committee training programs to develop employees’ capabilities and global environment. checkup with an occupational physician. This is a part of raise their awareness about compliance and human rights. In addition to mediumand long-term dispatch Mitsubishi Estate’s commitment to helping employees On April 1, 2017, Mitsubishi Estate upgraded its efforts to In addition to skill development programs aimed at programs, there is also a lineup of short-term programs manage their health. Moreover, beginning in fiscal 2017 a reform the corporate culture, streamline work processes raising basic skills, Mitsubishi Estate has established elective lasting approximately one month, making it easy for subsidy program was set up for health-promoting programs from the top down and create new value by increasing self-development support programs that give employees employees who are unable to leave the workplace for long (sports activities, checkups not covered by health insurance, productivity by establishing the Work Style Reform the opportunity to choose their own classes. periods of time to participate. Moreover, internal debriefing etc.) for employees with the “Cafeteria Plan.”*1 Under the plan, Promotion Committee, which is chaired by and reports sessions are held after the training so that results and the Company provides a free breakfast to prevent missed directly to the president. lessons can be shared widely with other employees, meals. It also strives to raise employees’ awareness of health Beginning in August 2018, this committee was renamed Consultations for Career Development helping everyone see how a global mindset is relevant to by holding health-related in-house exercise events and the BxS Promotion Committee with an intention to drive a their own work. seminars, including a physical improvement competition.*2 “borderless” and “socializing” work environment that would At Mitsubishi Estate, employees set goals for their own Mitsubishi Estate will continue to augment its training In order to promote work-life balance, the Company maximize the value created from ties made among people work, their contributions to the organization, and their skill programs in and outside of Japan to ensure that they are useful adopted a flex-time schedule for all employees in fiscal 2016 and revitalize workstyle reform efforts. development. They then review their achievements every to and available to employees in a wide range of positions. and implemented initiatives such as the “positive off Under the five themes of “open and flat,” “encouragement movement” to help employees make plans to take days off and from others to try new things,” “natural gatherings of people,” 38 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 39 “choosing a range of ways to spend time,” and “healthy living,” The Human Rights Education & Establishment of CSR Procurement Mitsubishi Estate is setting up an office environment and Diversity Promotion Committee Meets Guidelines system company-wide and across divisions so that each individual employee can work in a way that provides additional added value. Human Rights Mitsubishi Estate holds an annual meeting of its Human Rights Education & Diversity Promotion Committee (chaired The Mitsubishi Estate Group believes that, in order for it to contribute to the creation of a truly meaningful society Further, in fiscal 2019, Mitsubishi Estate set up a new program that requires 10% or more of work time to be devoted Initiatives by the director in charge of human resources) to review the status of its human rights initiatives, exchange views on ways through its business activities, it is crucial that it ensures responsible procurement not only for itself but also in to activities other than regular work in order to promote to improve programs, review that fiscal year’s activity plan cooperation with business partners across the entire supply business model innovations (for example, new business and share knowledge on recent human rights conditions. chain. Based on this idea, in April 2016, it established the proposals and improvements to existing operations). This is The Mitsubishi Estate Group has joined the Tokyo Industrial Mitsubishi Estate Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. aimed at promoting further reforms in individual work styles. Federation for Human Rights, the Corporate Federation for In order to ensure the dissemination of its CSR Basic Approach to Human Rights Dowa and Human Rights Issues, Osaka, and the Mitsubishi Procurement Guidelines both in and outside of the Group, Work-Life Balance Programs Human Rights Enlightenment Council. In addition to Mitsubishi Estate publishes these guidelines on its As a member of society, the Mitsubishi Estate Group is participating in training on social integration and other human corporate website. The Company also works with its Group Name of program Overview of program keenly aware of the importance of respect for human rights issues, the Group is committed to addressing human companies to notify the Group’s key suppliers of the CSR Working hours are as follows rights. To fulfill our responsibility to respect the basic rights issues, and participates in activities such as information procurement guidelines. Going forward, Mitsubishi Estate •Core time (time period when eligible employees are required to attend work) human rights of all stakeholders, not only those involved in gathering to expand this training to Group companies. will continue with its efforts to ensure the dissemination Flextime program → 10:00–15:00 Group businesses, we set up the Mitsubishi Estate Group throughout the supply chain. •Flexible time (time period when eligible employees can work according to their choice) Human Rights Policy on April 1, 2018. Respect for human → Period for starting work: 06:00–10:00, period for ending work: 15:00–20:00 rights is part of the Mitsubishi Estate Group Guidelines for Number of key suppliers notified of the CSR procurement Can be used until the end of the fiscal year in which Conduct, which all employees are expected to follow on a guidelines: Childcare leave of absence the child turns three years old (14 days of paid leave daily basis. These Guidelines stress the importance of Fiscal 2016: 3,326 from the day on which childcare leave starts) respect for human rights and diversity, which means that Fiscal 2017: 721 (added anew) Nursing care leave of absence Can be used for a maximum of three years (can be divided into shorter durations up to three times) employees show concern for human rights and the environment in the course of their business activities. The Supply Chain Fiscal 2018: 792 (added anew) Management Can be used until the end of March after the child * Refer to website for details of the CSR Procurement Guidelines. Nursing care leave of enters the third grade in elementary school Human Rights Policy is intended to ensure that we, as a absence for children Can be used as a special paid leave of absence until the child enters elementary school good corporation, understand that internationally Nursing care leave of Can be used as a special paid leave of absence mandated human rights are a bare minimum that we must absence for family go beyond, that we reaffirm the importance of supporting, Launch of the Construction and Real Estate Can be used until the end of March after the child protecting and respecting human rights and that we work Human Rights Due Diligence Study Group Shortened work enters the third grade in elementary school hours for childcare Daily work hours can be shortened by up to 2.5 hours to respect the fundamental human rights of every single in increments of 15 minutes person involved in the Group’s businesses. Mitsubishi Estate Group Order Action In September 2018, as a facilitator, Mitsubishi Estate launched Shortened work Can be used within three years of the start of use for Guidelines the Seminar on Construction and Real Estate Human Rights each person in the eligible family hours for nursing Daily work hours can be shortened by up to 2.5 hours Due Diligence Study Group, drawing participation from care in increments of 15 minutes Ongoing Human Rights Programs In accordance with the Mitsubishi Estate Group’s Mission eight real estate and construction companies. Flextime program Can be used until the end of March after the child and Code of Conduct, Mitsubishi Estate has established the The United Nation’s Guiding Principles on Business and for pregnant women, enters the third grade in elementary school (Work those caring for hours can be shortened by up to 1 hour in increments The Mitsubishi Estate Group provides training on human Order Action Guidelines, which all executive officers and Human Rights call on companies to not only to avoid children and those of 15 minutes) rights as part of its training for new employees on an employees placing orders with business partners must causing and exacerbating a direct negative impact on nursing family members ongoing Group-wide basis. follow to ensure that orders and contracts are administered human rights, but also to avoid and reduce infringements Special paid vacations are given every five years after In addition to training for management career track with transparency and impartiality. The Guidelines are of a wide range of human rights along the value chain. “Refresh” vacations five consecutive years of employment positions, Mitsubishi Estate also carries out group training on intended to ensure objectivity and economic rationality, However, this requires efforts that encompass the supply Company pays travel costs after 25 years of consecutive employment (upper limit imposed) the prevention of workplace harassment. Human rights but they also include rules on environmental conservation, chain, and there are limits to the impact that Mitsubishi Employees can accumulate up to 90 days of paid lectures are also given every year to executives such as the information management and avoidance of any Estate can have by itself. In light of this, Mitsubishi Estate Accumulated vacation that was not used. This can be used for the Company’s president, directors and department managers, as involvement with organized criminal elements. These Order launched a study group to develop mechanisms for human vacation employee’s or family member’s illness, a spouse’s childbirth, to participate in volunteer activities, childcare well as Group company presidents. In fiscal 2018, the Group Action Guidelines are shared by the entire Group, and order rights due diligence, in collaboration with other companies or nursing care for family members, among others. invited Kazuo Tase, the President and CEO of SDG Partners, and contract processes are established and administered to in the real estate and construction industries. Reemployment In the event that an employee retires due to a Inc., and held a lecture titled, “The New Idea of Business and suit the businesses of individual companies based on them. At the study group, participants identify the impact that program spouse’s transfer, the former employee can be reemployed within five years of retirement Human Rights and Great Change Required of Business,” The Mitsubishi Estate Group applies the same approach business activities have on human rights and study relevant Hourly paid leave Paid leave is available in one-hour units (using eight focusing on the global standards of human rights. Topics as in the Mitsubishi Estate Group Code of Conduct to its laws to address them, in order to fulfill the Guiding program hours is equivalent to using one day of paid leave) included current issues, such as United Nations’ Guiding suppliers in regards to environmental problems, labor Principles on Business and Human Rights’ requirements and Teleworking It is possible to work at a location other than the Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the significance problems, corruption and other issues. taking responsible steps to “avoid infringing on the human program Company, such as a satellite office affiliated with the Company or at home of companies’ involvement in addressing human rights. At Mitsubishi Estate, when orders are placed with rights of others” and “address adverse human rights Expense subsidy The program provides subsidies for expenses on Moreover, the Group provided new hire joint training to 335 construction companies, the business organization and impacts with which they are involved.” In fiscal 2019, the program based on employee health promotion activities (sports activities new hires from 22 Group companies, as well as a lecture to ordering organization are clearly separated. Appropriate study group has been conducting deliberations on specific cafeteria plan and checkups not covered by insurance, etc.) explain regulations on the prevention of sexual harassment, orders and contracts are ensured by requiring that human rights due diligence approaches, focusing on issues Consultations with An initiative to provide consultations with an occupational health physician for employees, which has been held annually since fiscal 2017. As of the end employees use a check sheet to self-verify compliance, after on construction materials (concrete forms) and foreign occupational health physician including managers, who have exceeded the 80 of 2018, all eligible employees completed the lecture. which Mitsubishi Estate’s Legal & Compliance Department workers on construction sites. hours of statutory monthly overtime work Mitsubishi Estate and some Group companies also organized provides objective confirmation. The Orders Surveillance Positive Off An initiative to set targets for the number of days of paid leave taken and to encourage employees to training on themes such as social integration. These training Committee, chaired by the president, meets when orders Movement take paid leave sessions all sought to cultivate a greater sense of human for large projects are placed and holds discussions (Note) Each has conditions attached such as the type of occupation, etc. rights by raising participants’ awareness of discrimination. concerning compliance. It met once in fiscal 2018. 40 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 41 properties (green buildings) on five factors: the building’s environmental performance, the comfort of tenant users, ESG Data Highlights risk management, consideration for the surrounding E: Environmental Data environment and community, and cooperation with External Evaluations stakeholders. The building then receives certification with one of five rankings (from one star to five stars) based on its Index Targets From fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 results Boundary GHG emissions reduction in line with 2030: 35% reduction 3,588,345t-CO Mitsubishi Estate Group score, which shows the positive feedback given to the the SBT commitment to address climate change 2050: 87% reduction environmentally friendly initiatives undertaken by our Recycled water usage rate 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Group company’s developed properties. Rate of adoption for water-conserving appliances* 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Group Furthermore, 11 of the Company’s buildings obtained *Automatic faucets, water-conserving toilets Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Rate of annual adoption for heat insulation functions level 4 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Residence Inclusion in SRI Indices Efficiency (CASBEE) certification. CASBEE is a certification Rate of annual adoption for primary energy consumption level 4 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Residence system under the auspices of the Ministry of Land, Rate of annual adoption for high-efficiency appliances* 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Residence Mitsubishi Estate has been selected for inclusion in the Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism which ranks and *LED equipment, water-conserving toilets following socially responsible investment (SRI) indices. (as of evaluates buildings on various aspects including comfort Japan-grown timber usage rate 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 50.0% Mitsubishi Estate Home the end of January 2020) and environmental performance. Going forward, we will Rate of installation of electric vehicle charging stations 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 92.0% Mitsubishi Estate Group continue to develop valuable real estate and promote them Rate of provision of bicycle parking areas 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 92.0% Mitsubishi Estate Group • FTSE4Good Global Index *18th consecutive year to tenants, investors and other stakeholders in response to • FTSE Blossom Japan Index *3rd consecutive year increased interest in and expectations of environmentally • MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index *3rd consecutive year conscious buildings. • MSCI Japan Empowering Women Select Index S: Social Data • S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index CASBEE certification DBJ Green Building ABINC Index Targets Fiscal 2018 results Boundary • SNAM Sustainability Index *8th consecutive year (new construction design) certification certification Ratio of female managers Over 10% (Fiscal 2030) 5.92% Mitsubishi Estate Group*1 • GRESB Public Disclosure *3rd consecutive year • GRESB Real Estate 2019 Three Star/Green Star rating 11 projects 15 projects 15 projects Rate of female employees taking childcare leave of absence 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) (100 female managers) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Group*1 • Score Aaccording to CDP Climate Change 2019 Rate of male employees taking childcare leave of absence 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 12.6% Mitsubishi Estate Group*1 Questionnaire Employment rate of persons with disabilities 2.2% (Fiscal 2020 ongoing goal) 2.22% Mitsubishi Estate Group*1 Rate of reinstatement to work after maternity/childcare leave 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 96.7% Mitsubishi Estate Group*1 Socially responsible investing is an approach to investing in Issued the Mitsubishi Estate Green Bond Rate of provision of accessible toilets 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Group companies that takes into consideration their Rate of barrier-free buildings 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Group environmental and social initiatives and corporate In June 2018, to raise funds for the Tokyo Station Rate of employees with first aid provider qualification 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 64.0% Mitsubishi Estate Group*2 governance as well as economic aspects. We will continue Tokiwabashi Project currently underway in front of the Rate of awareness of Mitsubishi Estate Group 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate Group to integrate our business with sustainability as we pursue Nihonbashi exit of Tokyo Station, Mitsubishi Estate issued CSR Procurement Guidelines sustainable corporate management. the Mitsubishi Estate Green Bond, the first in Japan from an integrated real estate company. The Mitsubishi Estate Green Bond was issued based on a framework in accordance with the Green Bond Principles published by the International G: Governance-related Data Capital Market Association (ICMA), and Mitsubishi Estate Index Targets Fiscal 2018 results Boundary obtained an opinion on compliance with the principles Compliance e-learning attendance rate 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 97.8% Mitsubishi Estate Group*3 from a third-party certification institution. Attendance rate at meetings of the Board of Directors 100% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 100% Mitsubishi Estate The Mitsubishi Estate Green Bond also obtained the Employee absentee rate 0% (Fiscal 2030 ongoing goal) 0.83% Mitsubishi Estate Group*1 highest GA1 rating in an R&I Green Bond Assessment *1 Made up of five companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management, Mitsubishi Estate Residence, Mitsubishi Jisho Sekkei, and Mitsubishi Real carried out by Rating and Investment Information, Inc., Estate Services which evaluates the extent to which proceeds from the *2 Made up of three companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management, Mitsubishi Jisho Retail Property Management *3 Made up of four companies: Mitsubishi Estate, Mitsubishi Jisho Property Management, Mitsubishi Estate Residence, Mitsubishi Real Estate Services issuance of a green bond are used to invest in projects that contribute to solving environmental problems. Moreover, Tower A in the Tokyo Station Tokiwabashi Project has earned the DBJ Green Building certification in Estimate of Mitsubishi Estate Group GHG Emissions *Scope of calculations: the entire Mitsubishi Estate Group recognition as a building with outstanding environmental 2018 Percentage change from 2017 (base year) and socially conscious features in Japan (certified on March Percentage of Percentage of Percentage Percentage of Percentage of Emissions Emissions Obtaining DBJ Green Building/ 29, 2019). (t-CO2) total emissions Scope 3 breakdown change from 2017 (base year) (t-CO2) total emissions Scope 3 breakdown CASBEE Certification *Refer to website for outline of the Mitsubishi Estate Green Bond. Total GHG emissions 3,588,345 100.0% — 7.5% 3,336,472 100.0% — (Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3) Mitsubishi Estate endeavors to be socially conscious and Scope 1 108,289 3.2% — -10.2% 120,634 3.6% — environmentally friendly in its real estate dealings and to Scope 2 564,033 16.9% — -2.0% 575,262 17.2% — proactively communicate its environmental initiatives. Scope 3 2,916,023 87.4% 100.0% 10.4% 2,640,576 79.1% 100.0% As of the end of April 2019, 15 of our properties had Category 11 1,714,888 51.4% 58.8% 22.7% 1,398,021 41.9% 52.9% obtained the DBJ Green Building certification administered Category 2 975,004 29.2% 33.4% -1.5% 990,329 29.7% 37.5% by the Development Bank of Japan (DBJ). Under this Category 1 77,035 2.3% 2.6% 3.6% 74,329 2.2% 2.8% certification system, the DBJ comprehensively evaluates A full-scale rendering of the Tokyo Other 149,095 4.5% 5.1% -42.9% 177,897 5.3% 6.7% environmentally and socially conscious real estate Tokiwabashi Project 42 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 Mitsubishi Estate Group Sustainability Report 2019 43
