Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 2 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Index 01 04 07 Letter from the president How do we work? Living by the values at Ficosa 02 05 08 About our report Ficosa and the Sustainable Human Rights Development Goals 03 06 09 Ficosa at a glance Compliance and business ethics Information security C S R — R E P O R T 3 10 13 Commitment to quality Commitment to the environment 16 Innovation in our products 11 Commitment to our people 14 Responsible sourcing 17Content Index 12 15 Commitment to health and safety Commitment to society 18Appendix 1 – OHSEQ Policy 4 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Letter from the president Dear Sirs, I am pleased to share with you our annual the most innovative solutions, develop and over the years to anticipate future changes, report on corporate social responsibility, manufacture products with high added value in conjunction with our clear commitment to which attempts to offer an overview of and high quality standards. innovation. This has led us to a continuous Ficosa’s performance to face the challenges process of transformation to move us forward of the automobile sector and describes our Ficosa’s history began in 1949 with the to change, being pioneers in going beyond actions to integrate the United Nations Global foundation of a small workshop in Barcelona Spanish borders in the 1970s or diversifying Compact and its principles into our business that was dedicated to the manufacture of our line of products to meet market needs. strategy, culture and daily operations. mechanical cables for the spare parts market. Likewise, the secret of our success can also Over seven decades, the firm commitment be found in our philosophy of doing a lot with This past year 2019, we have celebrated a for innovation and internationalization has very little, our solid human values of humility, very important milestone for the company, consolidated Ficosa as a global benchmark hard work and entrepreneurship, and the our 70th anniversary with a determined group in the automotive and mobility sector great team that has made up this company at commitment towards new technologies. with nearly 10,000 workers and a presence the various points throughout its history. in 18 countries in Europe, America, Asia and At our company, we continually strive to Africa. The automotive industry is undergoing ensure excellence in our products, and an amazing technological transformation. therefore we continue to work to provide One of the keys to our success lies in our ability Traditional mechanical systems incorporate C S R — R E P O R T 5 new integrations of more automated • Ficosa has reached the historical sales subsidies and aid for the purchase of hybrid, mechatronic systems. ADAS (Advanced figure of 4 million rear view cameras electric and / or hydrogen cars. Driving Assistance Systems) systems (parking cameras) in the period of the progressively increase driver assistance last 5 years and plans to triple sales until During the last five years, Ficosa has features. The rear view mirrors coexist with 2028. reinforced its worldwide presence with the intelligent systems that incorporate cameras opening of new plants in Jandira (Brazil), and displays to have a better vision, greater • Ficosa has continued to expand its Shenyang (China), Cookeville (United States) safety and a more comfortable driving portfolio of state-of-the-art products and Rabat (Morocco), this last centre opened experience such as the surround view, in gear shifters in different regions, in the past year meant the landing of the the parking cameras or the CMS (Camera launching in the American market a new company on the African continent. In addition, Monitoring System) of Ficosa. Vehicles are Shift by Wire change for an exclusive the company has recently strengthened its telematically connected, becoming the most large-format pick-up, as well as a presence in Portugal with new facilities in powerful multiplatform communication source complete Shift by Wire system which Maia. in which the interconnection between people, includes the user interface, control objects and infrastructure has no limits. At the electronics and actuator that allows At the end of 2018, Ficosa also strengthened same time, the challenge of better energy robotizing the transmission of the new its commitment to electro-mobility with efficiency and less pollution is establishing generation of vehicles for a reputable the opening of its new e-Mobility Hub, with hybrid, electric and fuel cell vehicles. Chinese OEM. a pioneering centre at a national and international level in technology for electric All these new technological products intended The mentioned technological changes, the mobility. Located in Viladecavalls, it employs for more assisted driving, the autonomous new consumer habits, the rapid advances more than 120 engineers and has become vehicle, the connected car and less polluting towards electric mobility, connected and a benchmark laboratory worldwide in the have become the pillars of Ficosa’s growth. autonomous, pose a series of legislative, development of electro-mobility systems for technological, cultural and economic changes hybrid and electric vehicles. In this sense, at Ficosa, we have undergone that are causing disruptive effects in the value a profound technological transformation chain of the automotive sector and that in We have to be alert and prudent, the in recent years, focusing on three areas of this year 2019 they have been very visible. coming years will be characterized by great growth: connectivity, safety and efficiency. We can verify this with new alliances, the opportunities and in turn by great risks. Ficosa This year 2019, we have achieved the entry of new competitors from other sectors will work to manage and mitigate risks, taking following achievements in technological such as consumer electronics, mergers and advantage of the opportunities that arise from products: acquisitions between car manufacturers and this transformation situation. between the suppliers themselves. • 9 new models of electric vehicles from I encourage you to explore all the details of a German OEM have been launched to On the other hand, 2019 has been a difficult our activities through this report that firmly the market incorporating Ficosa BMSs year for sales. The most relevant cause in the reflects the commitment and dedication of (Battery Management Systems). decrease in sales is found in the trend of the Ficosa. world’s leading automobile market. Car sales • Ficosa developed and manufactures in China closed the year 2019 with a significant since late 2018 the Audi e-tron CMS decrease of 8.2%. There are several factors (Camera Monitoring System) digital rear why car sales have decreased. The trade Sincerely yours, view system, the first car to be marketed war between the United States and China with this new technology. In 2019, a new has been a determining factor. The possibility Josep Maria Pujol model was presented from a Japanese of another economic crisis happening again President OEM in which Ficosa also developed in the short term is also negatively affecting and manufactures the external modules the purchase of new cars, many drivers are of the CMS that incorporate two reluctant to change vehicles and prefer to cameras one for the ‘surround view’ wait to see if their doubts may be clarified. -, the turn signals and are painted the The registrations of vehicles powered by same colour of the body and integrated alternative energies have also registered a very into the chassis. significant decrease due to the withdrawal of 6 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 About our report This Report aims to offer readers a transparent and balanced overview of Ficosa’s performance in relation to the sustainability challenges that the company has faced in 2019. Objective of the Report In this report, Ficosa aims to explain Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Manufacturer) have also been taken into how non-financial and diversity risk belonging to the Global Reporting consideration. EcoVadis provides an and CSR challenges are approached, Initiative (GRI Standards). Therefore, entire Corporate Social Responsibility and Ficosa’s performance in 2019, for in determining the content to be (CSR) ratings service for companies. the purpose of offering stakeholders included in this report, we consider the complete and reliable information. The pertinent developments, initiatives and To summarize, the key points to highlight company has centred this report on the materiality analysis carried out in in this report are: explaining how it takes environmental, 2018. The materiality analysis took the ethical, labour, social, and human rights Ficosa CSR diagnosis (gap analysis) as — C ustomer satisfaction aspects into consideration during the the starting point and the action plan through quality daily operation of the company. Likewise, prepared in 2015 involving the CEO, the it describes the annual progress made members of the Executive Committees — Sustainable innovation by the company in implementing the and our key Management subsidiaries. and technology Ten Principles of the United Nations It was complemented with external Global Compact in terms of human and sources such as the GRI Pilot version of — Diversity and Integration labour rights, the environment and the the Automotive Sector Supplement and fight against corruption. Furthermore, the Auto Parts Sustainability Accounting — Development, training this report describes how our company Standard prepared by the SASB and knowledge is progressing in each of the Sustainable (Sustainability Accounting Standards management Development Goals (SDGs). Our core Board). business determines which of the global — Occupational Health and sustainability goals Ficosa supports first Other key drivers included the Drive Safety and foremost. In particular, our activities Sustainability (biggest world automaker focus on health and safety (SDG3) and partnership to promote sustainability) — Healthy lives and wellcombating climate change (SDG 13). guidelines set out in the Automotive being promotion In addition to this, our commitment to Sustainability Guiding Principles which sustainable practices includes decent outline expectations for suppliers on key — Climate change work and economic growth (SDG responsibility issues including human mitigation 8), responsible consumption and rights, environment, working conditions production (SDG 12), and promoting and business ethics. — Commitment to society peace and justice (SDG 16). In addition, the EcoVadis CSR — Responsible Sourcing, This report has been prepared in assessments requested by several Consumption and accordance with the provisions of the of our OEMs (Original Equipment Production C S R — R E P O R T 7 Scope and boundary This report covers the period from Biodiversity is not included in the scope 1 January 2019 to 31 December of this report, as Ficosa operational 2019. Unless indicated otherwise, the sites are not located in protected areas quantitative information reported in this or areas of high biodiversity value. document shows the performance Additionally, the impact of our activities, of the company at global level and products, and services on biodiversity includes 100% of the facilities and sites are not significant. where Ficosa holds a majority stake and, is consequently, responsible for There are no IUCN Red List species their operation and control. Thus, the or national conservation listed species report includes information from our with habitats in areas affected by the operations in Asia, Africa, Europe, North operations of our organization. America and South America. On the other hand, this report does To provide a better understanding of not include the company Tata Ficosa the company’s performance, previous Automotive Systems Ltd as it is a 50% years’ data if available has also been 50% Joint Venture. included. In addition, the indicators regarding The report focuses on the company’s occupational Health, Safety and main business lines: research, Environment only cover the Ficosa development, production and sales of sites where there are vehicle parts high-technology vision, safety, energy manufacturing plants due to their efficiency and connectivity solutions materiality. So, the following sites (connected cars, driverless vehicles, have not been considered in the assisted driving and e-mobility). OHSE indicators: Le Neubourg (France), Rüsselsheim (Germany), Köln (Germany), Lindau (Germany), Hyderabad (India), Venaria Reale (Italy), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Detroit (USA) and Tokyo (Japan). 7 8 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Ficosa at a glance · Barcelona Group Highlights · Soria · Sant Guim The company, with headquarters in — €1,135 million sales Barcelona (Spain), generated sales of €1,135 million in 2019 and has a — Production plants, team of about 10,000 employees, with technical centres manufacturing plants, technological or sales offices in centres and commercial offices located 18 countries, over 4 throughout 18 countries in Europe, continents. North America, South America, Africa and Asia. Ficosa has been expanding — Established in 1949 in its international presence based on its Barcelona (Spain) strategy to be located near the decision and production centres of the majors — 9,978 employees OEMs in order to be able to offer a more competitive and global service. The — Pioneers in highalliance with Panasonic, signed in 2015, technology vision, · Detroit (Mi) has boosted regional synergies and the safety, connectivity and · Cookeville (TN) international activity of the company. efficiency systems for Ficosa has gained new customers and the automotive and · Shelbyville (KY) initiated new programs in all regions, mobility sectors mainly in Asia. In addition to boosting its global presence, Panasonic and — 21 manufacturing plants Ficosa are combining their respective technologies to jointly develop products — 14 R&D and technical · Salinas-Victoria such as electronic mirror systems, centres next-generation cockpit systems and · Escobedo Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), which will facilitate business expansion in fields where future growth is anticipated. With this transaction, Ficosa will accelerate the commercialization · Sao Paulo of products jointly developed by both companies. · Porto C S R — R E P O R T 9 Plants Technical Center Commercial Ofﬁce Research · Dieuze · Rüsselsheim · Dabrowa Gornicza (Licence agreement) (Licence agreement) · Le Neobourg · Köln · Lindau · Wolfenbüttel · Taicang · Chongqing · Shenyang · Gyeongsangbuk-do (Joint-venture) · Tokyo (office) · Kuala Lumpur · Sala Al Jadida ·Venaria Reale · Bursa · Pune (two plants) · Morcone (Joint-venture) · Gemlik · Pant Nagar (Jointventure) · Hyderabad 10 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Ficosa is now one of the top-tier global in part, the scenario of increasing trade providers operating in the research, confrontation between China and the development, manufacturing and United States, as well as the withdrawal marketing of high-technology vision, of aids for the purchase and renovation safety, connectivity and efficiency of automobiles. In this context, Ficosa systems for the automotive and mobility has experienced a further decrease in sectors. its sales there. This is attributable to the mix of customers and products with Ficosa ended 2019 with sales in greater weight in high-end Chinese and considerable excess of 1 billion euros for mid-range European OEMs that have the year. The solid growth experienced suffered more than the average. by the company since 2012 is due to a clear commitment to globalization, operational efficiency, innovation and activity diversification. The year 2019, in the automotive sector, has been a change in trend compared to the trend of sustained growth in the last decade. Global automobile production has decreased by 5.8% or 5.5 million units1. Although all the main markets have experienced reductions, these have been concentrated in China (-8.2%) and South Asia (-8.3%). The contraction of the Chinese market, started in 2018, was generated due to, (1) According to IHS Auto production data from February 2020 Sales per region 2019 (€ million, %) Sales (€ million) 13 % 66 % Asia> 143 Europe> 749 902 925 939 1.100 1.153 1.190 1.184 1.135 19 % North America > 217 20121 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20192 2% South America > 26 (1) €828 million in sales, excluding the temporary contracts with Sony (2) The decline in sales in 2019 is due to a certain slowdown in the car industry worldwide, although the main reason is the severe downturn witnessed in China, which had already started in the last quarter of 2018. Also, customers have delayed launches of new technology products because of problems in ensuring a good integration of all suppliers into complete ADAS systems and also launches of new electric vehicles. C S R — R E P O R T 11 To a lesser extent, Ficosa has experienced System) system of cameras and a reduction in sales in Europe. This is displays represents a paradigm shift explained by the market situation (-4.4% when digitizing Ficosa’s core product, compared to the previous year), boosted the rear-view mirror. by the lack of clarity in the transition to the electric vehicle and by the end In North America, the market has of several advanced communications decreased by 4.0%, but Ficosa has projects. To this we must add the delay managed to increase sales by starting to 2020 in the launch by customers of an important rear vision project with projects in the field of new technologies, a high level of integration, since due to the problems the customer is Ficosa produces several value-added having to ensure a good integration of subcomponents that were traditionally all concurrent suppliers into complete outsourced. ADAS systems and also launches of the new electric vehicles. The South American market has dropped 4.4% due to the combined effect of the A new technology project that started economic situation in Argentina and the in 2018, and has been increasing sales drop in raw material prices, which are throughout this year is the Audi e-tron very important in the regional economy. WING. This CMS (Camera Monitoring Ficosa has experienced a reduction in line with the market. Distribution of employees per region 2019 (N. employee, %) 16 % North America > 1,597 16 % Asia> 1,617 3 % South America > 273 65 % Europe> 6,491 12 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Structure of Ficosa International At present, Ficosa is a conglomerate of companies formed by engineering centres, manufacturing plants and commercial offices, distributed all over the world. The group is organized into different Business Units, most of which are detailed below. 01 Rear-view systems: Develops, produces and 05 Commercial vehicle: Develops, produces and commercializes rear-view mirrors and commercializes all Ficosa’s product vision systems forward, backward portfolio for buses, trucks and and lateral for vehicles. industrial and commercial vehicles. 02 Command and control systems: 06 Advanced Driver Assistance systems: Develops, produces and Develops, produces and commercializes systems which commercializes systems that assist interact between the driver and the drivers during the driving process. vehicle, such as shifters, parking brakes, and drive cables. 03 Under hood systems: Develops, produces and 07 E-mobility: Develops, produces and commercializes fluid and ventilation commercializes electric powertrain systems installed in the vehicles’ technologies and connected underhood. infrastructures to enable the electric propulsion of vehicles and fleets. 04 Advanced communications: Develops, produces and commercializes antenna systems for vehicles, communication modules and antennas for navigation systems. C S R — R E P O R T 13 Sales by division – 2019 (% of sales, € million) 17.7 4,1% Command and % Under hood Ficosa is composed of two business groups: Control system > 200.9 systems > 46.2 Traditional products and New Tech products. 4.4 % Advanced Within the traditional products category, the Communications > 50.2 most significant is the rear-view systems which 3.4 % Commercial vehicle > 38.5 represent around 61% of total sales. Ficosa is 3.1 % one of three global leading companies in this Adas > 35.1 area. 1.5 % e-Mobility > 17.0 4,7 % In terms of product, the major increase in sales has occurred in new technological Aftermarket and Others > 53.0 products focused on safety and comfort systems (ADAS) and e-Mobility. 61.1 % Rear View System > 693.9 Ficosa sells 4 million rear-view cameras In 2019, Ficosa has reached this historical figure in sales in the period of the last 5 years thanks to its firm commitment to lead technological innovation in the automotive sector, and plans to double sales until 2028. The growth of technological innovations incorporated in vehicles has led the multinational corporation to reach this milestone in its business, a record that will in turn be improved in the coming years, as Ficosa expects to manufacture more than 8 million parking cameras by 2028, based on orders already received from top-tier OEMs (automakers). This figure is a huge achievement because it means that 4 million drivers are benefiting from our cutting-edge technology, which makes driving safer and easier, on roads all over the world. The fact At the beginning of 2018 Ficosa reached 3 million rear view cameras as that drivers are more comfortable and protected against accidents we see in the commemorative photograph, closing the year with a new encourages us to continue innovating and to play an active role in milestone of 4 million. transforming the automotive sector. Rear-view cameras, which help drivers park, are part of the Advanced Driver-Assistance Systems (ADAS). When the driver starts the car, the camera in the back is activated and the rear-view images are shown on the central monitor. The system uses mobile overlays to control the turn of the steering wheel, allowing for more precise manoeuvring. 14 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 How do we work? Mission Vision Values In particular, our mission is to innovate, Our strength comes from our comAt Ficosa, we believe that success develop and create high added value mitment. For us, success is not meadepends on how we live our Vision and products that contribute towards improsured by size, but by flexibility, speed the Values on which it is based. Our ving mobility in key aspects of progress and creativity, and in understanding Values reflect the spirit of our company, such as safety, comfort, communications that being the best means meeting the the way we think and how we believe and the environment, exceeding market needs of our employees, customers, we should act, and have become the and customer expectations. community and shareholders alike. mainstay of our Code of Ethics. We are convinced that if we act in accordance with our values, we can achieve our Vision. The company values are on display at the different company sites and every new employee receives an explanatory leaflet informing them about our values when joining the company. C S R — R E P O R T 15 The values that guide our conduct and identify us as a company are as follows: Caring for People: Teamwork /Learning together People are a key part of our corporate project. Learning and training, respect, Sharing knowledge, openly communicating, diversity, concern, friendly and informal learning from mistakes, cooperating, and relationships should reflect the very esunderstanding that personal success is the sence of us as a company. company’s overall success. Commitment & Passion Innovation & Creativity for Work All our employees have the capacity to Enthusiasm for the corporate project, exhibit and create; therefore, we have to knowing how to live our values. Feeling enable their ideas to emerge through our part of the fulfilment of our vision, perleadership. Brave the market by being severing with hard work, enjoying work bold and assuming risks, but always with and a job well-done. Everybody’s work is sound judgement. equally important. Customer Focus Honesty & Integrity Helping our customers achieve success Being honest and acting with integrity is key to us achieving ours. We should be in all our actions and behaviors. Ethical able to build relationships based on trust principles and our values should guide with them, understanding and anticipaus in our day-to-day decisions. ting their needs. Leadership Modesty, not taking center stage, understanding that everybody’s work is equally important, is essential in Ficosa’s leadership style. Lead by example and showing appreciation for people. Delegate, decentralize, and trust in the ability of people. Live the values that constitute the essence of the company. 16 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 FICOSA and the Sustainable Development Goals C S R — R E P O R T 17 The company’s strengths come from its 169 universal targets that are inter-connected, commitment and its understanding that being applicable to all nations and people, and that the best means being able to respond to the represent a call to action for governments, civil needs of our employees, customers, community society and the private sector. The company and shareholders in equal manner. In this reviews all the SDGs to identify areas where regard, Ficosa continues its efforts to generate we can maximize our positive contributions. We shared value among its stakeholders and add focus our activities related to sustainability on sustainability practices in its business strategy those SDGs that greatly influence our business and culture. As a member of the United Nations model and value chain and help us bring about Global Compact since 2002, we have adopted real change. the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This mainly affects the following SDGs and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), associated sustainability activities: introduced in 2016, are an ambitious plan of action defining sustainable development priorities at a global level for 2030, with the aim of eradicating poverty and promoting decent lives with opportunities for all. There are 17 goals and SDG 3 — Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages According to the World Health Organization (WHO), traffic accidents kill approximately 1.35 million people worldwide every year, which means that every day around 3,500 people die on the roads. Tens of millions of people suffer injuries or disabilities each year. Children, pedestrians, cyclists and the elderly are the most vulnerable users of public roads. Additionally, about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken, death from a car accident is likely to become a top five cause of death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. By collaborating with national and international programs to accelerate the development and standardization of connected cars and autonomous vehicles and by developing new emergency systems or new tools and products to improve the vision of the driver, help prevent collision or estimate the degree of attentiveness of the driver, Ficosa is contributing to the Health Goal to reduce road traffic fatalities by 50% by 2020. Learn more: Innovation in our products. 18 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 SDG 13 — Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts The transportation sector is responsible for 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. Reducing emissions from transport is therefore an important part of any strategy to combat climate change and its impacts, in line with Sustainable Development Goal 13. The widespread electrification of transport through the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one strategy to reduce GHG emissions. If EVs are charged with electricity from emission-free sources, their use can also increase the share of renewables in the global energy mix (Target 7.2 – Affordable and clean energy), and contribute to reducing air pollution and related health impacts (Target 3.9 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages and Target 11.6 Reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities). By investing in research and development to improve efficiency, reducing the complexity of electric vehicles and developing new generations of Battery Management Systems or On-Board Chargers (OBC), Ficosa is contributing to combating climate change and its impact. Furthermore, the company is using less-carbon intensive manufacturing processes to mitigate the effects of climate change. Learn more: Innovation in our products; Commitment to environment. SDG 12 – Responsible Consumption and Production Ficosa is designing and manufacturing products through the responsible use of raw materials and natural resources. The company is working to reduce its waste generation throughout the companies’ life cycle. For example, Ficosa is working in all its operational facilities to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and to reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from its plants. Furthermore, one of the main objectives of the company is the continuous improvement of quality, reducing the number of defective parts and improving both its processes and the skills of its employees with the aim of achieving zero defects. Learn more: Commitment to environment; Commitment to quality. C S R — R E P O R T 19 SDG 16 – Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Ficosa is working to ensure that conflict-free minerals are used in the manufacture of its automotive components. Ficosa implemented an annual supplier inquiry to collect the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi template) on conflict minerals from all its suppliers. The information collected is internally processed and provides useful information to ensure procurement that is free from conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. Learn more: Conflict minerals. SDG 8 – Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all The company has a team of about 10,000 employees, with manufacturing plants, technological centres and commercial offices located throughout 18 countries in Europe, North America, South America, Africa and Asia. In all the countries where Ficosa operates, the company is building a safe and secure workplace where employees feel valued, where their rights are respected, and where they can do meaningful work. Learn more: Commitment to our people; Commitment to health and safety. 20 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Compliance and business ethics C S R — R E P O R T 21 At Ficosa, we are committed to understand and very easy to manage. fraudulent and unfair behaviour, gifts meeting high ethical standards and Upon completion, employees must pass and hospitality, intellectual and industrial complying with all applicable local, a 15-question exam (randomly generated property, the transportation of persons, national, and international laws wherever from a sample of 45 questions) following goods and other related activities. All we do business. Behaving ethically corporate training guidelines. The the different regulations, procedures and is fundamental to establishing and completion rate at the end of 2019 protocols focus on company and sectorsustaining legitimate and productive was over 75%, with the 2020 target of specific risks and priorities and cover the relationships between organizations. reaching 100%. facilities and sites where Ficosa holds a majority stake and is consequently In this direction, a new release of the At Ficosa, we have a body called the responsible for their operation and control. Ficosa’s Code of Ethics was approved by Compliance Committee responsible for the Board of Directors in 2017. Our Code distributing and ensuring compliance In 2018, a Compliance Information and of Ethics is an extension of our values and of the Code of Ethics among all the Training Programme was launched in order defines the standards and responsible company’s employees. In order to to raise awareness in our organization. In behaviour expected of all those related to guarantee the effective application of addition, in 2019 a specific workshop the company, and which is of obligatory the regulations and the guidelines of this on competition law was prepared and compliance. We are all responsible Code, the company has established launched, covering the most sensitive for complying with these benchmark a whistleblowing channel to notify any positions in our commercial (41 standards, which are essential guidelines breach of the Code of Ethics. employees), purchasing (19 employees) in order to guarantee our management and R&D teams (6 employees), including model. The Code is available for all Furthermore, Ficosa’s policies and examples of real situations. In 2020, it is employees in the Ficosa intranet and it is procedures, available worldwide, ensure planned to increase awareness with a included in the welcome package given compliance with J-SOX in all activities workshop focused on Export Control. to new employees, to be signed the first performed in the day-to-day operation of working day together with the contract. Ficosa. Controls have been implemented In 2019, an anonymous Compliance to monitor compliance with these awareness survey was carried out with Our Code is available in all FICOSA procedures and are evaluated regularly to the aim of detecting opportunities for languages (English, Spanish, French, ensure its effectiveness. Periodical audits improvement. The questions, available in German, Italian, Portuguese, Polish, are carried out. all Company languages, were raised to Turkish, Chinese and Arabic). 2,690 employees in 12 countries. At Ficosa, we are convinced that Since 2018, Ficosa organized training emphasizing the compliance culture The survey covered various areas such as sessions and awareness campaigns makes a significant contribution to the level of knowledge of the Company’s to ensure that employees are aware of securing the sustainable success of our values, the Code of Ethics, the WhistleFicosa’s new commitments and confirm company. In this regard, the company blower Channel, the awareness of their compliance with the Code of Ethics. has decided to define a Crime Prevention Compliance at different levels of The Code of Ethics was provided to all Mode, which was introduced in 2016. Management, etc. The overall result on a indirect employees (job positions with The goal was to adopt and effectively weighted score of 10, was 8.1. mail address) and to all FICOSA countries implement the appropriate measures through a database system requiring to prevent and detect criminal risks The results of the survey were shared acknowledgement by employees. At and ensure ethical practices within the with the management teams of each the end of December 2018, the Code’s company. This compliance is integrated country to promote internal forums in all employee acknowledgement was 97% as part of a corporate culture, which has the Group’s subsidiaries where to debate (2,551 employees, 10 countries out of always been centred on the promotion of and increase awareness of Compliance 11 showed 100% ratio). ethical values at all levels. and to be able to establish the related improvement actions. In October 2019, the e-learning of our Under this framework, several regulations, Code of Ethics was launched to a target procedures and protocols were of 2,580 indirect employees, available in implemented to support crime prevention the 9 languages of Ficosa. This training in areas such as money laundering, is interactive and uses graphics, text antitrust, corruption in business, treasury and sound, making the training easy to and social security and subsidy fraud, 22 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Living by the values at Ficosa Ficosa’s values underpin everything we do and must be reflected in our day-to-day behaviour. To ensure every employee understands and truly experiences the corporate values of Ficosa, the company turned them into specific operating principles and communicates them often. At all sites, the values are displayed inside the factories and offices to make it clear what matters to us. Global Campaign of Ficosa Values and Ficosophy This campaign has reached the nearly 10,000 Ficosa employees as different tools and formats have been used to In 2019 we have launched a global campaign to reinforce be able to work, during the 18 weeks that the campaign lasthe concept of Ficosophy and the values of Ficosa, which ted, with all levels of the organization. Emails, pop-ups, social constitute the DNA of our employees, what identifies us in networks, posters, murals, tablecloths with messages have any of our centres and plants in the world, as well as being been used also in the centres that have a canteen, activities the mainstay of our code of conduct. connected with each value, etc. Ficosophy is the values that unite all the people who are part In addition, a Ficosa 2020 Values Calendar was created to of Ficosa. A unique way of doing things that helps us move keep this campaign alive for the next year. This calendar is forward into the future together. the result of a photography contest in which the employees participated by contributing with their own photographs that Having values is important, but we need to apply them. represent the values of Ficosa. That is why, we always put our Ficosophy at the centre of everything we do and we encourage our employees to live them in their day to day. C S R — R E P O R T 23 FICOSOPHY Our way of doing things INNOVATION & CREATIVITY LEADERSHIP All our employees have the ability to Humility, not taking sole credit, and innovate and create, therefore we understanding all persons are equally must encourage the expression of important is essential to Ficosa’s these ideas through our leadership. INTEREST leadership style. Lead by example and with high regard for people’s abilities. IN PEOPLE Delegate, decentralize, have faith in people’s abilities. Integrate the People are at the core of our company’s values in the workplace. business. Training, learning, respect, diversity and friendly relationships are part of who we are. TEAMWORK Knowledge-sharing, open communication, learning from mistakes, cooperation and understanding that personal success contributes to overall success. CUSTOMER FOCUS Helping our customers succeed is COMMITMENT & PASSION key to achieving our success. Being able to build trusting realtionships FOR ONE’S WORK with our customers; understanding and anticipating their needs. HONESTY & INTEGRITY Enthusiasm for doing a good job and knowing how to live the values. Participating in achieving our vision through perseverance, Honesty and integrity in our work enjoyment and a job well actions and behaviors. Ethical done. principles and values should guide our daily decisions. 24 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Human Rights Ficosa is responsible not only for its respect social responsibility duties and Furthermore, the company performs own decisions and activities, but it especially the requirements based on a yearly control through the central also wants to ensure its suppliers and the Universal Declaration of Human employee database by calculating the business partners operate in line with Rights (UDHR) and the International age of their employees to ensure all the company’s sustainability principles Labour Organizations (ILO) conventions Ficosa staff are above the legal age and respect the Universal Declaration to respect employees’ rights, age and to work and assure no child labour is of Human Rights and environmental working-hours limits, etc. The purchase permitted. protection. orders sent by any Ficosa company or any of its subsidiaries must include In addition to following the General the terms and clauses of the General Purchasing Conditions, and all laws Purchasing Conditions. and regulations applicable to the supplier. It is also their obligation to Learn more: Responsible sourcing. C S R — R E P O R T 25 Information security In 2017, Ficosa strengthened its Inof stakeholders regarding information Furthermore, the company has impleformation Security Management Sysmanagement and the security of its inmented an incident management protem (ISMS onwards) based on ISO/ formation systems. cedure to enable any employees and IEC 27001:2013 standard. A Secustakeholders to report security conThe ISMS includes the implementation rity Committee was formally appoincerns regarding information in order to of risk assessment and management ted and is authorized by the Board prevent recurrences. scenarios based on the MAGERIT meof Directors to govern the ISMS. The thodology (Version 3). In 2019, an e-learning was also launCommittee is responsible for defining ched to increase the awareness of and establishing the information seFicosa has also implemented zoning all employees on the correct use of curity strategy and management sys(S1-S2-S3) where S3 zones corresSoftware licenses, including intellectem. The current scope of the ISMS pond to those related to confidential tual property, the purchase and use of includes engineering, prototypes and and secret classified projects. Each software, examples of cases of illegal testing business functions. zone has been provided with its own use, false beliefs on software licenses security criteria, controls, alarms, caCurrently the scope of the ISMS coand the potential impacts of illegal meras, procedures, training, etc. vers the areas dealing with most highly use. The completion rate at the end of sensitive information, shared sensiAs part of the ISMS project, Ficosa 2019 was over 40% (out of a target of tive information with customers and has developed and enhanced a trai2,580 employees), with the 2020 tarcontract, intellectual and industrial ning and awareness program. More get of reaching 100%. property law, and protected informathan 880 employees have already attion. ISMS aims, among other intertended the training sessions, 209 in nal goals, to increase the confidence 2019, including the Management. 26 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Commitment to quality C S R — R E P O R T 27 Policies The rating given to a car and the value of an the production process at Ficosa sites (plastic & automotive manufacturer’s brand are dependent on metal injection, injection tooling, paint shop). The the customer’s appraisal of quality. In this context, new internal audit is applicable to all the Company’s Ficosa believes that the automotive part and technical centres and manufacturing plants. equipment industry has an important responsibility to constantly provide top-level quality to customers Additionally, in 2016, the company added three at every stage, from the planning of new products, new checklists in the 3Q3 Plant Audit to make through to development, manufacturing, distribution sure that each site adheres to Ficosa standards and sales to after-sales service. for the proactive management of warranties. More demanding rules were added in the 3Q3 audits In 2009, Ficosa implemented the Corporate Quality for technical centres. The main goals of the new 3Q3 program, which aimed to improve quality checklist is to certify that any software developed threefold within three years’ time, thus propelling the by Ficosa is aligned with the ISO/IEC 15504 business to the top of the automotive sector. The guidelines. Furthermore, these stricter rules have 3Q3 program is annually updated, accompanied by been implemented to guarantee that the design a specific roadmap and quality targets to make sure and production of safety products comply with the that all the regions are following the best practices in highest standards of the automotive industry. this area. Through the 3Q3 program, the company performs more than 100 audits per year to ensure In 2018, the notice period for the communication that all the sites comply with the company’s quality of a 3Q3 Plant Audit was reduced from ten to two requirements. days. The objective is to obtain a true picture of the Ficosa site and avoid any ad hoc preparations In 2015, the company implemented stricter rules in being made in advance. the 3Q3 audits for supplier management, project management and technical centres, using the During 2019, the 3Q3 program was carried out, same criteria as for Ficosa manufacturing plants. auditing all the company’s support centres and In 2016, the company implemented a new internal manufacturing plants. 3Q3 Process Design Audit to certify the design of Quality Managemennt IATF 16949:2016 (replaces ISO/TS 16949:2009) Operational Ficosa facilities certified defines the quality management system requirements IATF 16949 and ISO 9001 (%) 100% for the design and development, production and, when relevant, installation and service of automotiverelated products. It is a specific standard to the automotive industry and is based on the ISO 9001 standard. 28 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Governance The mission of the quality function is to improve the performance of Ficosa, thereby ensuring customer satisfaction. To do this, it is endowed with a corporate structure and local quality control organizations in the production plants and support centres (technical centres, purchasing, project management, etc.). The main tool to ensuring the mission of the quality function is achieved, is the quality system, which is deployed on a corporate level in order to comply with international, national and local standards, and those of our customers. Main Risks and Challenges Customer warranties are a significant Parallel to this, the collaboration between any possible warranty incidents thanks to part of our quality management system. Design and Manufacturing has been the improved monitoring of our customer In 2018, a new warranty reporting system strengthened in order to analyse the portals. Furthermore, we will use statistical was launched in all Ficosa manufacturing “No Fault Found cases” (NFF) to provide tools to predict any future trends and sites. This system continuously monitors faster support to our customer in the contrast the effectiveness of our actions. our OEMs B2B warranty applications resolution of problems. In addition, the company is focused to obtain a better picture of the current on implementing the Lean Six Sigma and future scenario, helping us to react The company remains focused on methodology in all the manufacturing quickly to any possible incident before improving both our processes and our plants and technical centres and an official warranty analysis request is employees’ skills, using problem solving, improving the communication between issued. analysis tools and techniques in an aim operation and product design. Finally, to reach zero defects. the company continuously improve its In 2019 the system has been development system to ensure top-level consolidated, having a global guarantee We monitor the customer portals to quality in the design and development of indicator, by plant, customer and reduce response times, since we do new technology products. product, which through standardized not have to wait to receive the official analysis, allows the control and reduction notification of defective parts in order of guarantees. to take action. We continuously monitor C S R — R E P O R T 29 Key results Company quality is managed through the monitoring of KPIs. The company has defined a balanced scorecard system that displays the site’s monthly values versus target figures. This monthly reporting enables the company to pinpoint areas where improvement is needed. In 2019, the scope of some indicators has been revised to increase their rigor, so the historical data is not comparable. Target Target 2019 2019 2020 Customer satisfaction (%) 95% 93% 95% Number of Customer claims due to Suppliers 113 130 122 Warranty cost vs sales (%) 0.32% 0.27% 0.26% Number of Customer claims 791 672 720 Number of defective parts per million delivered to Customer (ppm) 21.5 6.5 6.5 Number of defective parts per million delivered to Ficosa due to Suppliers responsibility (ppm) 12 29 24 Non-Quality Costs over sales (NQC) (%) 0.59% 0.48% 0.47% Quality management goes beyond suppliers for its Purchasing Optimum Ficosa activities. The company wants Panel (POP) more restrictive. From 2017 to ensure that its suppliers also operate on, the company has implemented a in line with the company’s commitment strict program to reduce the impact of to excellence. All our suppliers must suppliers on customers by enforcing have a quality certification (ISO 9001, stringent rules and consolidating supplier VDA, EAQF, and IATF) and must provide audits in all the countries where the Ficosa with written evidence of the most company operates. recent certification renewal. Ficosa conducts periodic supplier assessments to ensure that the suppliers’ quality meets the standards established. Since 2015, the supplier’s audits have been following the same criteria as the ones used for Ficosa’s manufacturing plants. Furthermore, Ficosa reviewed and made the criteria used to select 30 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 The Ficosa plant in Cookeville, Tennessee, has been awarded with the Ford Q1 distinction, a recognition by Ford for its high-quality products and capacity for continuous improvement. Awards and recognition During 2019, GM and Nissan manufacropean supplier of its commodity, for its turers have awarded three Ficosa plants quality results, deliveries and service. The with the best supplier awards. ceremony was held in September 2019 in Crandfield, UK. General Motors awarded the Ficocables Ltda plant, in Maia, Portugal, the 2018 FICOSA Mexico, has been recognized by Supplier Quality Excellence Award, in reour client Nissan North America, among cognition of the quality results, deliveries the best suppliers of the year in qualiand services of this plant, which manuty, service, and deliveries; related to the factures and supplies cables and comfort rear-view mirror products that FICOSA systems. The ceremony took place in Ocsupplies to the different plants of Nissan tober 2019, in Torino, Italy. North America. On August 27, 2019, said recognition was delivered. For its part, Nissan Europe awarded Fico Transpar SA, located in Viladecavalls, Spain, the Regional Quality Award Winner trophy, which accredits it as the best EuC S R — R E P O R T 31 Continuous improvement (FIT Program) Within the aim of consolidating its market positions as an autowell as the financial-administrative, purchasing, commercial motive manufacturer and strengthening its presence in all marand R&D departments. kets, Ficosa bases its strategy on continuous improvement in terms of both products and all the processes involved in them. To ensure there is structured support in continuous improvement, the Ficosa Improvement Transformation (FIT) Program Ficosa understands that continuous improvement is any was launched at the end of 2016. This Continuous Improvechange of direction to improve processes by eliminating inment (CI) program is supported by top management and has efficiencies and maintaining consistent quality. All Ficosa embeen implemented in all of Ficosa’s operational facilities. The ployees are responsible for continuous improvement, from the project is supported by an action plan aimed at implementing first operator to the last manager of the company. Continuous self-sufficient CI teams in all the countries where Ficosa operaimprovement affects all departments related to production as tes. The program has been divided into 4 main pillars: MAIN GOALS WHAT DID WE DO IN 2017-2019? Continuous improvement structure in every Plant: CI Managers and experts (YB, GB, BB) in all the facilities, Making sure any site has Regional CI Directors and Corporate CI Director responsible for implementing Local CI Steering Committees held every month CI Structures Over 750 employees trained as Yellow, Green or Black Belts. the FIT program FICOSA IMPROVEMENT TRANSFORMATION Using self-developed Ficosa training materials for YB and GB sessions. Implementing and running Over 5.000 improvement activities in 3 first years of the FIT Program Fighting waste projects and CI activities including Six Sigma projects, Lean workshops and kaizens. Hundreds of certified Yellow, Green and Black Belts. and variation e-Suggestion system developed and implemented to collect, analyze and Ideas and Gathering suggestion and track any suggestion. Spreading a Yokoten culture to share best practices within plants. opportunities sharing best practices The company achieved over 0,54 suggestions per employee. Standardization of a new 5S system to make sure that all the plants are following the same standards and criteria. Transparency Gathering data to detect Implementation of diagnosis tools to find opportunities (ie. VSM, yamazumi) used already over 1.000 times! and Focus any issues Leaders and Managers directly involved in CI activities (ie. Ohno Circles, 5s audits and Lean Six Sigma projects) The program involves the use of continuous improvement methodolevels: White, Yellow, Green and Black Belts, sharing a common goal logies, such as Lean Six Sigma, as well as soft skills that support of everyday improvements. The company’s new FIT program is not employees in their everyday quest for better products and procesonly about optimizing the manufacturing process, but also changing ses. Ficosa allows for the development of human resources in its the culture of the company and training people to give them greater broadest sense, by adapting organizational structures to globalization capacity to make the right decisions every day. process needs. We have active experts (called Belts) with different 32 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Commitment to our people C S R — R E P O R T 33 Ficosa’s commitment to people is at the foundation of the company’s culture. Policies For Ficosa, being a responsible employer for Recruitment and Hiring, Procedure involves a number of challenges: training for Performance Evaluation, International employees, promoting them, providing Assignments Management Procedure, them with fair salaries, looking after their Procedure for the Planning and Followwell-being at work, combining operational up of the Training and New Employees excellence and personal development Welcome Procedure. and encouraging a fluid social dialogue. Ficosa has numerous internal guidelines, Furthermore, the company has defined policies and procedures to ensure an employee handbook available for that all their sites are following the all employees. The handbook includes best practices in recruitment, career information about fair business practices management and talent development. at work, our code of ethics, health & safety, The main ones are: Management of training, performance development, Personnel Database, Management of prevention of discrimination and Short Term Benefits, Management of promotion of diversity, etc. Other Employee Benefits, Procedure Governance The Chief Human Resources Officer, member of the Executive Committee, is the highest responsible person for labour practices in the workplace. The Corporate Human Resource department is responsible for defining the above guidelines, policies and procedures. Every site has a Human Resources Manager, who is responsible for implementing the policies defined at corporate level in every country where the company operates. 34 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Main risks and Challanges Ficosa develops its activity in a very the long term. The following areas have competitive and demanding industry. been identified as the most significant Since 2008, the company has tapped areas of our impact on the workforce: into new business areas and international markets and integrated them into the — Diversity and integration corporation. In this regard, Ficosa has become committed to creating high va— Development, training and lue jobs. Evidence of this is the fact that knowledge management between 2014 to 2019, the number of engineers working at the headquarters — Dialogue and communication in Viladecavalls (Spain) has doubled. The need to hire new staff is posing new — Health promotion and well-being challenges for the company as competition for specialist and managerial staff — Safe and healthy working is increasing in some areas of the global conditions (see “Commitment to labour markets. We are therefore impleHealth and Safety”) menting all the necessary mechanisms to get the best out of our teams and re— Absenteeism management cruit the best professionals in order to maintain our competitive advantage in Key results Variance from 2017 2018 2019 previous year Average number of employees (FTE) 10,239 10,243 9,978 -2.6% Number of employees at year end 9,157 9,279 9,049 -2.5% Non-production Indirect Turnover (%) 9.3% 7.0% 8.6% 22.7% Female staff in total (%)* 42.0% 44.3% 45.4% 2.5% Female staff in executive positions (%)* 14.0% 15.2% 16.0% 5.3% Employees with a disability 125 133 127 -4.5% Dismissals 299 277 495 78.7% *.To measure these indicators, the company uses the workforce at the end of the year (9,049 employees). C S R — R E P O R T 35 Workforce by country 2018 (FTE) 2019 (FTE) 2019 (at year end) Brazil 316 273 247 China 1,804 1,493 1,050 France 352 295 277 Germany 275 262 243 India 18 64 59 Italy 287 275 224 Japan 7 5 4 Malaysia 29 55 53 México 700 661 582 Morocco 76 263 467 Poland 873 965 777 Portugal 1,303 1,244 1,104 Spain 2,195 2,183 2,151 Turkey 1,082 1,004 916 USA 926 936 895 Total general 10,243 9,978 9,049 Group Workforce job category* 2018 2019 Employees < 30 years 1,893 1,806 30 < Employees < 50 years 5,944 5,695 Employees > 50 years 1,442 1,548 Group Workforce job category* Contract types (2019)* 2018 2019 Full time Part time Total Senior executives 158 162 Permanent 7,919 288 8,207 Area managers 472 463 Temporary 805 37 842 Engineers and technicians 1,864 1,766 Total 8,724 325 9,049 Administrative personnel 302 195 Direct Production staff 4,992 4,944 Indirect Production staff 1,491 1,519 36 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Diversity and Integration At Ficosa, the criteria and procedures In Soria (Spain), all managers have for the recruitment of human resources already received training on equality embraces the principle of equality and harassment in the workplace. In and non-discrimination based on the Turkey, the manufacturing plants have grounds of gender, race, national or defined local gender equality training social origin, social class, birth, religion, for their employees. All employees at disability, sexual orientation, union US plants carry out specific diversity association, political opinion, age or any and harassment prevention training other condition. every three years; new hires have mandatory diversity, harassment and Additionally, our Code of Ethics states proper communication training in the that Ficosa Management will take all workplace, being instructed on how to appropriate measures to prevent acts of report any non-compliance. harassment, discrimination or violence within the company. At the same time, its Soria (Spain) collaborates with employees undertake not to promote or correctional institutions to foster the allow situations of abuse, harassment, rehabilitation of former prisoners. In 2015, violence or discrimination in the the company received a special prize workplace. These prevention actions are “Empresa Socialmente Responsable” enhanced locally with specific equality (Socially Responsible Company) from and anti-harassment plans, like those FADESS (“Fundación de Ayuda al at the Cookeville, Detroit, Soria and Discapacitado y Enfermo Psíquico Viladecavalls sites. de Soria” – The Soria Foundation for Physical and Intellectual Disabilities) that Furthermore, all job agencies that work recognizes the commitment towards this with us must guarantee equality in group. The company collaborates with gender, origin, ethnicity, political affiliation FADESS and ASOVICA (“Asociación and religious beliefs for all candidates Virgen del Camino de Familiares de pre-selected for our company. All Personas con Enfermedad Mental” – managers and middle management Association for Families of the Mentally are responsible for ensuring nonIll) to promote the social inclusion of discriminatory treatment to employees physically and intellectually disabled and collaborators. people. Since 2018, we started a specific The plants in Mexico have a program corporate training plan focused on called “total well-being” where increasing the cultural intelligence among awareness sessions are done by different cultures and nationalities. In psychologists on issues of sexual 2019, the Viladecavalls (Spain) and Maia harassment, discrimination, emotional (Portugal) plants underwent a training intelligence, conflict resolution and stress program related to communication, management. In turn, Ficosa México leadership and how to act in the event belongs to the local Automotive Cluster, of discrimination. All the operations participating in the conference “Forward team leaders of these centres have for Gender Equality”. participated. C S R — R E P O R T 37 In 2015, Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland) included interviews and on-site visits Brazil has made workplace adjustments received a special prize “Icebreaker” to various local manufacturing plants to and provided new infrastructure on the for its commitment to promoting the share best practices and review different assembly line to accommodate deaf inclusion of people with disabilities, examples of infrastructure adaptation or hard of hearing (HOH) employees. awarded by the Foundation for to accommodate employees with Furthermore, the company has updated Vocational Activation of People with disabilities with the collaboration of the its emergency procedure and visual Disabilities and the Polish Organization Rotary Club of Shanghai. Furthermore, aids to effectively alert its deaf or HOH of Employers of Disabled Persons. One employees from the Human Resources, employees in an emergency situation. of the main goals of the site is to reach Quality and Operating departments The company has staff trained in sign six percent of employees with disabilities participated in an awareness training language to support these employees. (in 2019, 4% was achieved). Since course conducted by the Social 2010, the site has been using a specific Inclusion Academy (SIA) and Inclusion All Ficosa employees are covered by local programme defined to promote the Advisory Group. The Social Inclusion labour collective bargaining agreements employment of disabled people. Every Academy training programme is the except in those countries where these disabled employee at the site receives result of a cooperation between the collective bargaining negotiations do special treatment with external doctors. Inclusion Factory and the German not exist as the collective labour rights Furthermore, the company regularly Chamber of Commerce to promote the are protected and guaranteed by checks workplaces or job positions to successful integration of people with national laws. This is the case for Ficosa make sure that working conditions are disabilities in a variety of positions in a sites located in USA, China, India and adapted to disabled people’s needs. cross-sectoral environment. The plant Morocco. defined a new action plan in 2018 to hire In Taicang (China), the company defined 20 new employees with disabilities over an action plan to improve the employment the coming years. of people with disabilities. The action plan 38 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Employee development Employee development is a priority for Ficosa. Since 2011, Ficosa has adopted system-wide performance, which focuses on setting performance goals for employees according to their responsibilities and departmental objectives. A supplementary mid-year review has been also implemented to update the existing objectives with new information that may have arisen during the first half of the year. Every site sets the performance goals at the beginning of the year, taking into account process implementation and local conditions and shares this decision with corporate development. The technical and soft skills associated to each position are also assessed, generating development opportunities for each person. Finally, it is important to highlight the informal mutual feedback generated between employees and managers throughout the year, which forms the basis of the main dynamics for people development in Ficosa. Variance from 2018 2019 previous year No. of employees with access to performance and career 2,173 2,300 5.8% development review (target) Employees receiving regular performance and career 84.0% 95.0% 11.0% development reviews (%)* *.according to the target The 2019 increase in the number of employees with access to the performance review is mainly due to the opening of new centres such as Morocco and India. C S R — R E P O R T 39 Growing @Ficosa In 2014, Ficosa launched a Competency Development Prolasting two years and each year a new group joins it. In the gramme with the aim of identifying and maximizing the potenlast four years, a total of 136 participants have joined this initial of key employees. This programme starts with an external tiative. In 2019, we had more than 87 graduates on staff from assessment that enables each one of the participants to gain Growing @Ficosa. in self-awareness and to map their strengths and development areas. This analysis forms the foundation of Growing@Ficosa, This program is helping to create a homogeneous people a programme that provides the resources and support for acdevelopment culture across the organization. It involves parcelerated development adapted to the needs and motivation ticipants with different backgrounds working together with of each of the participants. Human Resources, managers and top lines of the Company worldwide. Ficosa is committed to increase the number of participants, becoming an ongoing process to develop key people in the The programme is based on a 3-tier commitment (manager, organization. Growing @Ficosa is a long-term global program human resources and the participant) and is structured around: 01 An Individual Development Plan (IDP): an ad-hoc plan resulting from one-to-one interviews 02 A Corporate Program: with training in areas such as Leadership, Teamwork, People Development, Impact and Influence, and supported by coaching, with the participants and their managers to better mentoring and specific metrics, as 360º or understand and define their main expectations and other behavioural KPIs. development. This is a blended programme based on the 70-20-10 model with a strong focus on learning on-the-job and social learning. Experimental learning Social learning Formal learning 70 Work-related collaboration 20 Peer learning and 10 Learning program support On-the-job performance support coaching Mentoring High potential development Successfactors Until 2015, the company used different Human Resources systems and tools that supported personnel administration processes and that needed a global and integrated solution. To improve the efficiency, Ficosa has implemented a new Human Resources Information System called SuccessFactors. This new tool is an employee-centred system and enables each employee to complete HR tasks more quickly and perform strategic HR activities more frequently such as their annual goals, performance, development plans, training programmes, etc. Since 2019, SuccessFactors includes the company’s development module and training program, facilitating the creation and monitoring of development plans for each of the employees. By 2020, work is underway to integrate the succession module. 40 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Training and knowledge management Variance from 2017 2018 2019 previous year Total number of training hours provided to employees 194,787 168,090 152,514 -9.3% Training investment (€) 1,924,471 1,830,673 864,877 -52.8% Average cost training per employee* 214 197 96 -51.3% Average training hours per employee* 22 18 17 -5.6% The reduction in hours in training in 2019 is due to the fact that in 2018/2017 Total number of training hours provided to there was a massive implementation 2018 2019 employees* of continuous improvement programs in quality and manufacturing areas with Direct employees 61,430 84,268 external trainers. In 2019, this training began to be given with internal teams, considerably reducing the amount of Indirect employees 106,660 68,246 training expenditure. Total general 168,090 152,514 At Ficosa, we understand that the best way to learn is to build on previous knowledge and experience, and to put into practice what our employees learn in their job positions. Thus, working along to perform their duties successfully practical cases & activities that ensure with some of our best professionals is the and are familiar with Ficosa’s tools and learning through close-to-reality most valuable and direct way to improve methodologies, Ficosa implemented a situations and assessment tools. The our employees’ knowledge. This handsrobust learning system for plant positions Local Knowledge Owner is responsible on experience is supplemented in each that includes diverse training modules for adapting the corporate training case with specific training programs related to assembly and injection materials to train employees at their site. given by professionals in our company, process, OHSE, quality, supply chain, This learning system has already been as well as business and training institutes painting process, lean manufacturing, implemented in the new manufacturing and universities. etc. plants of Morocco, so in 2019, this new learning system was implemented in all Each year, each site defines a quantified First of all, the company prioritizes the plants where the company operates. and budgeted annual training plan and the technical knowledge required for submits it for formal approval by the the job position in new business and In 2019, the offer of technical e-learning corresponding Plant Manager, Country technologies. Secondly, Ficosa selects was expanded, accessible to the entire General Manager or Region/Business the Corporate Knowledge Owners and organization, improving agility and Unit Director. The company records Local Knowledge Owners to generate, efficiency in accessing such training. the annual training data from each site distribute and improve knowledge in the In 2019 more than 20 online training to detect areas for improvement in the plants, technical & development centres. courses were available to employees. training activities implemented worldwide. Ficosa has 25 Corporate Knowledge More than 50% of the training sessions Owners who meet regularly to work are related to manufacturing, quality, on specific training materials & content health & safety or engineering contents. adapted to Ficosa standards and processes (e.g. case studies, practical In order to ensure that all employees exercises & evaluation). The training have the technical knowledge required materials focus on error prevention, C S R — R E P O R T 41 Key figure to generate, Key figure to spread Knowledge Corporate Local disseminate and improve in his/her site and provide knowledge owner knowledge owner Knowledge of the FICOSA feedback to Corporate In October 2019, the e-learning of our Code of Ethics was 45 questions) following corporate training guidelines. The launched to a target of 2,580 employees, available in the 9 completion rate at the end of Dec’19 was over 75%, with the Ficosa languages. This training is interactive and uses graphics, 2020 goal of reaching 100%. text, and sound, making the training easy to understand and very easy to use. Upon completion, employees must pass Furthermore, in-house training is still one of our pillars when a 15-question exam (randomly generated from a sample of developing our people skills and abilities. Employee communication and satisfaction Ficosa strives to foster strong and effective communication it out in 2019 are: Jandira (Brazil), Wolfenbüttel (Germany), with its employees to make sure they understand where the Morcone (Italy) and Soria (Spain). The result will be not only organization is heading and are up-to-date with key information a specific action plan adapted to each site, but also a global about the company. To do this, the company has developed analysis to deploy certain corporate actions to be implemented different channels to communicate with its employees, such worldwide if needed. as intranet, suggestion box, employee newsletter, round table meetings with plant managers, one-on-one interviews, town Furthermore, all our company sites promote and facilitate hall meetings, etc. structured labour relations through the local employee representatives bodies and/or trade unions with periodical At a local level, some sites, such as Cookeville (USA), Shelbyville meetings to discuss and follow-up different labour topics. (USA), Dabrowa Gornicza (Poland), Dieuze (France), Taicang (China), Salinas and Escobedo (Mexico), Porto (Portugal), Bursa and Gemlik (Turkey), Morcone (Italy) have introduced an employee survey in the past four years. The results are presented to the top management, including an action plan. In 2018, the Viladecavalls site has implemented a new employee satisfaction survey and we expect to deploy the same one in all sites worldwide in 2019-2020. The sites that already carried 42 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 International assignments One of our objectives as a company consists of promoting the Main local “Commitment development of our people through the creation of a dynamic and to our people” actions: attractive environment with opportunities for lateral, vertical, functional and geographical movements. In this sense, international assignments are a key part of people development at Ficosa. Employees benefit by gaining international experience, growing personally and developing professionally; Ficosa also benefits by expanding the distribution of Official measures to promote work-life knowledge and skills, increasing technical expertise and promoting a balance consistent global culture. Telecommuting (remote work) policy for R&D collective Ficosa has defined a specific International Assignments Management procedure to guarantee the application of homogeneous practices Full acceptation for part-time working within all the sites of the company. In all cases, the company guarantees requests for parents with children that employees returning to their home country will have a job position under 12 years old and shift choice with the same level as that which they had before the international Time flexibility for employees and assignment and a salary level in the home country equivalent to the subcontractors level of the last position held in the destination they are posted. Bus shuttle to connect with public transport Flexible payment options Medical and nursing service in the Workplace health promotion & main centres work-life balance Physiotherapy service for employees Same holiday periods for couples Ficosa is working to ensure that the entire workforce receives an anworking in Ficosa nual medical examination in all their countries of operation. The majority of sites have a specific healthcare program for employees. The workplace health promotion and work-life balance initiatives depend on each site and are led by the Human Resources department. The company is defining a specific programme to make sure that all Welfare campaigns (2 weeks of health: sites implement measures related to workplace health promotion, invaccinations, health talks, visits by cluding specific objectives for stress prevention. In Dieuze (France), optometrists and dentists, etc.) the members of the Health & Safety Committee and the HR departWellbeing total programme (program ment have received specific training on psychosocial risks. Every year, offered to our employees through the site conducts a survey to identify and assess psychosocial risks. psychologists specialized in emotional The results are presented to the top management and are followed intelligence, stress management, etc.) by an action plan. In Morcone (Italy), the company has conducted a specific study to identify improvements in its company’s workplace ergonomics scheme. Employee absences have a large impact on revenue and productiEmployee health program with vity. Knowing the driving factors behind employee absenteeism and wellbeing campaigns (health surveys performing employee tracking is key for Ficosa in order to prevent to promote a healthy lifestyle, eating absenteeism. All Ficosa sites monitor the factors using an integrated habits and sports practices) system to follow-up the absences by corporate managers. The main actions for its prevention are focused on improving employee habits through wellness programmes to promote healthier lifestyles. The local health and safety committees periodically evaluate Psychology service for all employees absenteeism records to implement countermeasures. Welfare campaigns (healthy lifestyle Furthermore, although Ficosa has not developed an in-house policy promotion) setting out the right of employees to disconnect from work, at a local Sport promotion level, many initiatives have been launched in an aim to respect rest time for employees and their families. C S R — R E P O R T 43 Time flexibility for employees Welfare campaigns (influenza Welfare campaigns (yoga vaccination, first aid kits) promotion) Sport promotion Women’s day celebration Sport promotion Full acceptation for part-time Time flexibility for employees Welfare campaigns (overtime restraint) working requests for parents and subcontractors Employee transportation service (bus) Teleworking Sport promotion Time flexibility for white collar employees Wellness and health promotion campaigns 44 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Commitment to health and safety Policies At Ficosa, we believe that all injuries, occupational illnesses and incidents can be prevented, and we strive for zero harm by: Complying with the laws, regulations and Ficosa Identifying, implementing, monitoring and operational policies and standards reinforcing the safe behaviour we expect in our business to eliminate unsafe acts and practices Establishing measurable OHS objectives and targets, recognizing and celebrating their achieProviding appropriate OHS training to employees vement and contractors Identifying, assessing and controlling hazards and Investigating incidents and sharing the experienimpacts, and adopting an approach that will strive ces learnt to prevent them to eliminate or reduce the risk to a residual level Guarantee participation and consultation among Informing employees, contractors, visitors and our employees, in aspects related to health and the public of these hazards and impacts safety. C S R — R E P O R T 45 Operational facilities We adopted a common approach across the company to manage certified OHSAS 18001 health & safety. In addition to strict compliance with legal regulaISO 45001* (%) tions, we implement our own Occupational Health, Safety and Environment (OHSE) policy and stringent OHS procedures that include 92% hazard identification and risk assessment, employee health control, risk control planning, chemical products management, PPE management for employees as well as contractors, etc. (*) .OHSAS 18001: 2007 Annually we review all the Policies and procedures including the certification in the process of improvement options identified during the internal and external audit migration to ISO 45001: 2018 certification processes, new requirements from our clients, as well as the best practices identified within the group. In this way, we guarantee continuous improvement in the performance of all our activities. In 2019, 92% of our operational facilities were certioperational control requirements, through the fied in accordance with OHSAS 18001:2007 or ISO creation of a specific checklist. 45001:2018 (only the site of Morocco), the international standards for Occupational Health and Safety • Simplifying the existing verification of docu(OHS). In 2019, the manufacturing plants of Chongmentary aspects compliance. qing (China) and Shenyang (China) were not OHSAS 18001 certified. Nevertheless, all operational facilities • Establishing a new scoring system by weighing have conducted an employee health & safety risk asthe two previous points. sessment and carry out internal OHS audits on a regular basis to guarantee the highest safety standards During 2019, 2 centres (Viladecavalls and Maia) were in all our operations. able to join the initiative to carry out internal audits at other plants in the group (Gemlik and Dieuze resSince 2016, the corporate quality audit “3Q3” quespectively). This experience enriches the technical tionnaire has included OHS issues regarding safe knowledge of the participating OHS teams as well behaviour and equipment safety. as the exchange of lessons learned between plants. Furthermore, the corporate OHS department is leaIn 2020, the company has planned to migrate the ding the 18001:2007 and ISO 45001:2018 internal certifications of all its plants to the ISO 45001: 2018 audits in Europe. These audits are carried out in all standard. production sites and constitute the tool to ensure compliance with homogeneous standards in the field of safety, health and the environment. For this, an internal audit checklist with more than 500 questions has been implemented, which provides an overall rating of the status of the OHSAS 18001: 2007 and ISO 45001: 2018 implementation system for each site. The goal in 2020 is to improve the checklist: • Including criteria related to working conditions that measure the level of implementation of 46 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Governance The corporate OHSE team is responsible for developing any each Ficosa manufacturing plant to share experiences and exnew OHS standards and procedures. Furthermore, the deplore common issues focusing principally on the environmenpartment is responsible for establishing a global system to tal, health and safety dimension. The forum recognized the collect the main OHS data from all countries, and ensuring efforts in OHSE management made by overseas Group comthat each subsidiary complies with the internal standards and panies and was a platform to share best practices in health procedures. Each plant has specialists in charge of implemenand safety management. In addition, a dynamics based on the ting the company’s health & safety standards and procedures. concept of “escape room” applied to safety and health was organized, in which the participants experienced the importance Plant managers are held accountable for the OHS perforof conducting a detailed incident investigation through “learmance of each plant, and all employees are expected to take ning by playing” through a game that challenged the resolution personal responsibility for their actions, and to get involved in of some unknowns using a story and different characters. improvement initiatives and developing and setting standards. Creating the right safety culture at our sites is important. It takes All the Ficosa manufacturing plants have local health and sastrong leadership and an active commitment to safe operating fety committees or employee representatives aimed at profrom our workforce. moting safety activities and sharing with management the responsibilities for implementing and monitoring Ficosa’s safety In 2019, the company held a global forum on OHSE in Vilaprogramme. decavalls that brought together all the OHSE managers from Main Risks and Challenges The main incidents that our employees may face are related with ergonomics, cuts and entrapments occurring mainly during the injection and assembly process. Key Results Target Target 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 Group ORIR 1.17 1.07 1.05 1.10 1.00 ORIR South Europe 1.87 1.64 1.47 1.56 1.40 ORIR North Europe 1.02 0.89 0.98 0.97 1.33 ORIR Asia 0.12 0.44 0.44 0.48 0.50 ORIR NAFTA 0.72 0.76 0.86 0.82 0.70 ORIR South America 2.15 0.86 0.49 1.20 0.50 The accident indicator used by Ficosa at the corporate level is the annual goals. Our corporate ORIR has been reduced year ORIR (OSHA Recordable Incidents Rate) and each production after year. Although this is encouraging, we continue to focus centre has its own annual objective, in addition to establishing our efforts on safety to reduce incidents, mostly due to ergoobjectives by country, region and group level. ORIR is a widely nomic issues, possible bumps, cuts and burns in the injection used measure in the US industry to track on-the-job injuries. or assembly process. Every month, we analyse the ORIR of The ORIR in the tables represents the number of Ficosa emeach site to track not only what types of injuries tend to be ployee injuries per 200,000 hours worked. The lower the numrecurring, but also in which production process they occur. ber, the closer we are to the objective of our Policy. This monitoring helped us to target our OHS training and action plans. In 2020, the challenging goal will be to maintain a Each Plant Manager is responsible for successfully achieving corporate ORIR below 1.00. C S R — R E P O R T 47 Variance from 2018 2019 previous year Group Injury severity rate1 0.14 0.11 -21.4% Group – Injury frequency rate2 0.53 5.26 -1.3% Number of fatalities 0 0 OHSA training (hours) 29,901 18,677 -37.5% Nº OHSA improvement actions 2,737 2,258 -17.5% (1) No. of days lost due to injuries*1,000/total number of hours worked. (2 ) Incidence of accidents with more than one day of sick leave for every 1,000,000 hours worked 2018 2019 Men Women Men Women Group Lost time severity rate(1) 0.17 0.10 0.11 0.10 Group Injury frequency rate(2) 6.63 3.67 5.90 4.48 Number of accidentes(*) 62 27 49 31 Number of professional illness 1 14 1 14 (1) Not including accidents in itinere. The company is investing in training to make employees more • Commitment: of the entire command line with safeaware of the safety and health risks associated with operaty and health. Leading by example, participation and tions. In the last year, the OHSE corporate department has communication is key to achieve excellence in safety. provided training to the local OHSE teams on the “Analysis • Attitude: improving the attitude of all our workers of the five whys”, “Tools to improve training in Health and Satowards aspects related to safety is the basis for achiefety” and “Preventive Culture in Ficosa” with the objective to ving safe behaviour. give local teams with innovative tools and / or techniques that facilitate proper performance in health and safety. In addition, • Recognition: work well done and efforts to contribute to each production centre launches an annual OHS awareness company safety must be recognized. With the recognicampaign aimed at promoting safety in the workplace. Dution, we are able to motivate employees and guarantee ring 2020, corporate training materials based on the e-learning continuous improvement towards safety excellence. methodology will be developed, mainly focused on the equipments and facilities handing over procedure. • Empowerment: the ultimate goal is to ensure that our employees are able to identify and self-correct unsafe In 2020, the launch of the Ficosa CARE program is planned. behaviours or conducts. It is a five-year plan that aims to consolidate the company’s safety culture. The plan pivots in four aspects: 48 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Local initiatives to strengthen the commitment towards health and safety Interest in people is one of the values of our company and guaranteeing their safety and health is our priority. All our plants work to strengthen a culture of safety in all our activities. World Day for Health and Safety at Work On the occasion of the celebration of World Day for Health and Safety at Work, on April 28th, Ficosa organized awareness-raising activities in most of its work centers in 12 different countries. Some of the most relevant activities are Germany OHS One Pager summarized as follows: • France: a mailbox for health and safety suggestions A One pager document is “a summary of the executive was set up where workers could deliver their proposummary” in this case of the lessons learned in health and sals. These suggestions were then discussed during safety in the last month. You can only use one page and a workshop session in which different managers, look for employees’ attention to highlight a specific messaworkers, as well as those local safety responsible ge, arousing their interest. participated. The Wilke plant (Germany) has implemented monthly OHS • Turkey: The plant organized a contest to choose the One Pager to share with the center employees the most best safety slogan among all workers. The winner of relevant OHS information. the selected slogan received a small prize. • Poland: An awareness session was held for all worPoland OHS Visual Information kers whose main topic was unsafe behavior and how System to avoid it. The Dąbrowa Górnicza (Poland) plant has created an elec• Spain (Viladecavalls): this site organized a competition tronic information system on security risks, emergency siusing the Kahoot tool. Workers competed to answer tuations and ergonomic risks to replace traditional paper as many questions correctly and in the shortest poslabels that are not easy to manage or fall or could become sible time. All questions were related to workplace lost. The new system is using a software that automatically safety procedures and rules. In this way, the basic informs the safety department about problems or incidents knowledge of worker safety was reinforced through (by email). The system is based on visual information and gaming. The winner received a detail in recognition. allows a very easy identification of the jobs where the problems have been identified. All these actions promoted the participation of workers and their involvement in the different fields of occupational safety and well-being at work. With activities such as Safety Portugal OHS awareness Day we contribute to SDG 3, Promotion of the health and well-being of our team. campaigns Two awareness campaigns have been launched, one on the risk of exposure to noise and the other on general safety regulations. Special posters were designed for these two campaigns. C S R — R E P O R T 49 Commitment to enviroment Policies The increasing global population and the product design to acquiring raw materials rapid growth of the world economy have and manufacturing, and the use and complex and diverse connections with disposal of our products. the global environment. They also affect the environment in numerous ways. At In addition to strict compliance with Ficosa, we are committed to bringing legal regulations, we implement our and offering safer, more connected and own OHSEQ1 policy, which ensures efficient systems for the automotive and environment protection, energy efficiency, mobility sectors, and to reducing our the mitigation and adaptation to climate environmental impact as we do so. Our change, and a responsible resources commitment to the environment extends and waste management. to our whole activity cycle from R&D (1) Please see Appendix 1 50 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 100% Operational facilities certified ISO 14001 (%) The Group’s commitment to environmental been introduced to perform the internal Environment and Development’ in order protection remains clearly demonstrated in environmental audits. The checklist has to prevent environmental degradation. our activities through the implementation more than 500 scored questions (245 Applying the Precautionary Principle of an integrated management system related to Environment) and gives a global help us to reduce or avoid negative in the different sites where the company scoring of the ISO 14001 implementation impacts on the environment. In order to operates. Ficosa’s environmental system status for each site. The goal in avoid environmental damage that could management model is based on the 2020 is to improve the checklist: be caused by the acquisition of new international ISO 14001:2015 standard. products and / or processes, and in order In 2019, the manufacturing plants in • Including criteria related to working to determine effective actions to counter Shenyang (China) and Rabat (Morocco) conditions that measure the level of any damage, Ficosa has established obtained this certification. implementation of operational control different internal procedures in relation requirements, through the creation of to the purchase of chemical products, Since 2016, the corporate quality audit a specific checklist. purchase of productive and non“3Q3” questionnaire has included productive equipment, and the purchase environmental questions regarding waste • Simplifying the existing verification of new industrial facilities. All the company disposal, waste storage, environmental of compliance with documentary investments include the corporate OHSE emergency means, prevention of spills, aspects. department verification and approval. industrial hygienic protection of equipment and machines, etc. In 2017, the corporate • Establishing a new scoring system by These procedures are aimed at evaluating, OHSE department implemented a new weighing the two above points. in advance, any environmental impacts methodology for all plants in order to that may occur due to the purchases identify the main environmental risks During 2019, 2 centres (Viladecavalls mentioned above in order to be able and opportunities related to Ficosa’s and Maia) were able to join the initiative to authorize or reject acquisitions. In environmental aspects, compliance with to carry out internal audits at other the case of authorization, a series of obligations and other issues. In 2019, plants in the group (Gemlik and Dieuze preventive measures are determined, the corporate environmental department respectively). This experience enriches the implemented and monitored, ensuring a reinforced the OHSE internal audit technical knowledge of the participating final effectiveness check. governance and procedure by making sure environmental teams, as well as the that all operational facilities are following the exchange of lessons learned between same standard for ISO 14001, OHSAS plants. 18001 and ISO 45001:2018. The corporate department leads and performs Ficosa applies the precautionary approach the ISO 14001 internal audits in Europe. introduced by the United Nations in Accordingly, an internal audit checklist has Principle 15 of ‘The Rio Declaration on C S R — R E P O R T 51 Governance The corporate OHSE team is responsible for developing any In compliance with current Spanish legislation, it is reported that new environmental standards and procedures. Furthermore, the the costs incurred in the acquisition of systems, equipment and department is responsible for establishing a global system for facilities whose purpose is the elimination, limitation or control of collecting the main environmental data from all the countries and the possible impacts that the normal development of the comensuring that each subsidiary complies with the internal stanpany’s activity could cause on the environment, these amounts dards and procedures. Each plant has managers or technicians are considered investments in fixed assets. In 2019, investin charge of implementing the company’s environmental instrucments amounting up to 0.5 million euros have been made. In tions and systems. the previous year, the Group made investments amounting to 0.9 million euros. In January 2019, the company held the second OHSE worldwide meeting organized at the Viladecavalls (Spain) facilities, attenThe rest of the expenses related to the environment, other than ded by all the technicians from all company sites. This meeting those incurred for the acquisition of fixed assets, have been reserved to present the strategic lines and objectives for the year corded in the consolidated income statement. In 2019, expenas well as providing the opportunity for the plants to present their ses of 1,630 thousand euros were incurred. In the previous year, best practices implemented and share their concerns with the expenses amounted 1,622 thousand euros for this concept. aim of benchmarking and improving. In addition, it had the participation of an external company specialized in energy efficiency projects that made proposals to achieve a reduction in energy consumption in plants. Main Risks and Main Challenges At Ficosa, our activities are carried out paying special attenour energy efficiency activities and waste management. At the tion to protect the environment and to ensure the efficient use same time, we are working on reducing our volatile organic of natural resources. Each manufacturing plant evaluates and compound emissions. maps its environmental impacts every year. The painting and injection processes account for the largest share of environSince 2016, all manufacturing plants have implemented indivimental impact during the manufacture of Ficosa products in dual reduction targets to reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) terms of air pollution, energy consumption and waste generaemissions, electric and water consumption and waste generation. The paint shop is a manufacturing area that raises concern tion, and specific action plans to achieve them. These targets because of its Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions. follow the corporate guidelines and from 2018 (base year), Furthermore, the injection process is a large energy consumer under the strategic line “Climate Change Mitigation”, a midand contributes actively to carbon dioxide emissions (CO2). term goal have been set: to Reduce Ficosa CFP and Energy consumption (target year 2023) based on the historical annual In this context, the technology used in the paint application reduction goal trend. and injection machines must meet high quality standards, remain cost efficient, and also be environmentally responsiFurthermore, each plant establishes its own objectives based ble. In 2019, our main activities were centred on reducing our on the significant environmental aspects detected in the enviCO2 emissions in our value chain, particularly by improving ronmental impact assessment. Key results Reducing local pollution A current challenge is to reduce volatile organic compounds In Taicang (China), Cookeville (USA), Soria (Spain) and Da(VOCs), which readily evaporate and produce gas in the atbrowa Gornicza (Poland), the company installed a catalytic mosphere. VOCs are carbon-based materials that can be burner (RTO – Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) to reduce the toxic and create adverse health and environmental impacts. volatile organic compounds (VOC) present in the paint shops. The company has implemented different systems and control The RTO destroys VOC emissions by creating a chemical restandards in its manufacturing plants with painting process to action within the air pollutant and oxygen at elevated temperamonitor and reduce the amount of air pollutants emitted during tures. This reaction destroys VOC emissions in the airstream their operation. by converting them to gas, water and heat. The heat is recycled and used in processes carried out at the plant. This 52 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 enables the plant to reduce its consumption of natural gas Potential (GWP). These refrigerants are mandatory in all related needed for heating. Thanks to the RTOs, VOC emissions have investments. dropped by 92-95%. Furthermore, the company is working on several initiatives to From 2018, the CFP analysis has included the air conditioning optimize the transportation and distribution of purchased proand emissions from climatic chamber refrigerants in order to ducts or products sold by the company: monitor and prevent any leakage. Ficosa advocates the use of refrigerant gases with zero ozone depletion potential and fully supports the use of refrigerants with lower Global Warming 01 04 Consolidation of shipping containers: The Group’s inter-company sales seek Shipments to the USA from Barcelona are to optimize routes between production consolidated in the port and no shipment plants, delivering at an agreed point is made until the container is full. Ficosa where the other Ficosa plant has a has a similar initiative in Mexico and China. regular route. In China containers also have to be full before sending them to the manufacturing plants of Viladecavalls and Soria (Spain). 02 05 The manufacturing plants of Dabrowa From 2018, the freight transportation Gornicza (Poland) and Rabat (Morocco), emissions have been monitored to be import their moulds from Asian suppliers included in the scope 3 of CFP. through containers by train. 03 Most Ficosa manufacturing plants have implemented a milk run delivery method. Instead of each supplier sending a vehicle every week to meet Ficosa’s needs, one vehicle visits each supplier on a weekly basis and picks up the purchased products for Ficosa. This way, each vehicle load delivers Ficosa’s full weekly requirements from each supplier, minimizing the kilometres and the associated logistics. Addressing Climate Change Since 2016, we have defined guidelines to reduce our Targets initiative) has developed a publicly available Excel greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions annually at site levels. Each tool to calculate science-based corporate scope 1 and 2 site has to reduce its GHG emission intensity by 3%. Each emission targets. This tool uses the Sectoral De-carbonization plant manager is responsible for successfully achieving this Approach (SDA). The SDA tool calculates emission reduction goal. In 2018, the company worked to improve the gathering targets based on the relative contribution of the company to and consolidation of carbon footprint data, by implementing a the total sector activity and their carbon intensity in relation more robust internal tool to ensure that each operational facility to the sector’s intensity in the base year. This is in line reports the data in accordance with the Ficosa standards and with IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) criteria. The tool has enabled the company to increase its recommendations and provides companies a benchmark from reporting on GHG emissions throughout its value chain and which to develop long-term climate targets up to 2050. products. Additionally, Ficosa has worked on reducing GHG emissions based on the SBTi methodology. The SBTi (Science Based C S R — R E P O R T 53 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by type of source Since 2014, we have been conducting an inventory of our GHG emissions, using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Since 2018, we completed our GHG inventory with the relevant categories for our company (through size, influence and reporting availability assessment). Variance from (In t of CO²e) 2018 2019 previous year Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 12,033 12,070 0.3% From refrigerant and other 1,019 1,662 63.1% From fossil fuels 11,005 10,365 -5.8% From owned vehicles 10 43 330.0% Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions Location-based emissions from electricity consumption2 61,081 53,769 -12.0% Market-based emissions from electricity consumption2 51,168 44,468 -13.1% Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions Waste generated in operation3 1,117 1,038 -7.1% Total GHG emissions1 Total market-based GHG emissions 63,201 56,538 -10.5% Total location-based GHG emissions 73,114 65,839 -10.0% Total location-based GHG emissions per sales (tCO2e/MEUR) 61.8 58 -6.1% 1 Total emissions are based on actual data. The most appropriate emission factors have been used for each type of activity data, from internationally recognized sources (GHG protocol, IPPC AR5) and regional or, if more relevant, from country-specific sources (MAGRAMA, US EPA, DEFRA). 2 For the location-base emissions of electricity consumption, the emission factors of the International Energy Agency 2017 were used for the countries where Ficosa operates. For the emissions of electricity consumption market-based, the emission factors of the International Energy Agency 2017 were used, with the exception of the data reported for the plants in Spain, since they have guarantees of origin (GDO), which prove that all the energy used comes from renewable sources. 3 This category includes emission from disposal treatment of the following solid waste that goes to the landfill: Asbestos, wood, glass, clothing, mixed municipal waste, organic waste, waste electrical / electronic equipment, batteries, metals, plastics and paper. This category also includes the emissions from the disposal of wastewater. 54 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by region South North South (In t of CO²e) Nafta Asia Europe Europe America Total location-based GHG emissions (Scope 1&2) 21,584.8 16,628.2 18,163.1 9,095.7 367.0 Total market-based GHG emissions (Scope 1&2) 12,283.6 16,628.2 18,163.1 9,095.7 367.0 Scope 1, direct GHG emissions 3,933.8 2,561.5 4,568.9 878.3 127.1 From refrigerant and other 337.9 251.8 590.1 367.2 114.9 From fossil fuels 3,583.7 2,307.7 3,950.9 510.5 12.2 From owned vehicles 12.2 2.0 27.9 0.6 0.0 Scope 2, indirect GHG emissions Location-based emissions from electricity 17,651.0 14,066.7 13,594.2 8,217.4 239.9 consumption Market-based emissions from electricity 8,349.8 14,066.7 13,594.2 8,217.4 239.9 consumption Scope 3, other indirect GHG emissions From waste management 492.4 135.8 331.7 28.7 49.4 Each site has to reduce its location-based GHG emission per sales by 3% annually. Reporting CDP CDP Global is an international non-profit organization made up tion to reach higher levels. This enables companies to move of CDP Worldwide Group and CDP North America, Inc. CDP towards environmental management through benchmarking has regional offices and local partners in more than 50 counand comparison with their peers, in order to continually improve tries. Currently, companies, cities, states, and regions in more their climate governance. than 90 countries report through CDP annually. Ficosa subscribes to this initiative. During the 2019 evaluation, CDP Global’s vision and mission is to aspire to see a prospeFicosa received a B, which is in the Management band. This rous economy that works for people and the planet in the long result is higher than the regional average for Europe, which is term. CDP Global focuses investors, companies and cities in C, and the same as the average for the Powered Machinery taking steps to build a truly sustainable economy by measuring sector, which is B. and understanding its environmental impact. The CDP valuation report enables companies to understand their scoreboard and indicate which categories require attenC S R — R E P O R T 55 Energy efficiency and renewable energy Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in Ficosa is mainly To do this, the different sites organize regular employee meeabout reducing energy consumption. In this regard, the comtings and energy awareness campaigns. In its manufacturing pany is committed to mitigating its impact on climate change by process, Ficosa engages in a variety of energy saving activities defining a solid energy strategy based on energy efficiency, the to reach the lowest energy consumption by introducing highly increased use of renewable energy, and process optimization. efficient equipment, improving manufacturing techniques and adopting energy saving lighting or sensors with presence deIn 2017, the OHSE policy was updated to include each emplotectors. yee’s responsibility for the company’s energy saving strategy. Variance from 2017 2018 2019 previous year Electricity consumption (MWh) 129,503 133,491 127,299 -4.6% Electricity from renewables in Spain (MWh) 33,851 33,997 32,296 -5.0% Electricity consumption in kWh per sales (kWh/MEUR) 109.0 112.7 112.2 -0.4% (1) (1) Total electricity consumption in absolute value has been reduced compared to last year, this reduction could be transferred to the sales indicator, but the reduction objective could not be achieved due to the inertias generated by a sudden drop in Sales mainly in China, the world’s leading automobile market. The trade war between the USA and China, the new emission regulations, the possibility that another economic crisis will reoccur in the short term is also affecting, generating uncertainty among consumers and the withdrawal of subsidies and aids for the purchase of hybrid, electric and / or Hydrogen in this Asian country was a determining factor. The increased use of renewable energy is critical to the transiThe market situation, with sales drops, made it difficult for our tion to a low-carbon economy. The company is striving to reduplants to achieve their annual reduction targets. The overall asce emissions by using renewable energy. From March 2016, sessment is positive given that a reduction in energy intensity 100% of the electricity in Spain sites (Viladecavalls, Soria and was achieved. Sant Guim) has come from renewable sources or high-efficiency cogeneration. Furthermore, the manufacturing plant of WolThe new reduction target for 2020 has been set individually for fenbüttel (Germany) and the plant of Dieuze (France) buy energy each plant, based on the trend observed in energy consumption that comes from renewable sources. These initiatives make it in the last two years and the actions implemented in previous possible to place electricity consumption from renewable souryears. The reduction targets are in a range of -0.5% to -2.5%. ces across the Group at 31%. During 2020, a “White Paper” will be published with organizatioAt the end of 2017, the manufacturing plant in Taicang (China) nal measures aimed at improving energy efficiency in plants and set up 6,160 solar panels on its roof with an expected annual periodic monitoring of the results obtained will be carried out. generation of 275Wh per panel. This action has helped the company to actively contribute to the mitigation of climate chanMost of Ficosa’s production processes run on electricity, in adge in addition to reducing grid electricity consumption by 1.58 dition, various plants use natural gas for general uses not assoGWh during 2019. ciated with production, with a consumption of 36,684.85 MWh in 2019. Each plant had to reduce its energy intensity by 2.5% in 2019. ISO 50001 in Ficosa Brazil Ficosa do Brasil is the first plant in the group to obtain the ISO By implementing the ISO 50001 requirements, the Brazilian plant 50001 – Energy Management certification. Using energy efficiently mapped all their processes and obtained a diagnosis of their helps organizations save money as well as helping to preserve energy consumption. The Energy Management System (EMS) resources and tackle climate change. ISO 50001 supports Ficosa was able to recognise the global energy consumption and the do Brasil to use energy more efficiently through the development main energy sources contributing to CO2 emissions. of an energy management system. 56 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Based on this mapping, the management team identified • Air conditioning: Replacement of air conditioners by inverter significant energy uses and opportunities to improve the energy system, and implementation of operational control to performance of the processes involved. After finalizing the energy establish operating temperature limits; consumption diagnosis, Ficosa do Brasil defined the objectives and targets to reduce energy consumption and improve its • Plastic Injection: Replacement of four plastic injection carbon footprint, gathering elements to identify opportunities and machines with high-performance machines with improvement actions to add into their integrated management embedded frequency inverters; new replacements under system and strategic planning. Such actions contributed to their study. energy performance improvement. • Awareness: Awareness campaigns and communication Following these measures, the Brazilian plant expects to be able programs by Ficosa do Brasil for its employees. to calculate and report their work in terms of energy efficiency and implement specific actions to reduce energy consumption. • Installation of temperature thermostats in the climate systems to improve operational control. As a result, the main projects in 2018/2019 were: • Utilities: Air compressor installation and high performance dehumidifiers; • Lighting: Replacement of fluorescent lamps and mercury vapour with LEDs, providing up to 80% energy savings; Installation of presence detectors in the pedestrian corridors and in the car park. Water management Most Ficosa manufacturing plants do not use water for industrial The Ficosa plants in Soria (Spain), Taicang (China), Bursa (Turprocesses. Nevertheless, all the plants have to reduce their wakey) and Salinas (Mexico) with painting installations are distilling ter consumption intensity (m3/net sales) by 3%. Around 30% of used paint in order to obtain pure solvent, which can be used the manufacturing plants use water in cooling towers or for the as a cleaning agent. In Viladecavalls (Spain), 38% of the water is painting process. In most cases, the manufacturing plants are reused. In Dieuze (France), the manufacturing plant implemenusing closed cooling systems. The company is committed to ted a new oil collector to reduce the treatment of wastewater employing new technology to reduce its water consumption and coming from the compressor. increase the amount of recycled water in the painting process. In Poland, the manufacturing plant implemented a new leakage World Water Day is celebrated annually on March 22 as a monitoring water system that enables the plant to measure the means of drawing attention to the importance of fresh water and water consumption in each section and identify any leak that advocating for sustainable management of water resources. In may occur at the site. In Bursa (Turkey), the manufacturing plant this direction, the Turkish Gemlik plant carried out an awareness decreased its water consumption in the paint shop by eliminacampaign that same day of 2019, stressing the importance of ting the water curtain and using a new dry filter painting system making good use of water. Variance from 2017 2018 2019 previous year Water consumption in m3 237,838 245,632 229,217 -6.7% Water consumption in m3 per sales (m3/MEUR) 200.0 207.5 202.0 -2.7% These actions implemented in recent years, together with awareness campaigns on the good use of water, have allowed us to achieve a significant improvement, close to -3%, of the ratio of intensity of water consumption in 2019 C S R — R E P O R T 57 Waste management During 2018, the waste reporting systems have been improved to comply with the GHG Protocol. The plants report the tons of waste that go to landfill (waste that is not recycled or reused) and the total waste generated at the different sites, in this way, the waste recovery ratio is monitored, consisting of identifying the % of waste that does not go to the landfill and that receives other types of treatment, including recycling, reuse and energy recovery. Variance from 2018 2019 previous year Total waste generated in tonnes 11,741 11,031 -6.0% Total waste generated in tonnes per sales (Tm/MEur) 9.9 9.7 -2.0% Waste recovery ratio (%) 83.90% 84.50% 0.7% Ficosa plants have different waste containers in all areas (production and otherwise) in order to collect waste by type and character, facilitating specific future treatment. Ficosa is working in all its operational facilities to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and to reduce the amounts of these substances emitted from its plants. Furthermore, all the manufacturing plants organized awareness campaigns for workers aimed at reducing packaging waste and sorting at source. Ficosa considers that the involvement of its employees is essential to reducing waste generation. Waste recovery ratio (%) by sites Variance from In order to increase the percentage of Ficosa 2018 2019 previous year recyclability, a 2019 individual plant recyclabiMorcone (Italy) 100% 100% 0.0% lity objective has been established based on the table below. The target depends on the Dabrowa (Poland) 100% 99% -1.0% previous year result. Bursa (Turkey) 97% 96% -1.0% Gemlik (Turkey) 95% 95% 0.0% 2018 Target 2019 Result (% of improvement) Maia (Portugal) 97% 95% -2.1% 0 50% 9.0% Viladecavalls (Spain) 93% 94% 1.1% 50-90% 5.0% Wofenbüttel (Germany) 90% 93% 3.3% 90-99% 1.0% Taicang (China) 77% 90% 16.9% Cookeville (USA) 81% 83% 2.5% >99% 0.01% Rabat (Morocco) 0% 76% Escobedo & Salinas (México) 76% 76% 0.0% Sao Paulo (Brazil) 61% 76% 24.6% Dieuze (France) 74% 74% 0.0% Sant Guim (Spain) 79% 71% -10.1% Soria (Spain) 61% 63% 3.3% Shelbyville (USA) 45% 51% 13.3% 58 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Local initiatives to protect the environment The Group’s subsidiaries have managed various initiatives in 2019 to raise awareness and promote the commitment of their employees towards the environment. The main initiatives are: Turkey and Poland World Environment Day These two countries took advantage of the World Environment Day celebration (June 5th), promoted by the United Nations, to carry out a cleaning activity around the plant with volunteer employees. At the end of the activity, all participants received a cloth bag to avoid single-use plastic bags. Viladecavalls Let’s Clean Up Europe! Every year, millions of tons of garbage are dropped in the ocean, beaches, forests, nature in general. The main causes for this to occur are, on one hand, the unsustainable patterns of consumption and production present in society today, low-quality waste management strategies and the lack of awareness among the population. To reduce the amount of garbage in nature and give visibility to this issue, the EWWR annually coordinates a day of cleaning public spaces at European level. Employees of the Viladecavalls centre (Spain) joined this annual initiative on May 11th, participating in a couple of modalities such as: • Volunteers cleaning a section of our coast • Cleaning volunteers + 5 km from the ULTRA CLEAN MARATHON Dieuze Installation of LED panels The Dieuze plant in France replaced the luminaires in the Technical Centre area and the Blow production area with LED panels, improving the quality of employees’ vision and consuming five times less KWh. C S R — R E P O R T 59 Viladecavalls OH MY GOT! Campaign Our headquarters, located in Viladecavalls (Spain), had almost 1,600 workers. The annual consumption of this workplace of plastic cups used in water sources and mainly in coffee machines, was more than 700,000 units in 2018. Aware of the great problem posed by single-use plastic, Ficosa has implemented the following actions at its headquarters: • All workers at the company’s headquarters, including production personnel, have received a reusable cup made of bamboo fibre; a biodegradable and more environmentally friendly material. The slogan chosen for the glass is: Ficosa, committed to Environment. • All available plastic cups next to the water fountains have been removed. • The “no glass” option has been set up in all the coffee machines in the centre. • A communication campaign on the use of the glass and its benefits has been carried out. With these measures, we achieve a dual purpose: on the one hand, we eliminate unnecessary plastic consumption and, on the other, we reduce the waste generated by more than 1.7 tons each year, thus helping to reduce the company’s carbon footprint. The investment made in the purchase of reusable cups is recovered in just over a year thanks to savings in the purchase of plastic cups and in the management of the waste generated. This initiative was published in COMparte, the new platform of good practices in sustainability of the Spanish Network of the United Nations Global Compact. Cookeville Non Disposable Coffee Cups Ficosa Cookeville (USA) staff and visitors used polystyrene foam cups for coffee in the offices. The disposal of these used vessels caused an increase in the amount of waste sent to the landfill and in the costs associated with its purchase. To reduce this impact on the environment, in 2019 office staff have received non-disposable cups of coffee to eliminate this waste. Jandira Award for good environmental sustainability practices in industry In June 2019, Ficosa do Brasil received a recognition award for adopting good environmental sustainability practices among the industries served by CIESP in the municipalities of Barueri, Carapicuiba, Itapevi, Jandira, Osasco, Pirapora do Bom Jesus and Santana de Parnaiba. CIESP Industry Centre of the State of São Paulo. 60 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Responsible sourcing C S R — R E P O R T 61 Policies Ficosa works with two types of suppliers: GHS (Classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures) and the Dodd-Frank• Productive Suppliers: suppliers that Act relating to Conflict Minerals (gold, tin, tantalum are essential to the performance of and tungsten sourced from conflictive regions as the company’s operations. Ficosa’s the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjacent purchases are oriented towards a countries); labour laws in general, working hours specialization in product families, which and employment conditions, workers’ rights, are divided into three large areas: Electrics employment benefits, subcontractor selection, and Electronics (Batteries, connectors, safety of vehicles and installations, etc. semiconductors, PCB, glass mirrors, pumps, etc.), Chemicals (painted parts, In addition to all applicable laws and regulations chromed parts, blow moulding, etc.) and to be observed by the suppliers, it is also their Metals Commodity (zamak, aluminium obligation to respect social responsibilities parts, tubes, wire rope, etc.). and duties, especially, but not limited to, the requirements based on the Universal Declaration • Indirect Suppliers: Suppliers that supply of Human Rights and the International Labour products and services of a general nature, Organization (ILO) conventions for the respect for not directly related to the business, such employees’ rights, age and working hour limits, as office materials, paper, computer etc. consumables, maintenance, suppliers, travel, training, temporary employment At the beginning of 2019, the general purchasing agencies, consulting, legal services, conditions were updated to include a business insurance, investment, etc. ethics and anti-corruption provision requiring suppliers to act in accordance with the highest Our production processes demand the standards of integrity and ethical conduct, in achievement of optimum quality and service compliance with current laws, and to follow all levels, as well as competitive prices when buying relevant regulations and standards, particularly the materials used to supply our production line. with regards to local and international antiIn this context, the company has developed corruption law, in addition to Ficosa’s Code of its own standards and quality processed that Ethics. regulate the company’s purchasing activity. Furthermore, the company has developed a The Ficosa Purchasing Policy and Procedures Supplier Quality Manual that details the main and the segregation of duties ensure compliance procedures and systems used for supplier with J-SOX and with all applicable laws. selection, business assignment, component Additionally, the General Purchasing Conditions approval, performance follow up and supplier establish the relationship between Ficosa and development. The supplier quality manual its suppliers. The purchase orders sent to specifies that all suppliers wishing to be included suppliers by any Ficosa company or any of its in the Ficosa Supplier Panel should base their subsidiaries or affiliates have to be accepted in code of conduct on the ten principles of the United accordance with these terms and conditions. Nations (Global Compact) in the areas of human The Supplier and any products or services rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. supplied by them must comply with all laws and This manual is available on Ficosa’s website. regulations applicable to the destination countries where the product is going to be produced and/ Lastly, the company has developed other or used, or related to the production, labelling, standards and procedures in order to improve transportation, importation, exportation, approval the communication and simplify processes for and certification of products or services. This better logistics. includes, but is not limited to, those related to the environmental issues directive set out in the ELV, REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), CLP/ 62 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Governance Main risks and challenges The Corporate Team consists of the Purchasing Director, Our production processes demand optimum quality and service Commodities and Project Managers, as well as support and levels, as well as competitive prices, and continuous assurance consultancy teams such as Quality, Human Resources, of the responsible sourcing of our supply chain. Logistics, and Control functions who coordinate all purchasing activities worldwide. Every country has a Local Purchasing team The supplier selection process is key to guaranteeing the quality led by a LPD (Local Purchasing Director), who is managed levels and the sustainability of our supply chain, and is focused by both the Purchasing and Regional Directors. The LPD on working together with our suppliers to attain the highest coordinates the country’s purchasing functions (Commodity standards in business integrity and social and environmental Buyers, Purchasing Project Leaders, and STAs). performance. Ensuring that Ficosa is using conflict-free minerals is also essential to our organization and our customers. Key results To become a Ficosa Supplier it is compulsory to have the ISO/TS IATF 16949 certification. All the suppliers must provide Ficosa with written evidence of the most recent certification renewal. Ficosa specially appreciates and promotes IATF 16949, OSHAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications from their suppliers. Variance from 2017 2018 2019 previous year Suppliers certified ISO 9001 (%) 100% 100% 100% 0% Suppliers certified ISO/TS 16949 (%) 49% 61% 67% 9.8% In addition, any new supplier must fulfil a specific company selfpractices in the field of Occupational Health and Safety and assessment and be approved by the Ficosa audit process. respect for the Environment. This section of the audit ends with The aim here is to examine the supplier’s suitability to provide the identification of the degree of requirement of these same throughout the term established by using specific indicators concepts to the sub-suppliers or value chain. This new section is including financial and quality criteria as well as general corporate part of the supplier’s final score, a score that implies, depending aspects. on the value obtained, corrective action plans, proposals for specific improvements or recognition of the good work carried Ficosa regularly monitors the performance of its suppliers and out by the supplier. evaluates them to confirm its performance versus the defined targets. These assessments enable the company to track Ficosa has developed an internet platform for suppliers called improvements in its suppliers and determine the potential FPSS (Ficosa Purchasing System Software) that is used for the support they may need from Ficosa. In 2019, the supplier different purchasing Processes: Supplier Registration, Offers, audit (known as 3Q3) was revised with a new specific section Assignments, Quality and Service incidents management and on CSR, including questions on compliance with the REACH Suppliers Development. Authorization regulation, conflict minerals, reporting with the IMDS system, the commitment to compliance and adherence The platform includes all the relevant documents from each to the principles of the Ficosa’s Code of Ethics and to good supplier (REACH declaration, conflict minerals declaration, C S R — R E P O R T 63 certifications, etc.). This platform is a quick, preferential, and clear shipped through returnable packing to our customers. communication channel linked to the Purchasing Department, These initiatives also come from Ficosa. As an example, our allowing Ficosa to manage the purchases of all materials. All the Morcone plant in Italy implemented a new packaging in 2018 productive suppliers must be registered in the FPSS and the to reduce CO2 emissions by more than 75% compared to the company expects to increase the scope and include the indirect previous system. This initiative strengthens our commitment to suppliers too. sustainability and was launched by us thanks to our involvement in “CONAI” (private non-profit consortium which in Italy is the On the other hand, Ficosa customers (OEMs) encourage and instrument through which producers and packaging users support the use of sustainable, renewable natural resources guarantee the recycling and recovery targets for packaging while reducing waste and increasing reuse and recycling. waste set by law). Accordingly, the raw materials used by Ficosa, follows the customer technical requirements or belongs to their certified material list. To promote reuse, most automotive parts are Conflict Minerals In recent years, there has been an increasing international focus Ficosa launched a process to identify the processes or purchased on “conflict minerals” emanating from mining operations in the parts or components that use mica. Natural mica was found Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. only in paints, but it came from reliable sources that had already Armed groups engaged in mining operations in this region are implemented a number of supervisory mechanisms in previous believed to subject workers and indigenous people to serious years (monitoring, audits, inspections, etc.). These providers human rights abuses and are using proceeds from the sale of confirm that they take these matters very seriously. Most of conflict minerals to finance regional conflicts. them are members of the “Responsible Mica Initiative” (RMI) that was formed in Paris on January 31, 2017 with the aim of On August 22, 2012, in response to these concerns, the US sharing resources to implement responsible supply practices and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted a final eradicate child labour, improving the livelihood of communities rule to implement reporting and disclosure requirements related within the supply chain in India in the next 5 years. to “conflict minerals”. The “conflict minerals” are cassiterite (tin), columbite-tantalite (coltan), gold and wolframite (tungsten), as well as their derivatives and other minerals that the US Secretary of State may designate in the future (Dodd–Frank Section 1502). 2017 2018 2019 Variance from previous year Tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG) are used in some vehicle parts and components made by Ficosa, such as circuit boards % of suppliers and or heater terminals. We enforce due diligence to investigate the materials for which 100% 100% 100% 0% origin of the conflict minerals in our products. Our goal is to work conflict mineral with DRC conflict-free suppliers. Accordingly, Ficosa implemented information is available an annual supplier’s inquiry and collect, from all its suppliers, the Standard Survey (EICC/Gesi template) on conflict minerals. The collected information is internally processed and provides useful information to monitor suppliers and report to clients about the company’s use of minerals for each plant. In the last year 2019, there has been a growing international focus on another mineral called mica. Mainly from Madagascar and India, where a variety of factors contribute to poor working conditions, including the use of child labour. Mica is used in various applications in the automotive supply chain. In paints and coatings, mica creates a pearly visual effect. Vehicle bumper plastics, mirror housings and insulating materials use mica as filler. 64 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Commitment to society C S R — R E P O R T 65 Visits to the factory Every year, the manufacturing plants in Dieuze (France), Salinas and Escobedo (Mexico), Dabrowa (Poland), Cookeville (USA), Taicang (China), Gemlik and Bursa (Turkey), Maia (Portugal), Soria and Viladecavalls (Spain) organize factory visits for students, employee family members, and local businesses to explain the main characteristics of the production process. These visits enable the company to attract new members and demonstrate the strength of their manufacturing capabilities. Ficosa and the Polytechnic FICOSA/UPC Course on Automotive Embedded Systems University of Catalonia (UPC) In collaboration with the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), Ficosa has designed the Automotive Embedded Systems course addressed to Master’s students in Telecommunications Engineering. After detecting the need to offer a specialization to all those engineers interested in the development of electronic communications systems for the automotive sector, Ficosa, the UPC and CARNET (academic-industrial consortium to support new mobility) created and launched the first pilot test of this training course at the beginning of 2018. Due to the great success of the first edition, the UPC has decided to include this course again in its new academic programme for 2019 and 2020. Ficosa, whose specialists will teach part of this course, offers both the possibility of receiving a scholarship to study this course, as well as the opportunity to join the company once the course has finished. In this way, the company strengthens its links with the university and fulfils the objective of training and attracting new talent in electronics, communications and telematics for the automotive industry, a key field for the car and the mobility of the future. 66 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Ficosa social initiatives worldwide Each decentralized location is responsible for Soria: organizing its own charity projects, donations Partnership and collaborations with entities who promote and other social initiatives. The social initiatives employment for disabled people (Asamis, Ilunion), National depend on the site-specific challenge and Association against cancer (AECC) are led by the local Human Resources Sponsorship of sports activities department. Blood donation campaigns Examples of Ficosa social initiatives in locations Collaboration with correctional institutions for fostering the where the company operates: rehabilitation of prisoners Viladecavalls: Blood donation campaigns Partnership and collaborations with entities who promote the employment for disabled people (Friends Specialisterne) Volunteering programme with local community Collaboration with the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation (Mulla’t organizations (Habitat for Humanity) and cultural events) Food and cleaning supplies drive Financial donations to social entities (Jambakasala and Farm and warehouse distribution centre collaboration Catalan Association of Fragile X Syndrome) through a profit for disadvantaged citizens sharing vending machines agreement Collaboration with a local symphony orchestra (Orquestra Soup kitchen for the homeless Sinfònica del Vallès) to promote and foster musical culture. Adopting a family for Christmas Participation in the European campaign Let’s clean up Walk for kidney disease Europe! Adopt a road Programme Participation in local initiatives of entrepreneurship and working life with visits by high school students to our centre Donation for toys for children from low-income families Sponsorship of the e-Tech Racing Team made up of 32 students from the EEBE (Escola d’Enginyeria de Barcelona Est), from the Polytechnic University of Catalonia (UPC) who compete in the international Formula Student competitions. Collaboration with the Fupar Foundation in the celebration of Saint Jorge day Donation of toys for children from low income families Collaboration with the Red Cross Visits to nursing homes Programme “Adopt a tree” to promote reforestation Small citizen programme (training programme for elementary students) Donation of school benches to local elementary school Blood donation campaigns Participation and collaboration with entities that promote the employment of people with disabilities C S R — R E P O R T 67 In-kind and financial donations for several institutions and In-kind and financial donations to several institutions, local events (Noble Parcel charity at Christmas, local such as the Holy House of Mercy of Maia (delivery of elementary school, local special education centre and basic food for families with few resources) kindergarten Sponsorship of sports activities Collaboration with Silesia University of Technology in dual studies, annually several students carry out 6-month internships in our company Sponsorship of sports activities Donation to children’s villages Donations (books and toys) in collaboration with Kalder Various actions aimed at combating Soil Erosion and promoting Reforestation and Protection of Natural Habitats Collaborations with local universities and schools, attending employment forums and allowing various students to carry out their final end-of-studies practices in our company. Sponsorship of sports activities Regarding association or sponsorship actions, it should be noted that Ficosa is a member of the Spanish Association of Automotive Suppliers (Sernauto). 68 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Innovation in our products C S R — R E P O R T 69 Ficosa’s vision of innovation is based on our commitment to the most advanced technology. In this regard, the company invests in the research and development of products and solutions based on the fields of connectivity, safety and efficiency to maintain its position of leadership and anticipate the needs of the mobility industry. The company is now a technological partner of a vast majority of automotive companies from all over the world and seeks new ways to bring about further optimization and contribute to sustainable mobility. 69 70 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 R&D Capabilities Our great dedication to innovation and a clearly global focus, has Capabilities enabled us to create a solid network of R&D centres in Europe, North America, South America and Asia. These are divided Our strong commitment to innovation has also into centres of expertise focused on specific product families – resulted in high added value job creation. Ficosa technologies and local engineering centres closely located to our has an excellent and experienced team of main customers’ design centres. engineering talent on board to face the company’s new challenges. The total number of engineers The Technology Centre in Viladecavalls (Spain) acts as the devoted to R&D was close to a thousand in 2019. driving force for the group’s global research efforts and fuels the 14 development centres we have around the world. This facility is a benchmark in electronics, SW development and electro-mechanics technology for developing new solutions in safety, connectivity and energy efficiency as well as world class testing and prototyping laboratories. C S R — R E P O R T 71 Partnerships R&D Expenditure (thousand €) We also collaborate, both nationally and internationally, In 2019, Ficosa spent more than €97 million in R&D to provide with other companies, engineering firms, universities its clients with the most innovative solutions that anticipate the and technical centres on studies, training, advisory challenges of a constantly changing industry. services, technology transfer, validations, tests, etc., that allow us to meet more demanding time to market and complex system requirements. New 97,436 technologies require a much higher level of open 94,601 innovation and strategic partnerships than traditional electromechanical products. 80,317 64,316 60,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 This figure means that the company has invested more than 8% of its annual sales in R&D to offer its customers the most innovative solutions possible. Ficosa currently holds 840 active patents and it is one of the most active Spanish holding companies in Spain in terms of patenting. Research centers — Viladecavalls — Whaseong-Gun — Wolfenbüttel / Lindau — Tokyo — Dieuze — Taicang — Porto — Hyderabad / Pune — Bursa — Sao Paulo — Detroit — Salinas-Victoria 72 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Innovation in high-value products Ficosa is convinced that its success and future are founded on innovative products that benefit our society, providing safer, more efficient, sustainable and comfortable ways of mobility. SAFETY The Challenge According to the World Health Organization (WHO), car accidents kill approximately 1.2 million people worldwide every year, representing a quarter of all deaths caused by injury. Additionally, about 50 million people are injured in traffic accidents. If preventive measures are not taken, road traffic death is likely to become the third-leading cause of death in 2020 from ninth place in 1990. A study from the American Automobile Association (AAA) revealed that car crashes cost the United States $300 billion per year. There has been a significant rise in the use of electronics in vehicles. Vehicles today have shifted from being conventional vehicles to intelligent vehicles and are equipped with communication systems that alert or assist the driver in a potential accident. Nevertheless, there is still work to do to achieve the ambitious road safety target of halving the global number of deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes by 2020 (Source: 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development). Collaboration with national and international programmes SUaaVE SUaaVE proposes to enhance public acceptance of highly automated CAVs (Connected automated vehicle) by increasing trustworthiness via Human-Driven Design including the participation of all road users as well as stakeholders through: A social-psychological research on CAV acceptability. A cross-cultural framework for ethical and legal issues to facilitate CAV deployment. The conceptualisation and demonstration of a newly defined “Level of Automation Four+ Reliable Empathic Driver” (ALFRED), defined as a concept in CAV technology aimed to understand passengers’ state, and from this information, manage corrective actions in vehicle for enhancing trip experience. The generation of a set of tools and services to further implement the ALFRED concept, beyond SUaaVE. The role of Ficosa in the project is to evaluate the “best in class” solutions of the emotions detection systems that are currently in the market. The idea is to embark those systems in the tests and study which emotions are relevant to detect on board and which requirements does a camera should fulfil to detect that emotions. C S R — R E P O R T 73 SOMNOADAS (IBEROEKA) This project develops a system of cameras integrated on the vehicle to detect the facial expressions of the driver in order to estimate their state of drowsiness. The main objective of this project is to develop a camera-based system that analyses facial expressions related to pre-defined drowsy stages. The system consists of a mono IR camera integrated into the vehicle’s interior aimed at the face and upper part of the thorax. Video recordings are analysed in real time in order to estimate the degree of drowsiness of the driver combining the drowsiness detection index from the extraction of the respiratory signal and the drowsiness detection index from the analysis of facial expressions, both from the video signal. ESTIBA ESTIBA’s goal is to advance in the provision of strategic technologies that bring us closer to the port of the future (the Smart Port). We think that is the only way to satisfy the growing demand of efficiency, economy, security and environmental sustainability according to the “Industry 4.0” concept. Together with the highest levels of automation, as required in the scenarios that integrate different automated ground transport vehicles (GVs) in port operations. Ficosa designs and validates in a real environment an interior camera adapted to the detection of laser patterns. Ficosa also develops a driving monitoring system (DMS) composed of camera and radar technology with the aim of monitoring the driver. This innovative technology will make possible in the future to have greater robustness in detecting driver states that are unsuitable for driving by means of non-contact sensors in critical environments. 74 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 VIZTA VIZTA project, coordinated by ST Micrelectronics, aims at developing innovative technologies in the field of optical sensors and laser sources for short to long-range 3D-imaging and to demonstrate their value in several key applications, e.g., automotive. The developed differentiating technologies allow the development and validation of innovative 3D imaging sensors products with the following highly integrated prototypes demonstrators: High resolution (>77 000 points) time-of-flight ranging sensor module with integrated VCSEL, drivers, filters and optics. Very High resolution (VGA min) depth camera sensor with integrated filters and optics. Ficosa will use the developed technologies for In Cabin monitoring. Specifically, obtaining 3D face analysis and breathing using a single camera. PRYSTINE Ficosa is developing an interior camera for driver monitoring that comprises an IR mono camera integrated in pillar A and a laser integrated in the interior of the rear view mirror which aims a cloud of points at the driver’s chest. The camera records these points and the algorithm processes the video data in order to extract the respiration signal using the distance between points. Once the respiration signal has been detected, the Thoracic Effort Drowsiness Detection algorithm (TEDD) analyses this data in order to estimate the degree of drowsiness of the driver. V-RECON (EUREKA!) This project consists of producing a CMS system (Camera Monitoring System) to replace vehicles’ exterior mirrors (Class III-traditional). The system developed during this project will initially be for passenger vehicles but may extend to other types of vehicles (cargo, industrial, etc.). In order to achieve the final objective, research and development activities are required to design a demonstrator with the three main elements that make up the integrated system: 1. External wing or mechanical camera support to capture the rear view. 2. The camera itself. 3. An electronic control unit (ECU) that will also contains a display where the images are projected. C S R — R E P O R T 75 sAFE The sAFE (Aftermarket eCall for Europe) project was funded by the Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (INEA) under the Connecting Europe Facility CEF program. The main goal of the project is to study and prepare specifications for eCall Aftermarket for vehicles of many categories. The project started on January 2019 and comprises of 23 partners from many countries in Europe, such as Germany, Spain, Netherlands, Slovenia, Cyprus, Austria, Luxembourg or Italy. Ficosa is contributing to the specification of eCall Aftermarket for M1 / N1 vehicles (passenger vehicles up to 7 seats and light vans), as well as specifying and performing the homologation process which will acknowledge an aftermarket eCall as valid for being used in the European market. ESCAPE The “European Safety Critical Applications Positioning Engine” (ESCAPE) is funded by the European GNSS Agency (GSA) under the European Union’s Fundamental Elements research and development programme. Its aim was to exploit the services offered by Galileo, the European satellite navigation system, by designing a dedicated reliable and accurate engine natively targeted for the automotive safety-critical applications. The project kicked-off in October 2016 and finished at the end of 2019, was led by Ficosa in collaboration with Groupe Renault, GMV, ST Microelectronics, IFSTTAR and ISMB. The in-vehicle unit, produced by Ficosa during this project, was displayed during the Mobile World Congress 2018 and 2019 in Barcelona. This development is an electronic board able to precisely indicate the position of the car with an innovative GNSS receiver chip set developed by our partner STMicroelectronics. The unit was integrated as the positioning engine in a self-driven car made by a first level OEM, and was demoed in a circuit with presence of Spanish and European authorities. 5G Automotive Association The 5G Automotive Association (5GAA) is a global, cross-industry organisation of companies from the automotive, technology, and telecommunications industries (ICT), working together to develop end-to-end solutions for future mobility and transportation services. Created on September 2016, the 5GAA unites a large member base, including 8 founding members: AUDI AG, BMW Group, Daimler AG, Ericsson, Huawei, Intel, Nokia, and Qualcomm Incorporated. Ficosa has been 76 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 the first Spanish company to join the association. Since its inception, 5GAA has rapidly expanded to include key players with a global footprint in the automotive, technology and telecommunications industries. This includes automotive manufacturers, tier-1 suppliers, chipset/ communication system providers, mobile operators and infrastructure vendors. More than 130 companies have now joined 5GAA. Diverse both in terms of geography and expertise, 5GAA’s members are committed to helping define and develop the next generation of connected mobility and automated vehicle solutions. The 5GAA supports the idea that 5G will be the ultimate platform to enable C-ITS and the provision of V2X. 5G will be able to better carry mission-critical communications for safer driving and further support enhanced V2X communications and connected mobility solutions. SECREDAS SECREDAS stands for “Product Security for Cross Domain Reliable Dependable Automated Systems. The SECREDAS consortium comprises 69 partners from 16 European countries. The goal of this project is to build a benchmark architecture for Secure and Safe Automated systems compliant with the new GDPR Regulation. The focus will be on automotive, rail and personal healthcare, all of which demand high security and safety, covering technologies such as radar, lidar, Vehicle-to-Infrastructure and in-vehicle networks. Ficosa will contribute to the project with a full-fledged V2X HW platform with a secured storage and signing environment. These HW mechanisms will prevent cybersecurity attacks involving stealing private keys and damages caused by impersonating a legitimate vehicle. Ficosa’s platform will be capable of integrating SW technologies from third parties, such as V2X Firewall and V2X misbehaviour detection. Ficosa will also provide DSRC High-performance antennas to achieve best platform performance. As part of the same project, Ficosa ADAS will also provide an in-cabin driver monitoring system based on an IR camera plus laser for respiration signal detection and analysis. The main system objective is to continuously analyse the status of the driver and ensure that the driver is in a fit state to drive if the autonomous vehicle decides to return the command to the driver in the event of a cyber-security attack. CARAMEL CARAMEL brings together expertise from eight different European countries to solve cybersecurity issues for future mobility. In order to address cybersecurity for current autonomous and connected vehicles, wellestablished methodologies developed in the ICT sector will be adopted in order to assess vulnerabilities and potential cyber-attack impacts. Although past initiatives and cybersecurity projects related to the automotive industry have led to security assurance frameworks for networked vehicles, several newly introduced technologies like 5G, autopilots, and smart charging of Electric Vehicles (EVs) reveal gaps in cybersecurity, which have not yet been addressed satisfactorily. Considering the entire supply chain of automotive operations, CARAMEL aims to reach out to commercial anti-hacking IDS/IPS products for the European automotive cybersecurity and demonstrate their value in extensive attack and penetration scenarios. Ficosa will provide to the project a full-fledged V2X (802.11p) HW platform designed for a very robust physical and logical security that will include enhancements still not found in other similar developments. C S R — R E P O R T 77 PREDICA Cybersecurity is one of the main concerns for OEMs. PREDICA is a project in which an OEM, a security software provider and FICOSA as integrator have set the goal to develop a new cybersecurity mechanism to detect and prevent intruder entry to our telematics units. The cyber-security level achieved, evaluated by an independent company, reached a remarkable score without big penalties on memory or performance. Thanks to this experience, OEMs are considering increasing their level of protection retrofitting already built products. FLAME (Facility Large-Scale Adaptive Media Experimentation) FLAME is an initiative designed to create a sustainable Future Media Internet (FMI) ecosystem through experimentation, collaboration and innovation. FLAME aims to optimize media content delivery by enabling deep interactions between media service providers and an underlying communications infrastructure using software defined networking and information centric networking techniques. Within this project, FICOSA proposes an experiment to broadcast video content on the FLAME and C-V2X infrastructures. The experiment will merge Cellular V2X and FLAME networks to provide better and localized information to the driver in a safer way. CarCom The company also offers the CarCom platform, which integrates several connectivity solutions, in a modular way. This solution meets the goal of facilitating quick prototyping of new technology. The modular integration allows the reuse of common parts, introducing just hardware and software for the new technology at hand. This platform already implements hardware and software technologies to provide cellular, V2X, C-V2X, WiFi, localization (GNSS) and HMI capabilities. Some of the future modules on pluggable technology are a high-precision positioning, digital tuning antenna, as well as cellular 5G modules. It covers the needs of the company to be able to exploit latest technologies in short time, improving development speed and reutilization. At the same time, CARCOM offers a platform that meets OEMs sample A requirements for a big number of applications and is able to be deployed worldwide. COLORADO C-DOT This project carried out in collaboration with Panasonic USA and The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has built a pilot program to test real-world deployment of the most advanced vehicle-to-everything (V2X) environment in USA. This collaboration represents the largest shared investment in V2X technology in the United States. During the pilot deployment, V2X roadside units (RSU) and V2X vehicle on-board units (OBU Ficosa units) were successfully installed and tested, and established a Network Operations Center to manage the overall system. These efforts set the stage for deploying the V2X system in a real-world environment along a major Colorado highway. By creating this connected system—an “internet of roads”—drivers and traffic managers will receive real-time information about road conditions such as traffic delays, icy conditions, and crashes through 78 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 continuous and automatic communications between individual vehicles and roadside infrastructure. Once deployed, this system should have an 81 percent decrease in unimpaired multi-vehicle crashes, as well as more reliable travel times and, eventually, the ability to communicate with self-driving cars. What we are offering our customers Vision systems Most aggressive projections estimates that 10% of vehicles will be autonomous by 2030, vision will keep being one of the most significant pillars in our business, either through traditional mirrors systems with added functionality or through the emerging smart digital view systems where Ficosa is also taking a leading position (CMS, parking cameras, etc). V2X (VEHICLE-TO-X) UNITS The main purpose of incorporating these units into vehicles is for safety reasons. This technology will be able to reduce the number of accidents. Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) transmissions allow cars to communicate with each other as well as with the infrastructure, pedestrians and others. This communication path provides enough information in the vehicle regarding its surroundings. This fact enables drivers to be alerted on impending dangers in a first phase. In the future, the vehicle will be able to act in response to this knowledge. In addition to the safety aspects, there will also be convenient features such as easing vehicle parking, toll payment, weather, road conditions and information about surrounding commercial facilities. Ficosa has been granted a patent on a V2X high performance antenna for platooning. This fact increases Ficosa’s interest in supplying OEMs with fully integrated system solutions instead of separate parts. Intelligent Rearview Monitor System (IRMS) The innovative Intelligent Rear-view Monitor System for LCV’s and Vans developed by Ficosa, able to provide a full rear vision to the driver even if his vehicle lacks of rear windows, has now passed successfully all the homologation and validation tests after industrialization, and will be ready for mass production by end of 2020. Several carlines from a major European LCV leader will be equipped in model year 2021, other OEM’s are currently showing also a high interest in this safety device and are planning to introduce it in their next models. C S R — R E P O R T 79 Sensors and Camera Cleaning After a successful launch and deployment of the LIDAR Cleaning System in the last two years, applied now in seven carlines of a premium German carmaker, Ficosa is achieving the development of a complete portfolio of Sensor Cleaning devices. Those components applies for the cleaning of all sensors up to level 5 autonomous cars, ensuring that all detection systems function, quality and integrity are safe during driving. A special focus is given to the water consumption reduction during cleaning sequence, as well as a low noise level, keeping at the same time the best system performance. Driver Monitoring Systems In 2017, the company developed a driver monitoring system in order to estimate the capability of the driver in adverse situations, such as fatigue. Today Ficosa has two different lines of products that detect any unsafe driver behaviour: Somnoalert ® Driver Behaviour The algorithm located in an ECU analyses existing data in CAN bus and data provided by a Lane Recognition System in order to identify inadequate driving states related with driving quality. The system studies the driver’s gradual worsening over a predetermined time period. Somnoalert ® Contactless This system comprises a mono camera recording the upper body of the driver, a laptop, a breathing extraction from video algorithm and a drowsiness detection algorithm. The system analyses respiratory data in real time to estimate the driver’s degree of awareness.in real time to estimate the driver’s degree of awareness. 80 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Camera Monitor System (CMS) In 2015, the company developed an electronic mirror composed of cameras and displays which represents an alternative option to the exterior rear-view car mirrors. This pioneering system, also known as CMS, is a true revolution for the automotive industry as well as important progress towards the autonomous car. The electronic mirror offers a new, safer, and more comfortable driving experience through the inclusion in the vision systems of Advanced Systems Driver Assistance (ADAS), such as the traffic detection function, which provides information to the driver about the vehicles around it. Currently, Ficosa is working with an Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) on the integration of CMS, customizing it according to their requirements. Vehicle cameras and expertise in vision systems and machine vision Ficosa offers customers wide exterior and interior small size cameras for 360 degree vehicle vision, parking, mirror substitution and driver monitoring. Stand-alone or in-system cameras, with low power dissipation, EMC robustness and cost optimized, covering both entry level and high performance systems and offering state-of-the-art technology for next generation machine vision systems. These vision systems are also provided through exterior and interior mirror substitution, using high performance cameras optimizing video path and image quality, offering the most advanced display and ECU performance for machine vision integration with the most advanced 2D and 3D machine vision software developments. ERA GLONASS SYSTEM FICOSA is manufacturing telematics modules certified for ERA GLONASS. The ERA GLONASS system is the Russian equivalent of the European e-Call system. Safety systems and emergency services are fundamental to saving lives on the road. Getting an immediate alert in the event of an accident and knowing the exact location of the crash site cuts emergency services response times by 50% in rural areas and 40% in urban areas. The emergency system inside the vehicle consists of a telematics unit (In Vehicle Telematic Unit, iVTU) and a user interface module. C S R — R E P O R T 81 Shift-by-wire systems In 2019, FICOSA expanded its product portfolio of Shift-by-Wire systems. FICOSA develops and produces not only e-SHIFTERs, but also Electronic Control Units and actuators, enabling the automation of traditional transmission or the integration of locking requirements to the new developed ones. Current customers are reputed Asian automotive manufacturers. In 2019, this product line was deployed for Internal Combustion Engine, Hybrid Electrical and pure Electrical Vehicles. Besides fuel efficiency enabled by the combination of engine nature and robotized transmissions, Shift-by-Wire technologies enables safety features to be implemented that control transmission to avoid risky conditions by human errors. For this product line, FICOSA is researching and developing to offer a broad portfolio of next generation actuators, with reduced packaging and weight (actuator and electronic control unit below 750 gr), which can be implemented in any vehicle type, resulting in a reduction versus traditional automatic external shifters. COMMUNICATION & CONNECTIVITY The Challenge The automotive industry is undergoing a series of transitions as the industry is moving towards digitalization and connected mobility. While automotive digital technology has traditionally focused on optimizing the vehicle’s internal functions, attention is now focused on developing the car’s ability to connect with the outside world and make the car experience safer, more comfortable and more informed. In this context, Ficosa is working to create a more interconnected world. What we are offering our customers Telematics units These units connect the vehicle with the internet. Most used technology is cellular using 2G, 3G and 4G-LTE for data communications. Our units are capable of having embedded antennas, which facilitates the integration on many automobiles. These units incorporate services, as e-call, b-call, lights & horn and a myriad of other services customized by the OEM to their preferences. Some models also enable Wi-Fi communications inside or outside the car. Emergency call Human Machine Interface EMU is an Emergency call Multimedia Unit for vehicles, consisting of a button, some indicators, a microphone and a speaker. The button manually triggers the emergency call, speaker and microphone are used for voice communication with the 112 Services and the indicators show the state of cellular coverage and e-call status. A telematics control unit inside the vehicle manages all these elements in order to allow occupants to have full control of the system. 82 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Integrated antennas We design and develop antennas for different services such as radio broadcasting (AM/FM/DAB), telephony (2G , 3G, LTE and 5G), satellite positioning systems (GNSS) covering multiple satellite constellations (GPS, Galileo, Glonass, Beidou), satellite digital radio (SDARS) for the US Market as well as other services like RKE, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and BLE. Antennas for new technologies such as V2X and C-V2X (omnidirectional or directive) and for the latest 5G technologies are also developed and ready to go to market. We also design antennas for microwave frequencies at 24, 70 or 84 GHz. As the number of antennas inside a car is increasing considerably, the trend is to integrate them on nonvisible locations of the vehicle. We have the expertise to integrate antennas for different services in different locations assuring optimal operation and performance with zero or minimal visual impact. Some examples of locations for antenna integration in the car are inside exterior rear-view mirrors, dashboard, windshield, embedded in the vehicle roof, inside plastic parts of the car such as spoilers, etc. Rear-view mirror that incorporates electronic toll function The interior rear-view mirror incorporating a Panasonic electronic toll function is deployed from 2019 in all the carlines of a major European manufacturer. This device allow the automatic payment of motorway & urban tolls without having to stop the vehicle, keeping driver attention to a safe and effective driving. C S R — R E P O R T 83 Efficiency The Challenge One of the toughest environmental challenges of our time is managing the mobility of people and goods. By 2030, passenger traffic will exceed 80,000 billion passenger-kilometres, a fifty percent increase, and freight volume will grow by 70 percent globally. The number of vehicles on the road is globally expected to double by 2050. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the progress in the decarbonisation economy and the expected growth in mobility in the upcoming years highlight the need for efficient and environmentally sustainable vehicle technologies. The widespread electrification of transport through the adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) is one strategy to reduce GHG emissions. Collaboration with national and international programs Electromobility Hub In 2018, the company opened a Technological Electromobility Hub with 120 people and 1,200 square metres, dedicated to the company’s different products in Hybrid and Electric vehicles (HEV/ BEV). During 2019 these facilities were extended with additional 300 m2. The e-Mobility Hub is set to become a global benchmark in the development of electric mobility technology, driving Ficosa’s leadership forward in an area that is key for the mobility of the future. In this sense it plays a strategic role, as it will become a driving force in electromobility solutions for the whole group on an international level. The deployment of all these HEV/BEV products form part of the company’s long-term strategy. For this reason, it will be carried out in different phases. During the first phase, Ficosa will focus on three products: Battery Management Controllers: Devices to control the HV Battery and its energy flow. HV Junction Box: Safety device that disconnects the HV battery from the rest of the vehicle system. On board charger: Charger integrated into the vehicle that transforms the alternating current of the electrical grid into a direct current to charge the HV Battery. 84 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 ALISE Consortium Ficosa participated in the ALISE consortium, presenting the final results and the prototyping in May 2019. ALISE is a pan European collaboration focused on the development and commercial scale-up of new materials and on the understanding of the electrochemical processes involved in the Lithium Sulphur technology. In this collaboration, Ficosa was working on the development of the full Battery Pack, using the LiS modules developed. The Battery included a Battery Management System (BMS) adapted to the new LiS chemistry developed during the project. CAR-NET (Cooperative Automotive Research Network) The Cooperative Automotive Research Network, initiated by SEAT, Volkswagen Group Research and Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC), is an open hub for industrial and academic partners from the areas of automotive and mobility research & innovation. Ficosa is a member of this knowledge hub for automotive science and technology, focused on urban mobility, and based in Barcelona. Its ambition is to become a benchmark in this area, in close alliance with European counterparts. CARNET is a cooperation platform for the mobility industry, local universities and institutional partners that has the following strategic goals: Organizing urban mobility activities in Barcelona Contributing to strengthening the automotive sector in Spain, and Catalonia in particular Recruiting proactively for the automotive industry Networking to seek international research funding (in cooperation with international partners) C S R — R E P O R T 85 What we are offering our customers Battery Management System Ficosa has been developing jointly with main OEMs the new generation of Battery Management System. The focus areas of the e-mobility lay mainly in efficient and reliable high-voltage energy control. On-Board Charger System The company is working on the development of a new integrated concept of On-Board Charger (OBC) together with Panasonic. The OBC is a system that is able to provide energy to charge Electric/Hybrid vehicles batteries, such as cars, buses or motorbikes. The technology under development fits on AC network as well as DC infrastructure. 86 F I C O S A — 2 0 1 9 Content Index Area Subject criteria / GRI NFI page ref General Information Description of the business model (1), GRI 102-1, GRI 102-2, GRI 102-7 Pg 3/9 Market presence GRI 102-4, GRI 102-6, GRI 102-7 Pg 9 Objectives and strategies GRI 102-15 Pg 3/9 The principal risks related to those matters linked to the group’s operations GRI 102-15 Pg 25/26/30/46/53/54/67 Reporting framework used GRI Standards and internal reporting framework Pg 6 Materiality assessment GRI 102-47 Pg 6/7 Environmental matters Impacts of the operations on the environment, and on people health and safety (1), GRI 307-1 Pg 51-54 Environmental assessment and certification procedure ISO 14001:2015 Pg 50 Implementation of the precautionar y principle GRI 102-11 Pg 52 Pollution Measures to prevent, reduce or repair CO2 emissions with environment impact (1) GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4, GRI 305-7 Pg 54-57 Circular economy and waste prevention Measures related to prevention, recycling, reuse and other form of waste recovery and disposal (1), (2), GRI 306-2 Pg 61/62 Sustanible use of resources Water consumption and supply in accordance with local restrictions GRI 303-5 Pg 60/61 Use of raw materials and measures adopted to enhance efficiency in their use (1), GRI 301-1 Pg 65 Direct or indirect consumption of energy (1), GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3 Pg 58 Measures taken to enhance energy efficiency (1), GRI 302-4 Pg 58/59/60 Use of renewable energies GRI 302-1 Pg 58/59 Climate change Relevant aspects regarding greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activity GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4, Pg 56/57/59 Measures adopted to adapt to the consequences of climate change (1) Pg 17/51/54/55/56 Targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions GRI 305-5 Pg 54/57 Biodiversity Measures taken to conserve or restore biodiversity and impacts caused by the company’s activities N/A Pg 8 Social and employee matters Employment Total number and breakdown of employees by gender, age and country GRI 102-8 Pg 30/31 Total number and breakdown of types of employment contracts GRI 102-8 Pg 31 Total number of dismissals and its distribution by gender, age and job category GRI 401-1 Pg 30 Policies to allow employees to disconnect from work (1) Pg 42 Employees with disabilities (2), GRI 405-1 Pg 30 Working organization Working hours organization (1) Pg 41/42/43 Measures designed to facilitate work-life balance (1), GRI 401-3 Pg 41/42/43 Health and Safety Occupational health and safety conditions (1), GRI 103-2, OHSAS 18001 Pg 44/45/46 Occupational health and safety rates (2), GRI 403-2 Pg 47/48 Labor relations Social dialogue organization (1), GRI 102-41 Pg 40/41 Percetage of employees covered by collective agreements broken down by country GRI 102-41 Pg 36 Results of collective agreements, especially in the field of health and safety GRI 403-1 Pg 46 Training (1), GRI 404-2, GRI 404-3 Pg 36/37/38/39/40 Policies implemented in the area of training (2), GRI-404-1 Pg 38 Training indictors Universal accessibility of people with disabilities Universal accessibility of people with disabilities (1), GRI 405-1 Pg 34 Equality Measures adopted to promote equal treatment and opportunities of men and women (1), GRI 405-1 Pg 18/19/21/34/35/36 Respect for human rights General Information Implementation of human rights due diligence procedures GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 20 to 25/60/61/62/63w Prevention of risks of human rights violations GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17, GRI 414-1 Pg 18/19/65/66/68/69 Promotion and compliance with ILO´s provisions (1), GRI 102-16 Pg 22/36/66 Elimination of job and workplace discrimination GRI 102-16, GRI 406-1 Pg 34/35/36 Elimination of forced or compulsory labor GRI 414-1 Pg 22/66 Effective abolition of child labor GRI 414-1 Pg 22/66/69 Anti-corruption and bribery matters Measures taken to prevent corruption and bribery GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 18/19/20/21 Measures taken to fight money laundering GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17 Pg 18/19/20/21 Company’s commitment to sustainable development Impact of the Company’s activities on employment and local development GRI 413-1 Pg 5/31/70/71 Impact of the Company’s activities on local populations and territories GRI 413-1 Pg 70/71 Relations with actors in the local communities and forms of engagement with them GRI 102-43, GRI 413-1 Pg 34/35/36/40/41/42/70/71 Partnership or sponsorship actions GRI 102-13 Pg 71/72/73 Subcontracting and suppliers Inclusion in the procurement policy of social, gender equality and environmental matters GRI 102-16, GRI 308-1, GRI 414-1 Pg 21/22/65/68 Consideration in relationships with suppliers and subcontractors of their social and environmental responsibility GRI 102-44, GRI 308-1, GRI 414-1 Pg 21/22/65/66/68 Supervision and audit systems and their outcomes GRI 308-1, GRI 414-1 Pg 67 “N/A Not applicable because is not material (1) Internal framework: qualitative description” (2) Internal framework: look at the used methodology in the corresponding pages C S R — R E P O R T 87 Appendix 1 – OHSEQ policy The policy of integrated management of the company is based It must be communicated and understood by all the Company on the compromise of Upper Management and the participation and reviewed periodically. It must be of interested parties and consultation of all the staff, and their representatives where domain. It must be appropriate to the nature of our Company they exist, in order to ensure the continuous improvement of (activities, products and services). their labour. With this aim, the Direction affirms the compromise and responsibility with the implementation, maintenance and continuous improvement of an integrated system of management, based on: 1. The values and philosophy of opera5. The development of our Company 8. FICOSA has a framework where tions of the organization, established must be guided toward the continual the establishment of objectives and clearly in the MISSION, are the guiimprovement of our work (in occupagoals for occupational health and delines for each member of FICOSA. tional health and safety, quality, envisafety, quality and environment, as ronment and energy efficiency). It is well as the availability of information, 2. FICOSA permanently believes that our obligation to improve every day resources, acquisition of efficient each product and project developed the effectiveness of our Integrated products and services. The review for our customers shall fulfil and exSystem. of these objectives is a high priority ceed their expectations of time, quafunction in the development of our lity, safety and cost. 6. The respect for nature and the obCompany. These objectives must servance of the universally declared be based on the requirements of the 3. The company firmly believes that the principles of pollution prevention and interested parts, established in the excellence in each project and procontrol shall be kept as a frame of MISSION. duct are achieved with the participareference for the development of tion of all the people that constitutes our activities. The development of 9. The fulfilment of the current legislaFICOSA. The maintenance of the our organization can and must walk tion and regulation regarding occudaily enthusiasm and the imposition alongside the preservation of the pational health and safety, quality, of challenges of permanent improveenvironment and the mitigation and environment and energy for FICOSA. ment are clues for this purpose and a adaptation to climate change, as well We include in this section any other responsibility for each leader. as towards energy management. requirement. 4. Occupational health and safety is a 7. The environmental questions are fundamental part of our work; Our a common problematic, therefore, commitment in the prevention of aceach of the internal members (worcidents and occupational illnes, focukers and collaborators) and external ses our efforts on ensuring safe and members (suppliers and subconhealthy work environments, prioritizing tractors) have the right and the moral the elimination of hazards and the miobligation to participate in their imnimization of risks. plantation and to collaborate in their maintenance. Ficosa reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this third CSR report, Ficosa describes its actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations. Grupo FICOSA Gran Vía Carlos III, 98 08028 Barcelona (Spain) Tel + 34 93 216 34 00 Fax + 34 93 490 10 63 www.ficosa.com
