Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 2 QNB Sustainability Report 2019 Contents QNB Sustainability Report 2019 1. Introduction and business overview 3 To build a better future we are highly focused on the well-being of the millions of customers who depend on us 1.1 About this report 4 to help them achieve their goals and aspirations. We do this by embedding a culture of sustainability into our 1.2 Message from the Chairman and Group CEO 5 business that allows us to support our customers, not just in the present, but well into the future. This includes 1.3 QNB at a glance 6 environmental aspects, such as climate change and resource scarcity. Social aspects, such as human rights, 1.4 2019 Sustainability at a glance 9 financial inclusion and data privacy. It also includes corporate governance aspects, such as board composition, anti-corruption and ethical business practices. Collectively, these ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) 2. QNB’s approach to sustainability 10 factors shape and inform our approach and priorities. 2.1 QNB sustainability framework and strategy 11 2.2 Sustainability governance 12 There is increasing demand from investors, customers, regulators and our own employees for greater 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 13 transparency on our approach to ESG issues, and we recognise the significant contribution QNB can make to 2.4 Materiality assessment 14 society by adopting business practices to address these directly (through our business operations) and 2.5 External commitments 15 indirectly (through our financing and community activities). Furthermore, we believe that a proactive 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures 17 approach to sustainability strengthens QNB’s business resilience and supports sustainable financial performance. 3. Sustainable finance 18 3.1 Sustainable financing solutions 19 Now more than ever, the principle that businesses will ultimately be more successful and profitable when they 3.2 Supporting small and medium-sized enterprises take into account the broader needs of society, holds true. Growing concern over climate change and social (SMEs) and entrepreneurship 21 issues are driving an unprecedented change in the way that banks deploy their capital. 3.3 Financial inclusion, accessibility and education 23 3.4 Data security and customer privacy 25 In response to these external demands, and to support QNB’s vision to become one of the leading banks in the 3.5 Responsible customer communication and experience 26 Middle East, Africa and South East Asia (MEASEA), QNB has defined a Group-wide sustainability programme. 4. Sustainable operations 27 This has been developed in alignment with national and international standards and guidelines, with 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management 28 particular focus on incorporating the objectives of the: 4.2 Talent attraction, development and retention 30 4.3 Diversity and inclusion 33 • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) 4.4 Environmental impact of operations 34 • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 4.5 Responsible procurement and supply chain 36 • Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) ‘Guidance on ESG reporting’ 5. Beyond banking 37 5.1 Community investment and In 2019, we became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and, going forward, are socio-economic development 38 committed to embedding their principles within our operating framework. 6. ESG data and further information 42 QNB Group is committed to creating a more sustainable future for the employees, customers and communities it serves. 6.1 QNB Sustainability performance summary (KPIs) 43 This second edition of QNB Group’s Sustainability Report provides an overview of our sustainability journey 6.2 Qatar Stock Exchange ESG performance metrics 44 and its strategic themes. Furthermore, we will elaborate on our initiatives as well as our progress on the topics 6.3 GRI Standards content index 45 most material in this regard. 6.4 UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) index 50 6.5 Abbreviations 52 Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 3 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 1. I ntroduction and business overview The 2019 Sustainability Report covers our ESG activities and the approach of our operations across markets. It focuses on the topics we identify as material to the Group’s performance and progress, as well as to future prospects. Contents: 1.1 About this report 1.2 Message from the Chairman and Group CEO 1.3 QNB at a glance 1.4 2019 Sustainability at a glance Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 4 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 1.1 About this report Scope This report forms part of QNB Group’s 2019 Reporting framework and guidelines Currency This report is produced by QATAR publications and supplements the QNB 2019 NATIONAL BANK (Q.P.S.C.) and covers This report has been produced in accordance All financial data within this report is shown Qatar, our international branches and Annual Report and QNB 2019 Corporate with GRI Standards: core option and GRI G4 in Qatari Riyal (QR) unless stated otherwise. major subsidiaries: QNB Finansbank Governance Report. Financial Services Sector Disclosures. In (Turkey), QNB ALAHLI (Egypt), QNB Reporting period addition, this report aligns with the QSE Feedback Indonesia and QNB Tunisia. The data in ‘Guidance on ESG Reporting’ and the UNSDGs. this report covers the scope outlined We welcome feedback on this report and any This report covers the period from 1 January For an overview of how we align with these below, unless stated otherwise. aspect of our sustainability performance. 2019 to 31 December 2019. frameworks and guidelines, including our Please address all feedback to QNB Group GRI Standards Content Index, please see the Sustainability at sustainability@qnb.com. ESG data and further information chapter of this report. 2015 • Qatar & International Branches • QNB ALAHLI (Egypt) 2016 • Qatar & International Branches • QNB ALAHLI (Egypt) • QNB Finansbank (Turkey) 2017 2019 • Qatar & International Branches • QNB ALAHLI (Egypt) • QNB Finansbank (Turkey) • QNB Indonesia • QNB Tunisia Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 5 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 1.2 M essage from the Chairman and Group CEO H.E. Mr. Ali Shareef Al-Emadi Mr. Abdulla Mubarak Al-Khalifa Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am delighted to introduce QNB Group’s 2019 I am pleased to present the latest report of QNB’s sustainability performance sustainability report. This report is an integral part of our sustainability journey. and progress during 2019, for all of our stakeholders and interested parties. This journey is essential for us being a leading bank in the Middle East, Africa and Throughout 2019, we have continued to strengthen our sustainability Southeast Asia (MEASEA). programme, in full alignment with the Qatar National Vision 2030 and the As we publish this report, the world remains in the midst of the COVID-19 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. This plays an important role pandemic. This event has already had immense impact and will have long-lasting in our approach to financing and how we operate as a business, ensuring we implications across the globe. This pandemic has demonstrated how susceptible work in the most ethical and efficient way. We also became a signatory to the organisations are to externalities of all kinds. It has also tested once more the United Nations Global Compact, headed the leader board for ESG disclosure at robustness of business continuity, operating models as well as stress tested the the Qatar Stock Exchange and developed our Green, Social and Sustainability justification and longevity of existing business models. This crisis has also made Bond Framework. As a result of these efforts, I am pleased we were endorsed clear that sustainability is not just a trend but rather a strategic imperative for the with an ‘A’ sustainability rating by MSCI, the global index provider. longevity of organisations into the future. Covid-19 has elevated the importance At the same time, we find the world responding to crisis. With reference to the and prominence of sustainability; not just at QNB, but across industries around Chairman’s statement, this pandemic has taught us that sustainability is of the globe. vital strategic importance to safeguard our people, business and the Whilst creating value for our customers, it is vital we continue to contribute and communities we serve. Going forward we will continue our focus across all our support communities in the countries where QNB operates. With our focus on sustainability pillars, with particular emphasis on environment and social sustainability, we create meaningful impact and deliver long-term integrated matters, to aid recovery and catalyse growth efforts. value for all our stakeholders. In 2019, we became a signatory to the United I reaffirm my belief that our proactive approach to managing environmental, Nations Global Compact, cementing our commitment to protecting the biosphere social and governance factors will strengthen our business resilience in the and benefitting society. long-term. This will support QNB Group’s position as a leading bank in the Sound governance and a continued focus on sustainable performance are Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia (MEASEA). fundamental to our business, the creation of long term value, and the contribution to society and the communities in which we operate. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 6 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 1.3 QNB at a glance Established in 1964 as the first Qatari-owned bank, QNB is the leading “Over the past 10 years we have financial institution in the Middle East and Africa (MEA). QNB Group today expanded our international network to is present in more than 31 countries spanning across three continents, with become the leading financial institution more than 29,000 employees serving more than 20 million customers. in the Middle East and Africa (MEA).” Our heritage 1964 1997 2007 2016 First Qatari-owned bank established Public listing Began a 10-year expansion phase with the opening of Acquisition of on Qatar Stock branches and offices in 15 countries and 8 acquisitions Finansbank in Turkey Exchange QNB Kuwait QNB Switzerland QNB Indonesia 1973 1976 2013 2015 Introduction of QNB opens its first overseas Acquisition of Largest bank in the MEA the Qatari Riyal branch in London NSGB in Egypt region across all financial metrics Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 7 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 Our vision This is delivered through Protecting our market-leading position in Qatar This is supported by • Maintain our market share and profitability Sustainable finance + Our vision is to become a Sustainable operations + in the public sector leading bank in the Middle Beyond banking • Grow our market share and profitability from the private sector and individuals East, Africa and Southeast This allows Accelerating international growth Asia (MEASEA). Sustainable financial • Build a specialised international wholesale bank performance • Significantly focus and scale up current international footprint • Selectively explore inorganic opportunities Our businesses QNB is a highly-rated bank with a significant international presence, serving more than 20 million customers in more than 31 countries. Wholesale and Retail Banking Asset and Wealth International Business We are proud of our Commercial Banking A broad array of retail banking products Management Leading the expansion of QNB’s global Qatari heritage and of and services across a multichannel presence and enabling international A comprehensive suite of wholesale and A broad collection of onshore and offshore network with more than 1,113 branches cooperation, consistency and unrivalled the continuing commercial banking products and private banking and asset management and an ATM network of more than 4,335 customer service by providing oversight substantial contribution services. These include structured finance, machines*. These include premium products, with a bespoke relationship-driven and sharing best practices between we make to the region project finance, transaction banking, approach for our institutional, high-net and banking services through QNB First and international units. financial institutions, treasury, ultra-high-net-worth clients. These offerings and beyond. QNB First Plus, designed for our more investment banking and advisory services. are complemented by brokerage and custody affluent clients. *Including subsidiaries and associates services in our major markets. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 8 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 Our top-tier Our subsidiaries and associates Our financial strength credit ratings Outlook Name % stake QNB Finansbank (Turkey)  99.88% Assets Earnings per share Moody’s QNB ALAHLI (Egypt)  95% USD 259.5 bn USD 0.4 Aa3 Stable QNB Indonesia  QNB Tunisia  92% 99.99% Net profit Capital adequacy ratio (Basel III) Standard & Poor’s QNB Syria  51% A QNB Suisse (Switzerland)  100% USD 3.9 bn 18.9% Stable QNB Capital LLC (Qatar)  QNB Financial Services (Qatar) 100% 100% Net profit growth Fitch Mansour Bank (Iraq)  54% 4% A+ Stable Commercial Bank International (CBI) (UAE)  40% Housing Bank for Trade and Capital Intelligence Finance (HBTF) (Jordan)  35% AA- Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (Ecobank) (Togo)  20% Stable Al Jazeera Finance Company (Qatar) 20% Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 9 QNB Sustainability About this report Message from the Chairman and Group CEO QNB at a glance 2019 Sustainability at a glance Report 2019 1.4 2019 Sustainability at a glance QR 7.25 QR 21.1 billion 23 billion 41.4% Lending portfolio Number of Value of loan Digital transactions financing sustainable financial portfolio to SMEs and (online and mobile as environmentallyproducts and services microenterprises a % of total) friendly, low carbon offered to customers activities 42.4 29% 1.07 hours 0 Women in Gender pay Average number of Data security Group Executive ratio training hours per breaches (number) Management employee 10 62 20% 2.8% principles QNB Qatar Net Reduction in carbon Community Our commitment Promoter Score intensity (CO₂/ investment as a % and membership (NPS) employee) since 2015 of pre-tax profit to UNGC Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 10 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2. QNB’s approach to sustainability At QNB, we define sustainability as the delivery of longterm value in financial, environmental, social and ethical terms, for the benefit of our customers, shareholders, employees and communities. Contents: 2.1 QNB sustainability framework and strategy 2.2 Sustainability governance 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 2.4 Materiality assessment 2.5 External commitments 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 11 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2.1 QNB sustainability framework and strategy Our sustainability framework consists of QNB Group sustainability framework three pillars: sustainable finance, sustainable operations and beyond banking. All three pillars support QNB’s goal of sustainable Sustainable financial performance financial performance by reducing risks, opening up new business opportunities and strengthening our brand. Under each pillar we have identified the sustainability topics Sustainable finance Sustainable operations Beyond banking most material to our business and stakeholders, along with a series of action Sustainable finance is the integration of Sustainable operations is the integration of Beyond banking refers to QNB’s Corporate plans to improve our performance. ESG criteria into QNB’s financing activities ESG criteria into our business operations Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in to deliver profit with purpose. Our ambition and across our supply chain to ensure we the communities in which we operate. Our is to help customers manage their operate ethically and efficiently. Our ambition is to make a positive contribution environmental and social risks, lend to ambition is to strengthen corporate towards wider society with an emphasis businesses that contribute towards governance and risk management on education and financial literacy. In sustainable development goals, improve practices, promote equality throughout our addition, we support and deliver a range of access to finance for SMEs and underserved workforce and reduce carbon emissions initiatives within our focus areas of social groups, and provide responsible customer generated by our operations. This and humanitarian, arts and culture, health service. Delivering sustainable finance is approach keeps us compliant with and environment, economic and the most significant way in which QNB can increasing ESG-related regulations while international affairs, and sport. support national and global sustainable helping QNB to be an employer of choice. QNB’s material topic identified within development goals. Moreover, it enables us QNB’s material topics identified within beyond banking is: to reduce reputational risks in our portfolio sustainable operations are: and maximise business opportunities • community investment and socio-economic emerging from the transition to a greener, • governance, compliance, and risk development. more inclusive economy. management; • talent attraction, development and QNB’s material topics identified within retention; sustainable finance are: • diversity and inclusion; • sustainable investment, lending, products • environmental impact of operations; and and services; • responsible procurement and supply chain. • supporting SMEs and entrepreneurship; • supporting financial inclusion, accessibility, and education; • digital innovation and transformation; • responsible customer communication and marketing; • data security and customer privacy; and • customer experience. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 12 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2.2 Sustainability governance The QNB Group sustainability programme is The Group sustainability policy is subject to annual owned and governed by the QNB Group Strategy review by the SC and applied to the entire Group Committee (SC), chaired by the Group Chief including international branches and majority Executive Officer and attended by the Group’s controlled subsidiaries. It is the responsibility of the Executive Management Team. Group Sustainability Team to inform the The SC is the decision-making body for all matters subsidiaries of any revision or modification to the relating to the Group’s sustainability programme. policy, for its correct local adoption in compliance Responsibilities include reviewing the strategic with prevailing regulatory requirements. framework and ambition, deciding on priority initiatives for implementation with accountable working groups, monitoring performance and assessing ESG‑related risks and opportunities. When required, the SC reports key risks and opportunities to the Board of Directors via the Board of Group Board Nomination, Remuneration, Directors (via GBNRGPC) Governance and Policies Committee (GBNRGPC). As a minimum, the Board of Directors receives an annual update on the overall execution of the Group Strategy Group’s sustainability strategy and performance. Committee A designated Group Sustainability Team acts as an advisory body to the SC and senior management on all sustainability-related matters. The team also oversees working groups established to Group Sustainablity team* deliver priority initiatives and disseminates policy requirements and standards to the subsidiaries. Sustainability working groups *It is the responsibility of the Group Sustainability Team to disseminate strategy, policy and priority initiatives to Subsidiaries’ Sustainability Teams Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 13 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2.3 Stakeholder engagement The QNB Group sustainability strategy was their needs and expectations. We have developed in consultation with key therefore identified the most material issues Stakeholders Needs and expectations QNB engagement channels stakeholder groups – our customers, investors, that we believe deliver the greatest value for Customers employees, regulators and government, our stakeholders. • Customer service and • Annual customer We operate in more society and suppliers – taking into account satisfaction satisfaction survey than 31 countries • Easy-to-use digital and mobile • Customer Care Centre serving over 20 banking • Mobile and online banking million people and • Competitive rates and fees • Complaints management businesses Investors • Increasing share price and • Board of Directors’ meetings QNB is owned 50% dividends Customers Investors Employees • Public reports by Qatar Investment • Strong corporate governance, • Quarterly analyst calls Authority and 50% risk management and ratings • Investor days and roadshows by the public • Transparency and disclosure Employees • Competitive salaries, benefits • Employee engagement survey Our workforce and rewards • Learning and development consists of more than • Professional development programmes 29,000 employees • Fairness and equal opportunity • Training needs analysis QNB creating and delivering value globally • Compliance with all legal and Regulators and • Public disclosures regulatory requirements Suppliers Society Regulators and government (e.g. Annual and Corporate • Robust anti-corruption and government We adhere to local Governance Report) bribery measures regulations and laws • Group Compliance and Audit • Strong risk management in all markets teams and governance • Creating employment Society opportunities • Products and services with We recognise the • Making a positive contribution environmental or social benefits ESG challenges to the challenges facing society • CSR activities facing society • Addressing climate change • HR recruitment teams risks and opportunities Suppliers • Timely payment We engage more • Bidding and tendering • Fair and transparent tender than 3,000 suppliers • Supplier e-portal process to support • Supplier audits • New business opportunities our business Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 14 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2.4 Materiality assessment By identifying and prioritising our material sustainability topics, we are able to focus on what matters most to our business and stakeholders. In line with the materiality assessment process set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, QNB Group has compiled a comprehensive list of relevant economic, ethical, social and environmental impact areas. Our Executive Management has reviewed the Group’s materiality matrix to ensure that the range of issues included provides a complete representation of the organisation’s significant sustainability impacts. We have aligned our sustainability priorities with the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Qatar National Vision 2030, and the QSE ‘Guidance on ESG Reporting’. This approach to materiality provides the foundation of our sustainability strategy and enables us to be confident that we address the topics of most relevance to our stakeholders. QNB Group materiality matrix Rank Material topic 1. Governance, compliance and risk management 2. Financial performance 3. Financial stability 4. Customer experience 3 5. Data security and customer privacy 1 5 6. Talent attraction, development and retention 9 2 7. Responsible customer communication and marketing Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 10 8 8. Supporting SMEs and entrepreneurship 7 6 4 9. Sustainable investment, lending, products and services 10. Digital innovation and transformation 12 11. Diversity and inclusion 13 12. Community investment and socio-economic development 11 14 13. Financial inclusion, accessibility and education 15 14. Environmental impact of operations 15. Responsible procurement and supply chain Significance of impacts Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 15 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2.5 External commitments National and international frameworks and commitments We are committed to alignment with: We are committed to the objectives of the Qatar Qatar National Vision 2030 and National Development Strategy 2018–2022 National Vision 2030, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the United Nations Global Compact. Our sustainability strategy has been developed in line with these national and international frameworks. Qatar National Vision (QNV2030) The QNV2030 serves as a clear roadmap for Human Development Environmental Economic Development Social Qatar’s future, guiding economic, social, human Development Development and environmental development for the coming decade. The vision is supplemented by the National Development Strategy, with five-year United Nations Sustainable Development Goals plans to support its implementation. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) The UNSDGs are the principle global framework for sustainability. Their aim is to protect the planet, end poverty, fight inequalities and ensure prosperity. Launched in 2016, through to 2030, the 17 goals are underpinned by 169 targets. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 16 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures The table below shows how our most material sustainability topics align with the UNSDGs. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) As part of our commitment to sustainable business practices, QNB has become a signatory UNSDG Objective QNB’s material topics (ranking) to the UNGC. The UNGC is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, promoting • Financial performance and stability (#2, #3) better business practices in the areas of human Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, • Supporting SMEs and entrepreneurship (#8) rights, labour, environment and antiemployment and decent work for all • Financial inclusion, accessibility and education (#13) corruption. As a signatory, QNB is committed to adhering to UNGC’s Ten Principles. QNB •G  overnance, compliance and risk management (#1) endeavours to incorporate these principles into • Customer experience (#4) Promote just, peaceful, inclusive societies and institutions • Responsible customer communication our strategy, culture and day to day operations and marketing (#7) of our business. As one of the leading banks in the MEASEA Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong •T  alent attraction, development and retention (#6) region, QNB fully supports public learning • Community investment and socio-economic development (#12) accountability and transparency and has committed to publishing an annual Communication on Progress (COP). The COP •S  ustainable investment, lending, products and services (#9) forms part of this report and includes our Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts • Environmental impact of operations (#14) leadership statement of continued support, as well as the activities and outcomes of the initiatives we have undertaken during the Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable •D  ata security and customer privacy (#5) year to advance the goals of the UN, industrialisation and foster innovation • Digital innovation and transformation (#10) particularly the UNSDG’s. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls • Diversity and inclusion (#11) Ensure sustainable consumption and production by promoting • Responsible procurement and supply chain (#15) resource efficiency and the use of non-hazardous materials Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 17 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Materiality External ESG reporting Report 2019 frameworkand strategy governance engagement assessment commitments and disclosures 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures To promote transparency in the banking sector, we 2019 highlights report our sustainability performance annually, in During 2019, we have delivered a number of initiatives accordance with the GRI Standards: core option and to improve our sustainability performance. For GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures. example, we: Furthermore, we have pledged to disclose QNB’s • made our first formal public commitment to ESG performance to the QSE which became a sustainability by becoming a signatory to the UNGC; signatory to the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative and released its ‘Guidance to • approved QNB Group’s Sustainability Policy, ESG reporting’ to encourage voluntary disclosures encompassing our organisational commitments to by listed companies. In the spirit of transparency, environmental, social and corporate governance QNB’s performance data is publicly available at business practices. These policy commitments http://qse.arabsustainability.com formalise a consistent set of standards across the Group, further strengthening our long-term business In addition, throughout 2019 we proactively engaged resilience; and disclosed our ESG performance to several organisations including MSCI, FTSE Russell and the • published QNB’s inaugural Sustainability Report in CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project). We have also accordance with GRI Standards, including disclosure been rated by external agencies for our performance in of our green lending portfolio; building a sustainable business. As of 2019, QNB Group • developed the QNB Green, Social and Sustainability received an MSCI ESG Rating of ‘A’. MSCI ESG Research Bond Framework in line with the ICMA Green and provides ESG Ratings on a scale of AAA (leader) to CCC Social Bond Principles; (laggard), according to exposure to industry-specific • achieved 100% disclosure score from the QSE ESG risks and the ability to manage those risks relative ‘Sustainability and ESG Dashboard’, to improve to peers. transparency of sustainability performance to the investor community; • continued developing our approach to environmental and social risk management in lending, to enhance our due diligence credit processes and procedures; • revised the sustainability questions within our thirdparty risk management (TPRM) framework and undertook the first supply chain audit regarding fair and timely payment of low-income workforce; and • participated in the Qatar Sustainability Week and ran a series of awareness raising activities within Qatar. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 18 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience 3. Sustainable finance Sustainable finance is the integration of ESG criteria into QNB’s financing activities to deliver profit with purpose. Our ambition is to help customers manage their environmental and social risks, lend to businesses that contribute towards sustainable development goals, improve access to finance for SMEs and underserved groups, as well as to provide and ensure a superior customer experience at secure levels. Contents: 3.1 Sustainable financing solutions 3.2 Supporting SMEs and entrepreneurship 3.3 Financial inclusion, accessibility and education 3.4 Data security and customer privacy 3.5 Responsible customer communication and experience Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 19 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience 3.1 Sustainable financing solutions Case study – Empowering the green economy in Egypt Working together with the European Bank to become more competitive and access new We at QNB realise an increasing awareness 2019 progress for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) markets. As a result of new energy-efficient and demand for sustainable financing As per our commitment to sustainable business and the European Union (EU), QNB ALAHLI machinery and process improvements, the solutions from our external stakeholder such practices – in full alignment with the principles has supported some 30 energy efficiency and business was able to increase productivity by as customers, investors, analysts, ratings of UNSDGs, UNGC, and QNV 2030 – we renewable energy projects worth USD 40 20%, cut electricity consumption by 50%, agencies and regulators. We therefore focus continue to work with our clients to identify, million as part of the Green Economy reduce CO2 emissions by 192 tonnes, and save our activities on long term integrated value assess, manage and monitor risks to the Financing Facility programme. One of the more than USD 1 million a year in efficiencies. balancing financial, social and environmental environment and society. Where there is risk firms which benefited is BariQ, the first and This is just one of the many success stories factors. We also believe that this prepares us in potential adverse externalities on people largest ‘bottle-to-bottle’ recycler of that come from all the businesses that QNB well to address changes in the regulatory and their surroundings, it is essential for such polyethylene terephthalate pellets in Egypt. ALAHLI has supported. Other examples are landscape, minimise operational and collaboration to both enable and promote BariQ takes bottles that would otherwise SMEs such as SolarizEgypt, which develops reputational risk, as well as help future proof sustainable practices to mitigate risk and our business in the sustainability transition. become landfill and uses cutting-edge solar stations, and Bioenergy, which recycles impact, at the same time maintaining financial technology to recycle them into food-grade municipal waste. In recognition of this Furthermore, it is simply the right thing to do. outcomes. We see this as a key success factor for our pellets used to create food containers. The performance, we received five awards from business. This is formalised through specific financial and technical support enabled BariQ the EU and EBRD during 2019. requirements established within the QNB Group wholesale credit policy and credit review practices as part of our sustainable financing. The ongoing development of our group wide Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) system, catering also to local specificities in Egypt and Turkey, remains a priority. This will further enhance, extend and embed sustainability throughout our financing solutions. In addition, we have further embedded the principles and guidelines set out in the International Capital Markets Association (ICMA) Green and Social Bond Principles, in developing our own QNB Green, Social and Sustainability Bond Framework. We have also initiated an independent external review of our framework to confirm alignment with these principles. KPIs: Sustainable investments, lending, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 products and services Lending portfolio financing environmentally-friendly, 7,373 7,247 low carbon activities (QR million) Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 20 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience Sustainable products and services We continue to provide specifically tailored product suite to meet evolving customer products and services to meet our customers’ requirements. These products or services evolving environmental and societal needs. In address environmental or social challenges. 2019, we continued to develop our sustainable This serves to augment the green economy, product offering, and in parallel, enhanced the increases financial inclusion of underserved features and functionalities of our existing groups, and assists customers with disabilities or medical needs. KPIs: Sustainable investments, lending, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 products and services Products or services helping customers to meet an 10 18 21 23 environmental or social challenge (number) Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 21 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience 3.2 S upporting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and entrepreneurship A vibrant SME sector can be a major source of QNB’s technical expertise and cloud resources. employment and innovation, catalysing This not only minimises e-waste, but offers productivity, economic growth and them a faster route to the digital market, diversification. Lack of access to affordable allowing their business to set up and generate credit is often cited as one of the key challenges sales more efficiently and with greater speed. facing SME’s across the globe. Recognising this In 2019, an additional 51 merchants have been need, QNB has, over the last few years invested onboarded, resulting in e-commerce volumes significantly in building its capabilities and growing in excess of 23%. becoming a one stop shop for our customers. Throughout the year we remained active in Supported by our innovate product offering and helping our customers to better develop and experienced relationship managers we are able manage their finances effectively. This to support SMEs across all stages of growth, included workshops covering a variety of from initial start-up to expansion. topics, from cash management and technological developments to new regulations 2019 progress and compliance issues. These workshops also teach customers about international trade, In Qatar, we remain committed to providing allowing SMEs to better tap the international bespoke products that support the SME Sector market. Working in partnership with Qatar and to address the mandate of the Qatar Development Bank, our mission is to encourage National Vision 2030. With growing trade in and empower entrepreneurs and innovators to Asia and Africa, we are ideally positioned to contribute to the diversification and growth of leverage our strong footprint in these markets the Qatari economy. Our goal is to help to the benefit of our customers. To do this, we establish businesses that are not only remain steadfast in our desire to continually commercially viable and can successfully enhance our service standards and to offer navigate market volatility, but will also be long customer centric products across the markets lasting and contribute positively to a in which we operate. sustainable society. In Qatar the number of new businesses opening accounts continued to grow in 2019. Our e-commerce platform, QNB Simplify, has proved to be a powerful tool for SMEs to support their digital transition to meet changing customer needs. Through this programme, we remove the need for SMEs to invest in costly IT infrastructure by leveraging Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 22 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience Case study – Helping farmers to grow Supporting small to medium-sized agriculturalists manage their finances more In Egypt, QNB ALAHLI focused on increasing honour for becoming the first major bank in enterprises is a primary objective for QNB efficiently, benefiting both their businesses the financial literacy of our clients by providing Egypt to reach and exceed the required portfolio Group. Encouraging their growth and and the local economy. They cover a range of them with basic and simple products containing share, a full year ahead of the set date. promoting financial inclusion helps to create subjects from budgeting and revenue added value for both the businesses as well as In Turkey, QNB Finansbank continued to economic diversification, drive success and generation, to pest control methods and seed their owners. This year, we entered into several support SMEs by providing tailored financial support job creation. planting. In addition to the workshops, we partnerships supporting SMEs, including solutions. In line with these priorities, we agreements with the Industrial Development In Turkey, QNB Finansbank has partnered have also facilitated seminars for local increased the number of services of our agricultural unions and cooperatives, and Authority to fund specific projects in industrial dedicated SME Call Centre, Easy Line. Easy Line with the European Fund for Southeast complexes, the Credit Guarantee Company to Europe (EFSE) to boost agricultural continue to lead the way in the development today serves almost 500,000 customers and of reports on trends and best practices in obtain the necessary collateral and simplify the facilitates over 9.3 million transactions. We businesses as part of our mission to foster loan application process, and with the Cairo economic development and prosperity in the various agrarian subsectors. also launched our digital transformation project Company for Investment, Urban, and Industrial ‘The Digital Bridge’. Through the Digital Bridge region. Launched in 2016, the project As a result, we have significantly helped Development to fund the industrial units and working with external partners we were initially reached around 1,500 farmers and farmers to achieve greater success while within the new leather manufacturing city in able to offer our SME customers an covered eight cities. In 2019, we expanded strengthening our reputation in the Robiki, among others. QNB ALAHLI has also e-transformation package which includes an the initiative and now offer our series of agricultural sector and our support for SMEs participated in the Nile University’s Creative e-invoice and an e-ledger. In addition, we tailored workshops to thousands of farmers across Turkey. Design Incubator, the NilePreneurs initiative, entered into a strategic partnership with Turk in 13 cities. The events, run by experts, help establishing two business development service Eximbank. As part of this partnership, centres. These centres aim to provide nonEximbank provided a credit limit of financial services to complement the traditional approximately USD 120 million to QNB financial services provided to our clients. These Finansbank which can be extended to female improvements have allowed QNB ALAHLI to majority owned exporter firms at favourable achieve the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) 20% interest rates. The partnership is aligned with commitment for the SME portfolio out of the the bank’s strategic ambition of supporting bank’s total facilities. Recognising the female entreprenuers in business activities. achievement, CBE awarded us with a shield of KPIs: Supporting SMEs 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and entrepreneurship Microenterprise1 customers (number) 1,690 1,086,647 1,204,670 1,276,170 1,399,869 SME2 customers (number) 7,761 109,874 121,147 129,828 153,385 Credit facilities extended to microenterprises 6,265 12,082 15,577 13,751 6,495 (QR million) Credit facilities extended to SMEs (QR million) 4,141 15,285 16,546 12,802 14,607 Lending portfolio extended to microenterprises 2.7% 5.3% 5.5% 4.3% 3.1% & SMEs (%) 1 The definition of a microenterprise varies among QNB and its subsidiaries; each entity was allowed to utilise its own definition in compiling data for this table. A microenterprise is generally described as a business with fewer than ten employees, and having a balance sheet or turnover less than a certain amount 2 The definition of an SME varies among QNB and its subsidiaries; each entity was allowed to utilise its own definition in compiling data for this table Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 23 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience 3.3 F  inancial inclusion, accessibility and education Financial inclusion remains a predominant issue across a number of markets in which we operate. Case study – Helping our clients As a leading financial services provider we strive manage their payroll to provide access to our products and services as we have a key role in enabling socio-economic As a bank, we are committed to supporting a healthy transformation. We are committed to improving relationship between employers and employees while access to inclusive financial services, particularly helping to secure financial inclusion for all. That is to the low-income market, by continuously why we are proud of our work to ensure the rights of innovating to offer low cost products and workers are protected and they receive their income in services whilst prudently managing and a transparent and timely manner. mitigating any emerging risks. Our approach is As more companies take advantage of the Ooredoo multi-faceted and responsive to the needs of our clients. Mobile Money Wallet through QNB to distribute salaries electronically, more employees benefit. 2019 progress Introduced to support the introduction of the Wage Protection System (WPS) four years ago, the Financial inclusion application has been a huge success, ensuring workers In Qatar, QNB always seeks to sponsor and are paid their salary on time and without any delay. participate in international events aimed at Feedback from employers and employees has been promoting awareness with regard to financial overwhelmingly positive, with many praising the inclusion. In 2019, we continued with our annual efficiency of the service, which has made the entire sponsorship of Qatar Money Week which is process simpler, more accountable and organised under the supervision of more transparent. the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) and the Dutch According to one of our customers: “Mobile Money embassy. QNB also sponsored the Qatar Business Wallet helped my organisation in distributing salaries Incubation Centre – which operates under the in an orderly way. It made it an easy process for both Qatar Development Bank (QDB). The centre the organisation and the staff members. Also, it was selects a number of new startups each year to helpful for keeping a record of the previous month’s incubate and support across multiple sectors. In Egypt, QNB ALAHLI participated in several CBE salaries for each employee.” This solution offers a financial inclusion initiatives encompassing comprehensive suite of financial services such as both, female and youth inclusion. The events remittance, payroll, bill payments, mobile top-ups successfully attracted close to 100,000 new and peer-to-peer payments, cash withdrawal and clients to the bank. transfers. Another client stated that: “This service has saved time for many employees, as they are now transferring their salaries easily to their country without going to the exchange companies and standing there for a long time.” This year more than six million transactions were performed using the wallet. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 24 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience Accessibility Across the Group we are committed to making our branches accessible to all our customers. For example, in Turkey, QNB Finansbank completed the roll out of its Accessibility and Disability Support Services Programme in 2019. The aim of this programme is to improve the accessibility of banking services for the elderly (70+) and disabled customers, as well as to meet the requirements laid out by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA). Services include building and ATM accessibility, portable ramps, informative signs in Braille, counters with a portable hearing induction loop and provision of sign language translation support via smart tablets. Education Throughout our global operations, QNB Group delivered a number of initiatives to educate existing and potential customers on various aspects of financial management. In Qatar, we supported and sponsored a number of educational and professional programmes such as Kawader, Al Fikra and Rowad Qatar, Qatar Banking Studies and Business School, and KidZania Summer Camp. In Egypt, we partnered with EBRD and held a workshop for female entrepreneurs. The workshop served as a platform to educate on the various means of financing available to them and to provide them with the skills and tools to start and/ or grow their businesses. Another example is in Indonesia, where we implemented a financial literacy programme in partnership with the Indonesian Financial Services Authority under the Mobile Financial Education and Literacy programme. The objective of the programme was to provide support and education to the community, which consists of mainly housewives and students, regarding the importance of managing their personal finances. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 25 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience 3.4 Data security and customer privacy The banking sector is a high-profile target for cyber criminals, with threats to even the most QNB maintains an ISO 27001 certification, which is an independently certified methodology advanced systems being more frequent and sophisticated than ever. For that reason, we used to operate, monitor and improve the information security management systems (ISMS) in maintain a robust cybersecurity strategy and this remains a constant area of focus. We place the bank. Complementing the ISMS, QNB’s Security Operations Centre enables us to the highest priority on continuous enhancements to our IT security systems and our processes immediately identify and block malicious activities 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. QNB Group’s to safeguard our data. There are three key pillars which support our approach: technology, independent internal audit division includes a specialist team qualified in performing audits of people and process. information technology and information security, including data security. This team conducts annual risk-based audits covering these areas including review of related policies and procedures. The outcome is reported to the bank’s independent Group Board Audit and Our three pillars Compliance Committee (GBACC), Executive Management and Group Cybersecurity Committee of cybersecurity Technology People Process members. Any recommendations made in the reports are followed up by the internal audit division through to resolution. EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Group Compliance have a dedicated Data Protection Team, including a Data Protection Officer, responsible for maintaining, developing and enhancing the privacy operating model throughout the Group. Data protection laws are complex and vary between jurisdictions, so it is important Each of these pillars needs to be strong and continually strengthened to support and protect the that any embedded framework is flexible to adapt and consider cross-jurisdictional laws. As a bank, and we invest in each accordingly. result, the Data Protection Team developed a robust framework using GDPR as the benchmark and the highest standard while equally taking into account local laws where applicable. 2019 progress Cybersecurity EU Revised Payment Services Directive (PSD2) During the year, in compliance with the Payment Service Directive (PSD2) Regulatory QNB Group operates the latest technological platforms to support the proactive detection and Technical Standards (RTS), we have implemented various new solutions, including a new Open prevention of malicious activities and attacks, many of which have become large in scale and Banking API platform in our Paris and London branches. Our PSD2-compliant Open Banking extremely damaging to the companies involved. Throughout 2019, we continued our investment platform permits QNB to share customer data and receive payment instructions via a dedicated in both detective and preventive controls. With the continued growth of digital and open standard interface from third-party providers (TPPs) if the customer has given prior consent for banking, we are investing even more time and money to ensure that QNB systems are the same. Furthermore, as part of the PSD2 Strong Customer Authentication regulation, we adequately tested, monitored and protected. further enhanced the security of all of our electronic payment processing channels in the EU. We strengthened our internal Red Team capabilities to assess the robustness of our security measures. This allowed us to stress test our ability to safeguard critical assets using first-hand experience of cyberattacks. We simulate the tactics, techniques and procedures of a real-world KPIs: Data security and customer privacy 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 targeted attack, without the negative consequences, significantly improving the effectiveness Data security breaches (number) 0 1 0 0 0 of our information security programme. A training and awareness programme was rolled out to Amount of fraudulent transaction activity 2.6 3.3 4.2 2.3 2.8 our customers and the entire employee base, highlighting issues such as social engineering and (QR million)3 phishing attacks, improving the first line of defence against cyber threats. We have also complemented our capabilities by establishing and leveraging partnerships with the various law 3 Figures have been revised and restated these now consist of total net losses as a result of external fraud, card and non-card fraud only, versus prior year report which also enforcement agencies and peer organisations across our markets. included total QNB exposure to external fraud (including those for which QNB is not liable) Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 26 QNB Sustainability Sustainable Supporting SMEs and Financial inclusion, Data security and Responsible customer Report 2019 financing solutions entrepreneurship accessibility and education customer privacy communication and experience 3.5 Responsible customer communication and experience QNB places great emphasis on ensuring that shopping campaigns to ensure customers are customer engagement is open and honest and treated fairly and consistently across all our KPIs: Customer experience 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 that our customers are always treated fairly. We channels. Net Promoter Score4 (QNB Qatar) 63 47 56 63 62 take concerted efforts to ensure that customers’ Similarly, in Turkey, QNB Finansbank continued Net Promoter Score (QNB Finansbank) 32 37 43 43 needs and priorities are understood and that the to provide customers with timely and relevant communication we provide on our products and information regarding the bank’s products and 4  et Promoter Score (NPS) is a globally recognised metric for measuring customer experience and the overall perception of a company brand. The NPS is calculated as the N services allows for informed decision making. services, in full adherence to all relevant difference between the percentage of Promoters and Detractors. The NPS is expressed as an absolute number lying between -100 and +100 2019 progress regulatory requirements. Additionally, there was continuous monitoring of Net Promoter Responsible customer communication Score (NPS) across all customer facing channels, combined with the roll out of ‘product In Qatar and international branches, our Service satisfaction’ customer dialogue, to gauge Quality Team expanded the scope of our satisfaction and obtain feedback for product Standard Service Protocol to cover the enhancements. monitoring of our corporate branches’ performance. This allows us to offer a consistent and fair service delivery offering across both Customer experience our corporate and retail customer base. Through At QNB we believe that building long term our Retail Process Enhancement team, we have customer relationships is crucial to the implemented a number of continuous longevity and success of our business. We use improvement enhancements in our systems and the NPS as a proxy for how well we live up to processes to improve efficiency and customer the expectations of our over 25 million experience. In addition, our dedicated Coaching customers across our footprint. In 2019, we and Mentoring team continues to take the lead continued our annual customer satisfaction in training our branch staff on all our products survey using an independent third-party and services so that they are well positioned to research provider. Our 2019 performance still support our customers. ranks us as number one for retail customer In Egypt, regular training and coaching sessions satisfaction in Qatar. were conducted across the network to keep In the event a customer would like to raise a employees abreast of new products, features and formal complaint, our dedicated Service Quality communications issued to customers. Such Team works to resolve the matter promptly and product communication is fully approved by satisfactorily. This feedback allows us to Compliance to ensure all applicable regulations continually enhance our customer service and are met. QNB ALAHLI also conducted regular experience. internal audit assessments as well as mystery Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 27 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain 4. Sustainable operations Sustainable operations is the integration of ESG criteria into our business operations and across our supply chain. Our ambition is to strengthen corporate governance and risk management practices, promote equality throughout our workforce and reduce carbon emissions generated by our operations. At the same time we ensure that our supply chain partners adhere to the highest ESG standards. This approach keeps us compliant with increasing ESG-related regulations, ensures adequate risk mitigation whilst helping QNB to be the preferred partner for our stakeholders. Contents: 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management 4.2 Talent attraction, development and retention 4.3 Diversity and inclusion 4.4 Environmental impact of operations 4.5 Responsible procurement and supply chain Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 28 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management Corporate governance has an important role in Group. A separate Corporate Governance guidelines for overseas branches and • robust risk management: launched several promoting sustainable economic growth by Report is issued by QNB Group, as a subsidiaries to provide them with a set of initiatives to strengthen risk governance building investor confidence and supplement to the 2019 Annual Report, practical guidelines and supervisory measures including updating the Group’s strengthening financial markets. At QNB reflecting QNB Group’s efforts to comply with standards; AML system and expanding the geographic Group, corporate governance is a means to the supervisory and regulatory requirements • ethically-focused policies: published the scope of the Operational Risk function; demonstrate implementation of robust best issued by Qatar Central Bank (QCB), Qatar Conflict of Interest and Insider Dealing Policy • compliant tax reporting: ensured that the practices and frameworks combining all Financial Markets Authority (QFMA), the promoting integrity across the bank; required US Foreign Account Tax Compliance aspects of internal control, risk management Commercial Companies Law and all relevant Act (FATCA) and Common Reporting and compliance. This enables us to regulatory authorities across our operating • open and transparent conduct: communicated clear standards in promoting Standard (CRS) reportable data set by the successfully navigate the constantly changing footprint. In addition to providing an overview regulatory authorities was duly submitted; regulatory landscape. It also allows us to meet of our general approach and guiding principles, transparency and disclosure in encouraging our customers’ expectations as well as deliver these reports provide an overview of our 2019 the principles of equality and justice among • transparent Annual General Meeting (AGM) sustainable value to our stakeholders. achievements to enhance the Corporate shareholders and all stakeholders. This results: disclosed the AGM election results in Governance Framework, covering: included ongoing support and encouragement our pursuit to advocate corporate 2019 progress to report wrongdoings, violations or transparency; • independent Board: conducted a suspicions as part of our whistleblowing Corporate governance and compliance comprehensive evaluation and assessment of • strengthened compliance monitoring: process; enhanced the annual Compliance SelfAs part of reinforcing the robust corporate the independence of QNB’s Board of Directors in adherence with stipulations set out by the • enhanced anti-corruption and anti-bribery: awareness Questionnaire (CSAQ) exercise to governance culture, QNB undertook a rolled-out enhanced framework to combat include areas related to internal controls, fraud significant number of developments during QCB and QFMA; bribery and corruption and Anti-Money control and privacy and data protection. 2019 and fortified its corporate governance • consistent group wide governance: released Laundering (AML) and Combating Terrorism measures and practices across all levels of the an updated set of corporate governance In addition, there were zero incidents of nonFinancing (CTF). This was supplemented by compliance and/or regulatory breaches during a rigorous employee training programme; the year. KPIs: Corporate governance5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations (number) 0 0 0 0 0 Total amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements (QR million) 0 0 0 0 0 Confirmed incidents of bribery or corruption (number) 0 0 0 0 Board seats occupied by independent directors (%) 30% 40% 40% 40% 40% Board seats occupied by women (%) 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% CEO pay ratio 13.5 30.0 5 The figures in this table cover QNB Group branches and subsidiaries For more information on our approach to Governance, compliance and risk management, please see the QNB 2019 Corporate Governance Report and QNB 2019 Annual Report. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 29 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain Risk management Our centralised approach to risk management QNB’s risk profile and appetite are approved by In 2019, we continued to decision makers with timely is complemented by local expertise and a risk the Board of Directors and Group Board Risk Awards enhance our risk control and metrics and insight into risk culture in which every employee is responsible Committee (GBRC) and then cascaded down to monitoring framework. We across the business. The for potential risks in the course of their work. every division, department and employee. QNB The Achievement in Market introduced a set of early enhancements have enabled a Risk Management in the QNB Group’s sustainable performance depends Group’s Risk Appetite Statement is central to Middle East and Africa warning indicators to further more proactive and forwardon our ability to manage risk at all levels. As a the Group’s integrated approach to risk strengthen our proactive risk looking view to assess the – The Asian Banker result, we have a robust risk management management and articulates the risk culture, management capabilities. impact of emerging risks upon governance framework that ensures we governance and boundaries of QNB Group. Furthermore, we rolled out a the portfolio for responsive maintain a crucial balance between risk and We believe that risk management is the series of new risk dashboards decision-making. reward. responsibility of all employees across the bank to provide the relevant and have been active in raising awareness and reinforcing individual accountability through a KPIs: Risk management 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 focus on the ‘Three Lines of Defense/ Control’ Capital adequacy ratio (CAR) (%) 16.3% 16.0% 16.5% 19.0% 18.9% model. Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) (%) 87% 85% 135% 124% 160% In line with Basel guidelines, Responsible and accountable for the Group has adopted the ‘Three Lines of Defence/ 1. identifying, assessing and controlling the risks of their activities. Control’ model. Business and process functions Introduce policies and systems to 2. ensure that the risks in the business and process units have been Risk and control appropriately identified and managed. functions Independently assesses the 3. effectiveness of the processes created in the first and second lines of control. Internal audit Provides assurance on these processes function and value-added recommendations to improve the process and promote best practice. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 30 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain 4.2 Talent attraction, development and retention QNB is strongly committed to attracting, 2019 progress developing and retaining the best talent from the diversity our communities have to offer, Employee overview and promoting the inclusivity and equality of QNB remains dedicated to ensuring that our our people. businesses have access to a diverse, highly skilled and engaged talent pool. KPIs: Employment 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total employees (number) 7,928 20,883 22,251 22,650 22,658 Full time employees (number) 7,928 20,881 22,250 22,649 22,657 Part time employees (number) 0 2 1 1 1 Broken down by contract type Indefinite or permanent contracts (number) 7,914 20,864 22,139 22,557 22,599 Fixed term or temporary contracts (number) 14 19 112 93 58 Broken down by career level Senior management employees (number) 99 142 162 185 195 Middle management employees (number) 1,311 2,502 2,642 2,744 2,895 Non-management employees (number) 6,518 18,239 19,447 19,721 19,567 Broken down by age Employees age 18-30 (number) 3,118 9,122 9,023 9,213 8,316 Employees age 31-50 (number) 4,330 11,112 12,082 12,632 13,452 Employees age 51+ (number) 480 649 729 805 889 Youth employment (%) 39% 44% 41% 41% 37% Broken down by gender Male employees (number) 4,861 10,878 11,668 11,802 11,929 Female employees (number) 3,067 10,005 10,532 10,848 10,728 Female employment (%) 39% 48% 47% 48% 47% Nationalisation Qatarisation (%)6 52% 52% 54% 54% 55% 6 As a percentage of total QNB Qatar employees Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 31 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain Learning and Development (L&D) QNB’s L&D objective is to identify the learning overall decrease from prior year, we have international branches. The LDP programme Leadership talent was also fostered in our and development needs of its employees and to actually delivered more time-effective and caters to senior leaders, further developing subsidiaries. QNB ALAHLI launched the provide them with the right capabilities to topic-relevant training to our people. This was abilities to lead and take forward QNB’s International Executive Leadership deliver business priorities. L&D offers a broad achieved through a transition from some strategy. The MDP enables middle managers to Programme designed to coach and nurture suite of technical and behavioural solutions classroom and offsite courses to online and execute and deliver on the strategic direction those identified as leadership potential. QNB through on-the-job coaching and experiences, on-demand training, where learners can of QNB Group. As a supplement to these Finansbank’s Leaders Club similarly offers complemented by formal classroom and online progress at their own pace and convenience. In programmes, QNB also delivered the coaching and mentorship as part of executive training delivered through internal subject addition, we increased on-the-job training for Supervisory Development Programme (SDP) development, as well as sponsorship for MBA matter experts and internationally recognised our people, enabling development of the most and the Personal Effectiveness Programme programmes at leading business schools. development partners. Furthermore, we pertinent skills and experience for their roles. (PEP). SDP is aimed at first time managers and In 2019, QNB Finansbank was also recognised support our employees to obtain The trainings were positively received with team leaders who are new to overseeing other internationally for its training programmes internationally recognised and industry 93% of the candidates being highly satisfied. employees. PEP supports employees who Finansçı 360 and Branch Manager specific professional qualifications to progress L&D also delivered a number of programmes to demonstrate team leadership potential, Development, winning eleven awards across their careers and hone their leadership skills. support experienced, new and aspiring leaders enabling a smooth transition from individual the Brandon Hall Group Excellence Awards In 2019, we continued to invest in the and managers across the organisation. This contributor to supervisor. 466 employees were and Stevie Awards for Great Employers. development of our employees and delivered includes our popular Leadership and developed through these programmes during on average 42.4 hours of training per employee Management Development Programmes (LDP 2019, and all received highly positive feedback across the Group. Whilst this represents an & MDP) in Qatar and many of QNB Group’s from participants and line managers alike. KPIs: Training and development 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Succession planning Total training hours (number)7 200,994 858,493 932,715 1,096,285 960,290 Succession management is the active The assessment highlights growth areas which Average training hours provided per employee (number) 25.4 41.1 41.9 48.4 42.4 management of QNB’s talent to succeed are then addressed through on-the-job Training hours broken down by career level current employees in critical positions, to experience and coaching from senior leaders Average training hours of senior management (number) 8.4 18.3 11.6 17.2 16.2 ensure leadership continuity and maintain the across the organisation. In addition, this is Average training hours of middle management (number) 22.3 32.7 30.5 29.7 27.1 capabilities required to deliver upon the bank’s supplemented though formal courses offered long-term strategy. through leading institutions and business Average training hours of non-management (number) 26.2 42.4 43.7 51.3 44.9 In Qatar, we have implemented a holistic schools. Training hours broken down by gender approach to succession management to attract, Average training hours of male 25.4 39.5 38.3 43.6 39.8 develop and retain our talent. This has included Average training hours of female 25.3 42.9 46.1 53.6 45.3 the introduction of a new selection and Performance Reviews assessment methodology to identify potential Employees who received a performance and career successors for key leadership positions. 98% 83% 82% 89% 90% development review (%) 7 On-the-job training is not formally captured within training hours Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 32 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain QNB Ambassador Programme KPIs: Talent retention 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 QNB has also continued the Ambassador Employee engagement Programme since its launch in 2012, which is Employee engagement score (%) N/A 53% 59% 56% 59% designed to provide Qataris in midmanagement careers with opportunities to Absenteeism rate (%) 3.0% 2.9% 3.0% 2.8% 2.8% undertake work assignments in overseas Turnover locations within the QNB Group in order to Total employee turnover (number) 424 2,822 3,659 3,985 2,983 gain a global outlook. The programme Total employee turnover (%) 5.3% 13.5% 16.4% 17.6% 13.2% regularly sees Qatari nationals deployed to Voluntary employee turnover (number) 370 1,612 2,052 2,501 2,074 countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Singapore, Kuwait, Oman and Switzerland for Voluntary employee turnover (%) 4.7% 7.7% 9.2% 11.0% 9.2% up to 6 months. Individuals from previous Turnover broken down by age placements have returned to Qatar and Employees age 18-30 (number) 224 1,128 1,440 1,857 1,478 secured roles with increased responsibilities. Employees age 31-50 (number) 135 448 581 587 512 Employees age 51+ (number) 11 36 31 57 84 QNB Envoy Programme New employees In addition to the Ambassador Programme, we Employees age 18-30 (number) 700 2,386 3,144 3,874 2,553 also offer the Envoy Programme to our high Employees age 31-50 (number) 203 420 525 495 415 potential Qatari employees for up to 24 Employees age 51+ (number) 6 21 18 18 17 months’ assignment in London, Paris or Parental leave Istanbul. The programme provides our employees with exposure to the international Return to work rate (%)8 90.8% 99.1% 89.0% 87.1% 98.8% banking environment to develop their Retention rate (%)9 89.6% 91.6% 83.6% 82.1% 92.6% leadership competencies and hone their technical skills in line with QNB Group 8 Number of female employees who returned to work after parental leave ended requirements. 9 Number of female employees who returned from parental leave and were still employed twelve months after returning to work Employee engagement Grievances QNB commissioned a leading HR consulting The EES ranked us amongst the top employers Our focus on human rights remains a priority, We strive to safeguard equal opportunities, firm to conduct an Employee Engagement in the Middle East. In comparison to regional as does our effort to create a work space and ensure the safety and security of our Survey (EES) to measure motivation and and industry benchmarks, QNB is ahead or on corporate culture based on fairness, equality employees, and embed grievance mechanisms satisfaction levels. In Qatar and international par across a number of performance metrics. and respect. to report any instance of harassment, branches, 83% of employees provided feedback The increased employee engagement is Throughout 2019, we continued to align our discrimination or other misconduct. on career development, performance attributed to additional senior management Human Resources business practices against management, leadership engagement, engagement through GCEO and Executive the United Nations Guiding Principles on compensation and employee empowerment. Management site visits, internal review and Business and Human Rights, as well as This feedback, coupled with our existing discussion forums throughout 2019. seeking opportunities for further employee engagement practices, allowed us to improvement. identify areas where we can enhance our employees experience. Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 33 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain 4.3 Diversity and inclusion With operations in over 31 countries across 2019 progress three continents and employees from 80 different nationalities, we are a truly diverse Female employment multinational corporation. QNB fully respects In 2019, we are proud that 47% of our human rights and ensures dignity and workforce is female. QNB Group is proud to equality for all, regardless of a persons’ race, promote female inclusion within the religion, gender, age or language. We workforce. We recognise however that there continually and actively promote a culture of is still much work to be done on this front respect, equality and mutual trust across our especially for more senior roles within the network. Group. As at 31 Dec 2019, 21% of senior management roles were occupied by women and 29% of the Executive Management Team. Females occupied 24% of overall Board positions across the Group. This will remain a focus of ours in the upcoming years in alignment with the QNV2030. KPIs: Female employment 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Female employment rate (%) 39% 48% 47% 48% 47% By career level Women in senior management10 (%) 13% 16% 17% 18% 21% Women in middle management11 (%) 24% 34% 33% 33% 33% Gender pay ratio12 1.07 1.07 10 Senior management defined as General Manager and Assistant General Manager level 11 Middle management defined as grade 4-7 12 Median male salary to median female salary. QNB Qatar and international branches only Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 34 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain 4.4 Environmental impact of operations QNB continues to play an active role in reducing 2019 progress the consumption of natural resources in its QNB is fully committed to protecting the global operations, and minimising negative environment in line with our stakeholders’ externalities such as the generation of carbon expectations. In our operations we have directly emissions associated with climate change. As a acted on our carbon emissions and resource financial service provider, QNB’s environmental consumption across the bank. Since 2017, we footprint is limited compared with that of other have seen year on year reduction of total industries. We do recognise however that given Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and materials our international footprint and large employee and waste across our network. and customer base our environmental impact is still relevant. As such, we focus heavily on Across the bank, we have introduced a raft of embedding sustainable practices into our initiatives to improve our efficiency and reduce operations, across our offices, branches and our environmental footprint. network. KPIs: Environmental impact of operations 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy Total energy consumption (GJ) 216,072 654,593 689,758 664,860 690,932 Energy intensity (GJ/ employee) 28.8 32.1 31.4 29.9 31.0 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG)13 Scope 1 direct GHG emissions (tonnes of CO2e) 1,286 12,341 12,315 12,241 12,692 Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions (tonnes of CO2e) 36,013 75,946 82,394 77,702 75,934 Total GHG emissions (tonnes of CO2e) 37,299 88,287 94,709 89,943 88,625 GHG emissions intensity (tonnes of CO2e/ employee) 5.0 4.3 4.3 4.0 4.0 Water Water consumption (m3) 304,215 469,403 467,935 498,182 696,876 Water intensity (m3/ employee) 40.6 23.0 21.3 22.4 31.4 Materials and waste Total paper consumption (kg) 497,125 1,741,820 1,466,734 1,413,965 1,036,948 Total paper consumption intensity (kg/ employee) 66 85 67 63 47 13 QNB’s greenhouse gas emissions are measured in accordance with the international GHG protocol that defines reporting scopes 1 and 2 Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 35 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain Case study – Promoting a culture of sustainability in QNB As part of an ongoing commitment to the branches with the objective of encouraging Environmental initiatives environment, QNB participated in Qatar employees to consider low emission vehicles Sustainability Week, delivering a range of for a more sustainable future. Throughout initiatives designed to raise awareness of QNB offices, new recycling bins were Qatar: sustainability issues and promote actions to installed, while single-use plastic straws and • Rolled out a receipt suppression solution for merchants as a means to reduce paper waste reduce our impact. The bank highlighted the cutlery were removed from onsite cafeterias • Expanded our recycling initiative with the addition of new recycling bins across our importance of addressing various and replaced with recyclable options various offices and branches environmental challenges to employees and manufactured by a local company. At the • Eliminated single use plastic from all canteens and replaced with locally produced customers in a week-long series of events same time, a social media competition recyclable options across its offices. As well as demonstrating encouraged customers to do more about the latest plug-in hybrid cars, QNB signed a recycling waste and provided useful advice • Continued with the roll-out of LED lighting across our various offices to reduce and commitment to install electric vehicle and support. optimise our energy consumption charge points at our Head Office and selected Egypt: • Installed solar panel systems at Mansoura and 6th October buildings • Introduced electronic statements and reduced paper usage for over the counter cash deposits and withdrawals • Increased the percentage of waste paper recycled though our third party provider Turkey: • Converted the air conditioning system to natural gas across 28 branches • Further entrenched our migration to digital and paper-less banking. In 2019, 94% of all transactions in our branches were executed through the Digital Approval Platform • Introduced environmentally friendly paper cups across our operations to reduce waste • Established a framework and methodology for reporting the bank’s carbon footprint by 2020 Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 36 QNB Sustainability Governance, compliance Talent attraction, Diversity and Environmental impact Responsible procurement Report 2019 and risk management development and retention inclusion of operations and supply chain 4.5 Responsible procurement and supply chain We seek to manage operational, financial, aligning to group standards on sustainability, regulatory, and reputational risks associated quality and commerciality. At all times we with our supply chain and enhance our impact strive to procure goods and services that have on society by adopting responsible a lesser or reduced impact on the environment procurement practices. This means that we and our operations. adopt and apply the highest ethical standards on all procurement related transactions. In line 2019 progress with our TPRM we require all our suppliers to In Qatar, we continued to build on our respect human rights and establish a clean and expertise and best practice following the safe working environment for their employees. introduction of the new operational risk This includes not allowing forced labour, child management system and, we introduced a labour or discrimination, and paying comprehensive TPRM approach. This enables appropriate wages. When required, we engage us to effectively oversee each one of our and collaborate with suppliers to ensure diverse range of third-party suppliers and environmentally and socially sound practices. provides us with a comprehensive risk and Our procurement is aimed at supporting and performance assessment. developing local suppliers while at the same KPIs: Responsible procurement and 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 supply chain Local procurement spend (%) 84% 88% 94% 89% 86% Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 37 QNB Sustainability Community investment and Report 2019 socio-economic development 5. Beyond banking ‘Beyond banking’ refers to QNB’s Corporate Social Responsibility activities in the communities where we operate. Our ambition is to make a positive contribution towards wider society with an emphasis on education and financial literacy. In addition, we support and deliver a range of initiatives within our focus areas of social and humanitarian, arts and culture, health and environment, economic and international affairs, and sport. Contents: 5.1 Community investment and socio-economic development Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 38 QNB Sustainability Community investment and Report 2019 socio-economic development 5.1 Community investment and socio-economic development As a socially responsible and sustainable bank, including fundraising, keep-clean rallies, we believe that supporting the communities in financial education initiatives, mentoring and which we have a presence not only benefits training, coaching a children’s sports team and society, but also encourages the long-term even providing a warm meal to those less profitability and the stability of the company. fortunate. Our activities fall under six main Our work in society helps to stimulate and areas of focus. strengthen communities, creating new opportunities and bringing greater insight. Arts and culture Through the power of our people, our customers, services and products, QNB Group has an Our cultural heritage helps to define who we are unparalleled opportunity to make every and what we want to become. This year, we community we touch a better place. This, in were proud to add our support by: turn, helps us to create an even stronger brand • promoting our heritage: marking Qatar’s and deliver a better business performance. National Day, QNB employees took part in the Darb Al Sai celebrations to connect the Our people and CSR younger generation to their heritage through a series of interactive 3D experiences; Our goal is to enable economic and social • sponsoring our history: with our annual empowerment through our services across our support for the important and prestigious HH footprint, particularly in developing and the Amir Sword – Camel Race at Al emerging economies that are underserved by Shahaneya Racing club, we help to celebrate other banks. By helping individuals and Qatar’s rich heritage and history; companies achieve their aspirations, we help raise standards of living and encourage • encouraging economic growth: organised by communities to come together for good. This the Qatar Tourism Authority (QTA), our starts with our people. With around 80 different ongoing sponsorship of the Doha Jewellery & nationalities working together in more than 31 Watches Exhibition 2019 supported emerging countries across three continents, we are proud Qatari jewellery designers and promoted of our diversity. We work in an atmosphere of national economic growth; and mutual respect and support, and steadily apply • bringing music to the world: QNB the values that define the bank in our approach Finansbank was instrumental in supporting to doing business. All our employees are highly talented young Turkish musicians encouraged to participate in our CSR initiatives. raise their profile on the world stage. The Many choose to do so by contributing their time event was broadcast across Turkey and and expertise to worthy causes that the bank attracted a variety of celebrities who joined supports. Over the years, our volunteers have the concerts. supported a wide range of community projects, Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 39 QNB Sustainability Community investment and Report 2019 socio-economic development Health and environment detection screening. In Qatar, our employees handed out booklets and the Head Office was Promoting good health and improving our draped with a pink ribbon to mark Breast environment are two vitally important areas Cancer Awareness month; of community development for us. To further • ran Sustainability Week 2019: QNB these causes in 2019 we: participated in the annual Qatar • raised awareness about energy use: QNB was Sustainability Week 2019 and organised a diamond sponsor of the Tarsheed carnival multiple activities. New recycling bins were 2019 Kahramaa, organised by the Qatar installed across the bank’s offices and General Electricity and Water Corporation branches, low environmental impact food that raised awareness about the efficient use was provided to employees and electric/ of electricity and water consumption; hybrid vehicles were offered for test drives to • donated blood: employees from three of the employees; and bank’s Doha offices made a significant • encouraged sustainable power: QNB ALAHLI contribution to blood bank stocks at Hamad is playing a leading role in the Egyptian solar Hospital Blood Donor Centre. QNB Indonesia energy market by encouraging small and launched a similar initiative in partnership medium-scale solar developments. Particular with the Red Cross Indonesia; focus is given to integrating renewable Economic and international affairs Exhibition 2019 (QITCOM), under the • raised awareness about breast cancer: in energy in the industrial sectors, where QNB patronage of HH The Amir and organised by ALAHLI is proud to be the first bank in Egypt Financial empowerment is as important as Indonesia, our employees were encouraged to the Ministry of Transport and to finance an industrial rooftop solar enhancing our understanding of international participate at a workshop with cancer Communication. The international digital installation, generating 1MW at a bottling affairs when it comes to helping both survivors and a nutritionist, while women event showcases smart technology, industry plant in Sadat City. individuals and multinationals prosper. In were given a free check-up for earlyspecialists, key government decision-makers, 2019, we did this by: and innovative technologies. Our support • promoting localised service: by supporting highlights our commitment to introducing Qatar Petroleum’s Tawteen programme, new, innovative and cutting-edge technology launched by His Excellency Sheikh Abdullah solutions in Qatar; Bin Nasser Bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the Prime • relieving traffic congestion and placing QNB Minister and Minister of the Interior, we on the metro map: QNB signed a major helped to promote localisation for services agreement with Qatar Rail, Qatar’s Metro and industries in the energy sector; Station Company. As a result, one of the • supporting a knowledge-based economy: we prominent metro stations will be named sponsored ICC Qatar Trade Finance 2019 as ‘QNB Station’ in the new smart city of Lusail; part of our commitment to a knowledge• supporting Egypt’s digital economy: QNB based economy both in Qatar and elsewhere. ALAHLI sponsored Tech Invest 3 to build on We were the official sponsor of this Trade our partnership with FEDCOC and promote Finance training workshop under the ‘Investing in Egypt’s Future Digital patronage of Qatar Chamber and ICC Qatar Economy’; and chairman Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim Al• sponsoring Tunisia’s trade: QNB Tunisia was Thani; a diamond sponsor of the 21st International • showcasing smart technology: the bank was Forum of Maghreb Economists which focused the strategic sponsor of the Qatar on ‘Tunisia and the new world trade order’. Information Technology Conference & Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 40 QNB Sustainability Community investment and Report 2019 socio-economic development Social and humanitarian Our commitment to help build a better society, strengthen communities and contribute to a more sustainable world is unwavering. This year, we: • distributed winter clothing and heating equipment: as part of the Warm Winter Campaign, QNB Tunisia employees partnered with the Nabeul Rotary Club to distribute winter clothing and heating equipment to low-income families and students in the Nabeul Governorate; • raised awareness about blindness: working with the Qatar Social and Cultural Center for the Blind, we supported International White Cane Day to raise awareness about blindness and educate people about the basic skills to interact with those who have vision impairment; • distributed gifts to cancer patients: QNB Kuwait team visited the Hussain Makki Hospital and Cancer Center to give gifts to • partnered with the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF): the bank signed patients; and an exclusive four-year contract to support the organisation of the 17th IAAF World Championships, and to sponsor female athletes; • drew with children: as part of the series of Ramadan Gathering activities, QNB • sponsored the Asia Champions League: we supported the annual continental club football Indonesia implemented an employee competition organised by the Asian Football Confederation as part of our commitment to engagement activity with kids from SKK support significant sporting events in the country; Melati and ‘Let’s Draw Together’ community. • sponsored Qatar Stars League Management (QSLM): QNB supported the team that organises and manages the first division football championship in Qatar and the Qatar Cup in accordance Sport with the Qatar Football Association (QFA), FIFA and the AFC; and • promoted the Sultan Qaboos Cup for 2019: QNB Oman sponsored the Oman Football Sport provides a positive experience whether Association (OFA) to support football and the collaboration the sport brings in Oman. you are a participant or a spectator. It promotes a culture of cooperation, healthy competition, activity and fitness. This year, QNB: Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 41 QNB Sustainability Community investment and Report 2019 socio-economic development Youth and education Our future lies in the hands of our youth and in • Kidzania summer camp: teaching kids how to their education. This year we launched our open their own business at Kidzania world educational strategy and, as part of QNB Group’s and benefit from it for a more prosperous commitment to CSR, the Group is launching a future; long-term strategic financial educational plan as • Tiny hands are coding 2019: this campaign part of its support for the communities in which provided computer skills to 3,000 children it operates. Our goal is to educate children on from 8 to 14-years-old across 22 cities in financial values such as saving, spending and Turkey. It introduced them to programming sharing. Additionally, we aim to highlight to the and raised the awareness of code literacy; younger generation the importance of money • Hamad International Airport Eid campaign: management and investing concepts. This QNB handed out colouring stories for kids year’s campaign was entitled ‘Children are the that explained saving, spending and sharing future investors’ and main events included: as part of its awareness campaign at Hamad International Airport; and • Global Money Week: QNB organised a tour of 15 schools in Qatar and held a series of • TED success is everywhere: Increasing the lectures and activities on the theme ‘Save, academic success and cultural development Share, & Spend’. These activities encouraged of primary school children in Ankara and children to manage their money and plan to Adana. QNB worked with TED (Turkish ensure a stable financial future. Hosted in Education Association) and MEB (Ministry of Qatar National Library, campaign sought to National Education) to help schoolchildren develop and build the financial awareness succeed in tennis, basketball and volleyball and teach essential financial skills to prepare tournaments in Turkey. the younger generation for the financial challenges in the future; KPIs: Community investment 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total value of community investments (QR 359 329 365 403 445 million) Community investment as a percentage of 3.0% 2.5% 2.6% 2.7% 2.8% pre-tax profits (%) Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 42 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index 6. ESG data and further information To promote transparency in the banking sector we are committed to publicly disclosing our annual sustainability performance in accordance with the GRI Standards and QSE ‘Guidance on ESG Reporting’. From 2019 onwards we have also included a Communication on Progress index which will be an annual disclosure demonstrating our progress on implementation of the UNGC principles. Contents: 6.1 QNB sustainability performance summary (KPIs) 6.2 Qatar Stock Exchange ESG performance metrics 6.3 GRI Standards Content index 6.4 UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) index 6.5 Abbreviations Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 43 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index 6.1 QNB sustainability performance summary (KPIs) QNB Group sustainability performance summary QNB Group sustainability performance summary Continued Framework Material issue Key performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Framework Material issue Key performance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 pillar indicator pillar indicator Pre-tax profit (QR million) 12,002 13,343 14,055 15,018 15,643 Incidents of non-compliance with Sustainable Financial Net loans and advances to laws and regulations (number) 0 0 0 0 0 financial performance and customers (QR million) 388,292 520,417 584,319 617,125* 678,682 Total amount of legal and performance stability Cost-to-income ratio (%) 21.5% 30.4% 29.1% 25.8% 25.9% regulatory fines and settlements Loan-to-deposit ratio (%) 98.3% 102.7% 99.8% 99.3% 99.2% (QR million) 0 0 0 0 0 Products or services helping Governance, Confirmed incidents of bribery or customers to meet an compliance and corruption (number) 0 0 0 0 Sustainable risk management Board of Directors seats occupied environmental or social challenge investment, by independent directors (%) 30% 40% 40% 40% 40% (number) 10 18 21 23 lending, products Basel III Liquidity Coverage Lending portfolio financing and services Ratio (LCR) (%) 87% 85% 135% 124% 160% environmentally-friendly, low carbon activities (QR million) 7,373* 7,247 Capital Adequacy Ratio Credit facilities extended to micro (CAR) (%) 16.3% 16.0% 16.5% 19.0% 18.9% enterprises (QR million) 6,265 12,082 15,577 13,751 6,495 Employee engagement score Supporting (%, QNB Qatar and its Credit facilities extended to SMEs SMEs and international branches) N/A 53% 59% 56% 59% (QR million) 4,141 15,285 16,546 12,802 14,607 Sustainable entrepreneurship Lending portfolio financing micro Operations Talent attraction, Average training hours provided Sustainable development and per employee (number) 25.4 41.1 41.9 48.4 42.4 enterprises and SMEs (%) 2.7% 5.3% 5.5% 4.3% 3.1% Finance retention Employee turnover rate Digital innovation Digital transactions (online and (voluntary) (%) 4.7% 7.7% 9.2% 11.0%* 9.2% and mobile as a % of total) transformation 31.0 33.3 41.1 43.6 41.4 Grievances filed during reporting Responsible period (number) 205 588 610 736* 884 customer Non-performing loan ratio for Diversity and Female employment rate (%) 39% 48% 47% 48% 47% 1.4% 1.8% 1.8% 1.9% 1.9% communication lending (%) inclusion Women in senior management (%) 13% 16% 17% 18% 21% and marketing Energy intensity Data security breaches (number) 0 1 0 0 0 Customer privacy (GJ/ full-time employee) 28.8 32.1 31.4 29.9 31.0 Amount of fraudulent transaction and data security GHG emissions intensity (tonnes activity (QR million)14 2.6 3.3 4.2 2.3 2.8 Environmental CO2e/ full-time employee) 5.0 4.3 4.3 4.0 4.0 Customer Net promoter score Qatar (score impact of Water intensity experience from -100 to +100) 63 47 56 63 62 operations (m3/ full-time employee) 40.6 23.0 21.3* 22.4 31.4 Paper consumption intensity 14 Figures have been revised and restated these now consist of total net losses as a result of external fraud, card and non-card fraud only, versus prior year report which also (kg/ full-time employee) 66 85 67 63 47 included total QNB exposure to external fraud (including those for which QNB is not liable) Community *Figures have been revised and restated Beyond investment and Community investment as a 3.0% 2.5% 2.6% 2.7% 2.8% Banking socio-economic percentage of pre-tax profits (%) development Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 44 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index 6.2 Qatar Stock Exchange ESG performance metrics In 2016, the Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) QNB are committed to supporting QSE by QSE Environmental indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 subscribed to the United Nations Sustainable making ESG reporting a common practice Does the company publish and follow an No No No No No Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSEI) and throughout the Group and communicating our environmental policy? (Yes / No) committed to issuing voluntary guidelines for performance on the set of key performance Any legal or regulatory responsibility for an No No No No No the reporting of Environmental, Social, and indicators (KPIs) recommended within the environmental impact? (Yes / No) Governance (ESG) information by listed QSE guidance. In 2019, QNB actively engaged Energy intensity (GJ/ full time employee) 28.8 32.1 31.4 29.9 31.0 companies in Qatar. The QSE ‘Guidance to ESG and participated in the QSE and FTSE Russel Total amount of energy used (GJ) 216,072 654,593 689,758 664,860 467,238 Reporting’ were released in 2017, and in 2018 Smart Sustainability Forum, in line with our Total volume of water recycled / reused (m3) 0 0 0 0 0 QSE launched the ‘Qatar Stock Exchange continued efforts to be a leading advocate on Total waste produced (kg) 135,467 221,547 Sustainability and ESG Dashboard’ this topic in Qatar. Total greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2e) 37,299 88,287 94,709 89,943 64,668 (http://qse.arabsustainability.com), to encourage Below is QNB Group’s performance against the listed companies to disclose their ESG Renewable energy used (%) 0 0 0 0 0 QSE ESG indicators. performance data and improve transparency. Primary source of energy Electricity Electricity Electricity Electricity Electricity Total water use (m3) 304,215 469,403 467,935 498,182 385,524 QSE Social indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Does the company prohibit the use of child or forced Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes QSE Governance indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 labor throughout the supply chain? (Yes / No) Number of grievances about human rights issues filed, Disclosure of the voting results of the latest AGM 0 0 0 0 0 (Yes / No) No No No Yes Yes addressed and resolved Total number of injuries and fatal accidents CEO pay ratio 13.5 30.0 0 0 0 0 0 (employees) Median male salary to median female salary 1.07 1.07 Total number of injuries and fatal accidents Does the company publish and follow a Supplier 0 0 0 0 0 (contractors) Code of Conduct? (Yes / No) No No No No No Total number of injuries and fatal accidents Role separation of Chairman and CEO (Yes / No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 0 0 0 0 0 (employees and contractors) Independent directors on the Board (%) 30% 40% 40% 40% 40% Disclosure and adherence to a Human Rights Policy? Female directors on the Board (%) 0 0 0 0 0 No No No No No (Yes / No) Executive compensation linked to performance Employee turnover rate (%) 4.7% 7.7% 9.2% 11.0% 9.2% indicators (Yes / No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Total workforce (number) 15,200 28,000 28,000 30,000 29,000 Does the company publish and follow an Ethics Nationalisation rate (%) 15 52% 52% 54% 54% 55% Code of Conduct? (Yes / No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Spending on locally-based suppliers (%) 16 84% 88% 94% 89% 86% Sustainability or CSR report published. (Yes / No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Employee wages and benefits (QR thousand) 551 997 943 912 960 Third-party assurance of non-financial Average hours of training per employee (hours) 25.4 41.1 41.9 48.4 42.4 information (Yes / No) No No No No No Women in the workforce (%) 39% 48% 47% 48% 47% Does the company publish and follow a Bribery/ Anti-Corruption Code? (Yes / No) No No Yes Yes Yes Does the company publish and follow a policy for No No No No No occupational and global health issues? (Yes / No) Note: Data in this table covers QNB Group unless otherwise stated Pre-tax profits invested in the community (%) 3.0% 2.5% 2.6% 2.7% 2.8% 15 Qatar only 16 Data not available for QNB Qatar and its international branches Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 45 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index 6.3 GRI Standards Content Index GRI GRI Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 102-18 Governance structure 2.2 Sustainability governance GRI 102: General disclosures Refer to QNB 2019 Corporate 102-19 Delegating authority 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover page Governance Report 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 1.3 QNB at a glance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 2.2 Sustainability governance environmental and social topics 102-3 Location of headquarters Doha, Qatar 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-4 Location of operations 1.3 QNB at a glance 2.3 Stakeholder engagement environmental and social topics Refer to QNB 2019 Annual 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Report body and its committees 102-6 Markets served 1.3 QNB at a glance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 102-7 Scale of the organisation 1.3 QNB at a glance Orgnaisational profile 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 4.2 Talent attraction, governance body 102-8 Information on employees development and retention Refer to QNB 2019 Corporate 102-25 Conflicts of interest 4.5 Responsible procurement Governance Report and QNB 102-9 Supply chain 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 2019 Annual Report and supply chain purpose, values, and strategy 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and 4.5 Responsible procurement 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest Governance its supply chain and supply chain governance body 4.1 Governance, compliance 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s and risk management performance 2.5 External commitments 102-12 External initiatives 2.6 ESG reporting and 2.1 QNB sustainability disclosures framework and strategy 2.2 Sustainability governance 2.5 External commitments 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 102-13 Membership of associations 2.6 ESG reporting and environmental, and social impacts 2.4 Materiality assessment disclosures 2.5 External commitments 1.2 Message from Chairman 2.6 ESG reporting and 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker and Group CEO disclosures 2.1 QNB sustainability Refer to QNB 2019 Corporate Strategy 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management framework and strategy Governance Report and QNB 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities processes 2.2 Sustainability governance 2019 Annual Report 2.5 External commitments 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and 2.2 Sustainability governance 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of 4.1 Governance, compliance social topics 2.4 Materiality assessment Ethics behavior and risk management and 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 2.2. Sustainability 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 4.1 Governance, compliance integrity sustainability reporting governance ethics and risk management Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 46 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index GRI GRI Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions 102-33 Communicating critical concerns GRI 200: Economic Standards Refer to QNB 2019 Corporate 102-35 Remuneration policies GRI 201 Economic Performance Governance Report and QNB Governance 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Annual Report 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration boundary 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 6.2 Qatar Stock Exchange Economic103-2 The management approach and its Refer to QNB 2019 Annual ESG performance metrics components performance Report 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 13.5 to 30 = 230% compensation ratio 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2.3 Stakeholder engagement distributed QNB allows freedom of GRI 204: Procurement practices Stakeholder 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements association and collective 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 4.5 Responsible procurement bargaining boundaries and supply chain engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2.3 Stakeholder engagement Procurement 103-2 The management approach and its 4.5 Responsible procurement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2.3 Stakeholder engagement components and supply chain practices 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2.3 Stakeholder engagement 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 1.1 About this report 4.5 Responsible procurement 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Refer to QNB 2019 and supply chain financial statements GRI 205: Anti-corruption Annual Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 1.1 About this report boundary boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 2.4 Materiality assessment 103-2 The management approach and its Anti-corruption Indicated as and when components 102-48 Restatements of information 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Refer to QNB 2019 Corporate required Reporting practice Indicated as and when 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Governance Report and QNB 102-49 Changes in reporting corruption 2019 Annual Report required 102-50 Reporting period 1.1 About this report 205-2 Communication and training about 102-51 Date of most recent report 1.1 About this report anticorruption policies and procedures 102-52 Reporting cycle 1.1 About this report 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 1.1 About this report the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 1.1 About this report the GRI Standards 6.3 GRI Standards Content 102-55 GRI content index Index All financial data is subject to 102-56 External assurance external assurance Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 47 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index GRI GRI Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions GRI 300 Environmental Standards GRI 305: Emissions GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Not available 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Not available boundary 103-2 The management approach and its Not available Materials 103-2 The management approach and its components Not available components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available 4.4 Environmental 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 4.4 Environmental impact of operations 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume impact of operations 4.4 Environmental 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GRI 302: Energy impact of operations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Not available Not available boundary 4.4 Environmental 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 103-2 The management approach and its impact of operations Not available components GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Not available 302-1 Energy consumption within the 4.4 Environmental boundary organisation impact of operations Environmental 103-2 The management approach and its Energy Not available 302-2 Energy consumption outside the components Not available Compliance organisation 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available 4.4 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 302-3 Energy intensity Not available impact of operations and regulations 4.4 Environmental GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption impact of operations 4.5 Responsible 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Not available procurement and supply boundary Supplier Environmental products and services chain GRI 303: Water and Effluents 4.5 Responsible 103-2 The management approach and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its procurement and supply Not available components boundary chain Assessment 103-2 The management approach and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available Water Not available components 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Not available 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available environmental criteria 4.4 Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Not available impact of operations supply chain and actions taken Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 48 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index GRI GRI Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions GRI 400 Social standards GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 4.3 Diversity and 4.2 Talent attraction, boundary inclusion 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Diversity and Equal development and 103-2 The management approach and its 4.3 Diversity and boundary retention components inclusion 4.2 Talent attraction, 4.3 Diversity and 103-2 The management approach and its 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach development and inclusion Opportunity components retention 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 4.3 Diversity and 4.2 Talent attraction, employees inclusion Employment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach development and 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 4.3 Diversity and retention women to men inclusion 4.2 Talent attraction, GRI 413: Local communities 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover development and 5.1 Community retention 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its investment and socio401-2 Benefits provided to fulltime employees that boundary Refer to QNB 2019 economic development are not provided to temporary or part-time Local communities Annual Report 5.1 Community employees 103-2 The management approach and its investment and socio4.2 Talent attraction, components economic development 401-3 Parental leave development and 5.1 Community retention 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach investment and socioGRI 404: Training and education economic development 4.2 Talent attraction, 413-1 Operations with local community 5.1 Community 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its development and engagement, impact assessments and investment and socioboundary retention development programmes economic development 4.2 Talent attraction, GRI 414: Supplier social assessments 103-2 The management approach and its development and components 3.5 Responsible customer retention 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Training and education communication and Supplier social assessment 4.2 Talent attraction, boundary experience 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach development and 3.5 Responsible customer retention 103-2 The management approach and its communication and 4.2 Talent attraction, components 404-1 Average hours of training per year per experience development and employee 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Not available retention 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 4.2 Talent attraction, Not available 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills social criteria development and and transition assistance programmes 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain retention Not available and actions taken 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 4.2 Talent attraction, performance and career development development and reviews retention Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 49 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index GRI Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions GRI Standard Disclosure number and title Reference Omissions GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 3.5 Responsible customer GRI Guidelines versions G4 – Financial services sector disclosures 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its FS1 Policies with specific environmental and 3.1 Sustainable financing communication and boundary social components applied to business lines solutions experience 3.5 Responsible customer FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening 3.1 Sustainable financing Product portfolio 103-2 The management approach and its environmental and social risks in business lines solutions communication and components Marketing and labeling experience FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines 3.2 Supporting SMEs and 3.5 Responsible customer by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) entrepreneurship 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach communication and and by sector experience FS8 Monetary value of products and services 3.5 Responsible customer designed to deliver a specific environmental 3.1 Sustainable financing 417-1 Requirements for product and service benefit four each business line broken down solutions communication and information and labelling by purpose experience 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 3.3. Financial inclusion, FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial product and service information and Not available accessibility and Active ownership services for disadvantaged people labelling education 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 3.5 Responsible customer Not available FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of marketing communications communication and financial products and services GRI 418: Customer privacy experience 3.4 Data security and 3.3. Financial inclusion, FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by customer privacy accessibility and 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its type of beneficiary 3.5 Responsible customer education boundary communication and experience 3.4 Data security and Customer privacy customer privacy 103-2 The management approach and its 3.5 Responsible customer components communication and experience 3.4 Data security and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach customer privacy 3.4 Data security and 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning customer privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of 3.5 Responsible customer customer data communication and experience Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 50 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index 6.4 UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) index Main Main Category Principle Relevant Section in the Report/Disclosure/Policy Category Principle Relevant Section in the Report/Disclosure/Policy Principle 1: Principle 4: 2019 Sustainability Report 2.5 External commitments 2019 Sustainability Report Businesses should uphold the 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures 2.5 External commitments elimination of all forms of 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures forced and compulsory labor Other publically available documents Businesses should support and 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management QNB Sustainablity Policy respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Other publicly available documents human rights Reference to our Code of Conduct is included in our 2019 Principle 5: Corporate Governance Report 2019 Sustainability Report Orgnaisational profile 2.5 External commitments QNB Sustainablity Policy 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Other publically available documents QNB Sustainablity Policy Labor Principle 2: Principle 6: 2019 Sustainability Report 2.5 External commitments 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures 2019 Sustainability Report 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management 2.5 External commitments Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures Other publically available documents 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management rights abuses Businesses should uphold the Reference to our Code of Conduct is included in our 2019 4.3 Diversity and inclusion Corporate Governance Report elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Other publically available documents QNB Sustainablity Policy occupation Reference to our Code of Conduct is included in our 2019 Corporate Governance Report Principle 3: QNB Sustainablity Policy Businesses should uphold the Labor freedom of association and the QNB allows freedom of association and collective bargaining effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 51 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index Main Main Category Principle Relevant Section in the Report/Disclosure/Policy Category Principle Relevant Section in the Report/Disclosure/Policy Principle 7: Principle 10: 2019 Sustainability Report 2.5 External commitments 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures 2019 Sustainability Report Businesses should support a 3.1 Sustainable financing solutions 4.1 Governance, compliance and risk management precautionary approach to 4.4 Environmental impact of operations 4.2 Talent attraction, development and retention environmental challenges 4.5 Responsible procurement and supply chain GRI: 205-2 Communication and training about antiAnti-Corruption Other publically available documents corruption policies and procedures QNB Sustainablity Policy Businesses should work against Other publically available documents corruption in all its forms, Principle 8: Reference to our Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy is including extortion and bribery included in our 2019 Corporate Governance Report 2019 Sustainability Report Reference to our Code of Conduct is included in our 2019 2.5 External commitments Corporate Governance Report 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures 3.1 Sustainable financing solutions QNB Sustainablity Policy Businesses should undertake 4.4 Environmental impact of operations initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Other publically available documents QNB Sustainablity Policy Environment QNB Green, Social and Sustainability Bond Framework Principle 9: 2019 Sustainability Report 2.5 External commitments Businesses should encourage 2.6 ESG reporting and disclosures the development and diffusion 3.1 Sustainable financing solutions of environmentally friendly 4.4 Environmental impact of operations technologies Other publically available documents QNB Sustainablity Policy Introduction and QNB’s approach to Sustainable Sustainable Beyond ESG data and further business overview sustainability finance operations banking information 52 QNB Sustainability QNB sustainability performance  Qatar Stock Exchange ESG  GRI Standards UNGC Communication on Abbreviations Report 2019 summary (KPIs) performance metrics Content Index Progress (COP) index 6.5 Abbreviations AGM: Annual General Meeting LDP: Leadership Development Programme AML: Anti-Money Laundering LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design BRSA: Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (Turkey) MDP: Management Development Programme CAR: Capital Adequacy Ratio MEA: Middle East and Africa CBE: Central Bank of Egypt MEASEA: Middle East, Africa and South East Asia CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project MSMEDA: Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Agency CGC: Credit Guarantee Company MW: Megawatt CRS: Common Reporting Standard NPL: Non-Performing Loan CSAQ: Compliance Self-Awareness Questionnaire NPS: Net Promoter Score CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility QBIC: Qatar Business Incubator Centre CTF: Combating Terrorism Financing QCB: Qatar Central Bank DTSME: Ministry of Transport and Communication’s Digital Transformation of SMEs QDB: Qatar Development Bank EBRD: European Bank for Reconstruction & Development QFMA: Qatar Financial Markets Authority EES: Employee Engagement Survey QITCOM: Qatar Information Technology Conference & Exhibition EGP: Egyptian Pound QNV2030: Qatar National Vision 2030 EMF: European Mutual Fund QR: Qatari Riyal ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance QSE: Qatar Stock Exchange ESRM: Environmental and Social Risk Management System QTA: Qatar Tourism Authority EU: European Union PEP: Personal Effectiveness Programme FATCA: Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act PSD2: Payment Services Directive FEDCOC: Federation of Egyptian Chambers of Commerce RTS: Regulatory Technical Standards GBACC: Group Board Audit and Compliance Committee SC: Strategy Committee GBNRGPC: Group Board Nomination, Remuneration, Governance and Policies Committee SDP: Supervisory Development Programme GBRC: Group Board Risk Committee SME: Small and medium-sized enterprise GDPR: General Data Protection Regulation SOC: Service Operations Centre GEFF: Green Economy Financing Facility TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures GHG: Greenhouse Gas Emissions TPPs: Third-Party Providers GJ: Gigajoule TPRM: Third-Party Risk Management GRI: Global Reporting Initiative TRY: Turkish Lira ICMA: International Capital Markers Association UNGC: United Nations Global Compact KPIs: Key Performance Indicators UNPRI: United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment kWh: Kilowatt hour UNSDG: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals L&D: Learning and Development UNSSEI: United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative LCR: Liquidity Coverage Ratio USD: United States Dollar Qatar National Bank (Q.P.S.C.) P.O. Box 1000, Doha, Qatar Tel: +974 4440 7211 Fax: +974 4400 7687 qnb.com
