FRIGOKEN LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 2019WWW.FRIGOKEN.COM Frigoken Limited is committed to supporting the 10 principles of the UN Global compact: human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anticorruption. This annual COP reflects the company’s commitment to supporting the UNGC. It highlights the actions that Frigoken undertakes to integrate the Global Compact and its principles as well as the Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) into the business's strategy and operations. The company actively addresses 11 of the 17 SDGs. Frigoken commits to sharing this information with its stakeholders. This communication progress report covers the period of the year 2019. STATEMENT Mr. Karim Dostmohamed General Manager OF SUPPORT Frigoken Limited CONT E NT ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT CONTACT INFORMATION STATEMENT OF SUPPORT ABOUT US SUSTAINABLE FARMING OUR PEOPLE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING GOVERNANCE INVESTING IN TOMORROW'S LEADERS ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT In January 2016, Frigoken Limited (FKL) committed to the UN Global Compact. This commitment supports the ten principles as defined by the four key tenets of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption as well as providing annual communication on progress emphasising on the importance of public accountability and transparency. CONTACT INFORMATION Company name: Frigoken Limited Sector: Agribusiness Number of employees: 3000 UNGC signatory since: 2016 Contact Person: Nushin Ghassmi; nushin.ghassmi@ipskenya.com Physical Location: Baba Dogo along Baba Dogo Road. Email: frigoken@frigoken.com ABOUT US Established in 1989, Frigoken Limited (FKL) is one of the largest vertically integrated export oriented horticultural processors in East Africa. Frigoken aims to be a global leader of choice for the supply of premium horticultural produce, specializing in value added and niche market products while forging a better future for local small scale farmers. Frigoken is a part of the agro and food processing sector of IPS, which is the industrial and infrastructure development arm of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN) a group of private, international, nondenominational development organization that works towards improving the welfare and prospects of people living in the developing world. SUSTAINABLE FARMING UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technologies Frigoken engages thousands of small-scale farmers in its value chain. Frigoken's model (refer to diagram below) is to source raw material from local farmers. As part of the model, farmers only farm a portion of their land for Frigoken produce and farmers are encouraged to continue subsistence farming and other cash crops, promoting self-reliance and increased incomes. FKL works with farmers to employ good agricultural practices that promote the efficient use and preservation of natural resources without negatively impacting the environment. SUSTAINABLE FARMING The impact of climate change WATER continues to impact small-scale farmers, who depend heavily on rainfed agriculture. Infrequent rains and extreme weather conditions have resulted in reduced crop yields and in turn, household incomes. FKL's extension services provided to farmers promotes the sustainable and efficient use of water. In 2019, over 300 field employees and farmers were trained on simple, effective and affordable methods of rain water harvesting. The company works hand-in-hand with the farmers and like-minded partners to tailor make solutions, ranging from both community and individual irrigation interventions such as furrows, wells, communal pumps and drip irrigation. IMPROVING WATER ACCESSIBILITY In 2018, FKL partnered with the Netherlands Development Organization (SNV) and the local farming communities in Kirinyaga to improve and expand an existing piping project to support irrigation needs . The project construction was finalized at the end of 2019 and is being operated and managed by the local community, providing over 100 farmers access to water for farming. In 2019, FKL embarked on a similar project targeting 50 farmers in Subukia, which is currently under construction. WATER PANS In collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, FKL implements a Water Pan project to promote water harvesting and storage. This project promotes use of an affordable and accessible solution for farmers in the form of UV-treated polythene lined pans. To date, 11,321 water pans have been distributed to over 8,700 farmers. SUSTAINABLE FARMING AGRO-FORESTRY SOIL INTERVENTIONS Land degradation and its impacts on crop yield and Maintaining the balance between quality of produce is a growing concern for farmers. conservation and farming, Frigoken FKL's initiatives that help farmers improve soil fertility encourages its out growers to entail training farmers on composting and using adopt agro-forestry techniques as manure. an integral part of farm In 2018, FKL piloted an innovative biochar management. To date, 3.5m trees programme, using rice husks, manure from a local pig have been planted, improving soil farm and stinging nettle. Biochar not only fertility and providing fodder, food supplement soil with nutrients, but also enable the and fuel for rural communities. In soil to retain them. The pilot showed an improvement 2018, FKL's agroforestry programme in plant vigor, height and leaf dimensions. In 2019, targeted the Embu region in Kenya. phase 2 of the programme was implemented, which 20 extension staff were trained on focused on scaling to include more farmers and tree seedling nursery set-up and planting units; a total of 145,000 kilograms of biochar management. Seedlings grown has been distributed to almost 2000 planting units. were then distributed to local Results from the first two phases has shown an farmers to plant and grow on their increase in yield by over 20%. The intervention will farms; 50,000+ fodder and fruit continue to be scaled and monitored in 2020. seedlings were distributed. In 2019, In partnership with COLEACP and Crop Nuts, a soil 17,500 Hass avocado seedlings analysis was undertaken in the various areas where were distributed to over 5000 French Beans are grown. Based on these results, 15 farmers in the Muranga and demonstration plots of improved practices were set Kirinyaga regions. The high-value up, which are currently ongoing with results expected crop not only offers the benefits of early 2020. agroforestry, but a source of income from the fruits. OUR PEOPLE UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights: Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Frigoken operates in both rural and urban environments, promoting employment for the local community. Frigoken adheres to the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which is guided by the principles from the Internal Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). In 2019, FKL successfully underwent the BSCI audit and has already closed all improvement recommendations. As part of Frigoken's 30 year celebrations, over 130 employees were recognized for serving the company for more than 15 years. OUR PEOPLE PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES CREATING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Over 80% of Frigoken’s employees at the processing plant Human Rights are women, most of whom reside in the surrounding We support and respect the protection of community, providing a supplementary income for internationally proclaimed human rights households. The company recognises the challenges and ensure we are not complicit in any working women face, child care being a major one. Thus, human rights abuses. FKL established an onsite child care facility; a unique service in the region. With a large workforce, and a limited Labour Being the first company in Kenya to be capacity at the crèche, FKL partnered with the Aga Khan certified as Child Labour free by the Foundation and Daraja to enhance more than 12 local Federation of Kenya Employers, we child care facilities to improve the quality of care. Frigoken take a strong stance against child staff also have access to an onsite cafeteria, sick bay and labour, forced or compulsory labour. clinic. Furthermore, approximately 50% of the farmers engaged No Discrimination in Frigoken’s value chain are women. Frigoken has a strict We provide equal opportunities and do no discrimination policy, promoting gender equality in not discriminate against workers. the workplace and supply chain. In 2019, no cases of discrimination were reported. Worker's Association We respect the right of workers to form unions or other kinds of worker's associations and to engage in collective bargaining. Fair Renumeration We respect the right of our employees to receive fair renumeration No Precarious Employment Over 1000 people are We hire our employees on the basis of directly employed in the documented contracts according to the law. rural communities that FKL sources its raw material from OUR PEOPLE PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FKL promotes professional development for employees through both internal and external skill enhancing trainings across different departments. In 2019, in addition to department-specific skill trainings, sessions were held on health and safety, ethics and code of conduct, discrimination, fair remuneration, working hours, effective water usage, first aid, waste management, team work, emergency procedures and fire safety, grievance mechanisms & child labour. 2019 ACTIVITIES & ACHIEVEMENTS Over 200 trainings conducted for employees across all departments Maintained compliance and adhered to BSCI requirements, closed all improvement recommendations. No cases of child or forced labour reported 100% of employee grievances closed Maintained effective relationship with Union, of which 100% of permanent employees are members of. Over 15 internships provided to youth across various departments HEALTH AND WELL-BEING UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights: Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. HEALTH & SAFETY Creating a healthy and safe workplace is essential for the company. FKL, therefore, has a comprehensive Health and Safety Programme in place, guided by local and international standards. The programme is managed by the Health and Safety committee, consisting of various levels of management from different departments. The committee plans, actions, and evaluates health and safety. Key performance indicators are regularly monitored and staff are continuously trained on health and safety. Any visitors or contractors to the facility are also provided with a health and safety induction and relevant Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). HEALTH AND WELL-BEING WORKPLACE WELLNESS COMMUNITY WELLNESS The Workplace Wellness Programme promotes Frigoken cares about all the communities it the health and wellbeing of employees in three is part of, from the various out grower areas: physical health, psycho-social health & communities to the local community financial wellbeing. The programme is run by surrounding FKL's processing facility. Health peer-educators, employees who are trained outreaches and community interventions and passionate about wellness. Through the vary across these communities. In 2019, FKL programme, wellness information sessions are partnered with a local hospital in Meru, conducted as well as onsite health camps for Cottelongo Mission Hospital, for a medical employees, by partnering with local health care screening camp for small-scale farmers, providers. To date, over 50 health outreaches providing services for blood pressure, blood have been conducted for employees. In 2019, sugar, HIV/AIDs, cervical cancer and family the programme was informed using data from planning. the onsite sick bay and sick-off analysis. Addressing the health issues raised from this resulted in a 9% decrease in sick days off and a 22% decrease of pneumonia cases and an 18% decrease of malaria cases the two most 2019 ACTIVITIES AND common illnesses among staff. In 2018, FKL engaged a counselor once a week for staff to ACHIEVEMENTS have one-on-one sessions with or group 4 health and safety audits conducted, counselling. in 2019, 227 employees had 9 committee meetings, 1 external counseling sessions. Two years in to this health and safety training conducted programme, the counsellor has reported and over 50 internal health and safety reduced stress levels, increased awareness and trainings held for all employees. improved self-esteem among staff. 2 onsite medical camps held for employees, screening for blood pressure, blood sugar, vision testing and dental check ups; 333 staff screened. 15 health information sessions conducted for staff resulting in a 9% decrease in sick days off and a 22% decrease of pneumonia cases and an 18% decrease of malaria cases Increased uptake of onsite weekly counselling services for employees; 227 one-on-one sessions conducted. 1 medical camp conducted for farmers; 212 farmers screened. ENVIRONMENT UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technologies Frigoken is conscious of its operations and practices and the impacts it could have on the environment and has in place an Environmental Management System that is guided by local regulations and ISO 14001:2004. ENVIRONMENT FKL is committed to increasing resource efficiency in its operations, water being a primary concern. Through the water management programme, WATER EFFICIENCY local regulations regarding water usage and water waste are strictly adhered to and water audits are undertaken to identify opportunities for improved efficiency. The company conducts monthly testing of effluents, ensuring that they are within the stipulated requirements. Additionally, the companies internal water reuse system uses waste water from processing for the washroom facilities, where over 60% of water used for vegetable washing is recycled. In 2019, these efforts continued to include recycling of water used for cooling, resulting in a 28% consumption reduction annually. ENERGY MANAGEMENT 2019 ACTIVITIES FKL is committed to resource and energy efficiency and adheres to all regulations & ACHIEVEMENTS stipulating energy and resource usage. Since 2015, FKL has had two comprehensive Frigoken was recognized for the second investment-grade energy audits and has year in a row at the Kenya Association of implemented several initiatives to reduce and Manufacturer’s Energy Management optimize energy usage, implemented by and Awards as the Winner for the medium Energy Management Committee. In 2019, consumer fuel-saving category. energy management initiatives included light retrofits, boiler optimization and installing Increased waste diverted from landfills volatage optimizers. by 5% compared to 2018; currently 93% of the company's waste is diverted, surpassing the company's target of 90%. WASTE MANAGEMENT Through a comprehensive Waste Since 2018, there has been a 9% Management System (WMS), FKL is reduction in waste to landfill. committed to ensuring waste is disposed of 11 trainings held for employees related to properly, reducing negative impacts to the waste, water and energy management. environment and surrounding community. The company complies with ISO14001:2004. The WMS ensures correct handling and separation of waste and as much as possible, reusing and recycle wastes to reduce the amount of solid waste going to landfills. GOVERNANCE UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Anti Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Operating in an ethical and accountable manner is a core value for Frigoken, hence subscribes to the principles of BSCI. Additionally in 2017, FKL became a voluntary member of The Blue Company Project. This project is an initiative of volunteer corporations and institutions who have the public interest at heart with the objective of encouraging companies to fight corruption in all its forms. The company continues to maintain membership to this initiative. There were no cases of bribery or corruption reported in 2019. INVESTING IN TOMORROW'S LEADERS UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights: Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Childcare at the The company has an onsite crèche facility for children aged workplace 6 months to 3 years, that incorporates the principles of Early Childhood Development (ECD), recognizing the gap of quality childcare and ECD services within the community. ECD trained carers at the crèche also conduct trainings and information sessions for parents on the principles of ECD and how to practice them at home, how to use locally available materials to create learning and play materials and nutrition and hygiene. To date, 136 children have graduated from the programme. INVESTING IN TOMORROW'S LEADERS YOUNG FARMERS Frigoken’s Young Farmers project aims to secure food production for the years to come by complementing agricultural programmes in schools with practical learning. Kitchen garden in the school premises are set up as demonstration areas. Members of the company’s field team then provide trainings to the students. In 2019, 526 students across 5 schools participated in the programme. They were trained on making compost, nursery establishment, avocado growing, transplanting and irrigation. They also looked after their kitchen gardens where they grew kale, spinach, coriander and other vegetables. CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 2019 ACTIVITIES FKL believes in investing in tomorrow’s & ACHIEVEMENTS leaders by providing a diverse range of Creche: opportunities for young graduates looking for experience. Through it's internship and 136 graduates to date, 13 graduates in graduate management programmes, FKL 2018 provide hands on experience in a wide range of fields, from agriculture to engineering. Young Farmers: Expanding the reach of the programme to 526 students, from 300 in 2018. SUPPLEMENTING FEEDING Employment opportunities for youth: PROGRAMMES 15 attachments and 4 internships provided to youth in production, Frigoken supplements feeding programmes engineering and finance. of local schools and homes with horticultural produce. In 2019, Frigoken supported 4 homes and 1 school, providing a Feeding Programme: total of 3,968 kilograms of vegetables, 3,968 crates of vegetables provided to 5 increasing the nutritional content of meals local homes and schools provided. FRIGOKEN LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WWW.FRIGOKEN.COM
