United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress For the period from 25th January, 2019 to 30th March, 2020 1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Oxford Policy Management Limited (OPM) committed to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on 25th January, 2018. I am pleased to confirm that OPM reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In accordance with UNGC’s subsidiary policy, this commitment applies to (i) Oxford Policy Management Limited, our parent company, (ii) our UK and foreign subsidiaries and our branch offices. It remains OPM’s mission to help lowand middle-income countries to achieve growth and reduce poverty and disadvantage through public policy reform. We enable low and middle-income governments to bring about lasting positive change using analytical and practical policy expertise. 2. Executive Summary OPM has built steadily on the foundations laid last year in terms of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The ten principles are integrated into our business and strategy planning. We have continued to strengthen our risk management approach, and added to the Enterprise Risk Management Framework a Policy Management Framework to support transparent and effective policy governance across the OPM group. We are keen to support our staff in their working lives. We have introduced an Employee Assistance Programme for our UK operatons and also provided training to a group of staff volunteers in ‘Mental Health First Aid’. This group are now our ‘Wellbeing Champions’ to encourage and support wellbeing across the organisation on an ongoing basis. We have had a strong focus this past year on updating and strengthening our due diligence processes, and are planning a supply chain audit later in the calendar year. We have updated our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy to better reflect our ways of working across OPM, and our commitment to ensure our impact is positive on the communities we work both in and with. We have provided more detailed information below on the steps taken by OPM during the period under review around Human Rights, Labour Standards, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. © Oxford Policy Management 1 Document title In delivering services to our clients we seek positive impacts in wider spheres, and are keen to add to the global debate by delivering thought leadership and contributing to the evidence base around the UN’s goals. See Section 4 ‘Contributing to UN Goals’ for examples of our and publications. 3. Description of Actions Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Safeguarding • Safeguarding continues to be a priority. To further consolidate the strengthening work outlined in the previous Communication on Progress, we are in the process of recruiting a specialist Safeguarding Officer. We continue to review frameworks and improve them wherever possible. • OPM continues to be a member of the Keeping Children Safe network (KCS) and the Safeguarding Leads Network (SLN). KCS have organised two in-house workshops for OPM managers with extra safeguarding responsibilities, and a member of our Legal Team has attended one of their conferences. • Safeguarding training continues to be mandatory for all new OPM staff, and the next round of annual training will be released imminently. • We are in the process of establishing an internal audit framework to ensure safeguarding process compliance by Project Managers. Data protection • Our Data Protection framework remains in use and is being adapted to international jurisdictions as OPM grows its global footprint, with particular emphasis on Australia, the European Union, and the USA. • Data processing registers are regularly updated to ensure continued oversight of our data processing. • Our IT Team has undertaken a review of existing data security measures. Planned developments include an increased use of the MS365 Data Compliance Centre, to ensure that we have enhanced control over individual documents even once they have been shared externally. Modern Slavery • We have completed our annual anti-slavery and human trafficking risk assessment, and our risk remains ’low’. • Following a detailed Modern Slavery audit by the UK Government Cabinet Office, we have updated OPM’s Anti-slavery and Human Trafficking Policy, and have in place an eight-point annual action plan. • We are undertaking a thorough supply chain mapping and supplier audit exercise to review the practices of our key suppliers. © Oxford Policy Management 2 Document title Ethical training • All staff have received ethical training across seven modules, with some managers required to take a further three to provide them with more detailed information as required by their area of responsibility. We review and update all training courses before posting the refresher requirements. • We run quarterly reports to verify staff compliance with our training suite. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. General Working Practices • OPM has a Staff Consultative Committee (SCC) which actively supported number of business activities over the past year including facilitating discussions and supporting organisation-wide activities that affect staff. The Committee has recently undergone a nominations process and democratic elections for new members. • We have provided Mental Health First Aid training to 17 staff members, who have now formed a Wellbeing Champions network to support and signpost staff on wellbeing issues. The Wellbeing Champions have led a number of company-wide initiatives to promote wellbeing, including coffee mornings, drop-ins, trips and events. • To assist with work-life balance we have implemented an option for staff to end their working week a little earlier than on other working days. • We recently ran a Staff Engagement Survey in which all OPM contracted staff were invited to participate. This is enabling us to identify areas to celebrate, and prioritise challenges to address so we further develop an engaged and motivated workforce. Diversity • The OPM Diversity and Inclusion Committee (D&IC), which has representation from Board level down, was reconstituted this year. It continues to meet regularly and push new initiatives, and has recently completed research into legally protected characteristics across the jurisdictions in which OPM has permanent offices. Working closely with the HR team, the D&IC support the organisation in working to incorporate Diversity and Inclusion principles and jurisdiction specific elements into our ways of working. • OPM has published its gender pay gap report, and we continue to review our processes to ensure that they are inclusive and fair. We have recently appointed a female Chief Executive Officer. • We have provided unconscious bias and harassment in the workplace training for senior management. Exploration of delivering similarly themed e-learning training to the global workforce is underway with a focus on making sure it is appropriate to all of the locations in which OPM works. © Oxford Policy Management 3 Document title • OPM Global HR has been refreshing our contract templates to ensure we continue to adhere to local labour standards and continue to be fair employer globally. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Environmental Responsibility • OPM demonstrates its commitment to reducing its environmental impact by continuously monitoring all environmental aspects, proactively setting environmental objectives and engaging with staff through regular communications and sustainability initiatives. ISO 140001 certification • Our EMS continues to meet the requirements of the ISO14001 2015 as confirmed by the latest external audit that took place in March 2020. • In the last year we have improved our leadership commitment and staff engagement through Environmental Sustainability Committee. In the next year will be focusing on carbon tracking and off-setting, and improving environmental reporting. Staff Education and Engagement • OPM's staff-led Environmental Sustainability Committee continues to hold regular quarterly meetings to discuss OPM’s progress against its environmental objectives and engage with staff through regular updates and planned activities. Carbon Off-setting • OPM are capturing its emissions using the data provided by the travel service and are working with its service providers to start offsetting the travel emissions. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Bribery, Fraud and Corruption • OPM has undertaken its annual anti-bribery risk assessment. We are aware that we continue to work in high risk areas, and have comprehensive mitigations in place. • We have refreshed the OPM Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure that it remains aligned with our structure and ways of working. © Oxford Policy Management 4 Document title • The Gifts and Hospitality Register remains live and is reported to OPM’s Board on a quarterly basis. • Our Conflicts of Interest Policy has been refreshed, and an online corporate Conflicts of Interest Register has been created. • OPM continues to subscribe to the Expolink service, providing external and anonymous channel for whistleblowing. Issues raised through this process are reviewed by senior management and a clearly established process followed to make sure all matters are promptly, fairly and appropriately managed. • An independent review of Internal Controls was undertaken in June 2019, leading to the establishment of an Internal Controls Catalogue (‘ICC’) and further process improvements to enhance our controls in central teams such as Finance, HR and Legal. Due Diligence • OPM’s Due Diligence processes were reviewed in 2019. We have further improved these to deliver efficiency savings and reduced risk through improved screening. The enhanced process has screened nearly 2000 individuals to date via an online portal which checks against 700 global watch lists and media databases across 240 countries. We will imminently be extending this screening regime to staff as well as suppliers. 4. Measurement of Outcomes We have not identified any instances of organisations within the OPM Group causing or contributing to any adverse human rights incidents. We have had no reported incidents relating to modern slavery and human trafficking. Over the past year we have not had to make a report to, or been informed by the UK information Commissioner’s Office (or any other data protection supervisory authority), of any personal data breaches. We have responded appropriately to any concerns reported to us. The reporting of concerns through our established reporting procedures evidences OPM’s evolving risk and compliance culture, the effectiveness of our whistleblowing and reporting procedures generally, and the existence an environment which encourages and is conducive to raising and reporting concerns. We have undergone a number of successful external safeguarding audits and enhanced due diligence checks as required by our clients, and each has found that our processes are fit for purpose. 5. Contributing to UN Goals Our Work In delivering services to our clients, we also seek to create positive impact in wider, global spheres. We offer policy design, delivery, and evaluation services to policy makers and businesses in line with the ten principals of the UN Global Compact. We have highlighted below the teams working within each goal, and a selection of the recent work being done in these focal areas. Global human rights • Conflict Security and Violence • Education © Oxford Policy Management 5 Document title • Health • Nutrition • Poverty and Social Protection • Public Sector Governance Anti-corruption • Natural Resources and Energy Team • Public Financial Management Team • Public Sector Governance Team Environmental Sustainability • Climate Change and Disaster Risk • Natural Resources and Energy • Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Thought Leadership OPM has an active blog, publishing contemporary thought pieces around a broad spectrum of development topics within the UN Global Compact, alongside consistently producing new papers and other publications on our work. A selection is listed below: • Promoting gender equality in institutional reform., OPM Blog Post, March 2020 • Climate change: Africa and South Asia energy research priorities. Ryan Hogarth, OPM Blog Post, December 2019 • How to measure the long-term impact of urban climate initiatives. Divya Sharma, OPM Blog Post, October 2019 • The impact of climate change on hydropower in Africa. Simon Trace, OPM Blog Post, September 2019 • Climate finance: new approaches, new networks. Soumik Biswas, OPM Blog Post, September 2019. • Researching policy reforms in Zambia’s energy sector. Katherine Cooke and Iliana Cardenes, OPM Blog Post, July 2019How lack of information constrains public service delivery in Mexico. OPM Blog Post, June 2019. • How public service programmes can help empower women? OPM Blog Post, April 2019 © Oxford Policy Management 6
