— UN Global Compact Communication on Progress for 2019 The company Human rights ABB (ABBN: SIX Swiss Ex) is a technology leader Principle 1: Businesses should support and that is driving the digital transformation of respect the protection of internationally industries. With a history of innovation proclaimed human rights spanning more than 130 years, ABB has four – Human rights policy and public statement customer-focused, globally leading businesses: adopted by ABB Group in 2007 and updated Electrification, Industrial Automation, Motion, in 2016. and Robotics & Discrete Automation, supported by the ABB Ability™ digital platform. ABB’s – Human rights considerations are integrated Power Grids business will be divested to Hitachi in a range of business decision-making and in 2020. ABB operates in more than 100 review processes, including supply chain countries with about 147,000 employees. qualification questionnaires, the Supplier www.abb.com Code of Conduct, Supplier Sustainability Development Program (SSDP), risk review Statement of support for projects and the mergers and acquisitions process. Peter Voser, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer – Human rights considerations are also embedded in our internal protocol for “For ABB, being a good corporate citizen is a deciding where ABB should conduct top priority. We maintain the highest standards business activities. This protocol was concerning integrity and ethical business reviewed and updated during 2019. practices and we have a zero-tolerance approach to unethical behavior. As a founder – Global human rights training continued in member of the UN Global Compact, ABB 2019, with a focus on developing human remains committed to honoring the core rights capacity and capability at different principles of Compact. ABB has always put levels in ABB’s businesses. An awarenesssustainability at the center of our activities and raising program for senior managers was our value proposition. Nearly 60 percent of our delivered to the management teams of all global revenues are related to energy efficiency, but four ABB global business lines during renewable energy and resource conservation 2019, with the remainder of the training to and our technologies contribute directly or be concluded in early 2020. The training is indirectly to all 17 of the UN Sustainable aimed at business decision makers, Development Goals. Since 2013, we have including key functions such as Supply Chain reduced our own greenhouse gas emissions by Management, Human Resources, Legal and almost 40 percent. In January 2020, we Integrity, Communications and introduced a new governance model to further Sustainability. improve transparency and accountability across – A targeted capacity building program to our organization.” raise human rights capability of our network of internal specialists was expanded in 2019 with the roll out of a new, detailed development curriculum. More than 80 2 020 -01 -19 1 /6 U N GLOBA L COMPACT CO MM UN I CATI ON ON PR OGR ESS FOR 2 019 health, safety & environment and in Principle 1. Central to all such trainings is procurement specialists, along with the issue of potential complicity. representatives from legal, communications – Ongoing work to understand and limit ABB and marketing functions participated in the exposure to Conflict Minerals, as defined by detailed training. These human rights section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street ‘champions’ are tasked to provide first line Reform and Consumer Protection Act. For advice on human rights within their the fifth year running, ABB was recognized business, assist with due diligence processes for responsible sourcing of minerals by an and deliver further further training according independent benchmark study. to their business needs. – In-depth due diligence carried out on a – During 2019, we also developed more number of proposed projects and business detailed awareness training for targeted partners to avoid potential complicity. roles: Procurement, Marketing & Sales, and Operations. These training sessions will be – Through the Supplier Sustainability delivered during 2020. Development Program, multiple supplier trainings were conducted to extend – An e-learning human rights module, awareness about ABB’s expectations on launched in 2015, continues to provide human rights and fair labor conditions as fundamental guidance on human rights contained in ABB Supplier Code of Conduct. at ABB. Additionally, specially designed thematic – Excessive overtime work was identified as workshops were conducted for suppliers in one of the key areas of concern among China on ABB requirements of the Supplier suppliers, as part of ABB’s Supplier Sustainability Development Program, Sustainability Development Program (SSDP). including decent working and fair labor Excessive overtime by workers jeopardizes conditions, with local/ country specific legal their work-life balance, adversely impacts requirements, common observed challenges safety, physical and mental health and has and sharing of best practices. several far-reaching social effects. However, its resolution mechanisms are often Labor perceived to have negative operational impacts on lead times, operational costs Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the among others. During 2019, ABB initiated freedom of association and the effective collaborative projects with a number of recognition of the right to collective suppliers to analyze and find innovative, bargaining practical solutions for this chronic challenge. – Embedded in Code of Conduct, Principle 1 of – ABB actively participates in international ABB Human Rights Policy and Principle 6 of meetings, organizations and workshops ABB Social Policy. All countries were asked to seeking to promote business awareness and formally report on this principle. No respect for human rights. violations were reported in 2019. Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in – In countries where law does not permit this human rights abuses right, ABB facilitates regular consultation with employees to address areas of concern. – Human rights policy adopted in 2007 and ABB also conducted a global employee amended in 2016, is designed to raise engagement survey in 2019 to further performance and avoid complicity. improve our engagement culture. Specifically, the issues of human trafficking and slave labor were added to a number of – In addition to the local employee policies in 2016. representatives on country level, ABB has a European Works Council, which is governed – ABB published its third response to the UK by a voluntary agreement. Modern Slavery Act in 2019. – The right of employees to freely associate – Global human rights training continued in and bargain collectively is also included in ABB in 2019. The target groups are as above ABB’s Supplier Code of Conduct and in the 2 020 -01 -19 2 /6 U N GLOBA L COMPACT CO MM UN I CATI ON ON PR OGR ESS FOR 2 019 protocol for supplier sustainability audits. A – Contained in ABB Group Code of Conduct, total of 168 audits of suppliers were carried Principle 1 of the ABB Human Rights Policy out in 2019 and no violations were reported. and Principle 7 of ABB Social Policy. All countries were asked to formally report on Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of this principle. There were 19 substantiated forced and compulsory labor cases of harassment and eight of – Covered by ABB Group Code of Conduct, discrimination in 2019, resulting in varying Principle 1 of ABB Human Rights Policy and levels of corrective action including five Principle 4 of ABB Social Policy. Additions terminations of employment. were made to both policies in 2016 to cover – ABB also has country-specific procedures human trafficking and slave labor. All and programs to ensure that policies are countries were asked to formally report on fully observed and comply with national this principle. No violations were reported legislation. For example, in India ABB in 2019. established an internal Prevention of Sexual – The principle of “No forced or compulsory Harassment (POSH) committee that reviews labor” is included in ABB’s Supplier Code of all reported sexual harassment concerns Conduct and in the protocol for supplier reported internally, in accordance with the sustainability audits. A total of 168 audits of POSH Act. suppliers were carried out in 2019. In 2018, – Equal opportunity and freedom from we uncovered an instance where a supplier discrimination are embedded in ABB’s retained the passports of migrant workers Supplier Code of Conduct, as part of fair and withheld payments for one month, while labor conditions. It is also part of the the workers went on vacation. Follow up supplier sustainability audit protocol. A total onsite audits were conducted in 2019 to of 168 supplier audits were conducted confirm the corrective actions had been during the year and no violations were implemented and passports had been reported. returned to the workers. During 2019, we identified another instance where a supplier retained passports of foreign workers. ABB Environment has asked the supplier to return the Principle 7: Business should support a passports to the respective employees and precautionary approach to environmental follow up visits will be done in 2020 to challenges ensure effective implementation of corrective measures. – Environmental considerations are mandatory in the ABB GATE model for product and Principle 5: The effective abolition of process development. Supporting tools and child labor training materials have been developed to – Included in ABB Group Code of Conduct, further improve application of the checklist. Principle 1 of the ABB Human Rights Policy – Standardized Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and Principle 3 of ABB Social Policy. procedures are used to assess new products’ – All countries were asked to formally report environmental impact throughout their on this principle. No violations were reported life cycle. in 2019. – Group-wide list of prohibited substances for – The principle of “No child labor” is included products and processes is regularly reviewed in ABB’s Supplier Code of Conduct as well as and updated. The phasing out of hazardous a protocol for supplier audits. A total of 168 substances is part of ABB sustainability audits of suppliers were carried out in 2019, objectives. and no violations were reported. – ABB is committed to reducing its Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect environmental footprint, with a target to of employment and occupation reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2020, from a 2013 baseline, and increase 2 020 -01 -19 3/6 U N GLOBA L COMPACT COMM UN I CATI ON ON PR O GR ESS FOR 2 019 focus on resource efficiency (namely improve – In 2019, we launched global reporting of materials and water use and reduce waste). environmental hazards in ABB, which helps us identify and reduce environmental risks in – In 2019, ABB launched its first carbon neutral our operations and better prevent incidents and energy self-sufficient production site in from occurring. We are also strengthening the world. Featuring a solar power plant our global processes for the investigation which will deliver around 1100 MWh of and reporting of environmental incidents, climate-neutral solar power a year and ABB’s ready to be launched early in 2020. energy management system OPTIMAX®, setting an example to customers and to – ABB has implemented a robust protocol for other parts of our company. auditing of suppliers’ environmental performance, auditing a further 168 suppli– Also in 2019, ABB initiated a project for an allers during 2019. electric ABB delivery fleet in Switzerland by the end of 2022. After a test phase of several – ABB issued an updated position paper on months with two trucks, ABB’s current fleet climate change and global warming for of eleven diesel vehicles will be superseded COP25 in Madrid in support of the Paris over the next three years by a singleagreement and climate policies that operator fleet of E-trucks. ABB will be the encourage early adoption of clean first company in Switzerland to trial fully technologies and energy efficiency. electric truck deliveries. Principle 9: Encourage the development and – Environmental experts at country and Group diffusion of environmentally friendly level provide environmental expertise, technologies guidelines and tools to business units to – Covered by ABB’s Code of Conduct. ensure they meet upcoming environmental requirements and challenges, and customer – Energy-efficient products, renewable energy demand for compliance and other equipment and e-mobility identified as a key environmental information. driver for ABB’s business opportunities. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote – Nearly 60 percent of ABB’s global revenues greater environmental responsibility are derived from technologies that directly address the causes of climate change – ABB works with international organizations through energy efficiency, renewables and initiatives, such as the World Business integration, and resource conservation. Council for Sustainable Development, ISO, the United Nations Environment Programme – ABB is set to invest around $23 billion in and Sustainable Energy for All, the Alliance innovation between its signing of the Paris of CEO Climate Leaders and Fossil-free Agreement and 2030, and at COP25 ABB Sweden. urged policymakers to adopt sound climate policies to encourage innovation and create – ABB has implemented strengthened secure investment conditions. environmental minimum standards, common to all operations and promotes best practice – Transfer of technologies and best practices examples across its operations. between countries to ensure same level of Environmental training was delivered across environmental performance throughout the Group in 2019 to raise awareness and Group. advise on how to reach our 2020 Objectives. – Group-wide list of prohibited substances for Our network of materials experts continued products and processes is continually its focus on reduction of hazard substances. reviewed and updated. The phasing out of – Key internal environment programs were hazardous substances is part of ABB further developed in 2019 to meet the needs sustainability objectives. of our businesses, including: Circular – ABB GATE model for product and process economy, Climate action, Product development contains defined steps for stewardship and Resource efficiency. considering improvements in environment and safety performance. 2 020 -01 -19 4/6 U N GLOBA L COMPACT CO MM UN I CATI ON ON PR OGR ESS FOR 2 019 Anti-corruption retained our Ethisphere Compliance Leader Verification seal of recognition. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion – During 2018, Ethisphere conducted a review and bribery and analysis of ABB’s anti-corruption and anti-bribery programs and practices (“Anti– Covered by ABB Group Code of Conduct, the Bribery Management System or ABMS”). ABB Supplier Code of Conduct, Principle 4 of Ethisphere’s assessment process utilizes the ABB Human Rights Policy, and Principle 13 of recently-released ISO 37001.2016 standards Social Policy. and involves a comprehensive review and – Underpinned by zero tolerance policy on evaluation of ABB’s existing anti-bribery non-compliance. management systems, corporate governance systems and practices, and – During the second quarter of 2018 ABB rolled includes a survey deployed to a statistically out a new ”Integrity Starts with You” Code of significant cross-sample of ABB employees Conduct e-learning module across ABB with bribery and corruption risk exposure. Group to all employees with an e-mail Ethisphere determined that ABB’s ABMS and address (the white collar community). This relevant programs and initiatives meet or e-learning campaign continued into 2019. At exceed the Verification criteria. As such, 2019 year-end we achieved nearly 98 percent Ethisphere licensed to ABB the use of its completion (97.7%) for the e-learning, Ethisphere Anti-Bribery Management covering nearly 101,000 employees. Systems Verification logo. This license also – ABB offers a number of different reporting applied to 2019. channels, including a third party-held – ABB is one of the founding members of Business Ethics hotline available 24/7 where Ethics and Compliance Switzerland (ECS; employees can report concerns May 2014). ECS promotes the development confidentially. of a compliance community across all – As part of the anti-corruption program, ABB sectors and organizations in Switzerland and continued to carry out the Welcome to ABB the establishment and sharing of initiatives in 2019 informing new employees compliance best practices. It is the first NGO about our Integrity program requirements, in Switzerland connecting private and publicfocusing on company leadership and middle sector organizations and their officers and management by conducting Integrity employees who share an interest in best leadership sessions to Business leadership practice on integrity and compliance teams and case studies provided through management. our “Integrity on the Business Agenda” – ABB in Brazil remains recognized as a Próinitiative, and proactive action such as antiÉtica (Pro-Ethics) company by Instituto bribery compliance reviews of ABB units Ethos and the Brazilian government, an around the world. initiative recognized by the OECD. During – The “Integrity on the Business Agenda” December 2019 it was confirmed that ABB is program promotes ownership and one of only eight companies in Brazil that accountability for integrity at local business have been recognized again, since the level. The Group Integrity team has Government recreated the seal in 2015. In developed Group-wide and Division-specific this latest 2019 review, almost 400 case materials for team discussions led by companies applied and only 26 were granted local business unit managers. The Divisions the seal. No other company in our industry are responsible for making sure that the was recognized. The Pro-Ethics review is now topics are discussed and relevant actions a bi-yearly process, therefore the next review implemented across their business, and will happen by the end of 2021. progress and completion is tracked. – During 2019 we upgraded our reporting – ABB’s integrity program is recognized channel options through a new web-portal externally for its continued excellence. For available to employees to enable web-based the sixth consecutive year, in 2019, we reporting and making enquiries. 2 020 -01 -19 5 /6 U N GLOBA L COMPACT CO MM UN I CATI ON ON PR OGR ESS FOR 2 019 Additional information: Policies: ABB has Group-wide policies: The Health, Safety, Environment, Security and Sustainability Policy, Social Policy, Human Rights Policy, as well as a Code of Conduct. These can be found online and are also referenced in ABB Group’s annual Sustainability Performance Report. Reporting: ABB’s sustainability performance is compiled in an annual Sustainability Performance Report which measures the company’s performance against the Global Reporting Initiative’s indicators. The 2019 Sustainability Performance Report is published in March 2020. Further detail on ABB’s environmental, social, human rights, and health and safety performance can be found on www.abb.com/sustainability Main partnerships: ABB is a member of many international groups and organizations, apart from the Global Compact. Listed below are some of the principal associations and initiatives with which ABB is involved in the area of sustainability: – Global Business Initiative on Human Rights – Global Reporting Initiative – Institute for Human Rights and Business – Ethics and Compliance Switzerland – International Committee of the Red Cross – Responsible Minerals Initiative – World Business Council for Sustainable Development – World Economic Forum 2 020 -01 -19 6/6
