UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 2 3 CEO LETTER Smooth transportation of goods is a vital part of our everyday life. Especially when it comes to delivering food, medicine and other necessities essential to keep Europe going, even when confronted with crisis. Edvardas Liachovičius 4 CEO LETTER This year I am pleased to present our fifth CSR and external operations and decisions we make across positive impact Girteka Logistics has made in corporate report, in which we highlight our achievements, as well five our pillars – Clients, Partners, Colleagues, Our social and environmental responsibility throughout as the actions we took to further integrate the Global Community, Shareholders. 2019 and we are looking forward to facing and fulfilling Compact principles into our company DNA through our future challenges. employee activities, professional development, trainings and local, social and environmental initiatives. Best regards, Girteka Logistics is a well-established and Edvardas Liachovičius internationally recognised company, known for its Smooth transportation of exceptional quality and standards. Over the years goods is a vital part of our everyday life. we have grown from strength to strength, setting an Especially when it comes to delivering example within the transport logistics industry. food, medicine and other necessities We recognise a strong opportunity for continuous, essential to keep Europe going, even sustainable organic growth in our industry, driven by when confronted with crisis. end-to-end digitalisation. Using the latest technologies and its own dedicated fleet the best-in-class transport logistics solution to our clients and their end customers. In order This year we were pleased to see our employees to maintain our strength in industry digitalisation, we working in teams with the “Good Vibes Challenge” are partnering with SAP, a market leader in enterprise and providing support and recognition to different application software, to implement a new complete people in the community who often go unnoticed end-to-end transportation management solution. This in their daily lives. Separate from this programme will help to better the whole planning, management was our continued commitment to road safety in the and accounting processes across every corner of our community. Something we are proud to be part of. Our business. partnership with the Lithuanian police force has once again helped to save lives and make the roads safer Girteka Logistics mission statement perfectly through a series of educational events and distribution reflects our commitment to social, environmental and of safety reflectors to citizens. economic responsibility that we carry in our day-to-day business: “WE CARE” is more than just a slogan, it is the Our commitment to the UN Global Compact – a core principle upon which we have built our business. commitment we have had since 2015 – remains firm. WE CARE approach guides us throughout all internal We are very proud of the achievements, progress and 5 WHO WE ARE Our mission, vision and values are the foundations of Girteka Logistics organisational strategy and serve as guiding principles in the establishment of our objectives. MISSION VISION VALUES Our mission is to support businesses of all For Girteka Logistics to become the most THINK sizes and ensure smooth transport logistics valued and technologically advanced assetWe target excellence in all areas of our business services, delivering goods and supporting based logistics transportation company in the We combine the best solutions for each and every client people in their everyday life. world by 2025, using the latest technologies We plan and achieve best results, with a clear focus on the process Choosing Girteka Logistics means choosing and its own dedicated fleet to deliver the ACT more than just logistics transportation best-in-class transport logistics service to our We invest in technology and innovative management practices provider – it means choosing high quality clients and partners. We take responsibility and achieve what we promise standards, safety and stress-free logistics We aim to deliver on time, with traffic safety our priority in planning solution. LEAD We are flexible and take a tailored approach to every request We help each other to be leaders in our work We act responsibly towards the environment and communities 6 CSR / 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHAT IT IS AND WHY WE DO IT This is the fifth consecutive UN Global Compact CSR report for Girteka Logistics, and it continues our commitment to the 10 principles within the themes of human rights, labour, environmental and anticorruption. For a company of our size – in terms of the number of employees and our geographical spread it is essential that we consider our social and environmental impact, and how we successfully manage this in line with sustainable economic growth. More so, we recognise the importance of engaging with our local communities. We are proud to be a member of the UN Global Compact. Reporting on our CSR through the 10 principles has become an automatic commitment and is already part of the company DNA. As such, it exists throughout every level of the company, providing a focus on reducing our environmental impact, strengthening our social commitments, and ensuring that it is done in a measured and managed way. 7 OUR COMMUNITIES The core strength of Girketa Logistics is our workforce, the people who make everything happen. We therefore make sure that we create and encourage a healthy workplace and employee environment and in doing so, promote the wellbeing of our employees. We must be an integrated part of the communities where we work and live, together with our now 18 000 colleagues we work to ensure that our CSR activities are meaningful and valuable for our communities. We are especially proud of our focus on road safety and our strong partnership with the local Police Force and UNICEF here in Vilnius, Lithuania. We continue to sponsor and encourage a range of sports activities inside and outside the company such as yoga, basketball, running and more. Vilnius city organises several highly competitive marathons and city runs each year, and Girteka Logistics is always well-represented in these. We believe that our strength, continues to be our engagement with local communities and that a continued investment towards such activities is a strong must even during crisis. 8 ROAD SAFETY 6 000 SAFER LIVES We completed our fourth year of successful In addition, Girteka Logistics handed out cooperation with the Lithuanian Police Department in 1 000 reflectors during the “Be visible be safe” event Vilnius and worked with them to promote our “Safer in October. These were given to all visitors at our roads: Saving lives” campaign, one of the cornerstones interactive educational reflector area. of our social responsibility commitments. As part of this commitment and cooperation, we provided police patrols with 5 000 reflectors to give out to pedestrians. In Vilnius, more than half of road fatalities occur during the dark hours of the day. With the proper use of a reflector, a driver can spot pedestrians in the dark from a farther distance and react quicker. Dainius Šalomskas, Chief of the Vilnius County Police Headquarters Traffic Police Board says: 6 000 Reflectors are distributed REFLECTORS to the public at events organised by PROVIDED the police, as well as to pedestrians travelling on an unlit roadside at night time. The more reflectors visible to other road users, the better visibility and safety for pedestrians. 9 ROAD SAFETY DAY OVER 1 500 PARTICIPANTS IN A IN VILNIUS IN ŠIAULIAI ROAD SAFETY DAY IN CATHEDRAL For the tenth consecutive year, Girteka Logistics On the last Friday of August every year, Girteka SQUARE celebrated and actively participated in the national Logistics’ Šiauliai base organises its own Road Safety Road Safety Day “Be visible and safe” campaign on Day dedicated to its employees and their families. The September 29th. Organised by the Lithuanian Road date is chosen so as to educate children just before Administration under the Ministry of Transport and they start school on September 1st and the event has Communications, the event to encourage road safety already become a tradition for many years now. was held in the Cathedral Square in the heart of Vilnius. This year the Šiauliai office was full of employees, Hosted by an actor and local celebrity, Mantas Stonkus, who watched educational videos about traffic safety, over 1 500 people attended and took part in activities practiced how to use a pedestrian crossing and learned on the day. different ways of ensuring their safety on and near Two Girteka Logistics’ trucks with trailers were on roads. site from early morning until 4 pm. One of the trailers In the afternoon the local police came to present was used as a stage, and the other as an educational additional safety information and provided some reflector zone, with the inside containing a series practical outdoor activities. These included a display of tactile and sight and sound related educational of tricks and actions using a trained police dog, which activities. All visitors at the educational zone were showed its skills in retrieving keys/money and other given safety reflectors. Activities for visitors included hidden belongings. In addition, children and their invitations for volunteers to sit behind the wheel of parents had the unique opportunity to drive new police a Girteka Logistics truck (with help from our driving cars and learn more about the equipment being used. instructors), an instant photo booth, a sponsored In return, our employees presented the policemen with scooter racing, a fire and rescue safety services show, the opportunity to drive a Girteka Logistics truck in the and live musical entertainment provided by Lithuanian truck park. musical stars. 10 HEALTHY LIFESTYLE THE NIKE ‘WE RUN employees ran the half-marathon and 25 completed the 10 km run. The remaining 44 competitors started and completed the most popular 5 km track. VILNIUS’ EVENT This year, a record number of 110 employees registered for the NIKE “We Run Vilnius” event in June. GIRTEKA LOGISTICS Runners were able to choose from three distances: 21 km half-marathon, 10 km and 5 km. Five colleagues 3X3 BASKETBALL decided to run the half-marathon, 24 challenged themselves with 10 km, and 81 signed up for the 5 km TOURNAMENT run. Our big cheerful bunch of employees all together wearing the same Girteka Logistics t-shirts attracted Girteka Logistics 3x3 basketball tournament – a the attention of television journalists from national TV tradition already for 13 years now took place in April station TV3. with as many as 19 company teams testing their athletic talent. The winner of this year’s tournament was the DANSKE BANK VILNIUS “NORDIC I” team, with “Žalgirio fanai” in second place, and “Žaidžia po B krepšiu” coming third. These three teams were awarded cups and medals by Edvardas MARATHON AND CITY Liachovičius (Girteka Logistics CEO). RUN “NORDIC I” did not lose any games during the tournament, and in fact has a proud record of success in the tournament over the past four years. This year In September an impressive team of 75 employees was their fourth year of achieving a medal position, took part in the Danske Bank Vilnius Marathon and city winning three gold and one bronze previously. The run, overcoming the heat to achieve some excellent team captain Mykolas Subačius and team members results. The competition included a 5 km, 10 km, halfDeimantas Pavlovskis, Vitalijus Širokinas and Gytis marathon and a full marathon run. Irena Džangirašvili, Badaška unanimously agreed that their victory was from our Excise Cargo Department, ran the full marathon due to intense physical training, personal effort of each in an unbelievable 3h 41 min. “It is the best result I have player during all the competition and the motivation to ever achieved in a marathon distance”, Irena said. Five keep the champion’s name. 11 HEALTHY LIFESTYLE CAKE DAY FOR TOGETHER WITH CHILDREN‘S CHARITY UNICEF – FOR EVERY FUND “MAMŲ UNIJA” CHILD This year the “Mamų Unija” (“Mother’s Union”) Every year Girteka Logistics contributes to a charity fundraising cake day event was held across all number of educational and cultural initiatives. One five Girteka Logistics’ sites. The event is now a regular of these is to support UNICEF’s sponsored run “For fixture in our social calendar, dating back to 2014. During Every Child” that takes place in June. This year, the the day, employees brought in homemade cakes and event was dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the sweet pastries to share with colleagues. Whilst talking UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and this was and sharing the cakes, donations were collected for the our second consecutive year of participation. charity. This year we raised more than 2 000 EUR, which Girteka Logistics set up a converted semi-trailer will go towards helping children with cancer, providing branded in UNICEF colours, which acted as a stage them with care and specialised facilities. for performance, musicians, dancers and for famous Lithuanian celebrities to greet the young children participating in the UNICEF run. BLOOD DONATIONS We support and help to organise the UNICEF run “For Every Child” because we care about the future of During the last week of June, colleagues of Girteka our children and we want to encourage them to have Logistics warmly welcomed a mobile unit from the healthy lifestyle habits. National Blood Centre to two of our main sites. In total, 140 employees volunteered to donate blood and as many as 31 employees were giving blood for the first time. However, we are proud to say that we have a number of employees who have donated blood about 30 times. One person giving blood can potentially mean three lives being saved. 12 OUR COMMUNITY EVENTS SUMMER FESTIVAL WINTER FESTIVAL Our summer festival is a regular event that brings In December, Girteka Logistics held its winter together colleagues from across the company for festival event for staff colleagues with over 1 300 a day of celebration and fun. This year’s theme was people taking part and enjoying the celebrations. Fun ‘Together in Motion’ and the tickets for the event were sold for a symbolic price of between two to five EUR, and games included: a room of mirrors, a fortune teller, a 360° camera to take your photo, a Girteka Logistics OVER 7 000 which was later donated to three charities, depending driver’s simulator, and beauty treatments with neon EUR DONATED TO THE on each participant’s preference. In total, we raised paints and colouring. 3,291 EUR, which was split between our three chosen CHARITY DURING In addition to the fun activities, awards were charity organisations: Project “Gyvas Miškas” (“Live presented to exceptional project teams who made a COMPANY Forest“); Charity “SOS Gyvūnai” (“SOS Animals”); and major contribution towards the company’s success FESTIVALS Charity “Mamų Unija” (“Mother’s Union”). throughout the year within the company’s “We Care” Over 1 000 colleagues came along to enjoy categories of clients, shareholders, community, and active participation in a mix of fun and games, team colleagues. challenges, a live stage with dancers and musical Tickets for the Winter Festival came with a choice performance. During the event, our employees had of donations to one of several local charities. This year a unique opportunity to take part in many wonderful almost 4 000 EUR were donated to the charity “Nobody’s activities including the making of a beautiful painting Children”. The charity provides emotional support to called “wall of colourful hands” which was painted using orphans or children with no parental support who are only hands (and which is currently hanging in Girteka admitted to hospitals. Girteka Logistics’ donation will Logistics office); a “motion in the air” photo trampoline; allow the charity to carry out activities in one city for three a bracelet workshop; bubble workshop; and a face months, helping to support 20 children in hospitals. reader (attracting masses of people). There also was plenty of sporting action, including basketball, football and other competitive games. 13 OUR COMMUNITY EVENTS CLIENT DAY IN OPEN DAYS AT COPENHAGEN GIRTEKA LOGISTICS In Copenhagen in May, Girteka Logistics At our Vilnius HQ in May, Girteka Logistics hosted organised its first ever “Logistics, Supply Chain, another popular Open Door Day event with 150 guests and Transportation 2019+” strategic conference coming to look around the company. Visitors were and client open day event. “Logistics, supply chain introduced to representatives of different professions and transportation will, in the next few years, face and heard about the company’s growth and success unprecedented changes due to rapid digitalisation to-date, as well as possible career opportunities. and growing customer needs. In order to maintain Meetings with our recruitment department customer confidence, companies need to adapt team received a lot of attention. Those who were quickly by proactively reviewing and changing interested in job opportunities at Girteka Logistics their business models and processes,” said Girteka could participate in job interviews on the site. Within 3 Logistics CEO Edvardas Liachovičius. hours, 100 interviews were conducted with almost 30 Around 80 of Girteka Logistics’ largest people being invited to the second-round interviews. international clients were present, along with our own representatives. Eight experts from leading international companies presented on a range of themes within transport and logistics. 14 “GOOD VIBES” CHALLENGE The “Good Vibes” challenge is an initiative that engages employees across the organisation to carry out tasks that spread positive vibes and better the society. The idea was initially launched in March 2018 by the Russian and Excise Departments. In May 2019, the project was relaunched with the rules updated, but the noble mission of providing social assistance remaining the same. It works with a team being given a challenge and once completed, setting a different challenge for another team, and so on. Each team has four days to complete the task. Environmental “Good Vibes” challenges included: collecting litter and rubbish in the forest at Verkiai Regional Park; installing a bin for smokers to discard their cigarette stubs; tidying up abandoned graves, planting flowers and lighting candles at unattended graves in the Liepkalnis and Našlaitės cemeteries. Employees raised funds for the renovation of a home of an elderly lady who had survived a stroke and repaired the windows, painted the walls of the balcony and assembled new furniture. Closer to the workplace, colleagues presented drivers with coffee and pastries, and thanked the office cleaners with practical gifts. In the Russian warehouses, colleagues decorated the kitchenette, and generally took care of others around the office by giving them ice cream and offering good wishes for the day. There were many more meaningful challenges completed by Girteka Logistics colleagues, creating good vibes not only amongst ourselves, but also within our wider community. 15 INTERNATIONAL VISITS TO GIRTEKA LOGISTICS TRANSPORT AND BELARUS INTERNABALTIC LEAN FORUM – LOGISTICS TIONAL ROAD AWARD FOR THE BEST NETHERLANDS CARRIERS RESULT OF THE YEAR (TLN) ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION (BAMAP) In April, the Litexpo Exhibition and Congress Centre in Vilnius hosted the 6th Baltic LEAN Forum. In October, the Dutch Association for Transport The LEAN Awards for Best Results are also traditionally After visiting the Girteka Logistics Vilnius HQ in and Logistics (TLN) visited the Girteka Logistics HQ in held at the event and this year Girteka Logistics won May, representatives of the Belarusian International Vilnius. The TLN unites Dutch companies working in in the Best Result of the Year nomination. The prize Road Carriers’ Association (BAMAP) returned in the transport and logistics sector, and within TLN, there was awarded for the successful application of LEAN October to visit the company’s Šiauliai transport site. is a particular network for young transport operators philosophy in 2018 which included the solution of and logistics managers under 41 years old, called On this visit, BAMAP members wanted to study complex problems, standardisation of employee YoungTLN. Members of this network are supported our business processes and to share experiences with activities, as well as the transference of LEAN to the by TLN in their professional development through our colleagues and business partners. They had the digital space. workshops, networking events and similar initiatives. opportunity to personally see how the drivers’ premises Once every two years, they organise a foreign study are arranged, their training and rest areas, and the truck Girteka Logistics has been using LEAN methods trip with a combination of sector-specific content and and automotive service areas. The main motivation in its activities since 2014. According to the company some fun elements and this year YoungTLN requested behind such visits is partnership development, which is LEAN and Quality Manager Ramūnas Stanišausas, “the a visit Girteka Logistics with the main aim to network, directly related to the achievement of Girteka Logistics’ implementation of LEAN in the organisation as well as learn and get inspired. business goals and has a positive influence on the its continuous improvement is a never-ending process, company’s growth. so we are not going to rest on our laurels this year”. The TLN group of some 40 participants were welcomed and later met representatives from the The Baltic LEAN Forum is the largest conference Quality and LEAN Division, and the Key Accounts dedicated to LEAN and it attracts more than 300 Division. participants each year. The main topics of this year’s Baltic LEAN Forum included the sustainable implementation of LEAN, LEAN management skills, leader challenges and the transformation of change. 16 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Girteka Logistics’ continued commitment to the designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or principles of human rights is clear both within the company and to its employees and to our external threaten human life and health during usage or disposal of products as well as while providing services. OVER 10 clients, stakeholders and community. We work closely INTERNATIONAL both internally and externally to ensure high standards VISITS IN 2019 of safety, quality and environmental sustainability. Our ACTIVITIES AND clients are increasingly more demanding in these themes and insist on constant audits, ever increasing standards and a growing commitment to safety, quality FUTURE GOALS and the environment. We continued our cooperation with the Lithuanian our partners, suppliers and clients to ensure ethical, For those areas of our business most exposed police department on a number of road safety events, socially and environmentally conscious business to risks, we have developed tailor-made awareness including the donation of over 5 000 night time safety decisions are made. Our future goals will be to: information and training resources, along with a reflectors. • continue to promote our Code of Conduct and management structure to support this commitment. In The “Kaizen” internal system of encouraging to revise where relevant feedback is received from particular, employee safety remains our key priority, employees to provide suggestions and ideas on colleagues and clients; and whether on the road, our own sites or those of our ways to improve how we work went from strength to • monitor the new digital way of using Kaizen clients, we are committed to continuous monitoring strength. This year we received a higher number of and ensure that it provides the same direct input into and improvement. ideas which were implemented to help streamline our company improvements as the previous non-digital internal ways of working. We also upgraded the Kaizen Girteka Logistics ensures that: system did; process to a new digital system to increase its speed • employees are provided with safe, suitable and efficiency. • continue to deliver training courses that and sanitary work facilities; enhance employee participation and understanding Our publications and digital copies of our Code of • employees at Girteka Logistics are protected of human rights and employee safety; Conduct, CSR report and annual report are accessible from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, throughout all of our sites and offices as well as on our • be recognised by our clients, community, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats; Intranet and webpages. We match this with working shareholders and employees as an international leader • measures are taken to eliminate ingredients, closely at every stage of our supply chain, with all of in CSR. 17 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Girteka Logistics is clear and unambiguous in its relevant national labour laws and standards; employees. In addition, the company has a diverse range company Code of Conduct on labour and labour rights, • employment-related decisions are based on of nationalities within its workforce and we work hard and makes statements on the following key elements of relevant and objective criteria and agreed in partnership to stress the importance of cultural inclusiveness and labour and working conditions: forced and compulsory with employee representatives and unions; tolerance. labour; freedom of association and the right to collective • employees are granted freedom of association To support this, we have a high number of Human bargaining; child labour; discrimination and privacy; regular and are fully informed of their rights to collective bargaining. Resources (HR) partners working closely with managers employment; health and safety; wages and working hours and employees in all departments, to solve any potential We are committed to being a transparent – including driving time and rest periods; safe driving and organisation, and sharing information with our employees issues and concerns. We believe that we have one of the cabotage and international driving. is taken seriously. We communicate all news, such as very best HR teams in Europe. Our future goals will be to: We operate ethical employment and business changes in business structure, and major company deals, • ensure labour rights and employee conditions practices that respect and value the individuality and in at least three languages, to ensure all employees have at the very top of our priorities and that the employee diversity of our employees and do not tolerate any form of equal access to information. handbook reflects this understanding; discrimination on any basis: gender, age, race, nationality, • continue to fund and support employee social religion, disability, place of origin, gender identity, sexual orientation or any other reason. In parallel, we seek to ACTIVITIES AND activities and participation both inside and outside of the company ; create a positive and open working environment across all of our sites and offices and wherever we operate. FUTURE GOALS • monitor and update the ‘Yammer’ intranet system to ensure it reflects the needs of employees. Girteka Logistics ensures that: With high numbers of recruitment in 2019, and this • the company does not participate in any form of pattern expected to continue in the next two to three forced or bonded labour, nor do we accept child labour or years, we must ensure that we continue to support the the conditions that allow this; recruitment process with the best opportunities in training • employee wages are in compliance with all and personal development for our new and existing 18 LABOUR EVENTS TOP LITHUANIAN NEW MODERN OFFICE “MARKET DEBUT OF JOB CREATOR In March Girteka Logistics opened its new 3 THE YEAR” AWARD 800 m² office extension to its current main office in According to the business daily newspaper and Račių Str. in Vilnius. As the fastest growing employer in Lithuania, the extra space was much needed! At AT POLISH BUSINESS website Verslo Žinios (Lithuania), Girteka Logistics came into 2019 as the top employer in Lithuania in present, our headquarters now has more than 1 150 workplaces, and the total area of office space on Račių AWARDS terms of jobs created, a position we held throughout Str. is 9 500 m². this year. At the 8th Polish Business Awards in Vilnius in There is a new reception area, and a new canteen According to Aušra Bijaminienė, Chief People with up to 100 sit down places and a self-service shop. December, Girteka Logistics received the “Market Officer at Girteka Logistics, “We actively hired not only Additional workplaces for over 500 employees are Debut of the Year” award for the successful growth truck drivers but also experienced professionals from supplemented with 12 additional conference rooms. of its transport base in Poznan, Poland. Within its first Sales, IT, Business Development, Marketing, Transport Some nice innovative touches were added to the year, the Polish unit celebrated its expansion to a fleet and Logistics, Finance, Human Resource Departments interior design based on employee suggestions. of more than 300 trucks and a professional team of 20 and other areas to match the company’s growth. One was the replacement of individual desk bins administration employees. Employees are attracted to us by an opportunity to work with communal bins in specific locations around the “We are so proud to receive this award, and with international companies and markets. Competing office. This encourages employees to reduce waste to have our strong neighbouring country Poland as in an international market, we apply market-compliant and exercise regularly whilst at their desk, as well as a partner. The 60m EUR investment in the Poznan salaries and provide our employees with opportunities promote recycling both inside and outside the office transport base is a part of our growth strategy, and we for personal development; factors which determine a premises. aim to employ 750 truck drivers there” said Edvardas lower turnover of employees compared to the market Liachovičius, CEO of Girteka Logistics. average.” In 2019, there was a total of 18 000 employees DRIVER # 13 000 The awards event was attended by Lithuanian ministers and the Polish Ambassador to Lithuania, as working in all Girteka Logistics offices in Vilnius, Šiauliai, In Smolensk in October, Girteka Logistics welcomed well as business leaders from both countries. Smolensk and Poznan, with back office employees driver number 13 000. Alexander Gelvanovsky, the head making up 2 500 of these. In 2019 alone, we recruited of the Smolensk base, praised the progress his base had nearly 3 000 new employees, which feeds into our made in just five years since opening. The celebration for goal of reaching a total of 30 000 employees by 2022. the 13 000th driver coincided with the fact that in the same week, Russia celebrated its National Driver’s day. 19 EDUCATION ISM EXECUTIVE GIRTEKA LOGISTICS ACADEMY GRADUATES OFFICE-BASED In May Girteka Logistics celebrated the graduation EMPLOYEE TRAININGS of 59 of its managers from the ISM (International School of Management) Executive Academy. Having started In addition, in 2019 Girteka Logistics officetheir studies on a special leadership development based employees have received a staggering number programme in 2018, they returned to Girteka Logistics of more than 3 300 internal and external trainings to with an expanded knowledge of leadership, marketing, improve in their day-to-day work. These professional economics and social sciences. trainings have included: sales training (Module I & II), time management, talent acquisition, markets and All the managers were awarded special their knowledge, specialised trainings for Key Account programme diplomas and completed their year of Managers and several others. studies full of enthusiasm and motivation to apply all the theoretical knowledge gained in their daily work. As part of their final thesis, students worked in small groups on a number of team-based projects aimed at improving different areas within Girteka Logistics. A competition awarded prizes for the top three, with the ultimate winner receiving the prize of a team dinner at the “Stebuklai” (“Miracles”) restaurant in Vilnius. The company is actively investing in employee OVER 3 300 INTERNAL AND education: they deepen their knowledge and improve their competencies. The programmes focus on solving EXTERNAL TRAININGS challenges based on situations at work. The new FOR EMPLOYEES intake for 2019 to the ISM Executive Academy was 48 managers. 20 EDUCATION DRIVERS ACADEMY drivers on how to organise practical loading-unloading, chain-laying, and general loader work. Some approximate and qualifications of Girteka Logistics drivers and provide the company with a significant market advantage. Drivers’ key training figures from the Drivers Academy for 2019 knowledge will be enhanced not only theoretically but The Drivers Academy continues to be a great include: also in practice, as they will learn to apply their knowledge source of pride for Girteka Logistics with some very • 7 000 drivers participated in general training (in by using one of four driving simulators that the company notable achievements, as well as improvements to the all units in Lithuania, Russia and Poland); currently has (two in Vilnius and two in Šiauliai). training education curriculum. These were predominantly: The project is expected to run for two years (until several new programmes (such as Transics equipment • 3 900 drivers in Lithuania participated inCode 95 initial and recurrent training; 2021), during which time it is expected that 14 000 Girteka training) and updates to others; practical driver training Logistics Group drivers will have received training. and the purchase of additional training simulators (a total • 9 000 drivers participated in Eco Driving Training; now of four); start of training programmes in Poznan; transfer of training programmes on specific topics onto the e-platform; improvement to the testing process for • 8 600 drivers attended Transics training; • 12 800 drivers completed GDP training; GIRTEKA LOGISTICS new drivers by introduction of tablet testing not only in Vilnius and Šiauliai, but also in Smolensk and Poznan; • 3 000 drivers attended EU, SCAN and NOR DRIVER TRAINING training. and continuation of, and improvement to, the Eco League parameters as well as updates to the Eco Driving training In total, our drivers have completed more than 54 VIDEOS programme. 000 trainings in 2019. Konstantinas Saniuta, a driver at the Girteka Logistics The Eco Driving training is of particular importance Šiauliai transport unit for two years, is also known to other to Girteka Logistics because it can help reduce fuel consumption significantly. For example, a few years ago, NEW EU FUNED drivers as the person who has been filming detailed educational video clips in Russian about the use of special 32ltr / 100km was the normal fuel rate, now the fuel rate can be lower than 28ltr / 100km. It has also had positive TRAINING PROGRAMME applications created for drivers, truck device settings and various functions. These easy to understand instructional impact towards reducing the number of road accidents videos received a lot of attention throughout the year and associated claims. Girteka Logistics already has a comprehensive range from other drivers, with one video being viewed by 5 500 of driver training programmes at its training centres, but people. We ran a wide range of carefully tailored programmes extra funding from the European Social Fund has made it In November, Edvardas Liachovičius (Girteka providing training across several different levels and possible to expand what we have and to add some new Logistics CEO), and Mindaugas Paulauskas (Chief topics including: traction, safe driving, driver behaviour on methods of delivery. Transport Officer), met with Mr. Saniuta to personally thank the road, economic (eco) driving, Code 95 (commercial freight), Scandinavian routes (including Norway) (SCAN The new programme is quite intensive, with classes him for providing colleagues with such high-quality and and NOR), Europe (EU), GDP (Good distribution practice), held daily in both the Vilnius and Šiauliai centres. Such relevant content, and in supplementing the knowledge and Transics software. Also, advice was provided to training will comprehensively enhance the competencies drivers’ obtained through the Girteka Logistics training. 21 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment to environmental responsibility carrier in Europe; Out of this came the company campaign to reduce, means that we constantly strive to maintain the right • handling and storage of chemical and other reuse and recycle, which made a big difference to the balance of economic, social, and environmental factors dangerous substances is done in accordance to use of resources internally in 2019. Employees no longer throughout all of our daily activities in order to maintain the international requirements and rules. used plastic cups in the offices, and they also have access highest environmental standards throughout the supply to a larger number of newly installed recycling points. In chain. addition, e-invoicing is now at 60% of all of our invoicing We take measures to minimize any adverse impacts on human health and the environment; measures which ACTIVITIES AND – an increase of almost 7% from the 2018 figures. Social activities carried out by our employees saw over 1 200 include minimizing pollution and its impact, promoting an efficient and sustainable use of resources, including FUTURE GOALS trees planted, continuing our pledge to do this every year. Our future goals will be to: energy and water, and minimizing CO2 emissions in • continue to invest in technological innovation and transport. Our aim is to ensure that the local environment Our fleet of trucks are now all EURO 6 diesels with sustainability as we see this as the future of the transport at sites of production, warehouses or garages shall not industry; the exception of a small number of LNG vehicles, making be exploited or degraded, and we do so by making sure this a highly energy efficient fleet of trucks and trailers • reduce our CO2 footprint in 2020 by at least that: in Europe. Our drivers are all automatically trained in the four times the 2019 level, using intermodal transportation • emergency procedures are in place to prevent very latest Eco-Driving programmes, allowing us to get routes; and address accidents affecting the environment and the highest environmental efficiency out of our trucks. Out human health; on the road, we started to make reductions in our CO2 • ensure that our commitment to only invest in new emissions through a more effective use of intermodal highly energy efficient buildings is implemented in the • environmental damage is avoided via regular maintenance of the supply-chain and environmental options in the transportation of cargo. development of the new Girteka Campus in 2020; protection system (air pollution control, waste, water The EMAS system has allowed us to identify risks • monitor, evaluate and improve our internal reduce, treatment systems, etc.); and opportunities, and how to minimise/maximise them, reuse and recycle policy. • we only invest in energy efficient facilities and providing a better awareness of life cycle economics, along equipment, from offices and warehouses to trucks and with how to improve the communication of our results trailers, where the goal is to be the most fuel-efficient road through internal and external communication channels. 22 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL REDUCE, REUSE AND office, especially if there are colleagues that live close to each other. In addition, we are asking our employees to print less, or not at all if possible. MANAGEMENT SYSTEM RECYCLE OFFICE (EMAS) POLICY POLICY PURCHASE OF SCANIA Girteka Logistics has a well-implemented Girteka Logistics promoted an awareness R 410 LNG TRUCKS Environmental Management system (EMAS) which campaign for all employees to be more environmentallyis certified under the ISO 14001:2015 standard that friendly with a set of tips on how to do so in the office. In December, Girteka Logistics the first reassures clients about our commitment to the The campaign included tips on reducing paper through Lithuanian company to do so purchased three new environment. Our EMAS main goals are to: double sided printing; turning off the lights when not eco-friendly Scania R 410 trucks, marking the first phase needed; reducing radiator heating capacity before of our investment in LNG trucks. These new trucks are • reduce pollution, CO2 emission, and waste; significantly more environmentally-friendly, operating leaving the office; more sustainable transport modes • increase the sorting and recycling of waste; to and from the office; bringing your own lunch in from more silently and more cost-efficiently. Girteka Logistics home (to help reduce the plastic and paper on foods will operate the new trucks in Western Europe where • build awareness by involving employees and bought on site); and bringing your own re-useable the LNG filling station network is most developed. partners in efforts to protect the environment; coffee/tea cup! • apply green criteria for purchasing; Within the office, the number of bins around • comply with environmental legislation; desks and tabletops have been completely reduced, • prevent potential environmental incidents and and totally removed from all meeting rooms. There are be ready to address any that might occur. now, as standard, recycling bins for different materials and these are placed in and around common areas, With these in mind, we take measures throughout kitchen, next to coffee/vending machines and other the company, and our supply chain, to minimise adverse places. impacts on human health and the environment. This includes reducing pollution and its impact, promoting Every new employee receives a welcome an efficient and sustainable use of resources, including package, which includes a reusable water bottle. Also, energy, fuel and water, and minimising transportation the company no longer uses plastic cups, instead CO2 emissions. We want to ensure that local sites of replacing them with ceramic cups and biodegradable administration, production, warehouses, garages and paper cups for coffee drinkers. outsourced activities, including subcontractors, sign During the warmer season we encourage cycling up to our goals. to the office, taking public transport, car-sharing to the 23 ENVIRONMENT INTERMODAL RENOVATED TYRES TRANSPORTATION A small but significant contribution towards our environmental impact is our reuse of tyres. In 2019, NETWORKS we renovated 2 933 tyres (of which 10-15% will be renovated again). We usually renovate around 80% of all the tyres we use. This is mainly work done in Girteka Logistics continued to reduce its carbon retreading truck axle tyres (2 316) and semi-trailer tyres footprint by expanding its intermodal network. We (617 units). have already invested in rail freight transportation as part of our commitment to sustainable development, as it optimizes traffic flows and is safer. The company currently uses eight intermodal rail and ferry lines FUEL ECONOMY with around 250 full truckloads of cargo transported through these lines every week. All of the Girteka Logistics fleet of diesel trucks Currently, Girteka Logistics uses lines to transport are EURO 6 trucks. Fuel consumption for these is very goods between Italy Germany, UK, Spain; FrancePoland; Spain Benelux, Germany, UK, Poland. Around well managed and the training our drivers receive in the eco-driving training contributes significantly to TREE PLANTING 250 full truckloads of cargo are transported through further reduction in fuel consumption. For example, these lines every week. a few years ago, 32l / 100km was considered normal For the fifth consecutive year, Girteka Logistics By incorporating railways and ferries into the consumption, whereas now we can already see has been creatively joining the “Let’s do it” campaign in transportation process, we significantly reduce CO2 28l / 100km and lower consumption amongst our Lithuania and also contributing to the national campaign emissions. It is estimated that moving freight by railway drivers. A combined result of the training programmes to plant trees! In April teams from different divisions at reduces greenhouse gas emissions by up to 75%. In all of our drivers undergo at Girteka Logistics. Girteka Logistics took part in planting fir trees, achieving 2019, Girteka Logistics reduced carbon footprint by 2 their aim of matching last year’s record of 1 200 trees 500 tons of CO2 by using intermodal transportation planted. All participants received a Girteka Logistics cap services. and snacks, coffee, and tea. So far, Girteka Logistics has already planted almost 5 000 trees that have turned into a fast-growing forest. We are happy to take part in this initiative, and to contribute towards making Lithuania the greenest country in Europe. 24 GREEN TRANSPORT TECHNOLOGY HIGH-TECH SCHEDULING be completed within two years. The total budget for this algorithm development solution to make our operations even more efficient,” said Ramūnas Mikalauskas (Technology and Innovation ALGORITHM DEVELOPED project is 900 000 EUR, with Girteka Logistics investing over 500 000 EUR, and the European Regional Director). WITH VILNIUS UNIVERSITY Development Fund co-funding the remaining 400 000 ECO LEAGUE SEASONS EUR. In cooperation with researchers at Vilnius University, TWO AND THREE Girteka Logistics has been developing a real-time traffic scheduling algorithm which will be tailored to handle TRANSICS – INNOVATIVE The second season of the Eco League competition ran for a six-month period from January until June, and a huge amount of data traffic and to help improve the efficiency of transportation operations. SOFTWARE TO OPTIMISE the third season from July through to early January 2020. It’s open to drivers who have completed their Eco-driving When connecting a truck with a load, the planners have to take into account a number of different FLEET EFFICIENCY training programme, and drivers are rated on a 100-point system. characteristics: the size, weight and nature of the load, In cooperation with researchers at Vilnius University, The Eco League competition provides a great as well as parameters of the truck and the semi-trailer, Girteka Logistics has been developing a real-time traffic motivational programme for drives, which in turn has the driver’s training, certificates and visas as well as the scheduling algorithm which will be tailored to handle a positive impact on driving safety, economy and driver‘s work and rest balance. a huge amount of data traffic and to help improve the environmental friendliness. Another distinguishing “Our goal is to create smart technology that efficiency of transportation operations. feature of this initiative is the reduction of the number of optimizes the management of transportation and selects When connecting a truck with a load, the planners accidents and truck/trailer damages. the most semi-trailer and truck. This is a major challenge have to take into account a number of different For season two, drivers from five Girteka Logistics not only because of different parameters that need to be characteristics: the size, weight and nature of the load, fleets participated in the League during this period, with assessed, but also because of the size of the fleet being as well as parameters of the truck and the semi-trailer, a total of 97 drivers participating with each receiving managed – at the moment it includes 7 400 trucks and the driver’s training, certificates and visas as well as the updates on their personal results every week. The winner 7 800 semi-trailers. We hope that by bringing together driver‘s work and rest balance. of season two was Dzianis Matsulevich, a driver from scientific and business knowledge, we will develop a our Šiauliai transport site with a total of 98.51 points. For “Our goal is to create smart technology that solution to make our operations even more efficient,” season three, 75 colleagues participated with the winner optimizes the management of transportation and selects said Ramūnas Mikalauskas (Technology and Innovation being Oleksandr Sapega, with a score of 91.47 points. the most semi-trailer and truck. This is a major challenge Director). Both winners received a 1 000 EUR holiday travel voucher. not only because of different parameters that need to be The project involves collaboration with scientists assessed, but also because of the size of the fleet being During the three seasons of the competition so far, from the Institute of Data Science and Digital Technologies managed – at the moment it includes 7 400 trucks and 192 drivers of Girteka Logistics have already received at Vilnius University, as well as consultations with foreign 7 800 semi-trailers. We hope that by bringing together awards. On the 1st of January the 4th season of Eco experts. The development of the system is expected to scientific and business knowledge, we will develop a League started. We wish good luck to all our drivers! 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a leading transport and logistics company in • anti-corruption and/or ethical behaviour both as an issuer and as a recipient of tenders. We Europe, Girteka Logistics understands that it has to set measures are mentioned while agreeing on contracts continue to monitor this area of activity and to educate our the highest standards of ethical business. The company and business discussions with business partners; employees and management on a continual basis. In 2019, has a clear ethics code and anti-corruption policies, we ran several awareness workshops for all our employee • internal procedures are established to support including transparent procurement procedures. We groups to reinforce our values and of our code of conduct. the company’s anti-corruption commitment. are clear and unambiguous in our company Code of Within the company, we maintain and regularly monitor Conduct on anti-corruption and compliance with laws, Our employees are fully trained in understanding the systems in place that allow employees the possibility and in this, we make the following statements: what our ethical business standards mean and how to report safely and anonymously any malpractices. Our to uphold them in their day-to-day work. Our Code of future goals will be to: • corruption in any form is not accepted, Conduct is used as the foundation for our training on including bribery, extortion, kickbacks and improper • continue to run workshops on the company’s these subjects, and it is annually reviewed to ensure private or professional benefits to customers, agents, Code of Conduct; it reflects any necessary changes or revisions. The contractors, suppliers, or employees of any such party • continue to monitor our procurement processes Code of Conduct is freely available for download on or government officials; and improve where necessary based on client and our company website. • we are committed to conduct business only professional feedback; with reputable customers and suppliers involved in legitimate business activities with funds derived from ACTIVITIES AND FUTURE • continue to provide employees a safe and anonymous reporting process for highlighting any legitimate sources; • our employees comply with applicable laws GOALS malpractices. and regulations governing our business activities worldwide. We respect regulations of competition Throughout 2019, we have invested in expanding laws; and strengthening our procurement team and procedures by hiring specialist professionals from outside the • the confidence of all information and business company with many years of experience working across data is respected. many different sectors. We place clarity and transparency Girteka Logistics ensures that: in our procurement procedures as highly important to the • the company is not involved in and does not successful operation of the company. accept corruption or corrupt practices when doing With over 3 500 clients, the company participates in business; a large number of international tenders and transactions 26 CERTIFICATES ISO 9001 – QUALITY MANAGEMENT SQAS (SAFETY & QUALITY GDP (GOOD DISTRIBUTION Our quality management system is certified ASSESSMENT SYSTEM) ATTESTATION PRACTICE) according to ISO 9001 standard. Its key objectives are creating added value for clients in ways consistent with The attestation confirms that Transport service Girteka Logistics is working with many leading profitable growth, providing high-quality services on time, assessment has been carried out at Girteka Logistics. Pharma companies, we follow GDP (Good Distribution and regularly offering clients new solutions. The assessment covers the “Core” and “Transport Practice). Girteka Logistics GDP certified by SGS. service specific” elements and has been carried out Obtaining this GDP certificate from SGS further using the Cefic SQAS Transport service Questionnaire underlines Girteka Logistics commitment to be the ISO 14001 – ENVIRONMENTAL and Guidelines. SQAS – is a detailed report which each best in class in every industry it operates. MANAGEMENT chemical company needs to evaluate according to its For GDP transport we use a dedicated part of own requirements. Our environmental management system is certified our fleet, and employees who are trained in and fully according to ISO 14001 standard. Girteka Logistics strives understand GDP. to take a green approach in everything it does. See the GIRTEKA LOGISTICS MEMBER OF Part of our benefits are: section of this site on environmental protection. Girteka TAPA ASSOCIATION • GDP compliant fleet, where we only use our Logistics as well work to reduce environmental pollution and CO2 emissions. We encourage the sorting of waste own trucks and trailers; Having been TAPA accredited carriers for several within the company for recycling and waste disposal. years already, Girteka Logistics has now become a • new Frigo trailers with double deck capability; member of the association. This is another step forward in • full FTL coverage in Europe, Scandinavia and EUROPEAN CLEAN TRUCKING securing our leadership position in logistics. Membership CIS; benefits include best practice exchange at international ALLIANCE (ECTA) conferences, larger security assurance network which in • GDP supported by standard operating turn aligns us with the requirements of certain customers. procedures; Girteka Logistics is a founding member of ECTA, whose vision is to achieve the fastest feasible • access to our 24/7/365 service backed by our decarbonisation of the road freight vehicles and the TAPA TSR LEVEL 1 SOS centre; sector in general. The aim of the Alliance is to drive the • on time deliveries with high capacity. development, implementation and support for EU and Our security management system is certified national policies, programmes and initiatives to create an according to TAPA TSR level 1 standard. The Transport ecosystem, shifting away from fossil-fuelled vehicles to Asset Protection Association (TAPA) standard provides vans and trucks with zero emission tailpipe, consequently the minimum acceptable security requirements to ensure dramatically reducing air pollutant emissions. the protection for high value goods transportation. 27 CONTACT US: + 370 5 239 4090 info@girteka.eu www.girteka.eu
