PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 Dear All, The implementation of EU climate goals is a tremendous challenge not only from the perspective of the energy sector. This is a huge effort for the economy of each of the European Union countries. It is also a leading challenge for the PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna, which I began to manage on February 20, 2020. The EU climate policy, green order, decarbonization, and social expectations are elements that already affect the energy sector and will determine the work of the PGE management board. We are ready to actively contribute to the achievement of ambitious EU climate goals. However, this process requires significant investment outlays. Not all countries start from the same point, and the level of economic development has a significant impact on the pace of change. Our contribution to the implementation of the EU climate policy is not only the investments we undertake, but also our well-thought-out investment plans. The necessary actions, however, require appropriate support from the EU institutions. The mobilization of appropriate financial resources makes the implementation of an ambitious emission reduction path much more realistic. Decision-making processes undertaken in the energy sector are characterized by high complexity. PGE is part of both the social and the economic ecosystems and cannot function in isolation. That is why, in addition to economic calculations, regulatory reasons and the needs of the Polish power system, I see the need for constant dialogue with the social side and undertaking actions aimed at obtaining social acceptance for our activities. By assuming the function of the President of the Management Board, together with the team of managers, I undertake the task of giving impetus to activities in the PGE Capital Group. I consider the attitude of employees of the entire Group and their cooperation-oriented attitude to be a key element in the successful implementation of the tasks we have before us. I also count on constructive dialogue with financial markets, primarily with the environment of investors, banks and insurers. The green direction is achievable on the basis of a conventional resources that will allow balancing the growing number of renewable sources of energy being created and will provide our economy and society with secure and stable electricity and heat supplies. Wojciech Dąbrowski President of the Management Board PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna GRI 102-14 2 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 3 Contents Letter of the President of the Management Board of the PGE SA 3 The PGE Group’s Business Model 6 Global energy transformation 10 Environmental protection and counteracting climate change 18 Social awareness 44 Our Workforce 46 Our Clients 50 Society 54 Risks 74 Risk Management in the PGE Group and the PGE Company 74 Environment 75 Social Issues 78 Labor Laws and Issues 80 Human Rights 82 Counteracting Corruption 84 Report’s Approval 86 Useful Links 87 Energy Industry Glossary 88 Chosen GRI Indicators, Global Impact, and Custom Indicators 90 The Impact Barometer 116 4 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 5 GRI The PGE Group’s Business Model The PGE Group’s generating assets account for approx. 39% of the electricity produced in Poland, using a variety of technologies, including approx. 32% by the conventional generation segment and approx. 6% by district heating segment, 102-1 of which approx. 19% in cogeneration. Conventional installations use lignite from their own mines as well as hard coal, GRI PGE Group is Poland’s largest vertically integrated producer and supplier of electricity and the largest producer of district heating. The Group operates throughout the entire value chain: from lignite mining at its own mines, through electricity gas and biomass from external suppliers. Renewable sources are also used to produce electricity: wind energy in wind farms, 102-2 water energy in hydropower plants and solar energy (PV). and heating production, to distribution and sales. With over 294,000 km of distribution lines, The PGE Group distributes electricity to customers in an area covering approx. 40% of Poland’s territory. Fuel extraction and generation Distribution Supply of electricity and heat With a combination of its own lignite resources, generation assets and distribution networks, The PGE provides secure and reliable electricity supplies to more than 5 million customers throughout Poland, including households, businesses and institutions. This means that it supplies almost every third electricity consuEBITDA Conventional District Heating Renewables Distribution Supply mer in Poland. The PGE is also the leader in district heating production. of the PGE Group Generation Segment Segment Segment Segment Segment 7,141 2,306 280 In 2019, the PGE Group generated EBITDA of approx. PLN 7.1 billion. 1,186 517 Conventional Generation Segment, responsible for The Renewable Energy Segment is responsible for the 2,880 generating electricity from conventional natural resoproduction of electricity from renewable sources and maurces had the highest share of revenues and EBITDA. nagement of the capacity of the pumped storage power Investment outlays in this sector were the highest and plants. The Group actively invests in the development of amounted to approx. PLN 4 billion, including increasing renewable energy sources. After winning the RES auction the efficiency of existing units and their environmental in 2018, the Group is building an onshore wind farm with Share in EBITDA 40% 17% 7% 32% 4% upgrades and investments development (PLN 1.4 billion) almost 100 MW installed capacity. It also implements one in block projects with a capacity of 1,800 MW in Opole of the strategic development options of the PGE Group Revenue (millions of PLN) and a 490 MW block in Turów. after 2020 – a project to develop offshore wind farms. The Group’s plans are to reach 1 GW in 2026 and 2.5 GW 37,627 19,245 6,058 1,039 6,155 17,312 District heating Segment responsible for production by 2030. of district heat generated 17% of the PGE Group EBITDA. Investment outlays in this segment amounted to PLN 0.5 The Trade Segment focuses its activities around trade EBIT (millions of PLN) billion and these were mainly modernization and replacein electricity and related products in wholesale and retail ment expenses regarding production assets and heating markets. 4,175 7,109 595 657 1,101 247 networks. CAPEX (millions of PLN) 7,009 4,018 548 151 2,225 30 The business model in PGE GRI 102-1 Market share The PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna SA is the parent company of the PGE Capital Group. GRI 102-2 The company’s activity concentrates mainly on the following areas: wholesale trade in electricity and trade in related 32% 19% 10% 25%* 33%* products and fuels, supervision over the activities of central companies and holding companies, providing financial services electricity heat from combustibles cogeneration without co-combustion for companies of the PGE Capital Group. of biomass and biogas 6% The PGE carries out the tasks of the parent company of the PGE Group, which includes, among others, creating development electricity strategies and strategic management of the PGE Group, focusing on effective management of the PGE Group production portfolio. * Estimated data concerning sales to end customers and distribution 6 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 7 The PGE S.A.’s organisational structure on December 31, 2019 GRI 102-45 PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna Elektrownia Bełchatów Elektrownia Turów Elektrownia Opole PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Kopalnia Węgla Kopalnia Węgla Zespół Elektrowni Konwencjonalna SA Brunatnego Turów Brunatnego Bełchatów Dolna Odra Elektrociepłownia Elektrociepłownia Elektrociepłownia Oddział nr 1 PGE Ventures sp. z o.o. PGE Nowa Energia sp. z o.o PGE Centrum sp. z o.o. PGE Systemy SA PGE Synergia sp. z o.o. w Gorzowie w Bydgoszczy w Lublinie Wrotków w Krakowie Wielkopolskim Elektrociepłownia w Kielcach Elektrociepłownia w Zgierzu Oddział Wybrzeże w Gdańsku Oddział nr 2 CUW w Krakowie PGE Energia Ciepła SA Elektrociepłownia Oddział w Rybniku Oddział w Warszawie w Rzeszowie Elektrownia Wiatrowa Elektrownia Wiatrowa Elektrownia Wiatrowa Elektrownia Wiatrowa Elektrownia Wiatrowa PGE Baltica sp. z o.o. Baltica 1 sp. z o.o. Baltica 2 sp. z o.o. Baltica 3 sp. z o.o. Baltica 4 sp. z o.o. Baltica 5 sp. z o.o. Zespół Elektrociepłowni Wrocławskich KOGENERACJA SA Elektrownia Wodna Zespół Elektrowni Żarnowiec Wodnych Porąbka Żar Towarzystwo Funduszy PGE Energia PGE Dom Maklerski SA Inwestycyjnych Energia SA PGE Trading GmbH PGE Sweden AB PGE Ekoserwis sp. z o.o. (95,08%) PGE EJ 1 sp. z o.o. (70%) Zespół Elektrowni Wodnych Solina Zespół Elektrowni Wodnych Dychów Odnawialna SA Myczkowce Oddział Warszawa Oddział Białystok Oddział Łódź Oddział Lublin PGE Dystrybucja SA RAMB sp. z o.o. ELMEN sp. z o.o. ELTUR-SERWIS sp. z o.o. MEGAZEC sp. z o.o. BESTGUM POLSKA sp. z o.o. Oddział SkarżyskoOddział Zamość Oddział Rzeszów -Kamienna Oddział z siedzibą Oddział z siedzibą Oddział z siedzibą w Zamościu w Łodzi w Lublinie PGE Obrót SA BETRANS sp. z o.o. MegaSerwis sp. z o.o. ELBIS sp. z o.o. ELBEST Security sp. z o.o. ELBEST sp. z o.o. Oddział z siedzibą Oddział z siedzibą Oddział z siedzibą w Warszawie w Skarżysku-Kamiennej w Białymstoku Companies with 100% equity participation (unless otherwise stated). PGE Energia Ciepła SA holds 58.07% of shares in the share capital of Zespół Elektrociepłowni Wrocławskich Kogeneracja SA. In January 2, 2020, the Rybnik branch was moved to the Conventional Generation business line and became a branch of the company The PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna SA. 8 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 9 Energy transition is no longer a choice – it’s a necessity. Therefore, specific actions aimed at building low-carbon energy should be accompanied by a wide and open discussion on theme of the sector’s future and sources of funding for this transformation. Low-carbon transformation is a key challenge for the PGE Group, and its success depends Global energy on meeting national and EU greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. We are aware of the impact we have on the environment, which is why we want to effectively limit this impact and use natural resources rationally. transformation Windfarms PVs development program totalling 2,500 MW by 2030 (0.0) Oﬀshore Opole ~100 MW Wind Farm PP (0.0) Dolna Odra ~1000 MW Key Czechnica PP CCGT Oﬀshore PVs CCGT CHPP CCGTs (0.0) CHPP* Wind Farms commissioning 1800 MW ~170 MW ~1400 MW ~520 MW ~1500 MW (0.7) Turów ~100 MW CCGT PP (0.0) (0 2) (0.3) CHPP* (0.2) (0.0) ~500 MW ~170 MW (0.9) (0.2) PGE net emmission 0.88 0.85 0.78 rate End of capacity market support for exis�ng coal units – por�olio review Bełchatów Dolna Odra Rybnik Key PP PP PP 370 MW 454 MW 450 MW Genera�on unit Electric capacity decommissioning (1 2) (1.0) (1.0) (emission rate tCO2/MWh) THE WIND FARM “LOTNISKO” (AIRPORT), PGE ENERGIA ODNAWIALNA * New units, pre-investment analyzes 10 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 11 Key development initiatives of the PGE Group GRI 203-1 PGE Energia Odnawialna (Renewable Energy), GC GC-9 a company of the PGE Capital Group has 14 wind farms with a total installed capacity of 542,680 MW. Developmental Activities Efficiency actions This year, two new facilities of this type – Wind Farm Starza / Rybice and Wind Farm Karnice II with the Development of offshore wind farms • Increasing the energy efficiency total installed capacity of 97.17 MW – will be open • 2.5 GW of capacity installed in the Baltic Sea of production assets due to modernizations in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, which will until 2030 • Reducing our own energy consumption • we plan to commission the first offshore wind farm • Reduction of network losses associated strengthen the company as the largest producer in 2026 with the distribution of electricity of „green” energy in Poland. • Starting the distribution network cabling program THE WIND FARM “RESKO II”, PGE ENERGIA ODNAWIALNA Investments in photovoltaic development • Reduction of losses in heating networks • we plan to obtain 2.5 GW of capacity by 2030 The PGE Group is a leader in the production of green energy, it develops ambitious plans to build offshore wind farms as part of the PV Program and solar power plants. In view of the progress of work and the time required for the low-carbon transformation, conventio• we implement large-scale projects in industrial areas nal power plants are supportive in the process of developing renewable energy. It is necessary to maintain a constant using the infrastructure of the PGE Group companies and uninterrupted supply of energy and heat until obtaining at least the same generation capacity from renewable sources. • we develop the portfolio of our own projects, but also use the potential for acquisition The capacity market introduced in 2017 guarantees financial support for existing conventional units and justifies their • we establish cooperation with other companies modernization so that they can work longer and guarantee the security of the entire energy system. We are turning off old with the participation of the Treasury striving and inefficient coal blocks and rebuilding our production potential based on other technologies, e.g. gas units or blocks to achieve synergies producing energy from municipal waste. • as part of increasing energy efficiency, we offer micro installations and are a partner of the micro network As a leader in wind energy production, the PGE Group implements projects to develop onshore wind farms, and also initiates the construction of the first offshore wind farms in the Baltic. Electricity from windmills in the Baltic will flow in 2026, Investments in heating and by 2030 the PGE offshore wind farms will reach 2.5 GW. The implementation of this project alone will reduce CO2 emis• by 2023, we plan to manage networks sions by approximately 7 million tons per year. in 2/3 of our CHP locations • we are planning to build 1,000 MW of new cogeneration capacity by 2030 The PGE Group also runs a photovoltaic (PV) development program. The Group’s aspirations in this area is 25 percent • an increase in the share of low-emission fuels participation in the Renewable Energy segment. With the current assumptions of the project „Polish Energy Policy until 2040” in the fuel mix of the heating segment to 50% this means obtaining approx. 2.5 GW of capacity by 2030. PGE Energia Odnawialna, a PGE Group company, is building until 2030 solar farms all over Poland. The Group plans to cooperate in this area with large government-owned companies, e.g. PKP Polish Railway Lines, one of the largest land owners in Poland and at the same time one of the largest consumers of electricity Construction of gas and steam power in the country, as well as KGHM Polska Miedź and the Azoty Group „Siarkopol.” • 2 blocks of 700 MW capacity at Dolna Odra Power Plant The PGE Group is also a leader in connecting solar photovoltaic installations to the grid, thus enabling its clients to produce • analysis of the potential for further development green electricity for their own needs. The decrease in the costs of PV technology and the support of government funding of gas capacity programs for this type of installation significantly accelerated the process of generating electricity for households’ own needs in Poland. In 2019, we connected nearly 42,000 PV installations with a total capacity of over 250 MW to the network, which means a threefold increase in the connections of solar photovoltaic installations to the grid in our distribution area. VISUALIZATION OF THE PGE OBRÓT OFFER „EKOLOGICZNIE W PRZYSZŁOŚĆ” SOLAR FARM ON MOUNTAIN ŻAR, PGE ENERGIA ODNAWIALNA 12 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 13 Dialogue with stakeholders Dialogue with regulatory and industry environment GRI Energy transformation has an important social dimension. The PGE Group is building its market position in such a way The PGE Group operates in an extremely complex and As a member of the Polski Komitet Energii Elektrycznej GRI that business solutions take into account the social factor. This means constantly maintaining good relations with the changing regulatory environment. In order to successfully (PKEE), PGE belongs to EURELECTRIC Electricity Industry 102-12 102-43 environment, based on trust and openness, through active dialogue with stakeholders. The PGE Group companies organize such events as energy forums with representatives of local authorities and conduct public consultations accompanying conduct business activity and meet the expectations of Stakeholders, it must monitor the legislative processes on Union. This association represents interests of European power companies and is the strongest industry organizaGRI 102-13 investments. Local Information Points (LPI) have been launched in municipalities considered as potential locations of the first an ongoing basis and actively participate in the dialogue tion in this area participating in dialogue with European Polish nuclear power plant, where residents can obtain information about nuclear energy and the ongoing investment. with the environments responsible for creating law, both institutions. The company belongs also to other internaGC PGE Energia Ciepła (Heat Energy) also organized the first workshops for contractors in the energy sector and sectors linked in Poland and in the European Union. Such activity transtional industry organizations, including Global Sustainable GC-1 to it, at which it presented planned investments and rules for the proper preparation of tender procedures based on the Public Procurement Law. lates directly into building the value of the entire Group. Electricity Partnership (GSEP), Hydrogen Europe, Edison Electric Institute and Stanford Energy Corporate Affiliates GC GC-2 Since 2008, the PGE Group has been actively particiand also to domestic organizations, including: The PGE Group regularly conducts dialogue sessions Stakeholder Panels to get to know the opinions and expectations pating in the initiative of the UN Secretary-GeneralGlobal of both business and the local community. Representatives of the key PGE Group stakeholder groups, i.e. government admiCompact creating a standard for companies in the field • Izba Gospodarcza Energetyki i Ochrony Środowiska, nistration, regulator, media, industry and non-governmental organizations, scientific communities, investors, representatives of ethics. It also implements actions for sustainable deve• Towarzystwo Obrotu Energią, of local communities, and employees are invited to meetings. lopment throughout the entire value chain – from extrac• Polski Komitet Światowej Rady Energetycznej, GRI The last panel of this type took place on October 26, 2017 at the PGE headquarters in Warsaw. Discussions were conducted tion and generation to the final recipient of electricity and heat, while also contributing to the implementation • • Stowarzyszenie Elektryków Polskich, Stowarzyszenie Emitentów Giełdowych. 102-40 in four thematic groups related to the General Procedure for Management of Social Engagement Activities (CCI) in the PGE of sustainable development goals (SDGs). Corporate Group, related to the business strategy: society (local communities), workplace, environment, and market. social responsibility is therefore not only a response to What is more, companies from the PGE Group belong the expectations of stakeholders. It is primarily a way and take an active part in the work of the following Stakeholder representatives selected priority issues that they believe should be key for the PGE Group and topics that should be of operating and one of the factors guaranteeing success international industry organizations: included in the PGE Group integrated report. The following topics were selected: in implementing the PGE Group strategy. • EDSO for Smart Grids, The Group undertakes activities in each of the 17 SDGs • World Nuclear Association, goals. However, the most important ones are the • FORATOM, following: • WindEurope, Goal 4. Quality education and the following domestic organizations and associations: SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE MARKET Goal 7. Affordable and clean energy Goal 8. Decent work and economic growth • Izba Gospodarcza Energetyki i Ochrony Środowiska, Goal 9. Indusrty, innovation andinfrastructure • Towarzystwo Gospodarcze Polskie Elektrownie, • Educational activities • Investing in projects from • Ethical business conduct, • Investments for the Goal 11. Sustainable cities and communities • Polskie Towarzystwo Nukleoniczne, in the area of functioning the sphere of environethics management development of energy Goal 12. Responsible consumption and production • Polskie Towarzystwo Przesyłu i Rozdziału Energii Elekof the electricity and heat mental protection, finanin the organization production from renewaGoal 13. Climate action trycznej, market, energy efficiency cing research projects (including anti-corruption) ble sources Goal 17. Partnerships for the goals • Związek Pracodawców Dystrybucji Energii, and safe use of energy in the area of possibi• Promotion of occupa• Ensuring energy • Towarzystwo Obrotu Energią, and its infrastructure lities of limiting negative tional health and safety security – effective • Związek Pracodawców Porozumienie Producentów (including education impact on the environ(OHS) principles access to electricity Węgla Brunatnego (ZPPPWB) and through of children and youth) ment, investments for • Generation gap and heat this organization the PGE Group is also represented • Supporting the local increasing the share of management in the international organization Euracoal, community, active implerenewable energy • Polskie Towarzystwo Elektrociepłowni Zawodowych, mentation of the good • Limiting the environmen• Izba Gospodarcza Ciepłownictwo Polskie, neighborhood policy; tal impact of activities • Towarzystwo Elektrowni Wodnych, actions at the level • Emissions to the atmos• Stowarzyszenie Elektryków Polskich, of individual companies phere (types and amount • Polskie Stowarzyszenie Energetyki Wiatrowej, of emitted substances • Stowarzyszenie Energii Odnawialnej. measurements, goals) The rules for joining international organizations have been included in the General Procedure for the Activities of the PGE Capital Group in the International Area. However, detailed guidelines for cooperation with national and international industry organizations are set out in the document „Good practices in cooperation with national and international industry organizations”. 14 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 15 GRI Development programs By the end of 2019, the company launched 32 charging stations (one charging station may have more than one As part of the PGE Capital Group, four projects related to energy storage are currently underway. 203-1 GC supporting energy transformation charging point) in various regions of Poland. In practice, this means 64 points in 19 cities. • PGE GiEK Zakład Elektrownia Bełchatów is working GC-9 on a warehouse integrated with a conventional The PGE Group conducts research and implements The PGE Group Electromobility Program The PGE Group is the largest partner of local governments unitwith a net capacity of 1 MW and a capacity of development programs that, thanks to the latest techhas the following goals: in building infrastructure for electromobility. Knowing 1 MWh. The investment will be completed in 2022. nologies and solutions, support our core business the specificity of local authorities requirements as well as • PGE Energia Odnawialna will build two energy and at the same time implement the PGE Group • promotion and development of electric transport extensive experience and good relations with local self-gostorage facilities. A 500 kW facility with a capacity Environmental Policy. These include: in Poland, verning bodies, the Group has developed a comprehensiof 750 kW will be installed at the photovoltaic instal• acquiring the role of a key operator of infrastructure ve investment model corresponding to this specificity. lation on Góra Żar, the other one, at the Karnice I • The hydrogen program, for charging electric cars and a key supplier of electric wind farm, will have an estimated power of 1.75 MW • The program for adjusting generating units car charging services, The PGE Group is also the first operator in Poland and a capacity of 1.75 MWh. to the requirements of the BAT / BREF conclusions, • development of the segment of services related to supply charging stations with 100% energy from rene• The Electromobility Program, to electromobility. wable sources. In this way, it achieves the goal of reduPGE Dystrybucja, Branch Rzeszów wants to open a con• The Pilot Program for Energy Storage. cing greenhouse gas emissions, not only locally in places tainer energy store this year at the Rzepedź Main Supply These goals are achieved by PGE Nowa Energia, a comwhere electric vehicles are used, but also throughout Point with a capacity of approx. 2.1 MW and a capacity A list of development projects is available on page 34. pany belonging to the GPE Group, through the constructhe entire value chain of energy production. At the same of 4.2 MWh. The facilities are to support the integration tion and management of a charging station network and time, the Group provides customers with fully ecological of renewable energy installations so that the energy geThe use of hydrogen hydrogen as an energy carrier the provision of value-added services based on charging power supply. nerated in them can be used during the period of greatest has enjoyed great popularity in recent years. According infrastructure. demand. In addition, they can serve as a back-up power to numerous publications, hydrogen can help meet enerOn February 17, 2020, PGE Nowa Energia concluded supply for the end customer, energy arbitration, as well as gy challenges, such as: storage of energy from renewable an agreement regarding the construction of publicly a current demand management system. sources, support of the decarbonisation process in various The charging stations of the PGE Nowa accessible electric car charging stations at car dealerships industrial sectors, including the energy generation and transport sectors, improvement of air quality and strengEnergia belonging to the PGE Group of brands belonging to Volkswagen Group Polska. are 100% powered by energy from reneUnder the agreement, up to 300 new charging points will thening of energy security. The PGE Group launched the be launched next to the showrooms in the next 2 years. hydrogen program in December 2019. Its primary goal wable sources. is to coordinate all initiatives, activities and projects in the field of hydrogen technologies currently implemented or planned to be launched in the PGE Group. The implementation of the Pilot Energy Storage Program is a response to the needs of the market. Currently, A program for adapting generating units to the one can observe constant increase of installed capacity requirements of the BAT / BREF conclusions was launin renewable energy sources, which requires the deveched by the PGE Group at the beginning of 2019. lopment of new methods for stabilizing the operation of Since then, five research and development projects power networks, in particular medium voltage networks. have been launched: The PGE Capital Group program focuses on analyzing the • research on the impact of targeted bromine salt possibilities of building the first electricity storage systems mixtures on the reduction of mercury emissions using electrochemical battery technology and gathering in the exhaust gas of Turów Power Plant, the necessary operational experience related to the ma• testing the effectiveness of the use of selected types nagement and maintenance of both batteries and power of powdered sorbents to reduce mercury emissions converters as well as IT systems supporting the operation at the Bełchatów Power Plant, of energy storage. • activated carbon production technology and its dosage method to reduce mercury emissions, • developing low-input methods for increasing the efficiency of flue gas desulfurization installations; • implementing heavy metal removal technology The share of the PGE units in the total in InnUPS technology. installed capacity at pumped storage power plants in Poland is about 85 percent. THE PUMPED STORAGE POWER PLANT IN ŻARNOWIEC PHOTO: PGE NOWA ENERGIA / ELECTRIC CAR CHARGING STATION IN WARSAW AT 15 KŁOPOTOWSKIEGO STREET 16 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 17 GC GC-7 Environmental protection GC GC-9 The investments of the PGE Group are aimed and counteracting climate at gradually lowering our emission rate. When taking up the challenge of gradual change decarbonisation and diversification of the fuel mix, we count on the support of financial institutions as long-term partners of an effective and fair transformation of the energy sector. The PGE Group is the largest producer of electricity and heat in Poland. It is also the largest producer of green energy in the country. Consequently, it actively participates in the implementation of climate policy objectives, including the reduction of CO2 emissions and a gradual departure from fossil fuels. In recent years, most investments in conventional assets were aimed at reducing the environmental impact of these units directly through the construction of desulphurization, denitrification and dedusting installations, but also indirectly through modernizations aimed at improving production efficiency. The power plants belonging to the Group in Bełchatów, Turów, Opole, Dolna Odra, and Rybnik, due to consistent pro-environmental investments, systematically reduce the level of emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, and dust into the air. From 1989 to 2019, the Group’s system power plants reduced their SO2 emissions by 95%, NOx emissions by 58%. and dust emissions by 99% (in kg / MWh). THE PUMPED STORAGE POWER PLANT IN ŻARNOWIEC 18 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 19 The PGE Group is consistently aiming to reduce PGE Nowa Energia, which belongs to the PGE Group, actively participates in the promotion of electromobility carbon dioxide emissions it puts charging stations for electric cars across Poland and supplies them with energy generated in 100% from renewable sources. It also invests in electric car-sharing. To realize this goal, the company recreates its production portfolio towards environmentally friendly sources. All these activities lead to the decarbonisation of the electricity and district heating market in Poland. The PGE Group plans to develop effective capacity based on gaseous fuel as an alternative to phased out CO2 Saved Cumulatively 2016-2026 Overall PGE Group emission rate coal blocks in power plants and combined heat and power (m tCO2 ) (tCO2 /MWh)** plants. Another argument supporting the construction of flexible gas power plants is the expansion of renewable energy sources requiring balancing depending on weather 60 0,98 conditions. 1,00 0,98 0,96 50 0,95 0,95 0,93 Ca. 60 m. tonnes saved* 40 0,88 0,90 0,85 30 0,85 20 0,78 0,80 10 0,75 0 0,70 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 2025 * As a substitution effect of an average system hard-coal unit of 35% efficiency. ** For 2020 and 2025 estimated average emissions rates of PGE Group according to initial schedules of the projects given above (contribution of 2 gas-steam units and partial contribution of the offshore wind). As a result of the investment, the net emission ratio will avoid CO2 emissions at the level of 60 million tonnes (in terms of tonnes of CO2 per MWh) will fall from 0.98 in 2016-2026. Projects for the construction of low-carbon tonnes of CO2 / MWh in 2013, to 0.88 tonnes of CO2 / sources mean that transformation costs are getting hiPHOTO PGE NOWA ENERGIA / ELECTRIC CAR CHARGING STATION MWh in 2018, to 0.78 tonnes of CO2 / MWh. After 2025, gher. Therefore, when taking up the challenge of gradual the emissions of the PGE Group units will continue to dedecarbonisation and diversification of the fuel mix, the crease, as a result of such developments as starting elecPGE Group counts on the support of financial institutions, tricity production in offshore wind farms. The commissiowhich will allow for an effective, but at the same time fair ning of currently implemented and planned investments transformation of the energy sector. WIND FARM ŻARNOWIEC PGE ENERGIA ODNAWIALNA The production portfolio of the PGE Group is changing due to the implementation of the modernization program The PGE Group is a leader in using the potential of renewable of existing assets, which aims to increase production energy in Poland, and its goal is to achieve 25 percent. share efficiency, and thus reduce carbon dioxide emissions. in the green energy market by 2030. In 2016, the comprehensive modernization of 10 units at the Bełchatów Power Plant was completed, and currently the modernization of unit No. 2 is still ongoing. In June 2019, the oldest unit at the Bełchatów Power Plant The PGE Group is building onshore wind farms. It also began to implement the offshore wind farm project. The operations was shut down, which worked for 38 years and met all of the Group companies stimulate the increase in the number of prosumer installations. The group is also developing a solar ROTOR A PART OF THE TURBINE FOR ONE OF environmental standards until the end of its operation. farm construction program. MODERNIZED BLOCKS IN THE PGE GIEK POWER The Group is also implementing a modernization project PLANT IN TURÓW for units 1-3 at Turów Power Plant, which will increase capacity from 235 to 250 MW while improving efficiency and availability. 20 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 21 The PGE is the largest producer and supplier of district heat The PGE Group cares about partner relations with local authorities and local distributors, thanks to which it develops solutions that are beneficial for clients. By 2023, the Group plans to manage networks at 2/3 of our CHP locations. The PGE Group’s District Heating Strategy is a response In 2019, on local heat markets, PGE Energia Ciepła to the need to improve air quality in cities through massive connected to the municipal heating networks a record connections to the heating network and the elimination of 239.9 MWt, i.e. 43.4 MWt more than in 2018. It is as if old, inefficient and environmentally polluting coal furnaces. a whole city of the size of Gorzów Wielkopolski was conThe strategy envisions the following developments: nected to a heating system in one year. • construction of 1,000 MW new capacity On markets where PGE Energia Ciepła is only a heat proin cogeneration by 2030, ducer 195.5 MWt have been connected, whereas where • increasing the share of low-emission fuels to 50% it operates as an integrated entity and is also a heat distriin the perspective of 2030 by using the potential butor, 42.4 MWt have been connected. Nearly 80 percent of local sources (biomass, waste, gas), of connections were carried out in 3 large cities: Kraków, • supporting the implementation of the 25% target Wrocław and Gdańsk. On the primary market, that is, share in Polish electricity production from renewable to newly constructed buildings to which heat flows for energy sources by 2030. the first time, PGE Energia Ciepła connected 173.5 MWt (73% of all connections). However, on the secondary market, i.e. for buildings that have converted heat supply into a municipal heating network, it connected 66.4 MWt. In 2019, PGE Energia Ciepła CHP PLANT IN RZESZÓW The contribution of the PGE Group to the Circular Economy The formation of by-products of combustion is a conreuse of combustion by-products, protection of natural sequence of the production of electricity and heat in geresources and minimizing adverse impact on the environConncected a record 237.9 MWt Carried out nearly 80 percent nerating units using fossil fuels. Activities undertaken ment, including by limiting the amount of waste deposiby the PGE Group, consisting in closing the loop are part ted in landfills. to municipality heating networks of connectins of the European Union policy, which is focused on the Which is 41.4 MWt more than in 2018 In Kraków, Wrocław, and Gdańsk The reuse of combustion waste in various industry sectors brings measurable environmental benefits: • it limits the use of natural resources (e.g. natural gypsum, aggregates), and thus reduces the size of degraded areas due to their extraction, Connected 171.5 MWt on the primary Connected 66.4 MWt on the secondary • it limits the need to use new areas for the construction of waste landfill installations market market and associated infrastructure, • it leads to a reduction of waste nuisance, both for people and the natural environment, Source: PGE Energia Ciepła • it reduces the cost of doing business. 22 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 23 The idea of reusing combustion by-products has been around the energy sector for over 20 years. Years of experience with the increasing use of coal combustion by-products have allowed us to gather a lot of knowledge about anthropogenic The market for by-products of combustion minerals produced at PGE Energia Ciepła and at PGE GiEK. Cement and concrete producers, ceramics producers, mining and road companies are currently enjoying significant benefits through the use of proven and safe solutions. Products created using the technology of using by-products of combustion meet all the requirements that must be met by building materials or products. UPSs have also been used in the reclamation and macro-leveling of post-industrial and degraded areas, restoring the former landscape and natural values to many areas. Combustion by-products are valuable raw materials widely used in various industries, most commonly in the construction sector. One of such substances is synthetic gypsum, which is the final product of the flue gas desulfurization process using the wet lime method, qualified for the best available RECLAMATION MINING technology (BAT). MACROLEVELLING CONSTRUCION sale of fly ash CIVIL for concrete and plaster ENGINEERING road construction cement plats AGRICULTURE hydraulic engineering concrete and prefabricated elements producers geotechnical engineering builders fertilizers railway engineering cultivation beds SYNTHETIC GYPSIZE IS MADE IN THE FLUE-GAS DESULFURIZATION PROCESS IN WET LIMESTONE-GYPSUM TECHNOLOGY IN THE PGE GIEK POWER PLANTS for mushrooms growth media Anthropogenic minerals produced in the PGE Group, used as raw materials for production, are constantly controlled, i.e. are subjected to a series of tests allowing production this guarantees the quality and safety of use. The process of using Source: PGE Energia Ciepła anthropogenic minerals in construction is supervised by Instytut Techniki Budowlanej. The products have also been registered in the international REACH system. As part of registration, by-products of combustion were subjected to comprehensive toxicological, ecotoxicological and mutagenic tests in accordance with the requirements set out by the European Chemicals The processing of combustion by-products contributes for the use of secondary raw materials, where, in accorAgency (ECHA). The tests were carried out in laboratories with the highest world standard and unquestionable credibility. to the creation of a waste-free industry. It also reduces dance with Article 4 of Directive 2008/98 / EC, hierarThe test results clearly confirmed that they are safe substances that do not pose a threat to humans, animals or the environthe use of natural resources and decreases the amount chical management of waste is recommended using the ment. Their use need not be restricted in any way because of their environmental impact. of waste stored. The implementation of a closed-loop order of priority in the law. By using the produced anthroeconomy at the PGE Group allows for an increase in the pogenic minerals, the consumption of natural resources amount of waste used as part of recovery and recycling is reduced and the negative effects of ash deposition and is contributing to the Group’s sustainable developat landfills are reduced. The use of secondary raw matement. The economic use of energy waste is in line with rials such as by-products of combustion gives a favorable the European Union strategy recommending priority CO2 balance and reduces environmental degradation. 24 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 25 By-products of combustion in the circular economy A way to implement the idea of circular economy is also the construction of an Thermal Waste Processing Therefore, Thermal Waste Processing Installation realizes the assumptions of the circular economy by limiting the Installation with Energy Recovery at the PGE EC heat consumption of fossil raw materials, reducing the amount and power plant in Rzeszów. Thermal Waste Processing of waste stored and recovering energy from them. Installation processes up to 100,000 tons of mixed municipal waste and non-hazardous waste a year. This allows In 2019, we signed a letter of intent for the construction the production of energy from waste and its transfer of the second line, which will increase waste processing in the form of electricity and network heat to consumers. to 180,000 tons per year. less mining of natural aggregates lower CO2 emissions from opencast mines hydraulic road engineering engineering less mining railway of raw materials engineering for cement production embankment utilization of materials waterproofing and sealing from spoil tips aggregate hydraulic binder toad and railway foundations construction concrete ash of buildings electric energy synthetic gypsum and district heating general agricultural fertilizer construction COAL agriculture mineral mining binders less mining of natural gypsum and sulfur mining macrolevelling less mining of natural sand to fill excavations Source: PGE Energia Ciepła THE INSTALLATION FOR THERMAL WASTE RECYCLING PROCESSING IN RZESZÓW WAS BUILT WITH THE USE OF SAFE TECHNOLOGY COMMONLY USED IN EUROPE 26 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 27 One of the elements of the management strategy of PGE Energia Ciepła is the widest possible reuse of produced anthropogenic minerals and noble elements. The diagram of the water cycle in electricity The BAT compliance program consists of a number of projects, including one project derived from a research and developand heat production processes at the PGE Group ment project, i.e. the implementation of heavy metal capture technology in InnUPS technology. Among the stricter requirements for the removal of nitrogen oxides and sulfur, requirements have been introduced for waste water parameters from wet flue gas desulfurization installations. The concentration of metals and metalloids in wastewater is one of the key parameters. Between 2013 and 2016, PGE Energia Ciepła developed a technology for wastewater treatment from wet flue gas desulfphurisation installations. The project was implemented as part of the GEKON program financed by the National Center for Research and Development and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The developed technology is based on a system of columns containing ion exchange resins dedicated to the removal of metals and metalloids. Recovered noble metals can be reused in industry. WATER PREPARATION STATIONS The implementation of InnUPS technology is planned in four locations: in Gdynia, Gdańsk, Wrocław and Kraków. Site work is underway in Gdynia, and its completion is planned for October 2020. Commissioning of the installations at the initial DEMI other three locations is planned for July 2021. The PGE Group ensures that the principles of circular economy are applied to the widest possible extent in water and wastewater management. Closing the water cycle in production processes involves diverting used water for purification BOILER CIRCUIT and returning it to production processes again. Depending on the size of the plant, and source and composition of raw water, various techniques are used to prepare water: WATER SOURCE MAIN COOLING lime decarbonisation, filtration, ion exchange, ultrafiltration, reverse osmosis, and electrodeionization. In each case, the complete water preparation sequence consists of a combination of several of the techniques listed above, which allows the CIRCUIT preparation of water of appropriate (often better than collected) quality for individual water and water-steam circuits, and TECHNOLOGICAL waste products from such treatment processes are still used in other, less demanding cycles. Sources for the production of SYSTEMS process water are both surface and underground waters, and sometimes also water from municipal water supply networks. deslagging, ash removal At each stage of water preparation, special attention is paid to its rational use and very large part of the waste water generated during water preparation is recycled back to processes e.g. washings from filters, water recovered from sub-carbonization sludge, concentrates from reverse osmosis or electrodialysis processes, and regenerated brines from the softening MAINTENANCE process. washing, firefighting Also, sewage generated in other installations, if its composition allows, is recycled to the process, e.g. • the rule is to turn back hot waste water as a source for the water preparation process, WASTEWATER • in many cases, rainwater or drainage water is reused to produce process water, TREATMENT WET FLUE-GAS • part of the social and domestic sewage, after treatment, is used as a water source to supplement the closed cooling SEDIMNET DESULFURIZATION system, work is also underway on the use of treated sewage from the municipal sewage treatment plant as a source and or FLUE-GAS DESULFURIZATION of process water, • waste water is also used as water sources for domestic water systems or for supplementing ash removal and slagging systems. Source: PGE Energia Ciepła 28 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 29 GRI Ecology and ecological responsibility accompany the PGE Group throughout the entire supply chain. Exploitation of lignite by the opencast method results in large-scale transformations of the land surface, and in consequence changes in the natural On July 16, 2019, the Bełchatów Lignite Mine completed the 17-year-old formation of the external Szczerców Field dump, i.e. the next hill after Kamieńsk Mountain near the mine, which has already reached its target height and shape. In the follo304-1 environment, especially in the landscape aspect. The PGE Group is restoring the post-mining areas to an unchanged form, wing years, the hill will undergo full forest reclamation. The new mountain will also have a recreational function. GC and plans reclamation work at the initial stage of the investment. GC-8 The construction of the external Szczerców spoil tip began on October 21, 2002. During this time, nearly 1 billion m3 of overburden, i.e. land above lignite, were dumped near the pit. The mountain is about 170 m high and its area is over 1156.36 ha. The Bełchatów Mine started reclamation works on the newly formed dump in 2003. By the end of 2018, as many as 3 million Our remediation activities are part of: 650 thousand trees were planted on it, and in about 5 years, the mountain will be fully forested and adapted for the con• best practices used in European mining regions, struction of a recreation base. • the EU biodiversity strategy, • Floods Directive, • social policy, • directions and goals of the PGE Group business strategy. Reclamation of post-mining areas consists in restoring the utility and natural values of depleted areas. It was as a result of reclamation that the highest hill in Central Poland (395 m a.s.l.) – the Kamieńsk Mountain (Góra Kamieńsk) was formed. It was dumped from 1.4 million m3 of sand, gravel, loam and clays and their mixtures collected from the excavation (so-called overburden). The hill was first properly shaped, connected to the adjacent areas by building a road system and ramps and construction of the surface drainage system. The area prepared in this way was subjected to reclamation, which consisted in soil restoration and the introduction of herbaceous vegetation, the introduction of woody species and care plantings. KWB BEŁCHATÓW: PLANTINGS ON THE OUTER SPOIL TIP OUTER SPOIL TIP SZCZERCÓW SZCZERCÓW FIELD The reclaimed area of Kamieńsk Mountain, in addition to its natural functions, also has economic and social roles. The wind farm located there Kamiensk Wind The PGE Group will also prepare other excavations for reclamation. After the end of operation of the Bełchatów Field, Park with a capacity of 30 MW, produces clean energy in the years 2021-2033 it is planned to shallow the excavation with earth masses and shape the escarpment. After the prepafor about 6,000 farms. There is also a year-round ratory work has been completed, the reclamation will take place in the water direction, where the water surface will be rebuilt recreation and sports complex on the mountain. The naturally. Góra Kamieńsk Sports and Recreation Center is one of the region’s biggest tourist attractions. Tourists have at Two water reservoirs with a total water surface of over 4,000 hectares will be created on the currently operated excavations their disposal bicycle paths, a ski slope with pistes of of Bełchatów Field and Szczerców Field. They will contain as much as 3 billion cubic meters of water. At the deepest point, varying difficulty, and a toboggan run. the water depth can reach about 170 meters. This means that the Bełchatów lakes will be deeper than Hańcza, the deepest lake in Poland. The 30 MW wind farm located on Kamieńsk Mountain consists of 15 wind turbines. FRAGMENT OF A RESTORED OUTER SPOIL TIP Golf course Indoor piste Skiing slope / KWB TURÓW Car racing track Horse racing track Extreme sports center Conference center Livingmuseumof ignite excavation Skiing slope Extreme sports center From 1977 to 2019, as part of the ‘New’ mountain at Pole Szczerców reclamation of post-mining areas at the Bełchatów Mine and Turów Mine, we planted a total of approximately Directions of reclamation Forest 48.5 million trees and shrubs. Wooded Mountainbike course Water Kamiensk Sport recreational Mountain Cultural Theme park Beach Marina Canoe course Rope park Mountainbike course KAMIEŃSK MOUNTAIN KWB BEŁCHATÓW MANAGEMENT SCHEME 30 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 31 We care for fauna and flora in the vicinity of our assets In 2019, the PGE Group tested a bird monitoring system whose task is to coordinate their migration routes with the energy production process in our wind farms. By excluding periodically selected turbines that flying birds are approaching, PGE protects them from collision with windmills without stopping the entire complex, which was necessary until now throughout the entire migration period. PGE Energia Ciepła and PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwenjonalna have been cooperating with ornithologists from the Association for Wild Animals „Sokół” for years supporting the reintroduction of peregrine falcons in Poland. In the PGE Capital Group: Dolna Odra Power Plant Complex (ZEDO), Elektrociepłownia in Gdańsk, Gdynia, Toruń and Lublin, as well as in the Bełchatów Power Plant, there are 6 peregrine falcon nesting stations. The first 3 chicks hatched in ZEDO in 2004. Since then, 33 young falcons have hatched at the Dolna Odra Power Plant. In 2006 for the first time a female falcon was constantly observed in the chimney in Gdynia. The first nest was installed a year later. In February 2016, Gdynia falcons received a completely new nest with cameras, thanks to which it is possible to watch live the life of chimney tenants peregrine falcons. From 2019, you can also watch the life of falcons from Toruń and Lublin. In the most interesting moments of the life of the falcon family, the on-line preview on the page peregrinus.pl is accessed about 200 thousand times per month. In 2018, a pair of peregrine falcons also nested 75 meters above the ground in the carburizing gallery of one of the 13 working power units at the Bełchatów Power Plant. All the nestlings chicks that the Association „Sokół” looks after are ringed. Birds receive two rings: yellow ornithological and blue observation ones. The yellow color of the ornithological ring means that the falcon has hatched in urban areas, the blue means that the falcon has hatched in the wild. Only about 30 pairs of peregrine falcons live in Poland. They are under strict species protection. Kestrels also nest in areas belonging to the PGE Group. These small falcons chose their nests in close proximity to the power generating units of Dolna Odra Power Plant and the reclaimed grounds of the Bełchatów and Turów mine dumps. Kestrels require active protection (they are fully protected). PEREGRINE FALCON ON THE CHIMENY OF PGE ENERGIA CIEPŁA CHP PLANT IN GDYNIA ”FORESTS FULL OF ENERGY” PROGRAM Every day, PGE Dystrybucja cares for white storks. For years, it has been mounting platforms for them on the poles of low voltage lines that raise nests above power lines. Such metal construction means safety for storks and reduction of network failure, and thus reduction of power supply interruptions. The design perfectly separates birds from the power grid and The PGE Group has been implementing the „Forests protects against electric shock. To date, over 25,000 full of energy” program since 2000. For 19 years, platforms ensuring safe nesting of birds on power pothe PGE employees with families, foresters, scouts, les during their stay in Poland have been installed. students of primary and secondary schools as well as In addition, bird warning balls, as well as special conresidents of the areas where PGE operates planted structions and equipment are mounted on high and almost 600,000 trees, mainly pines, spruces and oaks. SOURCE: PGE DYSTRYBUCJA medium voltage lines to prevent birds from colliding with power line cables. AUTHOR: MAŁGORZATA PIETKUN / ”FORESTS FULL OF ENERGY” PROGRAM 32 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 33 GC Research and development projects in the field Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners GC-9 of environmental protection at the PGE Group Development of a The PGE Development and testing of technology low-cost method to enabling reduction of SO2 emissions to the GiEK branch, increase the efficiency level of new environmental conclusions RAFAKO Racibórz Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Elektrownia of flue gas desulfurizain the field of sulfur oxides emissions Bełchatów tion installations below 130 mg / Nm3. (BREF / BAT) Limiting Air Pollutant Emissions Construction of an alternative sorbent Activated carbon Development of a dosing installation with increased production technology Mastering the technology for producing Instytut Energetyki technology to increase reactivity and development and testing The PGE and dosage method to brown coal sorbents and their dosing Warszawa; the efficiency of sulfur The PGE of an optimal algorithm for the operation The contractor GiEK branch, reduce mercury emismethods to the flue gas system to achieve Instytut Chemicznej dioxide removal in IOS GiEK branch, of the sorbent administration system will be selected Elektrownia sions from combustion the required emission limits resulting from Przeróbki Węgla absorbers by using Elektrownia for IOS. This will allow the maintenance in the purchasing Bełchatów processes in energy the BREF / BAT conclusions. Zabrze sorbent with increased Bełchatów of an acceptable level of SOx emissions to procedure boilers reactivity without the the atmosphere in the event of combuneed for milling stion of coal with significant sulphation Research on the impact Assessment of mercury reduction or failure of limestone mills. of targeted mixtures of by the technology of dosing targeted broThe PGE bromine salts on the mine salt mixtures to fuel, understanding Minimization of nitroGiEK branch, ZPBE Energopomiar Development of the chemical composition reduction of mercury mercury behavior in lignite combustion gen oxides emission Elektrownia Sp. z o.o. The PGE and dosing method of the innovative and SO2 emissions in processes and dose selection to ensure from Bełchatów Power Bełchatów GiEK branch, biological preparation that reduces the Megmar the exhaust gases of that the mercury level is kept below Plant by dosing innovaBełchatów Power Plant 7 μg / Nm3 in the exhaust gas. Elektrownia emission of nitrogen oxides to the level Magdalena Drac-Tatoń tive dedicated chemiBełchatów meeting the BAT conclusions emission cal preparations to the standard, i.e. below 175 mg/Nm3. Assessment of mercury reduction IOS absorber Impact of targeted by the technology of dosing targeted brobromine salt mixtures The PGE mine salt mixtures to fuel, understanding Development and applion the reduction GiEK branch, ZPBE Energopomiar mercury behavior in lignite combustion cation of preparations of mercury emissions Elektrownia Sp. z o.o. The PGE Development of the composition and processes and dose selection to ensure to reduce NOx and SO2 in the exhaust gases Turów GiEK branch, dosing method of an innovative biological Megmar that the mercury level is kept below emissions from hard of Turów Power Plant Elektrownia preparation enabling reduction of NOx and Magdalena Drac-Tatoń 7 μg / Nm3 in the exhaust gas. coal-fired power units Opole SO2 emissions from power units. at the Opole Power Investigating the Selection of the optimal mercury Plant effectiveness of using emission reduction technology for power The PGE selected types of dusty unit No. 14 at Bełchatów Power Plant. Assessment and increase of flexibility GiEK branch, ZPBE Energopomiar sorbents to reduce The subject of the research will be the of the power plant integrated with CO2 Elektrownia Sp. z o.o. mercury emissions dosage of bromine salt mixtures for fuel capture in the Calcium Looping technoAgencia Estatal Bełchatów at the Bełchatów and the dosage of activated carbon logy. During the implementation of the Consejo Superior Power Plant or active coke dust into exhaust gases. project, two new concepts will be verified, de Investigaciones FLEXICAL i.e. the flexibility of the Calcium Looping Científicas, Spain; Increasing the desulfu– development installation and expansion with a system Universität Stuttgart, PGE risation efficiency Development of the chemical composition of flexible coal power using energy storage with CaO / CaCO3. Germany; Energia of wet flue gas desulfuand dosing method of the innovative bioplants with CO2 capture Data on load changes and energy storage Politecnico di Milano, Ciepła rization (WFGD) logical preparation reducing sulfur dioxide in the Calcium Looping will be used to test dynamic systems and Italy; The PGE technology reactor models to increase the efficiency Hulleras del Norte in Bełchatów Power emission while limiting the precipitation GiEK branch, and flexibility of calcium loop systems. S.A., Spain Plant, while minimiof hard sediments in the absorber and JSW Innowacje S.A. Elektrownia The end result will be the technical and zing the precipitation avoiding undervaluation of blocks with Bełchatów economic concept of the integrated Calof hard deposits in the need to comply with environmental absorbers by dosing standards resulting from the BREF / BAT cium Looping system with the selected innovative chemical conclusions. the PGE EC plant. preparations 34 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 35 Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Study of the economic efficiency of the introDevelopment of a predictive and diagnoduction of electric vehicles into the distribustic tool for the proper management tion network operators’ fleet. As a result of catalysts, which is crucial for achieving of implementation, the company will develop the efficiency of NOx reduction as well as guidelines for, among others, the operation Zero emission PGE Company’s own for minimizing operating and repair costs of electric vehicles, while reducing CO2 emistransport Dystrybucja research of SCR installations. sions. As a result, PGE Dystrybucja will obtain A predictive The predictive and diagnostic tool will be data that will allow to optimally prepare for and diagnostic system PGE based on the Access database system, the future transformation of the fleet from which will allow efficient access to large Company’s own supporting Energia diesel to electric. amounts of data for many users, quick research the management Ciepła of SCR catalysts organization, control and retrieval of information, as well as automated calculaThe introduction of an autonomous system tions. The diagnostic tool will be used by for MV networks, whose task will be to quickly the PGE EC for optimal management of isolate the place where the short circuit occurcatalysts (packages and modules) in their red, and reconfigure the network in such a way SCR installations. that the restoration of power supply to consumers takes place in an optimal way. Thanks to the implementation of the solution, System of autonomous the number of company car trips locating reduction of the effects PGE damage in the field will be reduced, and conApator Elkomtech Construction of a new low-voltage of failures in the power Dystrybucja sequently the number of kilometers driven and MindMade network management system, using grid exhaust emissions will be reduced, and the area dispersed, mobile energy sources (electric cars) for the purposes of improving energy of environmental damage during such trips will Electric vehicle charging efficiency in the grid, limiting peak load be reduced. Changing the structure of the netPGE power in the grid, reducing losses (limiting Politechnika work will also positively affect renovation system integrated with Dystrybucja power transfers). The final product of the Lubelska works the need to use power generators with lighting infrastructure works will be: the V2G 50 kW charger, a negative impact on the environment (noise, together with the accounting system and fumes) will disappear. the methodology of location of charging points in the urban space. As part of the project, switchgears will be integrated with security automation having new functionalities, and an IT module for dynamic Development and construction of an optimization of the power network will be creintegrated and automated system for maated. These switching devices will be combinaging low voltage distribution network ned with the calculation module. The solution infrastructure, cooperating with distribuwill allow connecting the existing infrastructed energy sources and storage facilities ture with the network layout optimization installed in prosumer installations. module in order to conduct dynamic reconfiLow voltage The result of the work will be dedicated guration of the LV network, enabling optimizadistribution network to the LV network devices such as: digital Apator Elkomtech tion of energy losses and automatic isolation PGE relays LLE and CLE, together with the management taking Politechnika Łódzka Intelligent low voltage of network fragments in which a failure has Dystrybucja management system integrated with the into account the active Politechnika Lubelska network reconfiguraoccurred. Automatic reconstruction of the LV role of the prosumer SCADA class system. Thanks to the optimiPGE network reduces both technical losses in the Apator Elkomtech tion system zed network management capabilities, Dystrybucja distribution of electricity to consumers, and Globema with assembly service the quality of energy supplied to consustrengthens the reliability and flexibility of the support system mers will improve, and the number and power system. The application for assembly power of renewable energy sources that services created as part of the project will can be connected to the network will provide accurate information about the locaincrease, without having to rebuild it. tion of the failure, which will ultimately limit the field trips of technical vehicles (to specific damage, without having to locate them), thus reducing the number of kilometers driven and consequently limiting the level of exhaust emissions and decreasing degradation of natural environment during journeys to locate damage. 36 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 37 Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Comparison of PV technologies and selecReduction of pollutant emissions to water tion of the most advantageous ones. The research covers such questions as optimal angle of the panels relative to the Wydział Chemiczny PGE Studies on the sepaThe PGE Research and development of a method Photovoltaic sun, battery packs, microinverters and Politechniki Śląskiej Energia The town of Siedlce ration process of boric GiEK branch, for separating hydrochloric acid from boric laboratory optimizers. The devices include polycrystalw Gliwicach; Odnawialna acid and hydrochloric Elektrownia acid and the process of obtaining crystalliline, monocrystalline and thin-film panels. ZPBE Energopomiar acid mixtures Opole ne boric acid. The laboratory is equipped with monitoring, sp. z o.o data collection, analysis, reporting and work control systems. Avoiding the need to store / utilize sludge Conducting industrial research, and experiPrecipitation of heavy from the IOS wastewater treatment plant The PGE GiEK mental and development work aimed metals from sludge of the Bełchatów Power Plant, which is habranch, ZPBE Energopomiar at acquiring unique knowledge in the field arising from sewage zardous waste, by developing non-waste Elektrownia sp. z o.o. of optimization of the process of storing treatment plants from technology for the recovery of heavy meBełchatów electricity from RES in alternative gases. IOS tals from wastewater or sludge generated The aim of the project is also to create during wastewater treatment from IOS. Uniwersytet Integrated system a concept for the installation of an integraPGE Przyrodniczy of hydrogen ted hydrogen and biomethane generation Energia w Poznaniu, Removal of various and biomethane in-situ system. Ultimately, the installation will Development of the concept of technoOdnawialna Bałtyckie Centrum forms of nitrogen from Instytut Ochrony generation BioHyMet consist of an electrolyser module and a bioPGE logy for removal of ammonia and nitraTransferu Technologii wastewater – consulŚrodowiska – methanization module generating a mixture Energia tes from wastewater from wet flue gas of biomethane and syngas (derived from the tancy activities, pilot Państwowy Instytut Ciepła desulfurization for the Gdańsk Heat and reaction of hydrogen and carbon dioxide), installation for nitrate Badawczy Power Plant. which will eventually go to the gas network. removal in Gdańsk Estimated amount of avoided CO2 emissions will be around 3200 Mg/year. Optimization of water PGE Identification of the possibilities of reduCompany’s own Development of a new, optimized and consumption Energia cing costs related to water management Development of techresearch economically justified technology for the for energy purposes Ciepła at PGE Energia Ciepła. nology for the producproduction of micro-cogeneration devices tion of micro-cogenerawith solid oxide fuel cells (mCHP-SOFC) Analysis of sales opportunities for metal tion devices with solid and technology for the production of stacks concentrates and calcium borate from oxide fuel cells (mCHPInstytut Energetyki PGE SA of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) fueled with the INNUPS installation. This project -SOFC) and technology Warszawa natural gas. The project will enable PGE SA is associated with an investment project for the production of to acquire competences in the field of miin which a demonstration installation stacks of solid oxide cro-cogeneration technologies and fuel cells based on INNUPS technology in Gdynia fuel cells (SOFC) fueled in the area of the intensively developing is being built. The installation under with natural gas Demonstration distributed energy market. construction is based on a system of ion of INNUPS technoloImproving the quality and reliability exchange columns, the main purpose gy for removal and of electricity supply through the construcof which is to clean wastewater from wet recovery of heavy PGE tion of storage facilities. The construction desulfurization from metals and metallimetals and boron from Energia Purolite sp. z o.o. of a traditional HV line requires cutting des and from boron. As part of the prowet flue gas desulfuCiepła down a large area of forest for the technoject, the installation will need to ensure Innovative network rization wastewater PGE SA logical belt of the line. The use of energy that the BAT conclusions can be met. services that improve (WFGD) wastewater /PGE storage is a good solution to improve the The aim of the planned research project the quality and reliabiby ion exchange resins Dystrybucja reliability of electricity supply to end users will be to obtain metal and boron conlity of electricity supply centrates from the regeneration of ion in areas where there is a lack of back-up power and is an alternative to the traditional exchange columns and to recover metals expansion of the network system, which will from non-regenerative resin, and then significantly affect the surrounding environassess the market value of the resulting ment and landscape. products. 38 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 39 Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Development of technologies for reUtilization of Combustion By-products moval of various forms of nitrogen, such as nitrates, nitrites, ammonium nitrogen and organic nitrogen from industrial waReducing the amount of ash and slag stewater from wet flue gas desulfurization intended for storage, and production installations in combined heat and power of useful material that can be utilized plants, by using a combination of bioloin various industries, including building. gical processes. The project will test and An innovative technology for processing select biological methods, including autoInstallation of ash The PGE Instytut Energetyki significant amounts of ash and slag in the and heterotrophic denitrification, nitrifivitrification in a hybrid GiEK branch, Warszawa; combustion system of an energy boiler Comprehensive cation, Anammox process. An important boiler furnace Elektrownia Project temporarily at the Bełchatów Power Plant consists in technology for remoargument to start the project is the need (VITRO-ASH) Bełchatów closed using part of the coal dust fed to the main ving various forms to develop a comprehensive technology burners to process the combustion waste PGE of nitrogen from wastefor reducing the concentration of various Company’s own in an additional special combustion chamEnergia water generated forms of nitrogen in wastewater resulting research ber with liquid slag removal, integrated Ciepła in the wet flue gas from legal requirements (Regulation with the boiler. desulfurization of the Minister of Maritime Economy and (WFGD) process Inland Navigation of 12 July 2019 on the conditions to be met when introducing sewage to water or soil, and on substances Municipal waste management that are particularly harmful to the aquatic environment (Journal of Laws of 2019, item 1311). At present, in CHP plants A solution to the problem of managing Energetic management with wet desulphurization, in which flue selected organic waste obtained from of the biodegradable PGE gas denitrification with the use of nitromunicipal treatment in biomethane fraction of municipal Energia gen compounds (ammonia, urea) is also production technology. The biomethane waste for transport Odnawialna used, these parameters are continuously produced in the installation can be used, purposes (Biodiesiel) exceeded. for example, for transport purposes. Utilization of wastewater from municipal Analysis of the possibility of using treated Miejskie Reduction of noise emissions PGE Przedsiębiorstwo sewage treatment plant wastewater from the municipal sewage Energia Wodociągów as the main source of treatment plant at the PGE EC generating Odnawialna i Kanalizacji S.A. Reduction of noise water supply for generaunit in Kraków. w Krakowie emissions on the ting units in Kraków The PGE transport routes Meeting the noise emission standards GiEK branch, Zakład Ochrony of the OCT systems of belt conveyors by improving and introKopalnia Środowiska Reduction of costs of district heating proin P / Bełchatów ducing changes in the construction of belt Węgla „DECYBEL” s.c. Waste heat recovery duction or CHP plants’ own needs through and P / Szczerców conveyor rollers. Bełchatów from sewage from recovery and management of waste heat by using innovative Company’s own the wet flue gas desulPGE SA from WFGD installations. The use of waste rollers research furization system heat from the WFGD installation increases in Kraków the efficiency of the combined heat and power plant and reduces CO2 emissions. Optimization of the wind turbine blade geometry, which will allow the PGE EO PGE Optimization of wind to achieve greater productivity under the Energia turbine blade geometry same wind conditions, also with simultaOdnawialna neous reduction of the acoustic emission (noise level) of the turbines. 40 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 41 Project name Company Goal of the project Research partners Animal protection A system that monitors and catalogs migrations of various species of birds living in the area of wind farms. The mechanism is designed to eliminate their collision with the wind turbines of the wind farms Automatic monitoring Kisielice and Lotnisko. The system relies PGE and methods on the analysis of information recorded Energia Bioseco of bird protection by turbine mounted devices. Data from Odnawialna at wind farms video cameras and radar are used to automatically identify birds, catalog their individual species, and track flight paths. The apparatus is able to detect birds from a distance of 500 m from the turbine and assess the likelihood of collisions. WHITE STORK (CICONIA CICONIA) IN FRONT OF THE DEFUINCT OUTER SPOIL TIP O/KWB TURÓW 42 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 43 Social awareness Energy transformation has its very important social dimension. Our responsibility in this regard is to care for good relations with our employees, clients and local communities. We constantly care for interpersonal relationships, regardless of whether it concerns relationships with our employees, clients GRI 102-16 or communities, working with them both locally and nationwide. In each area of activity, we use the compass of our values, focusing on Partnership, Development and Responsibility (PRO). We are a reliable employer, business and social partner. INTERNATIONAL FOOTBALL TOURNAMENT IN MEMORY OF THE CHILD SOLDIERS OF THE WARSAW UPRISING, AUGUST 1-2, 2019. THE WINNING TEAM IN THE POLONIA STADIUM IN WARSAW. 44 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 45 The system of values and principles in the PGE Group Our Workforce GRI 102-16 The PGE Group’s Code of Ethics defines a system of values and principles used in everyday work regardless of the position held. In 2017, the Group implemented The PGE Group Code of Conduct for Business Partners, which sets minimum requireGC GC-4 ments for its contractors in respect of human rights, working conditions, environmental protection and integrity in their business operations. The PGE Group also has an Anti-Corruption Policy since 2017. Provisions regarding anti-corruption actiGC vities can be found in the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct for Business Partners. GC-5 The competences, experience and commitment of the PGE Group employees allow building a socially responsible organizaGC GC-10 tion that consistently pursues business goals. COOPERATION The PGE Group conducts intensive activities COMMUNICATION in the field of education and promotion of compliance-related rules. Training in this area signiRESPONSIBILITY ficantly supports the Group Compliance Management System. Compliance structures currently TRUST operate in almost the entire PGE. HONESTY They cover as many as 96.6 percent of all employees of the PGE Group employed in 24 companies SUPPORT of the Capital Group. PGE has a Human Capital Management Strategy. Corporate Rules for Managing Human Capital and procedures specifying them in accordance with local specificities have also been introduced. At the level of the entire Group, a uniform architecture of positions and a competency model have been implemented. One of the main initiatives currently implemented resulting from the ZKL Strategy is the assessment of employee competences. In 2018, a competence assessment (Ocena Kompetencji) pilot project was carried out, and in 2019 work began to implement a coherent solution throughout the Group. OCENA KOMPETENCJI We also care about building a sense of belonging to the Group. New employees from key companies are covered by the “Turn on the light” (“Włącz Prąd”) adaptation program implemented at the level of the entire PGE Group. Common recruitment standards applied by PGE are described in the Corporate Employment Rules of the PGE Capital Group. PGE makes every effort to ensure that the recruitment process is transparent and user-friendly, and effective for the company. Additional benefits GRI 401-2 The PGE Group offers its employees not only interesting professional challenges and a rich training package, but also THE COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES CONDUCTING INSPECTION AND SERVICE WORK a high level of social benefits. Due to the specifics of the operations of individual business lines, each company individually AT ONE OF PGE ENERGIA ODNAWIALNA WIND FARMS determines the additional benefits offered to employees. A number of benefits include: holiday allowance, additional medical care, additional retirement benefits, electricity subsidies and additional life insurance. 46 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 47 Internship programs The low-carbon energy transformation is also a great challenge in the area of human capital. Internship and vocational training support programs are the answer to the needs of the changing PGE Group. Currently, the PGE Group participates in three large enterprises of this type: • #Energy for the Future – an internship program implemented in cooperation with PKN Orlen, PGNiG and PSE, under the auspices of the Ministry of State Assets (formerly the Ministry of Energy). The program participants are graduates and students who during the one-year internship gain experience in the areas of their interest and learn the specifics of work in the energy industry under the guidance of experts. • Design a career – a summer internship program targeted at students and graduates of Polish universities who take 3-month paid internships at the PGE Group. Apprentices carry out a project which is to contribute to the development of the organization and at the same time help the participant acquire new competences or develop them. • Empower PL Monitoring Program. The Boston Consulting Group mentoring program, under which managers, including those from the PGE Group, provide mentoring for students from the best universities in the country and in Europe. PGE ENERGIA CIEPŁA The PGE Capital Group implements a vocational training support program consisting in cooperation of the PGE Group companies with local industry schools and technical schools. As a responsible employer, the PGE Group provides employees with a safe work environment. PGE implements preventive measures and enables employees to broaden their knowledge and experience on health and safety. Individual Group compaThe cooperation includes: nies have their own health and safety regulations. This is primarily due to the specifics of the activities of individual business • creating patronage classes for vocational education courses dedicated to the energy industry; lines. Due to the nature of the work, employees of PGE GiEK, PGE Dystrybucja, PGE EC and PGE EO are exposed to the • organization of practical vocational training combined with visits to company branches; greatest risk. Promoting safety among employees has been included in the PGE Group business strategy as a goal to be im• preparation for acquiring selected qualifications and conducting examinations for students; plemented as part of managing corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. • scholarships for the best students. Vocational education is the area of education which, apart from higher education, has the greatest impact on the preparation GC We conduct social dialogue of modern staff for the Polish energy sector. PGE Energia Ciepła runs the Energetyczna Kariera project, cooperating with techGC-3 nical secondary schools in cities where the company’s assets are located. There are 127 trade union organizations operating In 2019, the social situation in the PGE Group was stable. in the PGE Group, which associate nearly 29,000 of its Thanks to the active cooperation of the social dialogue employees. A high degree of unionization, at a level cells in the Group with representatives of trade union of nearly 70 percent, requires active social dialogue. organizations, the number of collective disputes has Cooperation with trade union organizations consists decreased significantly. Energetic Career – this project first implies enabling of three levels: the students to learn the profession in real life working conditions, creating opportunities to familiarize them• central level – social dialogue is conducted by the selves with the combined heat and power plant and with PGE management often with the participation of the specific positions through apprenticeships and internpresidents of individual business lines together with ships. Close cooperation with schools allows tailoring edua selected body of the social side from the PGE Group, cation programs to market needs of the heating industry. • level of business lines – social dialogue, coordinated by management boards of companies, is conducted with all trade union organizations, • level of employers – social dialogue is conducted by individual employers on an ongoing basis in accorIn the 2018/2019 school year, the PGE Group ran 23 dance with the Labor Code, the Act on Trade Unions patron classes in total. and the Act on Informing and Consulting Employees in matters relating to the economic, social and legal It also established cooperation with higher education sphere. WORK ON CONSTRUCTION OF NEW UNITS AT THE PGE GIEK institutions enabling the exchange of experience, coopePOWER PLANT IN OPOLE ration in problem solving, and practical use of the scientific potential of the academic environment and recruitment of engineering and technical staff. 48 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 49 The PGE Group is constantly working on reliability of supplies and introduces more and more effective mechanisms limiting interruptions in energy supplies. It is constantly modernizing the network infrastructure, thanks to which it increases GRI 203-1 the quality parameters of the supplied electricity. Only in 2019, the PGE Group allocated over PLN 2 billion for investments in electricity distribution efficiency. One such project is a network cable program designed to increase the share of cable lines to a minimum of 30 percent in the medium-voltage network until 2023. Investment outlays incurred in 2019 as part of the cabling program exceeded PLN 336 million. Under this budget, inter alia, almost 950 km of medium voltage cable lines, over 90 km of low voltage cable lines and 260 transforming stations were built. Changing the structure of the medium voltage network will ensure the most effective reduction of SAIDI and SAIFI – indicators of interruptions in the supply of electricity and guarantee the improvement of the quality parameters of energy supplies. This particularly applies to areas where due to difficult field conditions the removal of failures was long-lasting and where failures occur most often and cause unplanned shutdowns for a large group of recipients. The PGE Group places great emphasis on the quality For seven years, PGE Obrót has regularly conducted of customer relationships. Management policy and stanmulti-dimensional monitoring of customer satisfaction. dards have been developed and implemented in this area, The company puts the most emphasis on aspects relaincluding: Code of Good Practice for Distribution System ted to customer service in PGE Obrót’s Customer Service Operators, Service Quality Book, and Customer Service Offices and in its Contact Center. Despite many challenges Our Clients Procedures. These documents regulate the course of all brought by all energy sellers last year, the CSI (Customer processes related to sales, after-sales as well as connecSatisfaction Index) remained at a high level among both tions and other technical matters. In order to ensure the G tariff and C1 tariff customers. highest quality of service, compliance with them is regularly monitored and reported. Companies also have proceSatisfaction surveys have shown that PGE Obrót is the dures for accepting and processing customer applications. leader in the industry, noting the highest rates of overall Matters subject to complaint are analyzed and are often satisfaction with contact, both in Customer Service Offices used to change procedures, which allows for constant and on the hotline. improvement of the standards of services offered. Customer Satisfaction Index TARRIF G CUSTOMERS 95% 90% 85% 80% 75% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TARRIF C1 CUSTOMERS 95% 90% 85% 80% KEY VISUAL OF INFORMATION CAMPAIGN „INVOICE RETURNS TO THE ROOTS” PREPARED 75% AS PART OF THE PROMOTION OF E-INVOICE 70% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: „Badanie satysfakcji klientów po kontakcie z BOK i Contact Center” iAnswer, BrainLab 50 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 51 The sale of electricity always goes hand in hand with ensuring comfort of delivery, which is why for five years In the connection process, the internal operational data of PGE Dystrybucja were confirmed by the results of tests Service with no barriers GRI 203-1 PGE Dystrybucja has been simultaneously monitoring indicating an increase in satisfaction with the shortening The majority of the PGE Obrót branches, up to 78%, are equipped with wheelchair ramps and are located on the ground customer satisfaction with services rendered. The conof the average time of connection completion (the averafloor. In addition, people who have problems with access to stationary facilities can use remote channels, which are constannection process and contact with the energy emergency ge declarative time of the connection 72 process 7 74 abolasted 70 tly improved and developed. The employees of the 12 largest customer service offices of PGE Obrót are able to serve clients are subject to analysis. PGE Dystrybucja also tracks satisut 6 months). 4 The NPS indicator for this process remains in sign language. Based on their own experience, they have developed case studies that appear most frequently in their faction with the visits of electricians. Since the beginning high and currently stands at 41 points (on a scale from professional practice. All the PGE Obrót stationary service outlets also have magnifiers for the elderly and visually impaired. of the measurements, the NPS recommendation rate -100 to +100). The involvement of employees in explainThanks to this, customers can freely and independently read the documents, analyzing the content of the offer or contract. of the services of PGE electricians has been characterized ing the content of documents that the customer is obliged 0by a stable upward5trend. to submit to20provide 9 the service is also very highly rated. Customers of the PGE Obrót offices are also greeted by Quality Ambassadors, i.e. service employees who meet people at the entrance to the facility. Ambassadors help clients identify cases, complete forms and collect documents, and they Recommendation rate (NPS) for electrician services Recommendation rate (NPS) for PGE Dystrybucja provide simple information before customers reach the service desk. offered by PGE Dystrybucja connection services over the years 72 73 74 42 39 41 70 31 64 18 Examples of actions designed to help seniors in 2019 Senioralia – the PGE employees in Kielce educated the elderly how to identify dishonest 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 electricity sellers. International Senior Fair – experts of the PGE Obrót branch in Skarżysko-Kamienna taught Source: „Badanie satysfakcji klientów z wizyty elektromontera” Source: „Badanie satysfakcji klientów z procesu przyłączeniowego” 2019, 4P Research Mix 2019, 4P Research Mix seniors how to read the invoice correctly, annex or conclude a contract, and what to do if you sign an unfavorable contract with another seller. Several thousand seniors took part in the Fair. Also all branches31 and companies of PGE Energia Ciepła perform similar monitoring. In 2019, as in previous years, a survey was carried out on the satisfaction and preferences of current and potential clients of the company in the area of heating OK Senior Certificate – PGE Obrót received the „OK Senior” certificate. The stationary and additional services. The General Customer Satisfaction Index (OCS) reached 89 percent among institutional clients, and 80 percent among individual clients. Developers were very satisfied with the cooperation with PGE Energia Ciepła – the PGE Obrót Customer Service Centers were examined. PGE introduces various types of facilities indicator for these markets is 20 percent better than for the markets surveyed in 2018. The satisfaction level of architects and conveniences for the elderly, such as magnifiers or other helpful equipment. and2015 017 consider designers, i.e. those who 018network 2019 heat when designing future energy solutions for constructed buildings, is at a similar high level. In total, in 2019, the survey covered over 1,600 individual clients, a similar number of institutional clients and a group of 70 80 developers and designers. The study showed a very high loyalty of existing customers towards the service, as well as a high willingness to recommend, both in the area of heating and hot water supplied to buildings. During the summer information and education campaign „Safely, Comfortably, At Hand”, the mobile PGE zone covered almost 14 thousand. kilometers visiting 22 cities The PGE Group regularly informs its customers about in 7 provinces. 50,000 people visited the stands, including the mechanisms of fraudulent and dishonest energy over 5,000 seniors. The advisers spoke about eServices, sellers, often pretending to be the proven and reliable warned against unfair competition, informed how to take PGE brand. By organizing, among others our own eduadvantage of quick and easy purchases at the PGE eShop cational and information campaigns in regional and local and how to activate eFaktura, using its benefits. media, PGE warns against such a practice. Social media are widely used in information campaigns. In order to In December 2019, PGE Obrót launched a mobile minimize the impact of unfair practices used by sellers Customer Service Office. A special vehicle adapted to impersonating PGE, the Group actively cooperates with service activities will visit places where there are no local government administration, the police, and the stationary service offices. Thanks to qualified advisers, fire brigade. clients can solve all issues related to electricity and gas OUTSTANDING POLISH ATHLETES KAROL KŁOS, MARIUSZ WLAZŁY AND ARKADIUSZ MORYTO WARN AGAINST FALSE INVOICES OF DISHONEST COMPANIES in the mobile office. THAT IMPERSONATE THE PGE BRAND. A PGE CAMPAIGN TARGETED AT CLIENTS ON A SOCIAL NETWORKING SITE EXCEPT FOR THE FUNCTION OF MOBILE CUSTOMER SERVICE, THE OFFICE PLAYS THE ROLE OF LIVE ADVERTISEMENT, PROMOTING THE IMAGE OF THE COMPANY 52 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 53 PGE builds local partnerships with communities oriented towards development and cooperation. We make every effort to be a good and responsible neighbor. In this area, the company sets high standards specified in the PGE Group’s Code of Ethics. Society The directions of cooperation have been specified in a separate document – the General Procedure in the sphere of corporate community involvement (CCI). Service Cable Lines Using live working Technologies in service cable lines (SCL) makes it possible to conduct investment and modernization works on overhead medium voltage power lines without interruptions in electricity supply. The service cable line in Łódź district worked in different configurations for about 280 days. This helped avoid interruptions in electricity supply for about 600 energy recipients. The Program to Support Development of Site Municipalities (in Polish: Program Wsparcia Rozwoju Gmin Lokalizacyjnych) strengthens partner relations with the local community and the authorities of three site municipalities: Gniewino, Choczewo and Krokowa, as well as the Puck and Wejherowo poviats. The program consists of financing or co-financing initiatives from residents and local governments as regards educational and information activities concerning nuclear power, activities related to the job market and support in professional development, cooperation on implementation of municipal infrastructural projects, charitable initiatives and sponsorship projects. Between 2015 and 2019, the PSDSM Program enabled us to spend about 9 million zlotys on those projects. THE PROGRAM TO SUPPORT DEVELOPMENT OF SITE MINICIPALITIES, THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PRIMARY SCHOOL IN WIERZCHUCIN PGE Energia Ciepła supports socially sensitive customers. Accordingly, the company created a program “We Share the Heat”. Its beneficiaries include NGOs, foundations and associations that help people in hardship and families in need, referred by social assistance centers. The program “We Share the Heat” by PGE Energia Ciepła was one of two PGE programs distinguished in the ranking 30x30, organized by the Forum of Responsible Business. The ranking included 60 best social projects created by businesses in the past 30 years. We approach the problem of integration of disabled people very seriously. For the fourth time, we have sponsored the organization of the Integration Meetings PGE Energia Ciepła Grants in Radomsk. The event serves to integrate disabled peto cover bills for hot running water ople from all over Poland during performances, meetings, and concerts. We also support the activity of the Society “SAFELY. COMFORTABLY. AT HAND”. EVERY YEAR, PGE OBRÓT (SALES) GOES OUT TO MEET CUSTOMERS DURING THEIR MOBILE INFORMATION AND EDUCATION PICNICS, OFFERING PEOPLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AND WARNING AGAINST UNFAIR COMPETITION. and network heat in 2019 exceeded for the Care of the Blind in Laski, where the blind and 300 thousand zlotys. short-sighted people learn how to live independently, gain their education, and prepare for occupational training or university studies in order to efficiently function in society. 54 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 55 Two corporate foundations are the pillars of our organization’s social involvement: the PGE Foundation and the PGE Energia The PGE Energia Ciepła Foundation is active in the area of sport and promotion of active lifestyle. In 2019, to meet the Ciepła Foundation. needs of people aged 55+, the Foundation organized the Polish National Senior Sports Olympiad – YOU WIN. This sport and recreational event was dedicated to seniors who wanted to develop their physical shape. Over 200 seniors from 7 cities The mission of the PGE Energia Ciepła Foundation is to support positive social initiatives, creating an inclusive society in which of the region took part in the competition. In addition to sports competition, the Foundation provided the participants everyone can find their place and take part in all aspects of social, economic, and cultural life. with the opportunity to take advantage of free tests and rehabilitation treatments. In 2019, one of the most important tasks of the PGE Energia Ciepła Foundation was continuation of the “Commemorative Additionally, the PGE Energia Ciepła Foundation organized Plaques Project”, started on the 80th anniversary of WWII. the 16th Rybnik Photography Festival during which several hundred photos were presented at 20 individual and collective exhibitions. The festival was visited by over 900 The project is realized in cooperation with the Institute people from all over Poland. of National Remembrance, under the patronage of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and National HeritaThe PGE Energia Ciepła Foundation was also the main ge, Professor Piotr Gliński and Ministry of National Defenorganizer of the 16th Duel with Words – an educational and se. The project meets three goals: displaying and paying artistic competition, propagating the culture of the Polish due honor to memorial sites – plaques and monuments language and literature, addressed to high school students. – describing heroic and dramatic events of World War II, reaching foreign tourists with information about historical With help of other institutions and associations, the PGE facts, and finally popularizing and increasing the recoEnergia Ciepła Foundation organizes events for people gnition of memorial sites. These goals are achieved by with disabilities who need specialized rehabilitation PHOTO ARCHIVE OF THE PGE EC FOUNDATION/ A REHABILITATION PROGRAM placing new plaques next to the existing plaques designed programs. The foundation provides the local community IN THE FOUNDATION’S SWIMMING POOL FOR PEOPLE WITH AUTISM AND by Karol Tchorek, certified by historical research, in Polish with access to a rehabilitation and recreation complex, CELEBRAL PALSY and English, accompanied by a QR code. As part of the including a swimming pool and other sports facilities. project, all memorial sites were inventoried: photographic documentation was made, each plaque was queried, The goal of the PGE Foundation is to ensure the transparency of activities, organize and strengthen social involvement and the content was translated into English. The plaques of the PGE Group ,and build engagement among all groups of stakeholders. The Foundation conducts public and socially with QR codes were situated next to plaques designed useful activities, maintaining national tradition, nurturing the sense Polishness, and developing national civic and cultural by Karol Tchorek. As part of the “Commemorative Plaques awareness, but we also propagate activities supporting the development of local communities. The Foundation supports Project”, the City of Memory educational program was health protection and promotion of healthy lifestyle, development of science, and education. What is more, we contribute carried out for 60 Masovian high schools, attended by neto promotion of culture, art, and we protect cultural heritage and traditions. On top of that, the Foundation supports proarly 3,000 students. Packages with educational materials jects related to ecology and animal protection. Last but not least, the PGE Foundation gets strongly involved in charity work. have been prepared: a mini-textbook, a class scenario, an educational film, and a 10-board, large format exhiIn 2019, the PGE Foundation prepared the second edition of the “Heroes of Our Future” program for the veterans of the bition. In addition, at the beginning of October, a concert Warsaw Uprising, thanks to which 395 Insurgents received one-off financial support. Once again, the Foundation carried “City of Remembrance” was organized at the Polish Army out the “Food Parcel for a Veteran” program, dedicated to Warsaw insurgents, soldiers of the Polish Underground State, Museum. The concert was intended to commemorate the and former prisoners of German concentration camps. Between 2018 and 2019, the PGE Foundation donated 1,000 parcels. civilian victims of Warsaw who died between 1939 and 1945. Young musicians, including Bartas Szymoniak, Piotr Karpienia, and the band Luxtorpeda performed on the stage. Additionally, a 20-board exhibition “Civilian Victims Between 2018 and 2019, of Warsaw During the German Occupation between the PGE Foundation donated 1939 and 1945” was prepared, showing German terror 1,000 parcels to veterans. THE “COMMEMORATIVE PLAQUES PROJECT”, WARSAW, RAKOWIECKA ST. 15-17 in Warsaw during World War II, from executions in Wawer, the Sękocin Forest, and in the village of Palmiry, to the mass murders committed during the Warsaw Uprising. The exhibition could be seen at the Polish Army Museum, Additionally, the PGE Foundation supports hospitals. as well as at the Central Railway Station Hall. It co-financed renovation and building of many hospital rooms and purchase of specialized medical equipment. The Foundation also supports local communities. In 2019, it cooperated with several dozen Country Housewife Circles, local Associations, and Volunteer Fire Brigades, transferring funds for equipment, including life-saving equipment. Thanks to the PGE Foundation, playgrounds were built, teaching aids went to schools, and books to libraries. EQUIPMENT OF THE FIRE BRIGADE UNIT IN KAZIMIERZ. GRANTED DONATION HELPED PURCHASE SHOES AND PROTECTIVE GLOVES THE “COMMEMORATIVE PLAQUES PROJECT”, THE CITY OF MEMORY CONCERT 56 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 57 The PGE’s employee volunteering program The PGE’s employee volunteering program by numbers. „We Help” (Pomagamy) The PGE Group 2019 2018 2017 2016 Local community support is also pursued through the PGE’s employee volunteering program „We Help”. The needs are best identified by our employees, who themselves live in local communities. They come up with their own projects, which bring Number of employees involved in PGE’s employee 210 327 276 180 volunteering program “We Help” about positive social changes in a meaningful and lasting manner with the PGE’s support. They reach different groups: children, teenagers, disabled people, single mothers, and the poorest people. Number of volunteering hours 9 391 15 024 12 500 13 000 Number of projects submitted 47 60 50 40 Number of applications submitted 72 122 106 109 Total amount of PGE’s support [PLN] 272 081 350 000 300 000 200 000 In 2014, the Foundation implemented employee volunteering The PGE Company in the entire PGE Capital Group. 2019 2018 2017 2016 In six editions of the program, Number of employees involved in PGE’s employee over 850 PGE volunteers – volunteering program “We Help” 14 20 17 9 employees of the PGE Group Number of volunteering hours 380 505,5 1 077 347 companies – implemented 267 volunteer projects throughout Number of projects submitted 4 5 5 3 the country. Number of applications submitted 6 7 9 8 Total amount of PGE’s support [PLN] 23 700 25 000 25 000 15 000 VOLUNTEERS GET INVOLVED IN ACTIVITIES FOR YOUR LOCAL COMMUNITIES WITH A GREAT ENTHUSIASM THE PGE GROUP EMPLOYEES TAKE PART IN THE “WE HELP” EMPLOYEE-VOLUNTEERING PROGRAM, IMPLEMENTED IN COOPERATION WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF CORPORATE COMMUNICATION IN THE PGE POLSKA GRUPA ENERGETYCZNA SA AND THE PGE FOUNDATION IN 2014. THE PROGRAM CONSISTS OF ORGANIZATIONAL AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECTS DEVELOPED AND SUBMITTED BY VOLUNTEER TEAMS, WHOSE GOAL IS HELP FOR PEOPLE IN NEED IN THE BROADEST SENSE. 58 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 59 The PGE Group has been running the “Energetic School Satchel” program for 17 years. The Company supports needy Statistics show that a large proportion of those injured families in the areas where its branches are located. The Group cooperates with local social assistance centers to provide as a result of electric shock are children and young first-grade students from poor families with school equipment. In 2019, companies from the PGE Group, in cooperation people, which is why the PGE Group also conducts an with the PGE Foundation, prepared and handed over 70 satchels with the most necessary school supplies. In total, we have educational campaign called “Safe Energy”. Educational already presented 17,028 children with “Energetic Satchels” since the beginning of the action. meetings for children are held in the branches of PGE Dystrybucja. Company’s employees visit preschools and schools to talk about safety when using electrical devices and proper behavior during energy failures. In 2019, about a thousand children took part in the educational campaign. THE EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGN “SAFE ENERGY” PGE GiEK is the title sponsor of the interactive PGE Giganty Mocy Museum. The facility was built as a result of cooperation between President of Bełchatów the Bełchatów Mine and Power Plant. The main purpose of the museum is to present information on brown coal, primarily about its extraction and conversion into electricity and heat. At present, the exhibition is one of the greatest tourist attractions in the Łódź region. So far, nearly 23,000 people have attended the exhibition, and its interactive version was seen by over 16,000 visitors. THE “ENERGETIC SCHOOL SATCHEL” IS A PARTNER PROGRAM OF THE PGE FOUNDATION AND THE COMPANIES OF THE PGE CAPITAL GROUP. IT CONSISTS OF GIVING FIRST-GRADE STUDENTS SATCHELS WITH SCHOOL SUPPLIES. THANKS TO THE PROGRAM, STUDENTS START THEIR ADVENTURE WITH THE SCHOOL FULL OF POSITIVE ENERGY. THE “ENERGETIC SCHOOL SATCHEL” PROGRAM The PGE Group carries out educational projects in the field of safe and economical use of electricity. The Company initiates original educational programs, shaping good habits among the youngest users of electricity. PGE commissioned a theater performance entitled How Were Pstryk and Bzik Enlightened, addressed to children between 5 and 9 years old. The theater, thanks to the support of the PGE Foundation, visits schools, preschools, community day care centers, hospitals, libraries and other THE PGE GIGANTY MOCY MUSEUM, VOLTUS’S CLUB facilities throughout Poland. In 2019, the performance (KLUB WOLTUSIA) – ONE OF THE BEST PLACES IN THE CITY FOR PARENTS WITH SMALL CHILDERN was seen by over 20,000 children from 179 schools and THE PGE GIGANTY MOCY MUSEUM, THE PGE GIGANTY MOCY MUSEUM, A ROOM WITH preschools, as well as during picnics and other educatioAN INTERACTIVE EXHIBITION A GEOLOGICAL SECTION OF THE BROWN COAL nal events. Thanks to the PGE Foundation, a mural was created on the walls of the children’s health center Centrum Zdrowia Dziecka in Warsaw: it presents the characters from the fairy tale – Pstryk and Bzik – in cheerful Power plants and combined heat and power plants belonand friendly colors. ging to the PGE Group are often the key industrial assets in the cities where they are located. In order for the local community to learn about their specificity, PGE GiEK (Mining and Conventional Energy), PGE Energia Ciepła (Heat Energy), and PGE Energia Odnawialna (Renewable Energy) organize open days in their facilities every year. During these events, facilities belonging to PGE GiEK and PGE EC alone hosted 9.3 thousand visitors. Additional 9.6 thousand people saw the brown coal mine and PHOTO: THE PGE FOUNDATION/EDUCATIONAL THEATER PERFORMANCE HOW WERE PRSTYK conventional power plants, taking advantage of the tour AND BZIK ENLIGHTED. IT IS ADDRESSED TO CHILDREN BETWEEN 5 AND 9 YEARS OLD. offer for organized groups. THE PROTAGONISTS TELL CHILDREN ABOUT ENERGY AND RULES FOR SAFE USE OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. AN OPEN DAY AT THE HEAT AND POWER PLANT IN RZESZÓW THE PGE FOUNDATION/EDUCATIONAL THEATER PERFORMANCE HOW WERE PRSTYK AND BZIK ENLIGHTED. 60 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 61 In the Podkarpacie region, the Museum of Energy has been opened for 6 years. Every year, during organized educational events, the facility is visited by both children and adults, while employees of PGE Dystrybucja show them around exhibitions and conduct interactive shows and games for them. In 2019, the museum was visited by 1.4 thousand people. PHOTO: TADEUSZ POŹNIAK / “ELECTROMAGNETIC STORIES” – CLASSES FOR CHILDREN AT THE MUSEUM OF ENERGY, AT THE HEADQUARTERS OF PGE OBRÓT S.A. IN RZESZÓW 62 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 63 Sports sponsoring The PGE Group sponsors individual athletes and teams of various sports, including volleyball, basketball, football, and handball. Since July 2015, the key sponsorship project of the PGE Group has been cooperation with the company PL.2012 +, the operator of the PGE Narodowy Stadium. Since 2015, PGE – as the title sponsor – has been sponsoring the best speedway league in the world: the PGE Ekstraliga. In the 2019 season, 64 PGE Ekstraliga races were watched by a record number of spectators – nearly 700,000 fans visited speedway stadiums. The PGE Group is the title sponsor of the most modern multi-functional arena in Poland – the PGE Narodowy where the Polish national football team plays. PHOTO: THE PGE EKSTRALIGA / PHOTO: THE PGE EKSTRALIGA / A DRIVER OF THE VICE-CHAMPION COMPETITION ON THE TRACK OF POLAND IN 2019 – BETARD SPARTA WROCŁAW Since 2007, PGE has been sponsoring the men’s volleyball team, PGE SKRA Bełchatów. This is the most distinguished Polish volleyball club, with nine Polish championships on their account, seven national cups, and four Super PHOTO: THE PGE NARODOWY STADIUM / THE PGE NARODOWY IS ONE OF FEW Cups. Moreover, the Bełchatów team has a great reputaFACILITIES VISIBLE FROM SO MANY DISTRICT OF WARSAW tion in Europe and in the world. The club won the silver medal in the world championship twice and a bronze The PGE Narodowy beats attendance records. Football matches, motoring events, exhibitions, and concerts take place here. medal once. PGE SKRA Bełchatów stood four times on the Polish and world pop stars appear, including The Rolling Stones, Paul McCartney, Depeche Mode, Metallica, Ed Sheeran, podium of the elite Champions League – once it was seBon Jovi, Pink, Bajm, Mrozu, Kombi, Ewa Farna, and many others. This is where the concert commemorating the centennial cond and three times third. Such a high professional level of Poland’s independence took place. The arena has also become home to many annual shows and events, such as the Danis guaranteed by volleyball stars from all over the world. cing PGE National, the Polish Book Fair, the Science Picnic and others, for example the Polish-American Military Picnic or the The pantheon of the stars of PGE Skra contains World Picnic on the occasion of the National Sport Day. Champions from 2014 – Mariusz Wlazły and Karol Kłos, and champions from 2018 – Artur Szalpuk, Grzegorz ŁoThe largest arena in Poland can host up to 58,500 fans during sports events, while almost 73,000 spectators during concerts macz and Jakub Kochanowski. Other great players include and other events. The PGE Narodowy has 4,600 seats of a higher standard and 69 VIP boxes with places for 800 people. Milad Ebadipour, Norbert Huber, and Kacper Piechocki. PHOTO: TOMASZ WĄSIK / PGE SKRA BEŁCHATÓW, THE 5TH MATH OF THE BASIC PHASE OF THE PLUSLIGA From the beginning of its existence, the PGE Narodowy has hosted over 2,000 performances, including sport Additionally, PGE Skra Bełchatów is the most popular games, cultural festivals, business seminars, entertaand medially attractive volleyball team in Poland. In every inment shows, and social meetings. The facility was hall, during their games, the stands are filled to the last visited by over 12.5 million guests. place. In the last five years, the Champions League had the highest attendance ever, which made the players of the team role models. PHOTO: TOMASZ WĄSIK / PGE SKRA BEŁCHATÓW, PHOTO: THE PGE NARODOWY / ON THE FACADE, TWO NEONS SHOW THE 23RD MATCH OF THE BASIC THE PHASE OF THE PLUSLIGA THE NAME OF THE STADIUM 64 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 65 The company is also the title sponsor of the best Polish men’s handball team – PGE VIVE Kielce, 16-time Polish Champion, 16-time Polish Cup Winner, and the 2016 Champions League winner. In 2019, not only did the team achieve national successes (winninng the Polish Championship and Cup), but also advanced to the Final Four of the Champions League. PHOTO: BARTŁOMIEJ ZBOROWSKI / ZOFIA NOCETI-KLEPACKA, PHOTO: MAGDALENA JAŚKIEWICZ / WALDEMAR STAWOWCZYK, THE CHAMPTION OF POLAND IN THE RS:X CLASS THE GOLDEN FINISH OF THE “FOUR”, VELKA CENA ZUBERCA PHOTO: PGE VIVE KIELCE / HANDBALL PLAYERS OF PGE VIVE KIELCE CELEBRATE ANOTHER VICTORY Since 2017, PGE has been supporting the 1st league In 2019, the PGE sponsored PGE Spójnia Stargard, football club, PGE FKS Stal Mielec. playing in the Polish Basketball League. KLAUDIA SICIARZ, THE GOLD KONRAD CZERNIAK, THE WORLD PHOTO: RAFAŁ OLEKSIEWICZ PZLS / ARTUR NOGAL, MEDALIST CHAMPIONSHIP IN HANGHZOU, CHINA POLISH CHAMPIONSHIPS IN MULTI-SPRINT PHOTO: PAWEŁ SKRABA / DAMIAN CZYKIER, THE ORLEN COPERNICUS CUP COMPETITION, THE WORLD INDOOR MARIA CZEŚNIK, A WARM-UP TOUR IN TORUŃ ALICJA TCHÓRZ PHOTO: PGE FKS STAL MIELEC / THE MATCH OF THE 16 ROUND OF THE TH FORTUNA 1ST LEAGUE. IN THE PHOTO: MATEUSZ MAK PHOTO: TADEUSZ SURMA, PGE SPÓJNIA STARGARD Sport clubs and individual athletes sponsored by PGE implement activities in the area of corporate social responsibility (CSR), including: PGE also sponsors other individual athletes: • meetings with children and young people in schools, • Since 2010, the company has been supporting Waldemar Stawowczyk, a musher (dog range guide), gold medalist of the kindergartens and hospitals, WSA Federation World Senior Championships in 2019 in all classes. Stawowczyk is also a multimedalist of the European • conducting PE lessons in schools, Cup competition. • invitations to joint trainings, • Since 2012, PGE has been supporting Zofia Noceti-Klepacka, a windsurfing multimedalist, who won the Bronze Medal • participation in charity campaigns, at the London Olympics in 2012. In 2019, the Noceti-Klepacka won the Polish Championship in the RS: X class. • participation in environmental campaigns, • Since 2018, the company has been supporting Alicja Tchórz, Klaudia Siciarz, Damian Czykier, Konrad Czerniak • transferring prizes to charity auctions, and Artur Nogal, Maria Cześnik, and Rafał Wilk. RAFAŁ WILK, THE GOLD MEDALIST OF PARAOLIMPIC GAMES IN HANDBIKE • providing children and young people with disabilities ROAD CYCLING with seats in the audience during sporting events. Thanks to such activities, the PGE brand is recognizable in schools, preschools, orphanages, hospitals and community day care centers as well as by people with disabilities. 66 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 67 The PGE Group supports and promotes amateur sports, especially by propagating sport among children and Culture patronage teenagers. In 2019, PGE sponsored football academies, PGE sponsors cultural events, nationwide and regional, including PGE FKS Stal Mielec, Widzew Łódź, Avia Świdas well as local. nik, and FC Lesznowola as well as many local initiatives spreading sports education among young people. In 2019, For the second time, PGE supported a nationwide camnearly 7,000 children and teenagers from all over Poland, paign, commemorating the participants of the Warsaw including those with disabilities, participated in amateur Uprising. The campaign “Hero-on – turn on history!” sport support programs. promotes patriotic attitudes and national identity, and also creates a community that remembers Polish PHOTO: AVIA ŚWIDNIK history and its heroes. Thanks to the PGE’s involvement, the second event combining patriotic education and children’s sport took place PHOTO: PRESS MATERIALS OF THE CAMPAIGN “HERO-ON – TURN ON HISTORY” in 2019 – a tournament unlike any other, i.e. finishing of the Polish league from the year 1939. The 2nd IndepenCaring for Polish national heritage and historical memory, dence Tournament for the PGE Cup was a copy of the PGE has been a partner of the Warsaw Uprising Museum unfinished and unresolved Polish Football Championships since 2016. The museum is housed in a former streetcar interrupted by the outbreak of World War II. The same power plant, a monument of industrial architecture from teams that played in the then-league competed on the the beginning of the 20th century. The museum exhibipitch of Polonia Warszawa: Ruch Chorzów, Garbarnia Kration is designed in a unique way, and it influences the ków, Cracovia, Wisła Kraków, AKS Chorzów, Pogoń Lwów, audience with the image, light, and sound. The interior Warta Poznań, and Polonia Warszawa. Nearly 400 players design and the use of multimedia effects closely recreate took part in the tournament. details of the uprising for the viewer. The main elements of the exhibition are large format photos, monitors, and computers. The route outlines the chronology of events A year earlier, in the 1st Independence Tournament and leads through individual, thematic rooms. Visitors for the PGE Cup, which was held on November 9, 2018 move around in the scenery so common in Warsaw seunder the patronage of President Andrzej Duda, the same venty years ago, walking on granite cobblestones among clubs that competed with each other nearly 100 years ago the debris of the destroyed Capital. stood up to the fight: ŁKS Łódź, Warta Poznań, Cracovia Kraków, Pogoń Lwów, and Polonia Warszawa. The tournament was a reconstruction of the first Polish football chamTHE INDEPENDENCE TOURNAMENT FOR THE PHE CUP pionship in 1921. 200 players took part in it. PGE Energia Ciepła, in cooperation with the Polish Figure Skating Federation and Ministry of Sport and Tourism, has been implementing the “Let’s Go Skating” program since September 2018. The program is addressed to children and teenagers – primary school students. Thanks to the program, young people can benefit from free classes conducted by professional trainers working in clubs and being members of the Polish Figure Skating Federation (PZŁF). Classes on ice take place several times a week and are supported by motor training and exercises in dance and ballet. “Let’s PHOTO: MICHAŁ SZLAGA / THE MUSEUM OF WARSAW UPRISING PHOTO: MICHAŁ SZLAGA / THE MUSEUM OF WARSAW UPRISING Go Skating” program operates in 14 Polish cities, including Warsaw, Lublin, Gdańsk, Krakow, and Łódz. Moreover, PGE Energia Ciepła is a partner of the Winter National – a zone of winter attractions at the PGE Narodowy. As a sponsor of the family ice rink and a titular partner of “Mornings for Children” – lessons with instructors and animators – PGE Energia Ciepła also sponsored the second edition of the program “Let’s Go Skating”, which was attended THE WINTER NATIONAL by over 500 children from 25 clubs and over 40 training groups, in 14 cities in Poland. PHOTO: THE MUSEUM OF WARSAW UPRISING 68 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 69 The PGE Group supported the production of the film Kurier, whose world premiere took place on March 11, 2019, at the Grand Theater in Warsaw. President Andrzej In March 2019, the film Kurier premiered, and its production was Duda took part in the event. supported by PGE. The film directed by Władysław Pasikowski, with an international cast, tells the story of Jan Nowak-Jeziorański’s The film directed by Władysław Pasikowski, with an international cast, is inspired by the true story of a “courier heroic mission. from Warsaw” – Jan Nowak-Jeziorański. The lonely mission of the courier was to decide the fate of the Polish underground and the future of Poland. PHOTO: BARTOSZ MROZOWSKI / KURIER PHOTO: BARTOSZ MROZOWSKI / KURIER PHOTO: CELESTYNA KRÓL / KURIER 70 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 71 The PGE Group is a patron of philharmonics throughout Poland. Since 2012, PGE has been distinguished by the honorary Since 2016, PGE has been the patron of an international title of the Patron of the Year at the National Philharmonic in Warsaw. It supports concerts and makes a huge contribution festival La Folle Journee – Crazy Music Days – which is to musical education of the youngest generation. As for PGE Energia Ciepła, it supports the Polish Baltic Philharmonic successfully carried out simultaneously in France, Spain, in Gdańsk, the Kraków Philharmonic, the Zielona Góra Philharmonic, the National Forum of Music in Wrocław, and the Toruń Japan, and Poland. The festival has already gained a recoSymphony Orchestra. gnizable position in on the musical map of the world and is very popular. The idea of Crazy Music Days is to overcome prejudices against classical music by encouraging and facilitating participation in concerts, while maintaining the presentation of music at the highest possible level. Short concerts taking place from morning to evening in several rooms at the same time, low ticket prices, and a unique atmosphere make Crazy Music Days a meeting with music accessible for everyone. Around 35,000 listeners and participants of educational campaigns took part in all the events of the last year’s edition of the festival. In three days, about 1,000 artists performed in 55 concerts. The organizer of the Crazy Music Days in Poland is the Sinfonia Varsovia Orchestra and co-organizers include the Grand Theater – National Opera, Art Education Center, the Music Gardens Foundation and C.R.E.A. THE SINFONIA VARSOVIA ORCHESTRA / CRAZY MUSIC DAYS PGE is also a patron of the Mozart Festival in Warsaw. During the Festival, for four weeks, the audience can admire the oeuvre of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart presented in forty events, including new stagings of operas, concerts, and shows for children. The Mozart Festival has been one of the most important and largest ventures of the Warsaw Chamber Opera for the last 30 years. PGE sponsors the Music Festival in Łańcut. The festival’s reputation is testified by excellent artists who visited Łańcut, including Adam Harasiewicz, Rafał Blechacz, Joseph Malovany, Mischa Maisky, Shlomo Minz, Andreas Scholl, the legendary tenor – Jose Carreras, Kate Liu, and Julian Rachlin. The festival is very popular, and each year it attracts thousands of listeners. PHOTO: THE NATIONAL PHILHARMONIC ARCHIVE THE ZIELONA GÓRA PHILHARMONIC PHOTO: THE WARSAW CHAMBER OPERA / MAGIC FLUTE, WOLFGANG AMADEUS MOZART PHOTO: THE ARCHIVE OF PODKARPACIE PHILHARMONIC PGE is also involved in projects addressed to mass audiences, such as the Polish National Song Festival in Opole and the New Year’s Eve concert “New Year’s Eve with the National TV Program Two” in Zakopane, which once again achieved the highest viewership among New Year’s Eve television events. The greatest Polish entertainers as well as foreign stars PHOTO: THE NATIONAL PHILHARMONIC ARCHIVE appeared in Zakopane. The Krupowa Plain attracted over 70,000 people, and television broadcasts gathered over 5 million viewers in front of TV sets, reaching 8 million Poles at the peak of viewership, which took place at 22:43 when Zenon MartyTHE KARKÓW PHILHARMONIC niuk jumper on the Zakopane stage. In 2019, the 56th National Polish Song Festival in Opole was watched by 2.24 million viewers. It is about 260 thousand viewers more than in 2018. The concert “From Opole to Opole” enjoyed the greatest popularity. 72 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 73 Risks ENVIRONMENT Identified risks and management methods in the area of environmental issues in the PGE Group and the PGE Company. GRI The risk management in the PGE Group and the PGE Company ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE GROUP GC GC-7 102-11 The PGE Group companies, similarly to other entities The perspective of the PGE group in the sector of power engineering, are exposed to risks In the PGE Group, the risk management is carried out and threats resulting from the specific operations and on the basis of the GRC model, that is Governance – Risk The risk of environment protection The risk of concession functioning in a specific market environment, as well as management – Compliance. This enables matching and from regulatory and legal issues. That is why the responsiintegration process at all levels of management in particuble development of the PGE Group requires multidimenlar areas of activity. resulting from the consequences of abandonment related to the possibility of non-compliance sional and multilevel risk management system. and improper activities in the field of environmental with the conditions for receiving or renewing protection or the possibility of extraordinary events the required licenses Establishing of the Reporting Risk Committee at the highest management Governance level connected directly to the PGE Management Board guarantees superviRisk reduction tools sion over efficiency risk management processes throughout the Group. Defining the risk management functions within the Risk Department Security training for employees environment Monitoring of basic areas of activity companies Risk management and Insurance enables independent assessment of individual risks and their in terms of compliance with the requirements impact on the PGE Group. Monitoring of the technical condition of devices specified in concessions and installation The separation of the Compliance function guarantees that the PGE Group Monitoring of the date and amount of concession Compliance will run its activities in accordance with legal conditions and ensures the comMonitoring and updating of protection laws payment pliance with adopted internal standards. The strengthened monitoring of the and regulations concerning environment environment increases the efficiency of identifying potential gaps. Monitoring of legal regulations concerning licensing Scheduled and regular maintenance and renovation works as recommended by the manufacturers Active participation in creating regulations The owners of risks are involved in the risk prevention Corporate Risk Management Procedure. For risks related and regulations (norms, regulations) and giving opinions about them process at the operational level: the Department Risk to commercial activities, separate regulations regarding and Insurance and the Risk Committee as well as the Aurelated issues are dedicated, with their management, Social dialogue and information campaigns Training employees in the field of Energy Law dit Department avoid critical situations through indepenmonitoring, and mitigation. They include the General and implementing regulations as well fulfilling dent periodic assessments of the key elements of the risk Procedure for Market Risk Management in Commercial Environmental management system – control obligations arising from concessions management system. The comprehensive management Activities, the Credit Risk Management Policy, and Geneof emissions, noise, water intake in the technological system for this area includes systematic risk assessment ral Procedure for Determining Internal Rating. process Constant supervision of the application preparation and analysis in the key companies of the Group. The area process in the company identification mechanisms of risk and its assessment are In 2019, a consistent approach to risk management was subject to constant verification and improvement. developed for six key companies of the PGE Group – the Management System Certificate Environmental As a result, material risks to specific business segments companies responsible for the operation of business lines: ISO 14001 are kept within established limits through reduction of PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna (Mining and the negative effects of these threats, which are annulled Conventional Energy), PGE Energia Ciepła (Heat Energy), by preemptive or corrective actions. The principles of PGE Energia Odnawialna (Renewable Energy), PGE Dysrisk management in the PGE Group are described in the trybucja (Distribution), PGE Obrót (Sales), and for the PGE Corporate Risk Management Policy and in the General itself, which is the Corporate Center of the PGE Group. 74 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 75 The perspective of the PGE Company The PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna, as the Corporate Center managing the Group, creates and implements solutions in the area of integrated risk management architecture in the PGE Group. In particular, it shapes risk management policies, standards and practices, develops internal IT tools supporting the production process, determines the Group’s willingness to accept risks and their limits, and monitors their levels. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE COMPANY The risk of environment protection resulting from the consequences of abandonment and improper activities in the field of environmental protection or the possibility of extraordinary events Risk reduction tools Monitoring of technical condition and modernization of devices and installations Monitoring of laws and regulations regarding environmental protection Adjustment of the company’s internal regulations and activities in the field of environmental protection to changing legal regulations Writing reports to competent authorities and institutions responsible for environmental management Submission of utilization of harmful substances to a specialized company authorized to operate in the field of waste management A VIEW ON THE NEW ENERGY BLOCKS IN THE PGE GIEK POWER PLANT IN OPOLE 76 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 77 SOCIAL ISSUES Identifying risk and means of its management in the area of social issues in the PGE Group and the PGE Company. SOCIAL ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE GROUP SOCIAL ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE COMPANY Risk associated with HR risk Risk of damage violating collective Reputation risk to third parties interests of consumers resulting in unwanted personnel turnover associated with the possible being the result of a potential related to possibly image occurrence of property, personal lack of due care in the area damage to PGE Group Risk reduction tools or financial losses as a result of competition and consumer in the course of its business of the company’s core business protection Competitive remuneration system compared to other employers activities Attractive system of non-wage benefits Risk reduction tools Monitoring of the labor market in the area of remuneration and incentive systems Monitoring of the technical Following rulings by the Media monitoring Development of bonus rules based on regulations using transparent and uniform rules for motivating state of equipment and installaProtection Court (SOiK) tions and opinions of the President Conducting regular media The use of objective methods of assessing work results of the Office of Competition relations activities Control of working conditions and Consumer Protection Linking salaries and incentives with periodic performance reviews Noise and electromagnetic field (UOKiK) Cyclical meetings of managemeasurements ment with employees Planning of professional development according to the needs of employees and individual units organizational Observing internal standards Use of protective means to regarding information sharing Observing procedures for manaOrganizational culture based on the principles of integrity and diligence, as set out in the Code of Ethics reduce harm for the natural ging internal, external, and crisis at PGE Capital Group environment Providing universal access communication to regulations related to the Employee training company’s operations Observing rules for representing in environmental protection the PGE Group in the media Employee training (regulations concerning commuAppropriate preparation nication activities) of workplaces Verification of contracts for legal compliance internal trainings Periodic inspection of the management staff of the security of facilities Verification of existing internal and assets regulations as regards abuse Diversification of internal of dominant position communication channels Legal consultations Monitoring of marketing activity Monitoring of regulating Marketing strategy environment CONSTRUCTION OF NEW BLOCKS IN THE PGE GÓRNICTWO I ENERGIA KONWENCJONALNA POWER PLANT IN OPOLE 78 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 79 LABOR LAWS AND ISSUES LABOR LAWS AND ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE COMPANY Identifying risk and means of its management in the area of labor laws and issues in the PGE Group and the PGE Company. GC Health and safety risk at Risk associated Risk associated GC-4 a workplace with social dialogue with human resources GC LABOR LAWS AND ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE GROUP GC-5 resulting from the consequences connected with a failure in resulting in unwanted of the company, employees achieving agreement between personnel turnover Health and safety risk at Risk associated Risk associated and people working for the comthe Group’s management and pany failing to observe workplace employees, what could lead to a workplace with social dialogue with human resources health and safety regulations strikes/collective labor disputes and rules resulting from the consequences connected with a failure in resulting in unwanted of the company, employees achieving agreement between personnel turnover and people working for the comthe Group’s management and Risk reduction tools pany failing to observe workplace employees, what could lead to health and safety regulations strikes/collective labor disputes Control of working conditions Organization of meetings Implemented rules of recruitment and rules (measurements, checkups) regarding the situation and remunerating employees market of the PGE Group Risk reduction tools Training on health and safety at Labor market monitoring workplace and giving job-speciInformation meetings in terms of remuneration fic instructions prior to the start concerning the scope and systems of incentive Control of working condi-tions Organization of meetings Competitive remuneration of work in a specific workplace of changes and the manner regarding the situation system in comparison with in which they are going Professional development Training on health and safety market of the PGE Group other employers Hiring of employees to be introduced planning as needed at workplace and giving jobwith qualifications and health for employees and individual specific instructions prior to Information meetings Rules regarding recruitment conditions adequate Dialogue with the social side organizational units the start of work in a specific concerning the scope to the company’s needs workplace of changes and the manner Managing employee developOngoing analysis of trade union Training on the code of ethics in which they are introduced ment Initial and periodic medical activities Hiring of employees with qualifiChecks Linking of salary and incentives cations and health status adequConducting surveys Cooperation with high schools with periodic reviews ate to the Company’s needs of employees and higher educational instiRules regarding first aid during of employees tutions offering energy related accidents at workplace Initial and periodic medical Ongoing analysis of trade union courses/programs Checks activities Periodic inspections Mentoring of workplaces Periodic assessment of Dialogue with the social side technical state Training on the Code of Ethics Periodic assessments of technical conditions Rules regarding the use of pro(buildings and installations) tective equipment and working tools Continuous analysis of costs related to ensuring appropriate Monitoring of implementa-tion conditions for safe work of health and safety regulations by employees INSPECTION AND SERVICE BY THE COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES AT RENEWABLE WIND FARMS BELONGING TO PGE ENERGIA 80 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 81 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS MATTERS Identified risks and management measures in the human rights area at the PGE Group and the PGE Company. – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE GROUP Risks associated with respect for human rights, such and molestation, hiring of children, illegal hiring, and work as discrimination, mobbing or molestation, have been in unsafe conditions are addressed by relying on permaRisk associated with Risk associated with identified and activities that are at the basis of prevennent employment contracts as the basic form of employmobbing and molestation employee discrimination ting such risks are indicated and described in the Code ment, ensuring the highest standards in organizing a safe of Ethics, the Code of Conduct for Business Partners workplace, applying objective and non-discriminatory and in other procedures. Provisions protecting against criteria for hiring and promoting of employees. We show associated with the possible occurrence of property, resulting from potential unlawful acts these risks are placed directly in the form of ethical claurespect to diversity in terms of race, gender, sexual orienpersonal or financial losses as a result of employee ses in contracts with business partners and, as a result, tation, age, culture, marital status, religious and political actions our high standards are also imposed on other companies. beliefs, freedom of membership in social and professional In the Code of Ethics, risks associated with human rights, organizations. We comply with all requirements concersuch as discrimination in employment, mobbing ning the issues of health and safety at a workplace. Risk reduction tools Trainings of employees and management Labor regulations Whistleblower function – a possibility to publicize Employee training irregularities observed in the organization Internal standards related to submitting irregularities and providing information HUMAN RIGHTS MATTERS – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE COMPANY Risk associated with Risk associated with mobbing and molestation employee discrimination associated with the possible occurrence of property, resulting from potential unlawful acts personal or financial losses as a result of employee actions Risk reduction tools Trainings of employees and management Labor regulations Whistleblower function – a possibility to publicize Employee training irregularities observed in the organization Internal standards related to submitting THE COMPASS IS A SYMBOL, INDICATING THE DIRECTION OF ACTIONS IN COMPLIANCE Impartial Advisor function – possibility to contact irregularities and providing information WITH THE VALUES AND PRINCIPLES OF THE PGE GROUP an external company in cases related to mobbing 82 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 83 COUNTERACTING CORRUPTION GC Identified risks and management measures in the area of counteracting corruption at the PGE Group and the PGE Company. GC-10 FRAUD AND CORRUPTION ISSUES FRAUD AND CORRUPTION ISSUES – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE COMPANY – THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE PGE GROUP Fraud and corruption risk Procurement risk Fraud and corruption risk Procurement risk resulting from potential unlawful acts stemming from errors in the process of procuring materials and service resulting from potential unlawful acts stemming from errors in the process of procuring materials and service Risk reduction tools Risk reduction tools The PGE Group’s code of ethics Procurement policy of the PGE Capital Group and general procedure of procurement The PGE Group’s code of ethics Procurement policy of the PGE Capital Group PGE Group’s anti-corruption policy in the PGE Capital Group and general procedure of procurement PGE Group’s anti-corruption policy in the PGE Capital Group Universal access to regulations related to the The Code of Conduct for PGE Group Companies’ company’s operations (codes, rules, regulations) Business Partners Employee training The Code of Conduct for PGE Group Companies’ Business Partners Regular verification of internal regulations Mandatory observance of Good Procurement Monitoring of business activities Practices and Code of Ethics for identificationand explanation of unusual events Mandatory observance of the Good Procurement Initial and periodic trainings for employees for rationally run business Practices and the Code of Ethics Analysis of tender specification records Conflict of interest disclosure statements (Specyfikacja Istotnych Warunków Zamówienia) Launch of fraud reporting system ensuring Analysis of tender specification records by employees before approving them, in particular the conditions confidentiality to the person reporting the abuse (Specyfikacja Istotnych Warunków Zamówienia) for participation and the description of the object before approving them, in particular the conditions Monitoring business activities of contract (Opis Przedmiotu Zamówienia) Internal monitoring (compliance check) and external for participation and the description of the object for identification and explanation of unusual events audits regarding internal processes and regulations of contract (Opis Przedmiotu Zamówienia) forrationally run business Communication with employees and organizing applicable in the company trainings for them Communication with employees and organizing Monitoring of implemented activities in terms Universal access to regulations related to the trainings for them of granted proxies Application of the contractor’s assessment company’s operations (codes, rules, regulations) and qualifications system Application of the contractor’s assessment Ongoing supervision over tasks entrusted Internal and external audits concerning the and qualifications system toemployees and monitoring compliance of these Additional selective verification of individual company’s internal processes and regulations tasks with assigned responsibilities purchasing procedures and purchasing plans Random additional verification of individual Conflict of interest disclosure statements purchasing procedures and purchasing plans Launch of fraud reporting system ensuring Statements regarding exemptions by employees confidentiality to the person reporting the abuse made by participants in proceedings Statements regarding exemptions made by participants in proceedings Internal monitoring (compliance check) and external audits regarding internal processes and regulations applicable in the company 84 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 85 Report’s approval Useful links This report on non-financial data of the PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and the PGE Group for 2019 was approved for publication by the parent institution’s Management Board on March 31, 2020. About the PGE Group The PGE’s official website https://www.gkpge.pl/ Warsaw, March 31, 2020 PGE Baltica https://www.gkpge.pl/pge-baltica PGE Centrum LUMI https://lumipge.pl/ PGE Dystrybucja https://pgedystrybucja.pl/ Signatures of the members of the Management Board of the PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. PGE EJ1 https://pgeej1.pl/ PGE Energia Ciepła https://pgeenergiaciepla.pl/ PGE Energia Odnawialna https://pgeeo.pl/ PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna https://pgegiek.pl/ PGE Nowa Energia https://pgene.pl/ PGE Obrót https://pge-obrot.pl/ PGE Systemy https://pgesystemy.pl PGE Ventures https://pgeventures.pl President of the Management Board Zrównoważony biznes https://www.gkpge.pl/zrownowazony-biznes Wojciech Dąbrowski Akcelerator PGE https://akceleratorpge.pl/ Strategies of the PGE Group Updated strategy of the PGE Capital Group in the perspective of 2020 https://www.gkpge.pl/Relacje-inwestorskie/Grupa/Strategia Strategy of the heat engineering of the PGE Group https://www.gkpge.pl/Relacje-inwestorskie/Grupa/Strategia/StrategiaVice-President of the Management Board -Cieplownictwa Paweł Cioch Environmental Commitments Environmental Commitment of PGE S.A. https://www.gkpge.pl/zrownowazony-biznes/obszary-dzialalnosci/z-szacunkiem-dla-ziemi; https://www.gkpge.pl/zrownowazony-biznes/obszary-dzialalnosci/dobrze-znamy-wartosc-wody; https://www.gkpge.pl/zrownowazony-biznes/obszary-dzialalnosci/dbamy-o-powietrze-a-sokoly-to-lubia Vice-President of the Management Board Environmetal Commitment EMAS, Elektrownia Opole https://elopole.pgegiek.pl/Ochrona-srodowiska/Deklaracja-srodowiskowa Paweł Śliwa Environmetal Commitment EMAS, PGE Energia Ciepła https://pgeenergiaciepla.pl/o-spolce/system-zarzadzania Values and rules in the PGE Group The Code of Ethics of the PGE Group https://www.gkpge.pl/zrownowazony-biznes/compliance The Code of Actions of the PGE Capital Group companies Vice-President of the Management Board https://www.gkpge.pl/zrownowazony-biznes/compliance/pge-dba-o-najwyzsze-standardy-wspolpracy-z-partnerami-biznesowymi Ryszard Wasiłek The Program of Compliance of PGE Dystrybucja https://pgedystrybucja.pl/spolka/O-Spolce/Program-Zgodnosci The Code of Good Practices of System Operators https://pgedystrybucja.pl/spolka/O-Spolce/Kodeks-Do¬brych-Praktyk-Operatorow-Systemow-Dystrybucyjnych Consumer Rights https://www.gkpge.pl/Oferta/Strefa-Klienta/Regionalna/Zbiory-Praw-Konsumenta Accounts and Reports Vice-President of the Management Board Integrated Report for 2018 https://raportzintegrowany2018.gkpge.pl/ Paweł Strączyński RESPECT Index http://respectindex.pl/aktualnosci?ph_main_content_start=show&ph_main_content_cmn_id=1137 WIG-ESG https://www.gpw.pl/indeks?isin=PL9999998955 Internship programs Programs for students and graduates https://www.gkpge.pl/kariera/Praca-u-nas/Programy-dla-studentow-i-absolwentow Internship program in 2019 https://www.gkpge.pl/kariera/Program-stazowy-2018 Summer internships in 2019 https://www.gkpge.pl/Kariera/program-praktyk-letnich-2019 Energetic Career program https://pgeenergiaciepla.pl/o-spolce/spoleczna-odpowiedzialnosc-biznesu/energetyczna 86 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 87 Energy Industry Glossary BAT Best Available Technology System Average Interruption Duration Index – an indicator showing the average system interruption duration (long, very long or catastrophic), expressed in minutes per customer per year, constituting the product of multiplying its duration Solid or liquid substances of plant or animal origin, subject to biodegradability, obtained from agricultural or forestry SAIDI and the number of customers exposed to it during the year, divided by the total number of customers. SAIDI does not incluBiomasa products, waste and remains or industries processing their products as well as certain other biodegradable waste, de interruptions shorter than 3 minutes and is calculated separately for planned and unplanned interruptions. It applies in particular agricultural raw materials. to interruptions on LV, MV and HV lines, although SAIDI in the quality tariff does not include LV interruptions. System Average Interruption Frequency Index – measures the average frequency (number) of interruptions, expressed BREF Best Available Techniques Reference Document as the number of customers exposed to the effects of all interruptions in a given year divided by the total number of custoSAIFI mers. SAIFI does not include interruptions under 3 minutes and is set separately for planned and unplanned interruptions. transport of energy through distribution grid of high (110 kV), medium (15kV) and low (400V) voltage in order to supply It applies to interruptions on LV, MV and HV lines, although SAIFI in the quality tariff does not include LV interruptions. Distribution it to customers Low voltage A special type of hydropower plant allowing for energy warehousing. An upper body of water is used for this, where water a power line with nominal voltage of up to 1 kV (LV) line Pumped is pumped from a lower body of water using electricity (usually excess electricity in the system). Pumped storage facilities storage plants provide regulatory services for the national power system. In times of higher demand for electricity, water from the upper Medium voltage a power line with nominal voltage of between 1 kV and 110 kV body of water is released through a turbine. This way electricity is produced. (MV) line GJ Gigajoule, a unit of work/heat in the SI system, 1 GJ = 1000/3.6 kWh = approximately 278 kWh High voltage a power line with nominal voltage of 110 kV (HV) line A system that minimizes the consumption of resources and the level of waste as well as emissions and energy losses Circular economy by creating a closed loop of processes in which waste from one process is used as resources in other processes SOx sulfur dioxide so as to maximally reduce the quantity of production waste an early-stage company established in order to build new products or services and characterized by a high level A civil-law arrangement that may include natural persons, legal entities, scientific units, research institutes or local governStart-up of uncertainty. The most common features of start-ups are: short operational history (up to 10 years), innovativeness, ment units, concerning the generation, distribution or trade in energy and energy demand balancing, with this energy being scalability, higher risk than in the case of traditional businesses but also potential higher returns on investment from renewable sources or other sources or fuels, within a distribution grid with nominal voltage below 110 kV, with the Energy cluster operational area of the given cluster, not exceeding the area of one district in the meaning of the act on district authorities) Renewable energy a document confirming generation of electricity from renewable sources, issued by the President of the Energy Regulatory or 5 municipalities in the meaning of the act on municipal authorities; an energy cluster is represented by a coordinator, origin certificate Office (URE), i.e. green certificate which is a cooperative, association, foundation appointed for this purpose or any member of the energy cluster indicated in the civil-law arrangement. list of prices and rates and terms of application of the same, devised by an energy enterprise and introduced as binding Tariff on the customers specified therein in the manner defined by an act of parliament Cogeneration the simultaneous generation of heat and electricity or mechanical energy in the course of a single technological process URE Energy Regulatory Office (Urząd Regulacji Energetyki) kV kilo volt, an SI unit of electric potential difference, current and electromotive force; 1kV= 103 V CSI Customer satisfaction indicator kilowatt-hour, a unit of electric energy in the SI system defined as the volume of electricity used by the 1 kW equipment kWh over one hour. 1 kWh = 3,600,000 J = 3.6 MJ NPS Customer loyalty indicator MW megawatt, a unit of capacity in the SI system, 1 MW = 106 W MWe one megawatt of electric capacity normal cubic meter; a unit of volume from outside the SI system signifying the quantity of dry gas in 1 m3 of space Nm3 at a pressure of 1013 hPa and a temperature of 0°C. NOx nitrogen oxides a source of generation using wind power, solar radiation, geothermal energy, waves, sea currents and tides, flow of rivers Renewable energy and energy obtained from biomass, landfill biogas as well as biogas generated in sewage collection or treatment processes source or the disintegration of stored plant or animal remains an energy company engaging in the distribution of gaseous fuels or electricity, responsible for traffic in the gas or electricity Distribution system distribution systems, current and long-term security of operation of the system, the operation, maintenance, repairs operator (DSO) and indispensable expansion of the distribution network, including connections to other gas or power systems final customer who purchases electricity under a comprehensive agreement and generates electricity only from renewable Prosumer sources at a micro-installations for own purposes, unrelated to economic activities President of the Energy Regulatory Office (URE), fulfilling the tasks assigned to him in the Energy Law. Regulator The regulator is responsible for, among others, giving out licenses for energy companies, approval of energy tariffs, appointing Transmission System Operators and Distribution System Operators. 88 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 89 Indicators Indicators of the GRI standards and the Global Compact Indicator Global Compact Priciples Page Environmental issues Chosen GRI indicators, Global Impact, and custom indicators GRI 303-1 Approach to the natural environment Total water withdrawal by source GC-7 18-43, 75-77, 92-105 94-95 The report on non-financial information of PGE Polska the most important indicators that describe our commitGRI 304-1 Description of the significant impact of activities, products and services on the biodiversity GC-8 30-33 Grupa Energetyczna SA and the PGE Capital Group ment to the environment, our care for employees and of protected areas, including areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the social issues, our respect for human rights, and our fight GRI 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 92 amendment to the Accounting Act, implementing Direcagainst corruption. GRI 305-7 Emission of NOx, SO2 and other significant compounds emitted into the air 93 tive 2014/95 / EU to Polish law. It includes non-financial GRI 306-1 Total sewage volume by quality and destination GC-8 96-97 information for the period from January 1 to December Our non-financial report includes selected indicators GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste by type of waste and methods of waste management GC-8 99-103 31, 2019. The report contains consolidated data for the of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and its standards, GRI 307-1 Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 104 PGE Capital Group (hereinafter „PGE Group”, „PGE Grothe Group’s own indicators, and references to 10 prinand environmental regulations up”, „Group”) and for the parent – the PGE Polska Grupa ciples of the Global Compact. The use and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies GC-9 13, 16-17, 19-31, 34-42 Energetyczna SA (hereinafter „PGE”). The PGE Capital GRI EU5 Allocation of carbon dioxide emission allowances or its equivalent by system division 92 Group consists of 66 companies. The non-financial report The PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna was among emissions trading covers 57 companies in which we maintain employment. a small group of companies that were the first to report In order to show the best and most transparent presenon progress in implementation of the Sustainable Devetation of the PGE Group’s operations, except for selecting lopment Goals priority for Polish business as the Impact Social issues the most concrete topics from the point of view of both Barometer survey. In this report, we also present the GRI 203-1 Contribution to infrastructure development and provision of services to society through 13, 16-17, 51, 53-73 the company and its environment, we have also chosen results of this study. commercial activities, transfer of goods and pro bono activities GRI EU28 Frequency of interruptions in energy supplies (SAIFI) 114 GRI EU29 Average duration of interruption in electricity supply (SAIDI) 114 GRI Indicators of the GRI standards and the Global Compact 102-55 Labor laws and issues Indicator Global Compact Priciples Page Employment GC-4, GC-5 47-49, 80-81 Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining GC-3 48 The PGE Capital Group GRI 102-8 Total number of employees by type of employment and type of employment contract,by gender GC-6 106 GRI 102-41 Number of employees covered by the collective agreement GC-3 107 GRI 102-1 Organization name 6, 7 GRI 401-1 Total number of newly hired employees, depart and admission rate GC-6 108 GRI 102-2 Main products / services 6, 7 and employee turnover by age group, gender, in different companies GRI 102-3 Location of the headquarters of the organization Poland, Warsaw GRI 401-2 Additional benefits provided to full-time employees that are not available 47 GRI 102-4 Number of countries in which the organization operates The PGE Group operates mainly in Poland to temporary or part-time employees, by main operating unit GRI 102-11 Organization risk management 74-85 GRI 403-9 Type and rate of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number 113 GRI 102-12 Economic, environmental and social declarations, principles and other external initiatives GC-1, GC-2 15 work-related fatalities, by region and by gender adopted or supported by the organization GRI 404-1 Average number of training hours per year per employee by employment category and gender GC-6 109 GRI 102-13 List of state and international industry associations 15 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees subject to regular quality assessment and career development GC-6 110 GRI 102-14 Top management statement 3 reviews by sex GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of organizational behavior GC-10 45, 47 GRI 405-1 Composition of management, supervisory bodies and staff by categories GC-6 111-112 such as a code of conduct or a code of ethics of sex, age, belonging to minorities and other diversity indicators GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 14 GRI 102-43 An approach to stakeholder engagement including the frequency 14 of engagement by type and stakeholder group Human rights matters GRI 102-45 The operating structure of the organization, with distinction from main 8-9 GRI 412-2 The total number of employee training hours in respect of human rights policies GC-1, GC-2 115 departments, subsidiaries, related entities and joint ventures and the percentage of employees trained GRI 102-50 Reporting period 01/01/2019 31/12/2019 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle annual Counteracting corruption GRI 102-55 GRI content index 90 GRI 205-1 Total number and percentage of business units analyzed in terms of the risk of corruption GC-10 115 GRI 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures GC-10 115 90 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 91 Selected indicators in the area of environmental issues Remaining emissions in the PGE Group Emission of NOx, SO2 and other significant compounds emitted into the air by PGE GiEK and PGE EC in 2019. PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna The Common Environmental Policy obliges all PGE impact. For example, the indicators in the section Group companies to care for the natural environment. on CO2 emissions relate to the PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka 2019 2018 2017 The indicators in this section, due to the specifics of the Konwencjonalna and the PGE Energia Ciepła, whose operations of the PGE Group companies, refer to selected main activity is the production of electricity and heat. Weight of relevant air emissions [tonnes] organizational units for which a given issue is significant Below we present the indicators that relate to our impact NOX 37,179 47,966 47,014 from the point of view of reporting and environmental on the environment to the greatest extent. SO2 36,831 63,130 55,631 GRI 305-7 Suspended dust 1,324 2,492 2,145 CO2 Emission Emission for net generated energy from all production capacities [kg/MWh] GRI CO2 emission from the Group’s main installations and the allocation of free CO2 emission allowances for 2019. NOX 0.86 0.89 0.89 305-1 SO2 0.85 1.18 1.05 Allowance GRI CO2 emission in 2019 CO2 emission in 2018 CO2 emission in 2017 for CO2 emission in 2019* Suspended dust 0.03 0.05 0.04 EU-5 Power and CHP plants PGE Energia Ciepła in the PGE Capital 60,663,255 70,186,803 70,184,384 13,103,751 Group [tonnes] 2019 2018 2017 Weight of relevant air emissions [tonnes] * the volume of CO2 emission allowances relates to electricity and heat combined and is consistent with the volume of allowances for 2019, as indicated in the relevant ordinances of the Government. The volume of allowances includes allocations for new blocks 5 and 6 in the ELO NOX 12,120 9,453 14,667 (Opole Power Plant). SO2 9,689 7,330 7,710 Suspended dust 821 509 628 CO2 emissions for 2019 have been verified by authorized verifiers for CO2 emissions under the EU ETS system. Emission for net generated energy from all production In 2019, CO2 emissions from the PGE power plant and combined heat and power plant installations were reduced by 9.5 capacities [kg/MWh] million tonnes of CO2, in relation to 2018 and 2017, which is about 15.7 percent of total CO2 emissions. Such a reduction NOX 0.47 0.48 0.72 is associated with a reduction electricity production at PGE GiEK by approx. 10% last year when compared to 2018. SO2 0.38 0.38 0.38 The CO2 emission rate per unit of electricity produced is systematically lowered. A decrease in CO2 emissions per unit Suspended dust 0.03 0.03 0.03 [tCO2 / MWh] can be observed as a result of investments aimed at increasing the share of low-carbon technologies in the portfolio of the Group’s companies. Currently, for the entire PGE Capital Group (power plants and combined heat and power plants) the rate amounts to 0.84 t / MWh. The target set by the Group for 2025 is 0.78 t CO2/MWh. The main goal of production processes, taking place in power plants, is to generate electricity and heat. Combustion of fuels releases substances contained in the fuel into the atmosphere, including sulfur dioxide, which – in further reactions – adversely affects the environment. The production of electricity and heat is accompanied by the flue gas desulphurization process based on wet technology. This technology is the safest in the power industry: it is qualified to be the best available technology on the market (BAT). The use of low sulfur fuel may be a complementary technique, but it is not sufficient to serve the desired purpose of reduction of SO2 emissions. The final product of the flue gas desulphurization process in wet technology is gypsum (calcium sulfate) used in the construction industry, including the production of drywall. The plaster that arises in our flue gas desulphurization installations (IOS) has been registered in accordance with the REACH requirements at the EU ECHA Agency and – according to research results – can be safely sold for commercial use. Wet desulphurization installations are common in the power plants belonging to PGE GiEK (Bełchatów, Opole, Turów, Dolna Odra, Rybnik), as well as in PGE EC heat and power plants (Kraków, Wrocław, Gdańsk, Gdynia). The increase in emissions at the PGE EC combined heat and power plants results from the acquisition of new units in January 2019 (earlier belonging to PGE GiEK). 92 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 93 Water and sewage management PGE Energia Odnawialna 2019 2018 2017 Total water withdrawal for production purposes by source in 2019. Total volume of water taken for production purposes 9,569,414,678 12,431,666,682 17,721,590,023 PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna from the following sources [m3] 2019 2018 2017 Surface waters, including land waters 9,569,400,094 12,431,621,231 17,721,580,762 wetlands, rivers, lakes GRI Total volume of water taken for production purposes from the following sources [m3] 823,248,035 1,042,814,300 1,176,371,368 Groundwater 5,228 37,415 3,381 303-1 Surface waters, including land waters Rainwater directly collected 821,829,162 1,040,611,060 1,174,331,818 wetlands, rivers, lakes and stored by the organization Groundwater 1,204,452 1,713,527 1,365,177 Sewage from other organizations Rainwater directly collected Municipal water supplies and supplies 9,356 8,036 5,880 and stored by the organization from other water companies Sewage from other organizations 2,297 3,824 13,495 Municipal water supplies and supplies The PGE Group makes sure that the principles of Closed Circulation Economy are applied to the widest possible extent 212,124 485,889 660,878 from other water companies in water and sewage management. Repeated use of water collected from the environment has been going on for years, with guaranteed maintenance of required physical, chemical, and biological parameters. The decrease in water intake at PGE GiEK is a result of the optimization of water consumption and the recycling of water The conditions for conducting water and sewage management are specified in relevant administrative decisions, mainly from earlier technological stages. in integrated permits and water law permits. In the company’s branches and subsidiaries, monitoring is carried out on an ongoing basis in terms of the quantity and quality of water and sewage discharged. The production of technological water in the Group is based on both surface and underground waters (which are subjected PGE Energia Ciepła to purification and improvement). In several plants, water is also taken from municipal water supply networks. Depending 2019 2018 2017 on the size of the plant, source and composition of raw water, different techniques for water preparation are used: decarburization, lime filtration, ion exchange, ultrafiltration, reverse osmosis, or electrodeionization. Complete in any case, the Total volume of water taken for production purposes water preparation string combines several of the techniques listed above, which allows preparation of adequate quality 588,941,446 528,781,596 731,062,150 from the following sources [m3] water (often better than collected) for individual water and water-steam circuits. Waste products from the above treatment Surface waters, including land waters 578,765,341 524,456,463 726,729,661 processes are still used in less demanding cycles. wetlands, rivers, lakes Groundwater 8,417,680 2,901,560 2,892,267 At each stage of water preparation, particular attention is paid to its rational use. A great part of waste water generated during water preparation is recycled back to the processes. Rainwater directly collected Also, sewage generated in other installations, if their composition allows, is recycled in the process, for example: 16,867 and stored by the organization • as a rule, hot waste water is recycled as a source for the water preparation process Sewage from other organizations 1,744 • in many cases, rainwater or drainage water is reused to produce process water • part of household sewage, after treatment, is used as a source of replenishment water in cooling systems Municipal water supplies and supplies and very soon treated wastewater from the municipal sewage treatment plant is going to be used as technological water 1,739,814 1,423,573 1,440,222 from other water companies • waste water is also used for domestic water systems or for topping up ash removal and slagging systems. In 2019, in the case of PGE Energia Ciepła, the position “groundwater” also includes subsoil water, hence its value increases. PGE Energia Odnawialna draws water for the production of electricity in accordance with its water permits. Groundwater is taken up by the PGE branches in Kraków, Zgierz and Lublin, and on the Baltic Sea coast. Increased water Measurements of the amount of water taken are carried out on the basis of installed meters or based on real work consumption also results from the acquisition of companies previously owned by PGE GiEK. of the power plant. 94 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 95 GRI Total sewage volume by quality and destination in 2019. PGE Dystrybucja 306-1 PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna 2019 2018 2017 GC 2019 2018 2017 Real total amount of wastewater [m3] 617 1,352 1,034 GC-8 Real total amount of wastewater [m3] 21,856,562 16,409,935 20,188,192 Amount of wastewater: Amount of wastewater: Going to water 52 303 133 Going to water 21,838,460 16,226,412 19,681,161 Going to ground 565 1,049 901 Going to ground 452 Going to municipal enterprises – to sewage systems Going to municipal enterprises – to sewage systems 18,102 183,523 506,579 Water from drainage of the mining plant / water not applicable not applicable not applicable Water from drainage of the mining plant / water 213,285,383 211,854,878 214,919,799 Cooling water from open cooling circuits, not applicable not applicable not applicable which do not require cleaning Cooling water from open cooling circuits, 706,037,989 916,984,342 1,054,634,377 which do not require cleaning PGE Energia Ciepła The year 2019 was, and 2020 will be a period of optimizations, modernizations and building of new installations and research to adapt to the BAT conclusions. These activities directly affect the amount of wastewater. Additionally, this amount depends 2019 2018 2017 on the quality of the fuel burned, because the more pollution it contains, the more sewage is generated. Real total amount of wastewater [m3] 13,856,612 9,052,857 10,442,419 The PGE Group constantly monitors water and sewage parameters. The Company also uses probes and sensors, connected Amount of wastewater: to servers and decision supporting systems, managing data in real time as well as integrating and modeling purification processes: Going to water 7,570,498 4,925,721 7,349,568 • wastewater from the flue gas desulphurization installation is treated in dedicated treatment plants and then directed to secondary use in technology; it can be pretreated in dedicated pretreatment plants and then directed to rainwater Going to ground and industrial sewage systems and, through other industrial sewage networks, it gets to the final treatment plant, • wastewater from the cooling circuit (desalinated water from cooling towers) is used in other processes on site, Going to municipal enterprises – to sewage systems 1,356,110 598,577 2,153,594 • e.g. in flue gas desulphurization processes or slag transport, Water from drainage of the mining plant / water not applicable not applicable not applicable • sewage from demineralization, ion exchange regeneration, ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis – including acid or alkaline sewage before discharge to the industrial sewage system – is neutralized (mutually) in chemical tanks, Cooling water from open cooling circuits, 542,577,387 541,288,560 723,422,747 in the pretreatment unit, which do not require cleaning • rainwater and snowmelt water that may contain petroleum substances – rainwater from the entire site, PGE Energia Odnawialna • and oil management (engine rooms, area of electrostatic precipitators and transformers, carwash and depot area, workshop area and oil management) is pretreated in oil catchers. Waste water containing suspension is treated in sepa2019 2018 2017 rators of solid particles and in mud traps, • sewage from carbon squares – the area around the squares is equipped with retaining walls, drainage channels Real total amount of wastewater [m3] 107,699 283,790 224,798 and manholes septic tanks to discharge sewage from rainwater from the surface to the combined sewer system, Amount of wastewater: • side heaps of coal. They also perform separation (settling) functions for solid, lifted fractions through rainwater, • rainwater from bowls under transformers is discharged into the industrial and rainwater sewage system Going to water 99,636 279,028 220,607 The oil pan is connected by pipeline with oil catcher and hydraulic lock. Before draining rainwater from the transformer area to the sewage network, the water is treated in an oil separator / trap with an integrated settler, Going to ground • rainwater from the roofs is caught and reused. Going to municipal enterprises – to sewage systems 8,063 4,762 4,191 To reduce emissions to water from flue gas treatment, primary techniques are used, i.e. optimal combustion, Water from drainage of the mining plant / water not applicable not applicable not applicable non-catalytic / catalytic denitrification and secondary techniques, i.e. adsorption on organic carbon of organic compounds and mercury. Waste water from flue gas desulphurisation installations is treated using the best available technologies Cooling water from open cooling circuits, 1,000 4,683 35,784 and techniques (e.g. reverse osmosis). which do not require cleaning 96 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 97 The technologies used in these treatment plants are designed to treat wastewater to a quality that meets the legal requirements, including environmental objectives defined for basic water management units under the name Waste management „Uniform Surface Water Parts”. Total weight of waste by type of waste and methods of waste management in 2019. GRI Currently, research is conducted on: 306-2 PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna • selective removal of heavy metals from wastewater, • selective removal of the rare earth elements from wastewater, GC 2019 2018 2017 GC-8 • the use of treated wastewater for reclamation and in agriculture, • reducing the use of chemistry in the wastewater treatment process, Amount of hazardous waste 1,385 1,606 1,058 • reducing the use of chemistry in technological processes generating wastewater. by the method of utilization [tonnes] Recovery (including energy recovery) 523 602 521 At PGE Energia Odnawialna, in order to effectively separate petroleum substances and thus eliminate the risk of possible oil drainage to water or soil, oil pans and separators are installed on wind farms, under transformers. Similar solutions Recycling 304 158 189 used in PGE Dystrybucja facilities, where company transformers are protected in a similar way. In addition, the Solina branch has a sewage treatment plant for oily waters, purifying wastewater from oil derivatives. Mass burn Disposal 188 183 216 Storage at landfills 38 177 27 Retaining on company’s site and storage 323 821 105 Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) Amount of non-hazardous waste 5,665,324 7,095,232 5,333,626 according to the utilization method [tonnes] Recovery (including energy recovery) 1,714,784 2,089,246 1,994,905 Recycling 20,700 6,314 9,323 Mass burn 7 Disposal 9,558 3,027 14,393 Storage at landfills 3,938,929 4,949,595 3,238,673 Retaining on company’s site and storage 1,951 53,363 76,325 Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 98 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 99 PGE Energia Ciepła PGE Energia Odnawialna 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Amount of hazardous waste Amount of hazardous waste 4,691 80 67 11 24 102 by the method of utilization [tonnes] by the method of utilization [tonnes] Recovery (including energy recovery) 4,430 12 4 Recovery (including energy recovery) 1 7 Recycling 36 59 46 Recycling Mass burn Mass burn Disposal 725 9 10 Disposal 3 4 5 Storage at landfills 1 0.6 Storage at landfills 1.5 Retaining on company’s site and storage 1.3 Retaining on company’s site and storage 3.5 5 66 Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 0.2 0.3 6.8 Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 2 15 24 Amount of non-hazardous waste Amount of non-hazardous waste 366,606 423,674 571,048 213 79 193.5 according to the utilization method [tonnes] according to the utilization method [tonnes] Recovery (including energy recovery) 481,603 143,775 271,536 Recovery (including energy recovery) Recycling 4,718 261,792 282,192 Recycling 0.3 Mass burn 85,459 Mass burn 2 Disposal 7,376 21 9 Disposal 3 2 1.2 Storage at landfills 12,772 15,582 12,600 Storage at landfills 12 77 Retaining on company’s site and storage 231 66 69 Retaining on company’s site and storage 164 74 Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 219 2,409 4,621 Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 32 118 The discrepancy between the sum of waste in PGE Energia Ciepła and its individual branches results from the fact that the Thermal Waste Conversion Installation with Energy Recovery in Rzeszów thermally processes mainly waste received, not made. 100 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 101 The formation of combustion by-products of (CBPs) is an unavoidable consequence of the production of electricity PGE Dystrybucja and heat in conventional power plants using fossil fuels. The management of combustion by-products, generated in fuel combustion processes, carried out in the PGE companies, is a multidirectional activity whose purpose is to use them 2019 2018 2017 as a substitute for natural resources. By promoting the idea of „priority for secondary” we save the consumption of natural Amount of hazardous waste raw materials (aggregates). The idea of using CBPs has been known in the energy sector for over 20 years. The company 2,253 2,141 2,350 by the method of utilization [tonnes] consistently improves and expands the scale of their use, conducts research, and looks for new applications. These activities confirm the European Union policy aimed at reusing CBPs, protecting natural resources, and minimizing adverse environRecovery (including energy recovery) mental impacts by limiting the amount of waste deposited in landfills. Recycling Production processes are successively analyzed for the selection of technological solutions that enable the recycling Mass burn of as wide a stream of combustion by-products as possible rather than their storage. The design and implementation of installations enabling the quality parameters of post-production minerals to be obtained already at the stage of fuel comDisposal bustion gives wider possibilities for their subsequent use. This approach is a part of the concept of the Road Map towards a circular economy, prepared at Ministry of Development and proposed as a pattern for the national implementation Storage at landfills of the Circular Economy Model (in Polish “GOZ”: Gospodarka o obiegu zamkniętym). Retaining on company’s site and storage The main waste streams generated in the PGE installations are waste and by-products of combustion from fuel burning and fumes after-treatment. Waste and by-products of combustion are managed in accordance with the directions Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 2,253 2,141 2,350 specified in relevant permits and decisions. In addition to depositing them in furnace waste landfills or temporarily in waste warehouses, these substances – due to their desired properties – are widely used in the cement industry, construction, Amount of non-hazardous waste 4,821 3,425 6,913 and road construction. Because they meet certain parameters, some combustion products are considered to be by-products according to the utilization method [tonnes] and are not classified as waste. Recovery (including energy recovery) In 2019, PGE Energia Ciepła increased the amount of hazardous waste due to the launch of the IMOS installation Recycling (wet desulphurization installation) and the acquisition of new plants (formerly owned by PGE GiEK). IMOS is the best known and effective method of SO2 removal from flue gas. It is a technological system based on the wet lime-gypsum. In this techMass burn nology, limestone powder is most often used as a sorbent, and – as a result of the reaction with water – gypsum (calcium sulfate) is formed. This product is suitable for further industrial use, for example in the construction industry, in the producDisposal tion of drywall gypsum. Storage at landfills At the PGE Capital Group, waste management is carried out in accordance with the permits for waste generation. At PGE Energia Odnawialna, the amount of waste generated in a given calendar year depends on the amount necessary Retaining on company’s site and storage to carry out service inspections or unforeseen failures. The generated waste is transferred to qualified and authorized recipients – companies that specialize in waste management and have qualifications to conduct such processes, as required Other (e.g. transfer to authorized recipients) 4,821 3,425 6,913 by law in this respect. All waste generated by PGE Dystrybucja in 2019 was transferred to authorized recipients for management. The amount of generated waste depends on the scope of works on the power grid, occurrence of failures, and investments. 102 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 103 GRI Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding environmental protection in companies with the greatest impact on the environment [PLN]. Indicators in the area of environmental issues 307-1 in the PGE Company PGE Energia Ciepła [Heat Energy] The following indicators present our approach to managing environmental impact in terms of energy, water and paper consumption 2019 at the PGE headquarters. In 2018, an administrative penalty was imposed on the PGE EC Lublin for excessive dust emissions Annual electricity consumption at the PGE headquarters [MWh] into the air, which occurred in 2018. PGE EC has Value of fines imposed and paid in a given year 7,999 taken measures to postpone the payment of the 2019 2018 2017 for non-compliance with laws and regulations penalty and to pass it to ongoing modernization regarding environmental protection measures aimed at reducing dust emissions. Energy for administrative purposes 1,698 1,864 1,701 The Bydgoszcz Branch – for late submission 500 Energy for administrative and technical purposes of the report resulting from art. 75 of the Waste Act 1,022 1,084 1,192 (servers) Annual heat consumption at the PGE headquarters [GJ] PGE Górnictwo i Energetyka Konwencjonalna [Mining and Conventional Energy] 2019 2018 2017 2019 Annual heat consumption 6,675 6,940 7,414 PLN 62,157 relates to the estimated penalty Annual heat consumption [GJ/m3] 0.06 0.06 0.07 84,157 for exceeding noise emission standards in Kamień (KWB Bełchatów) Annual consumption of paper sheets at the PGE headquarters [A4 format] Value of fines not yet imposed but estimated PLN 22,000 amount estimated by PGE GiEK Branch for non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding Turów Power Plant. Applies to the notification environmental protection of the initiation of administrative proceedings 2019 2018 2017 regarding the imposition of a penalty for exceeding 0.00411kg / h of permissible mercury emission from Office print paper 1,139,950 1,019,889 1,100,964 power unit No. 5 for the period from November 29 to December 31, 2017 Consumption of office print paper (per person) 1,768 1,800 2,126 Annual water consumption and sewage disposal at the PGE headquarters [m3] In 2019, an administrative penalty was imposed for oversized dust emissions into the air at PGE EC Lublin, which occurred in 2018. PGE EC has taken actions to postpone the date of payment of the financial penalty, trying to pass the penalty 2019 2018 2017 towards ongoing modernization activities aimed at reducing dust emissions. As part of the implementation tasks in 2019, the filter bags were replaced in bag filters on WP-120 boilers used in the process of dedusting flue gas from water boilers, Annual water consumption and sewage disposal 7,391 7,301 6,284 which allowed to improve the efficiency of flue gas dedusting. Annual water consumption and sewage disposal 11.47 12.88 12.14 (per person) Annual toner consumption at the PGE headquarters [pcs.] 2019 2018 2017 Annual toner consumption 173 135 173 Annual toner consumption (per person) 0.26 0.24 0.33 Energy-saving LED luminaries at the PGE headquarters [%] 2019 2018 2017 LED luminaries 65 60 40 104 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 105 Selected indicators in the area of labor laws and issues in the PGE Group and the PGE Company GRI Number of employees by type of employment and contract by gender (in persons). As on December 31. Number of employees covered by the collective agreement. As on December 31. GRI 102-8 102-41 The PGE Group The PGE Group GC 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 GC GC-6 GC-3 Total number of employees 42,280 41,763 41,629 Number of employees 42,280 41,763 41,629 F M F M F M Number of employees covered by the collective 32,339 31,393 32,137 agreement Total number of employees by gender 8,704 33,576 8,522 33,241 8,445 33,184 Percentage of employees covered by the collective 76% 75% 77% full time 8,613 33,462 8,429 33,133 8,358 33,092 agreement (in relation to all employees) part time 91 114 92 106 87 92 The PGE Company Job contracts indefinite period of time 7,590 30,835 7,601 30,986 7,510 30,899 2019 2018 2017 fixed-term 1,114 2,741 920 2,253 936 2,285 Number of employees 667 628 536 Contracts / task contracts 283 507 384 582 344 475 Number of employees covered by the collective 1 4 508 agreement Number of self-employed workers 0 22 2 22 8 17 Percentage of employees covered by the collective 0% 1% 95% agreement (in relation to all employees) The ratio of self-employed workers to all employees 0% 0.07% 0.02% 0.07% 0.09% 0.05% The PGE Company 2019 2018 2017 Total number of employees 667 628 536 F M F M F M Total number of employees by gender 331 336 313 315 261 275 full time 322 327 301 307 249 268 part time 9 9 12 8 12 7 Job contracts indefinite period of time 311 308 296 291 248 261 fixed-term 20 28 17 24 13 14 Contracts / task contracts 4 5 4 11 4 1 Number of self-employed workers 0 0 0 0 0 0 The ratio of self-employed workers to all employees 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 106 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 107 GRI Number and share of newly recruited employees and employees who left the job by gender and age (in persons). As on December 31. Average number of training days in a year per employee, by gender and employment structure (in persons). As on December 31. GRI 401-1 404-1 GC The PGE Group The PGE Group GC GC-6 GC-6 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 The total number of training days in a year 48,488 53,551 55,631 F M F M F M years years years years years years years years years Average number of training days in the reported 1.1 1.3 1.3 Total number of newly recruited employees period per employee 2.2 2.8 2.6 3,040 2,785 3,507 Average number of training days per employee F M F M F M 1,065 2,935 1,274 2,221 465 855 2,022 1,020 1,578 278 891 2,616 991 1,766 750 by gender 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.3 1.6 1.4 Share of newly recruited employees Senior management (Board and Directors) 7.1 4.8 5.6 7% 7% 8% Managerial positions 2.4 3.4 3.6 3% 7% 3% 5% 1% 2% 5% 2% 4% 1% 2% 6% 2% 4% 2% Other employees 1 1.1 1.3 Total number of employees who left the job 2,711 2,688 2,564 The PGE Company 698 2,080 398 887 1,493 774 1,960 363 910 1,461 699 1,865 357 965 1,242 2019 2018 2017 Share of employees who left the job The total number of training days in a year 2,481 1,597 1,012 Average number of training days in the reported 6% 6% 6% 3.7 2.5 1.9 period per employee 2% 5% 1% 2% 4% 2% 5% 1% 2% 3% 2% 4% 1% 2% 3% 3.8 2.7 1.9 Average number of training days per employee F M F M F M The PGE Company by gender 3.4 4 2.9 3.3 2.3 2.5 2019 2018 2017 Senior management (Board and Directors) 6.6 2.9 4.5 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 Managerial positions 4 3.7 3.6 F M F M F M years years years years years years years years years Other employees 3.3 2.3 21 Total number of newly recruited employees 77 81 79 36 41 31 43 3 39 42 28 46 7 33 46 25 51 3 Share of newly recruited employees 12% 13% 15% 5% 6% 5% 6% 0% 6% 7% 4% 7% 1% 6% 9% 5% 10% 1% Total number of employees who left the job 40 49 64 16 24 9 24 7 20 29 11 26 12 25 39 14 34 16 Share of employees who left the job 6% 8% 12% 2% 4% 1% 4% 1% 3% 5% 2% 4% 2% 5% 7% 3% 6% 3% 108 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 109 GRI Percentage of employees subject to regular job quality reviews and career development reviews by gender. As on December 31. Makeup of management, supervisory bodies, and staff divided by categories of gender and age. As on December 31. GRI 404-3 405-1 GC The PGE Group The PGE Group GC GC-6 GC-6 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of employees subject <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 23.5% 23.5% 28.8% F M F M F M to regular job quality reviews years years years years years years years years years Number of employees receiving regular assessments 9,923 9,804 11,991 results of their work Number of people on the Board F M F M F M 95 86 90 by gender 2,899 7,024 2,764 7,039 2,989 9,002 8 87 0 55 38 7 79 0 47 39 7 83 1 46 43 Number of managers / directors (managerial positions, names may vary 1,256 1,072 1,185 Number of people on the Supervisory Board depending on the company) Percentage of employees receiving regular 190 181 165 assessments their work (women and men combined – % of the total number of all employees) 57 133 3 128 57 52 129 0 123 58 43 122 1 112 52 Women (% of women in all women) 33.3% 32.1% 35.4% Total number of employees Men (% of men in all men) 20.9% 21.1% 27.1% 42,280 41,763 41,629 Directors, managers 43.7% 37.2% 41.3% 8,704 33,576 3,457 20,640 18,183 8,522 33,241 3,041 20,856 17,866 8,445 33,184 2,902 21,196 17,521 Percentage of people on the Board The PGE Company 8.4% 91.6% 0% 57.9% 40% 8.1% 91.9% 0% 54.7% 45.3% 7.8% 92.2% 1.1% 51.1% 47.8% 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of people on the Supervisory Board Percentage of employees subject 100% 100% 100% to regular job quality reviews 30% 70% 1.6% 67.4% 30% 28.7% 71.3% 0% 68% 32% 26.1% 73.9% 0.6% 67.9% 31.5% Number of employees receiving regular assessments 667 628 536 results of their work Percentage of employees F M F M F M 20.6% 79.4% 8.2% 48.8% 43% 20.4% 79.6% 7.3% 49.9% 42.8% 20.3% 79.7% 7% 50.9% 42.1% by gender 331 336 313 315 261 275 Number of managers / directors (managerial positions, names may vary 156 153 117 depending on the company) Percentage of employees receiving regular assessments their work (women and men combined – % of the total number of all employees) Women (% of women in all women) 100% 100% 100% Men (% of men in all men) 100% 100% 100% Directors, managers 100% 100% 100% 110 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 111 GRI The PGE Company Type and rate of injuries and absences from work, and the total number of work-related accidents, by company and gender. Period: January 1 – December 31. GRI 405-1 403-9 2019 2018 2017 GC The PGE Group GC-6 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 2019 2018 2017 F M F M F M years years years years years years years years years The total number of all accidents at work 171 155 184 Number of people on the Board by gender F M F M F M 6 6 6 15 158 16 140 20 173 0 6 0 2 4 0 6 0 2 4 0 6 0 2 4 Fatal accidents 1 0 1 Number of people on the Supervisory Board 0 1 0 0 0 1 8 8 6 Collective accidents 2 1 6 2 6 0 4 4 2 6 0 4 4 2 4 0 1 5 0 4 0 2 1 14 Total number of employees Severe accidents 2 2 0 667 628 536 0 2 0 2 0 0 331 336 78 499 90 313 315 96 448 84 261 275 89 369 78 Light accidents 166 152 177 Percentage of people on the Board 15 151 16 136 19 158 Accident frequency indicator * 2.8 2.7 3.9 0% 100% 0% 33.3% 66.7% 0% 100% 0% 33.3% 66.7% 0% 100% 0% 33.3% 66.7% Accident severity rate ** 21.4 24 28.6 Percentage of people on the Supervisory Board Absenteeism rate *** 12,445 10,608 12,239 25% 75% 0% 50% 50% 25% 75% 0% 50% 50% 33.3% 66.7% 0% 16.7% 83.3% 1,556 10,889 1,129 9,423 1,165 11,074 Percentage of employees The PGE Company 49.6% 50.4% 11.7% 74.8% 13.5% 49.8% 50.2% 15.3% 71.3% 13.4% 48.7% 51.3% 16.6% 68.8% 14.6% 2019 2018 2017 The total number of all accidents at work 0 1 0 by gender F M F M F M Implementation of the Voluntary Leave Program (“Program Dobrowolnych Odejść”) in the PGE Group and the PGE Company 0 0 0 1 0 0 (number of people). Fatal accidents 0 0 0 The PGE Group 0 0 0 0 0 0 2019 2018 2017 Collective accidents 0 0 0 The Voluntary Leave Program 26 88 312 0 0 0 0 0 0 The PGE Company Severe accidents 0 0 0 2019 2018 2017 0 0 0 0 0 0 The Voluntary Leave Program 0 0 0 Light accidents 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 Accident frequency indicator * 0 1.6 0 Accident severity rate ** 0 0 0 Absenteeism rate *** 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 * Index calculated according to the formula: number of accidents in a given year divided by number of employees (as at the end of a given year) and multiplied by 1000 – in relation to PGE Group companies ** Index calculated according to the formula: total number of days of inability to work of victims of accidents at work divided by number of victims in accidents at work (excluding persons injured in fatal accidents) – in relation to PGE Group companies *** Total number of days of absence due to accidents at work (counting calendar days) – in relation to PGE Group companies 112 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 113 Selected indicators in the area of social issues Employee trainings in the PGE Group companies in the field of human rights policy and procedures that take into account aspects of human rights. GRI 412-2 in the PGE Group The PGE Group GC GC-1 We place great emphasis on the quality of customer relationships. In companies where employees have direct contact Total number of hours of completed training 468 with the customer (PGE Obrót, PGE Dystrybucja, PGE Energia Ciepła) we have developed and implemented relationship Number of trained employees 39,582 GC management policies and standards in this area. In the area of distribution, the implemented investments are aimed GC-2 at increasing delivery reliability and reducing SAIDI and SAIFI indicators. Rate of trained employees 97% The PGE Group and the PGE Company own indicators regarding social issues are presented in the chapter: „Social avareness”. The PGE Company Total number of hours of completed training 9 Operational data 2019 2018 Number of trained employees 610 GRI SAIDI indicator (in minutes) (average duration of electrical 261 299 Rate of trained employees 95% EU-29 power outages), including: Trainings on the Code of Ethics, including a training module on respect for human rights, are organized in the PGE Group Planned 58 87 once every three years. Each employee who passes the exam at the end of the training receives a certificate. The document is valid for 3 years from the date of completing the training. The number of employees trained in a given company equals Unplanned and related to disasters 203 212 the number of employees who have a valid certificate. GRI SAIFI indicator (times) (average frequency of interruptions in electrical 3.88 3.92 EU-28 energy supply), including: Planned 0.31 0.47 Unplanned and related to disasters 3.57 3.45 Total number and percentage of companies assessed for corruption. GRI 205-1 2019 Number of companies assessed for corruption risk 24 GC GC-10 Percentage of companies assessed for corruption risk 100% Selected indicators in the area of human right and counteracting corruption in the PGE Group and the PGE Company Compliance structures – which include anti-mobbing policy, cooperation issues between employees and counteracting Trainings on anti-corruption policies and procedures. GRI 205-2 corruption – functioned in 24 companies of the PGE Group, as on December 31, 2019. These were PGE SA, PGE GiEK, The PGE Group PGE Energia Ciepła, PGE Energia Odnawialna, PGE Dystrybucja, PGE Obrót, PGE EJ1, PGE Nowa Energia, PGE Synergia, Percentage of Management Board and Supervisory Board members GC PGE Systemy, PGE Ventures, PGE Baltica, PGE Centrum, PGE Dom Maklerski, Bestgum, Betrans, Elbest Security, Elbis, Elbest, who underwent training on counteracting corruption 89% GC-10 Elmen, Eltur Serwis, MegaSerwis, Megazec, and Ramb. Employee training took place in each of them, touching on the problems of human rights policies and procedures. Additionally, the companies have been rated for corruption cases. Percentage of employees who have undergone training on counteracting 72% corruption Due to the fact that the total number of people employed in these companies accounts for 96.6% of all employees Percentage of employees in managerial positions who have undergone training 70% of the Group, the following ratios have been included as aggregated data (for the PGE Group). on counteracting corruption Percentage of other employees who have undergone training 97% on counteracting corruption The PGE Company Percentage of Management Board and Supervisory Board members 100% who underwent training on counteracting corruption Percentage of employees who have undergone training on counteracting 95% corruption Percentage of employees in managerial positions who have undergone training 98% on counteracting corruption Percentage of other employees who have undergone training 95% on counteracting corruption 114 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 115 PGE is the first and only energy company in Poland Goal #5 Achieve gender equality and empower women and girls (as on March 31, 2020), which participated in the first edition of the Impact Barometer survey. It is a pioneering tool on the Polish market, used to Indicator Indicator for Polish business Company’s indicator measure the business contribution to the Agenda for sustainable development 2030. 5.1 Percentage of women in managerial positions 23 % The Impact Barometer 5.4 Percentage of employees trained in counteracting 9% mobbing, sexual harassment, violence or discrimination The idea of the Impact Barometer was conceived in coGoal # 3: Good health and quality of life operation with the Central Statistical Office. 51 experts Goal # 4: Good quality education from 31 institutions were involved in its creation. The Goal # 5: Gender equality analysis of joint results of Polish businesses will allow to Goal # 8: Economic growth and decent work Promote constant, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Goal #8 examine the progress in implementing the Sustainable Goal # 9: Innovation, industry, and infrastructure full and productive employment and decent work for all people Development Goals, which were selected by the Council Goal # 12: Responsible consumption and production of Seventeen. This is a group of 17 experts and key opinion leaders from various spheres: science, NGOs, public Using the predefined indicators the Impact Barometer 8.2 Percentage of employees working on contract basis 98.12 % institutions, and businesses. On the basis of a compretests how the company contributes to these six key areas. hensive analysis, the Council identified 6 areas (among The joint result of Polish companies will be presented 8.5 Staff turnover 2.83 % 17 existing areas) as the priority Sustainable Development on the Campaign’s website: https://kampania17celow.pl/. Goals for Polish business: 8.6 Percentage of persons with disabilities among employees 1.51 % The ratio of reported violations of the Code of Ethics The impast of the company on implementing 8.7 to the number of employees 0.44 % the Sustainable Development Goals 8.8 Percentage of purchases whose suppliers 100 % have been verified in the field of CSR criteria Ensure a healthy life for all people of all ages Goal #3 Build disaster-resistant infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable and promote well-being Goal #9 industrialization and support innovation Indicator Indicator for Polish business Company’s indicator 9.1 Expenditure on innovation activities in relation to revenue 4.5 % 3.1 Average expenditure on employee’s health 321.23 zł 9.2 Percentage of expenditure allocated to sustainable solutions 97.5 % within expenditures on innovative activities Ensure high quality education for all Number of research projects carried out in cooperation Goal #4 9.4 26 and promote lifelong learning with scientific institutions in the last three years 4.1 Average number of training hours per employee 9 Goal #12 Ensure sustainable consumption and sustainable production patterns Number of pupils and students covered by the company's 4.2 activities focused on the education process in relation 45.03 % to the number of employees 12.2 Energetic efficiency 10.89 % Percentage of employees trained in the area of sustainable 4.3 development 6.67 % 12.4 Greenhouse gas emissions 61,489,339 Percentage of employees involved in initiatives supporting 12.6 Percentage of recycled or reused waste 50.86 % 4.4 sustainable development 17.86 % Number of people covered by education on sustainable 4.5 development in relation to the number of employees 2,157.77 % 116 PGE – A Socially Responsible Group Report on non-financial data of PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. and PGE Group for 2019 117 THE WIND FARM “LOTNISKO”, PGE ENERGIA ODNAWIALNA PGE Polska Grupa Energetyczna S.A. 2 Mysia Street, 00-496 Warsaw https://www.gkpge.pl/Investor-Relations/Contact Grupa PGE @Grupa_PGE
