2019 Kinross Gold Corporation Communication On Progress To Our Stakeholders 2020 marks Kinross’ 10th anniversary as a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a milestone in our ongoing contribution to the advancement of the Ten Principles of the UNGC. In support of Kinross’ commitment to the principles of the UNGC, I am pleased to provide our 2019 Sustainability Report as our Communication on Progress for 2019. Kinross’ commitment to safety and sustainability is deeply rooted in our Core Values which underpin a unifying culture of responsibility that is understood and practised by our people across the diverse geographies where we operate. The environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance described in the 2019 report is a reflection of who we are as a J. Paul Rollinson, President and Chief Executive Officer company, as we put our values into action in our workplace, our host communities and the surrounding environment. We are committed to ongoing support for the principles of the UNGC and to continue to improve our sustainability Given the unprecedented impact of the global COVID-19 performance to meet the evolving needs and expectations pandemic, our report also provides insight into Kinross’ of our stakeholders. precautionary and preventative response to the pandemic and the comprehensive range of practices and protocols that we implemented to protect our workforce and communities. Kinross’ COVID-19 Response (page 9-13). Communication on Progress – 2019 Sustainability Report Highlights Support for the Broader Goals (page 57) a Relationship-Based Approach to Early of the United Nations Engagement with Colla Communities for the Lobo-Marte Project (page 59) • Advanced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) towards reaching its 2030 targets by identifying SDG Our Strategy, Governance and Engagement sub-goals where we believe Kinross is contributing through measured outcomes and a broad range of community • Updated and approved our Safety and Sustainability initiatives. We expanded our priority SDGs to include Policy providing a clear set of non-negotiable principles SDG 13 Climate Change, following our ESG materiality that define our approach to how we conduct our business. assessment and Task Force on Climate-related Financial The policy contains three axes: act ethically and Disclosure (TCFD) review. Advancing the Sustainable transparently, do no harm to people, minimizing impacts Development Goals (page 16-17) to the environment and communities, and make a positive contribution to our stakeholders. Our strategy is • Generated wealth in our host communities through aligned with our commitment to the UNGC and the World responsible mining, contributing to improved well-being in Gold Council’s Responsible Gold Mining Principles the communities through job creation, access to business (RGMPs). Our Sustainability Strategy (page 21) opportunities through local procurement, and support for government programs through tax contributions. In 2019, • Contributed to the development of the Responsible Gold Kinross spent $3.2 billion in our host countries. Local Benefit Mining Principles (RGMPs) as a member of the World and Community Development (page 74-79) Gold Council’s Responsible Gold Steering Committee and committed to conform with the framework of 10 umbrella • Held over 90,000 interactions with stakeholders in our host principles and 51 individual principles for responsible communities, maintaining active communications with gold mining. In early 2020, external limited assurance mechanisms for grievances and open dialogue, and demonstrated 75% conformance against the RGMPs. introduced a new Relationships Analysis tool to improve Subsequently, we have made further progress and reached understanding of our stakeholder relationships and 94% conformance (self-assessed) by July 2020. Adopting engagement strategies. Stakeholder Engagement the Responsible Gold Mining Principles (page 15) (page 55 to 56) and Improving Stakeholder Relationships KINROSS GOLD 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 • Conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment of a to end systemic anti-Black racism in Canada. Inclusion broad range of ESG topics of importance to our business, and Diversity (page 69-72) and BlackNorth Initiative including consultation with internal and external (page 72) stakeholders. The results reflect the 16 ESG issues considered of greatest importance according to the For more information see, Employment (page 66-73) significance of Kinross’ impact and their importance to stakeholders, and have helped guide the level of Environmental Management coverage dedicated to these topics in our sustainability report. Material ESG Topics (page 18-19) • Achieved improvements in the reduction of absolute water consumption and water efficiency, with notable For more information, see Managing Sustainability improvements in water intensity per tonne of ore (page 20-25). processed at Fort Knox, Kupol and Paracatu in 2019. In 2019, our operations recycled 76% of the volume of water Human Rights Management consumed. Water Management (page 42-43) • Maintained our record of zero reportable incidents across • Continued the effective management of human rights our nine active and five inactive tailings storage facilities. risks and reported zero substantiated cases of human We have conducted independent reviews of 100% of our rights violations in 2019. Human Rights (page 28) tailings facilities over the past three years. Tailings • Developed a human rights tool kit, as part of our Human Management (page 48-49) Rights Adherence and Verification Program (HRA&VP), to • Maintained 100% certification with the International assess site-level consistency with the Voluntary Principles Cyanide Management Code across all sites. Cyanide on Security and Human Rights. Introducing a Human Management (page 41) Rights Tool Kit (page 28) • Sustained one of the lowest greenhouse gas (GHG) • Updated our Supplier Standards of Conduct, maintaining intensities compared to peers in the gold sector and alignment with the Ten Principles of the UN Global completed energy efficiency projects in 2018 and 2019 Compact, and launched a new Supply Chain Due across all sites, resulting in GHG savings equivalent to Diligence Portal requiring all suppliers new to Kinross to 38,100 tCO2. We also completed an independent be evaluated and existing suppliers to be assessed evaluation of our disclosure and performance on climate periodically. Supply Chain (page 29-30) and Enhancing change, comparing with the recommendations of the Task Supply Chain Due Diligence at Tasiast (page 30) Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Aligning with the Recommendations of the Task Force on Labour Management Financial-Related Financial Disclosures (page 15-16) • Remained among the safest companies in the mining For more information see, Environment (page 39-53). industry, reporting a Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) of 0.29 per 200,000 hours worked, a safety Anti-Corruption performance on par with low risk non-industrial sectors, and reported zero fatalities. We exceeded operational • Maintained a strong record of ethical compliance and stretch targets for leading indicators of employee field reported zero substantiated cases of corruption in 2019. engagements and identification and correction of Ethical Conduct (page 27) potential hazards. Health and Safety (page 33-37) • Completed face-to-face anti-corruption training at all • Signed new collective agreements in Mauritania and Kinross sites in 2018 and 2019. Following the launch of a Ghana in 2019, and in Brazil and Chile in early 2020. In new online anti-corruption training in 2018, we increased 2019, 39.4% of our workforce was covered by collective the frequency of required training in 2019 to twice a year agreements. Labour Rights (page 73) for salaried workforce. Strengthening Anti-Corruption • Advanced our Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) strategy Training (page 27) to create an inclusive environment and one where every • Provided a transparent account of our political donations employee has an equal opportunity to contribute. Our and an overview of engagements with governments. work included unconscious bias training and inclusive Public Policy (page 30-31) leadership training for all senior leaders. In July 2020, we pledged support for Canada’s BlackNorth Initiative For more information see, Act Ethically and Transparently to implement measurable I&D programs and initiatives (page 27-31). KINROSS GOLD 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2
