Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 ﻿ ﻿ Corporate Responsibility ﻿ ﻿ at Credit Suisse As one of the world’s leading banks, we are committed to delivering our financial experience and expertise to corporate, institutional and government clients and to ultra-high-net-worth individuals worldwide, in addition to affluent and retail clients in Switzerland. Founded in 1856, Credit Suisse today has a global reach with operations in around 50 countries. We believe that our responsible approach to business and the dedication and expertise of our over 45,000 employees are key factors that determine our long-term success. We have a broad understanding of our duties as a financial services provider, member of the economy and society, and employer. This approach is also reflected in our efforts to protect the environment. Credit Suisse Annual Reporting Suite Contents Overview3 Annual Report The Annual Report is a detailed presentation of Credit Suisse Foreword4 Group’s company structure, corporate governance, compensation practices and treasury and risk management framework, and it includes a review of Credit Suisse Group’s operating and financial Our understanding of results accompanied by its annual financial statements. Corporate Responsibility 6 credit-suisse.com/ar Responsibility in banking 10 Trust and expertise  12 Corporate Responsibility Report Risk management and sustainability 17 The Corporate Responsibility Report describes how Credit Suisse Group assumes its various responsibilities in Sustainable, thematic and impact investing banking, in the economy and society, as an employer and products and services  23 towards the environment. The report is available in an online version or as a PDF download. It is complemented by the Responsibility in the economy and society 28 publication “Corporate Responsibility – At a glance”. Our role in the economy and society  30 credit-suisse.com/crr Our social commitments 35 Corporate Responsibility – At a glance Responsibility as an employer 42 The publication “Corporate Responsibility – At a glance” provides Responsibility as an employer 44 an overview of the most important processes and activities that reflect our approach to corporate responsibility in banking, in the economy and society, as an employer and for the environment. Responsibility for the environment 52 In addition, it contains the cornerstones of our strategy and select Responsibility for the environment 54 figures for the 2019 financial year. credit-suisse.com/crr Reporting on Corporate Responsibility 61 We regard our reporting on corporate responsibility as an important basis for our dialogue with stakeholders and welcome any feedback on our ­activities: responsibility.corporate@credit-suisse.com ﻿ ﻿ The following key figures show the diverse nature of our activities in the area of corporate responsibility in 2019. Responsibility Capitalization Risk management 12.7% 799 in banking  pages 10–27 CET1 capital ratio at end-2019. transactions or client relationships were assessed for potential environmental and social risks. Responsibility Supplier of capital (CHF) Employee engagement >163 billion 19,871 in the economy and society  pages 28–41 was Credit Suisse’s volume of loans outstanding of our employees around the world volunteered in Switzerland at end-2019. their time to help charitable causes. Responsibility Workforce Internal mobility as an employer  pages 42–50 47,860 48% individuals from over 150 different countries of our leadership roles were filled internally. work at Credit Suisse. Responsibility for Employee training Renewable energy 17,600 90% the environment  pages 52–60 hours of training on environmental management of the electricity we consumed globally was and health and safety were provided to generated using renewable energy sources. 17,200 participants. For the purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Credit Suisse Group”, “Credit Suisse”, the “Group”, “we”, “us” and “our” mean Credit Suisse Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. The business of Credit Suisse AG, the direct bank subsidiary of the Group, is substantially similar to the Group, and we use these terms to refer to both when the subject is the same or substantially similar. We use the term the “Bank” when we are referring only to Credit Suisse AG and its consolidated subsidiaries. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 3 Foreword ﻿ ﻿ Dear Reader We recognize the importance of upholding international standards and best practices to promote 2019 was a period of substantial progress for responsible business conduct, such as the UN our business, but it also brought new challenges Global Compact with its Ten Principles on human for Credit Suisse. Following the deep threerights, labor standards, environmental protection year restructuring of the bank, this was our first and anti-corruption efforts. Equally, we strive to year of operating under our new model. With a make a meaningful contribution to the realization re­inforced capital position, lower risk exposures of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and a reduced cost base, we believe Credit Suisse a core element of the UN Agenda 2030 for susis a much stronger and safer bank today – and this tainable development. resilience is important to inspire confidence in our stakeholders. During 2019, we continued to deliver 2019 was a year in which climate change featured on our strategy to be a leading wealth ­manager high on the global agenda. Public perceptions with strong investment banking capabilities, of the responsibility of banks relating to climate ­offering high-quality service and advice to clients change altered significantly during this period. At around the globe. Under our new model, we were Credit Suisse, we have long recognized the role we able to generate profitable growth in 2019 even in can and should play in addressing the challenges unsupportive environments, achieving net income of climate change and in supporting the transiattributable to shareholders of CHF 3.4 billion. tion to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. We publicly expressed our support for the 4 ﻿ recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s commitments. Working with selected partner Task Force on Climate-related Financial Discloorganizations, we support initiatives that genersures (TCFD) on the voluntary reporting of climate ate a positive economic and social impact in the change risks back in 2017 and continue working areas of financial education and financial inclusion. on their implementation. For almost a decade, we In addition to funding, these partners benefit from have been operating on a greenhouse gas neuthe skills and expertise of our employees, who tral basis at all our locations globally. As a further can devote up to four days per year to volunteermilestone in our action against climate change, we ing to support social projects. Last year, more than introduced a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy 19,000 of our employees spent over 191,500 program and became a founding signatory to the hours volunteering to help charitable causes. FurPrinciples for Responsible Banking (PRB) of the ther highlights in 2019 included the 60th anniverUN Environment Programme Finance Initiative in sary of the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation, 2019. The PRB call for the alignment of the bankwhich has invested over USD 100 million to help ing sector with the objectives of the UN SDGs and build capacity in non-profit organizations since the Paris Agreement. its inception. We also launched a USD 1 million three-year partnership with the non-profit career Credit Suisse also launched a partnership with pathways organization HERE to HERE to support the Climate Bonds Initiative to help promote a a youth apprenticeship program in New York based sustainable transition bond market. Furthermore, on the Swiss model. we announced in December 2019 that we would cease to provide any form of financing specifically Continued dialogue and the sharing of knowledge related to the development of new coal-fired power and ideas are essential to the success of all these plants. We are also working with other banks to efforts. Such conversations are more important than develop methodologies to measure the alignment ever in today’s rapidly evolving world, with the new of credit portfolios with the Paris Agreement. opportunities but also the new challenges this change brings for banks and their stakeholders. As we move We remain active in the rapidly growing area of into the second quarter of 2020, we are witnessing sustainable investing. In particular, we have further the spread of the coronavirus disease COVID-19 expanded our Impact Advisory and Finance (IAF) and the significant disruption it is ­causing to the department, which identifies and pursues investglobal economy and society at large. In times like able projects and initiatives that have a positive these, we believe that effective cooper­ation and economic and social impact while also focusing on communication remain key to finding joint solugenerating a financial return for clients. By the end tions and to building strong and lasting relationof 2019, Credit Suisse had over CHF 44 billion of ships – especially with our clients, employees and assets invested according to sustainability criteria. shareholders. Another important step was the announcement in September 2019 that Credit Suisse Asset ManThis Corporate Responsibility Report is designed agement has started to systematically reposition to be an integral part of our ongoing dialogue with its products according to environmental, social and our stakeholders. We therefore welcome any comgovernance (ESG) criteria, working in partnerments or suggestions you may have. ship with IAF. Credit Suisse also actively supports clean and renewable energy businesses and was Best regards involved in over 130 transactions in this field with a value of more than USD 100 billion between 2010 and the end of 2019. Urs Rohner Thomas Gottstein Beyond our banking activities, Credit Suisse Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer helps to address challenges facing young people Board of Directors and communities through our multifaceted social March 2020 Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 5 Our understanding of ﻿ ﻿ Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility at Credit Suisse We believe that this dialogue and our responsible approach to For Credit Suisse, corporate responsibility is about creatbusiness are key factors determining our long-term success. ing sustainable value for our clients, shareholders, employThey also help to promote an understanding of the important ees and other stakeholders. We strive to comply with the role we play in the economy and society. values and standards set out in our Code of Conduct and our >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility Conduct and Ethics Standards in every aspect of our work – including in our relationship with stakeholders. We do so Structure of the report based on our broad understanding of our duties as a financial The Corporate Responsibility Report is structured along the folservices provider and employer and as an integral part of the lowing four areas: our responsibility in banking, our role in the economy and society. Our approach also reflects our commiteconomy and society, our role as an employer, and our responment to protecting the environment. sibility for the environment. Our reporting on corporate responsibility reflects the GRI Standards for sustainability reporting Our primary focus as a global bank is on running our busi(core option). It also provides information on the progress we ness responsibly and successfully. We are aware of the high have made in implementing the Ten Principles of the United standards expected of us. We endeavor to engage in an open Nations (UN) Global Compact and contains examples of how dialogue with our various stakeholders in order to identify their we can contribute to the realization of the UN Sustainable needs and interests, to develop appropriate solutions and to Development Goals (SDGs). Further information and our distake account of key challenges when evolving our strategy. closure according to the GRI Standards are available online at: >> credit-suisse.com/gri Our understanding of Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility in banking in the economy and society  Trust and expertise  Our role in the economy and society  Risk management and sustainability  Our social commitments  Sustainable and impact investment products and  Sponsorship services As a global bank, we see ourselves as an integral part of the Our main responsibility is to ensure that we run our company economy and society. We therefore aim to run our business in successfully on a long-term basis for the benefit of our clients, a way that creates value for all our stakeholders. Through our shareholders, employees and society as a whole. We believe role as a financial intermediary, we support entrepreneurship competence, client focus, compliance, diligence and and economic growth, and we make an economic contribution responsible conduct are key to the success of our business. as an employer, taxpayer and contractual partner. We also This includes taking account of social and environmental support various humanitarian and charitable organizations aspects when conducting our activities. and projects as well as cultural and sporting events. Credit Suisse Code of Conduct Responsibility Responsibility as an employer for the environment  Credit Suisse as an employer  Climate and biodiversity  Diversity and inclusion  Environmental management Qualified and motivated employees are a vital success factor. We are committed to conducting our business with a We want to be an employer of choice worldwide and therefore long-term view to supporting environmental sustainability. offer our people progressive working conditions and varied We believe important pillars of this approach include our career opportunities in a multicultural environment in our support for the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient efforts to attract the best talent. economy as well as the protection of biodiversity. We therefore strive to promote the efficient use of resources and address sustainability issues when managing risks. 6 ﻿ Credit Suisse materiality assessment Material issues Importance * Definition and scope of terms See pages Compliance with laws and regulations / prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing / 12 – 16 1 Culture of compliance and conduct  anti-corruption / combating financial market crime (e.g. fraud, anti-competitive practices) / sanctions compliance / tax compliance / corporate culture 17 – 22 44 – 46 Reducing the carbon footprint of own operations / greenhouse gas neutrality / managing climate 17 – 22 2 Climate change  risks / facilitating transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy through product offering 54 – 60 / climate-related disclosure Environmental management system / assessment of sustainability risks in transactions / policies 17 – 22 Environmental 3 and social risk  for sensitive industries / impacts on ecosystems and landscapes (incl. biodiversity, agriculture and forestry) / responsible supply chain management 54 – 60 management Business strategy / financial results / share price / dividends / capital, liquidity and funding posi12 – 16 Company perfortion / stability of the company / operational risk (incl. business continuity management, technology 30 – 34 4  mance and strategy risks) / cost efficiency / cost reductions Responsible approach to compensation / executive compensation / criteria for incentives / defer50 Incentives and comral, claw-backs 5  pensation policy Sustainable products and services / impact investing (incl. microfinance, conservation finance) / 23 – 27 6 Responsible investments  integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in products and services / Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Systemic risk / capital and liquidity / total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) / legal entity structure / 12 – 16 Financial and politiresolvability / political and economic stability / negative interest rates 30 – 34 7  cal system stability Blockchain / fintech / digital transformation / big data, automation 14, 16 8 Digitalization / fintech  37 Suitability and appropriateness / data security / privacy / transparency of fees 12 – 16 Consumer and 9  investor protection Advisory process, relationship managers / range and quality of products and services / expertise 12 – 16 Quality and range of (e. g. research, advisory) / performance and pricing of products and services / technology 23 – 27 10  services and advice 44 – 46 Operational structure / governance framework / management team / voting rights 12 – 16 Corporate 11  governance Diversity and inclusion / non-discrimination / training and skills management / attracting and 44 – 49 Human resources retaining talent / health and safety / work-life balance / employees over 50 years of age 12 and talent  management Fair working conditions; no child labor, no forced labor / human rights aspects in supply chain and 20, 22 13 Human rights  business relations / indigenous peoples’ rights / positive contribution to the realization of human rights Purchasing, sourcing / tax contribution / lending to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) 30 – 34 Contribution to the and start-ups 14  economy Philanthropy / supporting social and humanitarian projects / employee engagement, incl. skills35 – 41 15 Social commitments  based volunteering / “militia” system of politics in our Swiss home market  Relevance to stakeholders (average)  Impact on Credit Suisse * Expected future importance for Credit Suisse (based on stakeholder survey) Detailed information on Credit Suisse Group’s financial performance, corporate governance and  Range of stakeholder views  Increasing importance compen­sation practices can be found in the Annual  No change Report 2019. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 7 ﻿ Principles for Responsible Banking In 2019, Credit Suisse became a founding signatory to of sustainability across all areas of banking. Signatories the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) of the UN commit, among other things, to align their business stratEnvironment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). egy to contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, This global framework was formally launched at the annual and to set targets to continuously increase the positive United Nations General Assembly in New York City in impacts of their activities, products and services. By endSeptember 2019. The PRB were developed by 30 banks 2019, more than 140 banks had signed up to the PRB. from around the world in partnership with UNEP FI. The Credit Suisse is currently working on implementing the PRB call for the alignment of the banking sector with the PRB and will provide information on its progress for the UN SDGs and the objectives of the Paris Agreement and first time as part of our corporate responsibility reporting represent a comprehensive framework for the integration for the financial year 2020. Credit Suisse materiality assessment and responsible investments. New topics mentioned during Our corporate responsibility reporting activities focus on topthe assessment – in addition to the 15 most material issues ics that are relevant to our business and our stakeholders. identified in previous years – included transparency, the We regularly undertake a materiality assessment in order to accessibility of financial services as well as the alignment of identify critical economic, environmental and social issues our business with international sustainability frameworks. that may either have a significant impact on the company’s business performance or substantively influence the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. We believe that Credit Suisse and the Sustainable Development Goals this helps us recognize new trends and evolve our strategy accordingly as well as align our reporting with the interests and needs of our business and our stakeholders. NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION The materiality assessment is based on our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders across all parts of our organization. We AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE strive to ensure that the list of material issues identified in CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION the past remains relevant and that important new topics are addressed. CLIMATE LIFE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS INSTITUTIONS In 2019, we once again approached a large number and broad range of external and internal stakeholders in all regions where we operate. We reached out to these stakeholders and asked for their perspective through a structured The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United survey, comprising both quantitative and qualitative elements. Nations in 2015 form a core element of the UN Agenda 2030 for The results of this survey were subsequently combined with Sustainable Development. As the SDGs are based on a participatory process, responsibility for achieving them is shared among states, the a dedicated media review and information from our monitorprivate sector, the scientific community and civil society. Credit Suisse ing tools. We also considered the views of internal experts contributes to the realization of the SDGs in various ways, including in who participate in an ongoing dialogue with relevant stakeour role as a financial intermediary and employer. Further examples holder groups. As part of the assessment, we analyzed the include our sustainable, impact and SDG-oriented thematic investment expected future importance of the material issues for our products and services as well as our global initiatives in education and financial inclusion (see pages 23 – 27 and 35 – 37). At the same time, stakeholders to help us anticipate emerging business issues. our focus on sustainability risk management can help us to reduce potential negative impacts that certain business activities might have on Throughout this process, we took into account the perspecthe realization of the SDGs (see pages 20 – 26). tives of clients, investors and analysts, policymakers, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), employees and other >> credit-suisse.com/sdg stakeholders. The 2019 materiality assessment is the result of this analysis and reflects average values of perceived In the context of the materiality assessment survey, we also importance. asked respondents about their perception of Credit Suisse’s most significant impacts on the economy, the environThe greatest increase in relative importance compared to the ment and society, using the Sustainable Development Goals previous year was attributed to the issues of climate change (SDGs) as our point of reference. Among the 17 SDGs 8 ﻿ Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Inno– combined with the insights we gain through our participavation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) and Climate Action (SDG tion in initiatives, industry associations and forums, as well 13) were mentioned most frequently. as the findings of surveys – strengthens our understanding of the different, and sometimes conflicting, perspectives of The materiality assessment is also available online at: our stakeholders. This helps us to identify their interests and >> credit-suisse.com/materialityassessment expectations at an early stage, to offer our own perspective and to contribute to the development of solutions in response Engaging with stakeholders to current challenges wherever possible. At the same time, Our business works on the basis of trust: Our long-term sucthis exchange allows us to further develop our understanding cess depends to a significant extent on our ability to inspire of our corporate responsibilities. confidence in our stakeholders. In the current challenging regulatory environment and in view of the developments in Further information the area of financial market policy, it is essential that we take Information about our engagement with stakeholders, as well steps to safeguard and maintain trust in our company. We as our range of publications designed to contribute to the therefore regularly engage in dialogue with clients, sharepublic conversation, can be found online at: holders, investors and employees as well as regulators and >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/dialogue policymakers, NGOs and other stakeholders. This dialogue Our stakeholders sts n aly Credit Suisse We cultivate a Po lic da ym s an strives to engage in dialogue with ak er or an open dialogue with policymakers, legislators s, e st re nv clients, shareholders, investors and regulators, as well as g and analysts to identify their needs members of the business i s, ul er at ld and interests and to provide them with community and other stakeholder or ho timely and relevant information about our groups. We contribute our expertise to sa re nd ha company, our strategy and performance as discussions about economic, political and ,s well as our investment expertise. social issues through our involvement in me nt s initiatives, industry associations and forums. dia Clie t So ke c Ma s So ty r or c ie ct tors fa Econom fac Credit ial ic We are committed to an open dialogue with our employees, Suisse We maintain a dialogue with NGOs, intergoverntrade unions and suppliers. To mental organizations (IGOs), this end, we regularly conduct En local organizations and other t vir o Wo r s en o internal employee surveys, and pl n m e ntal fa ct rk stakeholders to understand nm ac o work with organizations that e n vir their concerns and to address represent our employees’ E social and environmental issues. concerns and interests. We also We contribute to the public debate engage in a dialogue with suppliers and on these topics through our ie s service providers about our requirements for publications, initiatives and events. Working nit Em responsible social and environmental with partner organizations, we strive to mu plo conduct. contribute to economic and social om ye lc es development. ca an lo d t ra s, O de G un s /I ion N GO s, su pp li er s Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 9 ﻿ Responsibility in banking Trust and expertise 12 Risk management and sustainability 17 Sustainable, thematic and impact investing products and services23 10 ﻿ Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 11 ﻿ Trust and expertise We strive to conduct our business responsibly and professionally – offering high-quality financial solutions and expert advice to our clients around the globe. Credit Suisse is committed to operating professionally and 2019 with higher revenues and lower costs, creating positive with integrity to gain and maintain the trust of our stakeholdoperating leverage. ers. Our strategy is to be a leading wealth manager with strong investment banking capabilities. We want to capture Overall, Credit Suisse attracted CHF 79.3 billion of net new the opportunities available to us as a provider of integrated assets in 2019. This brings our total net asset inflows since solutions that address the private wealth and business needs 2016 to CHF 198 billion, reflecting the trust that clients of ultra-high-net-worth (UHNW) individuals and successful place in our bank. At the end of 2019, assets under entrepreneurs around the globe. management reached CHF 1.5 trillion. Our regionalized approach allows us to stay close to our Capital strength is an important aspect that clients consider in clients while capturing global synergies. It also drives agile their choice of financial partner. Credit Suisse has signifidecision-making and promotes greater accountability and a cantly strengthened its capital position in recent years and more effective control framework, particularly in the areas of reported a CET1 ratio of 12.7% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio compliance and risk management. Based on our strategy and of 5.5% at the end of 2019. We also successfully completed organizational set-up, we believe that Credit Suisse is well the 2019 share buyback program approved by the Board positioned to create value for our shareholders, clients and of Directors of Credit Suisse Group AG, repurchasing employees, as well as other stakeholders. CHF 1 billion of shares by the end of the year, and we paid CHF 695 million of dividends, bringing our total 2019 2019 was Credit Suisse’s first full year of operating under distribution to shareholders to CHF 1.7 billion. our new model following the completion of a deep three-year restructuring program. Through the disciplined execution of Credit Suisse’s cost base has been transformed as a result of our strategy, we have not only grown our wealth managethe restructuring program and we have remained disciplined ment franchise and right-sized our more market-dependent on costs, enabling us to once again drive positive operating activities but have also made the bank more resilient by leverage in 2019. We have also made significant progress in reducing risks, lowering fixed costs and strengthening our strengthening risk management, controls and our compliance capital base. framework to ensure that the bank can focus on supporting and delivering high-quality financial solutions to clients around In 2019, Credit Suisse reported pre-tax income of the globe and on achieving sustainable, compliant and CHF 4.7 billion, including certain significant items, a 40% profitable growth. increase compared to the previous year. Net income attributable to shareholders totaled CHF 3.4 billion in 2019, Detailed information on our strategy and financial perforup 69% compared to 2018. mance is provided in Credit Suisse’s Annual Report 2019. We generated quality, profitable growth in our Wealth Adapting to the new regulatory landscape Management-related businesses in Swiss Universal Bank, The global implementation of extensive regulatory reforms International Wealth Management and Wealth Management continued in 2019 with the aim of further reinforcing the & Connected within Asia Pacific in 2019, despite the stability and integrity of the global financial system. Reforms headwinds created by negative interest rates. Following the in prudential regulation are intended to make banks less likely completion of the restructuring, our right-sized and de-risked to fail as well as easier to resolve if the point of non-viability is Global Markets business delivered a strong performance in reached. The effect of these reforms is that banks have 12 ﻿ generally increased capital, augmented liquidity, improved Credit Suisse also strives to adopt and comply with industry governance and controls, and adapted their legal entity best practices. Continuing the effort initiated in 2017 and structures to help ensure resolvability. 2018, UK entities of Credit Suisse renewed their attestation of compliance with the Financial Markets Standards Board At Credit Suisse, we consider it important to actively help (FMSB) conduct standards, including a new attestation to the shape new regulatory standards. For example, we have been Risk Management Transaction conduct standard. working consistently with regulators, international standardsetting bodies and the finance industry for a number of years Finally, the establishment of an effective Swiss Emergency to help address legislation and regulations for systemically Plan as part of the Recovery and Resolution Planning agenda important banks. We have also adjusted our legal entity has been a major focus for Credit Suisse. By law, structure over the years in this context. In addition, we Credit Suisse was required by end-2019 to develop and maintain resolution plans that demonstrate our resolvability. submit to the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority Credit Suisse has built up its total loss-absorbing capacity in FINMA (FINMA) a Swiss Emergency Plan designed to line with stringent Swiss regulations. This includes the maintain systemically relevant functions in the event of issuance of so-called bail-in instruments (gone-concern threatened insolvency. The Swiss Emergency Plan of capital), which could be used by the authorities to stabilize Credit Suisse was deemed effective by FINMA. In parallel, the bank and support the execution of our resolution plans, FINMA and Credit Suisse, in line with the guidance of the which include the stabilization and financial restructuring of Financial Stability Board, are working to establish an large parts of the Group, the continuation of Credit Suisse internationally coordinated global resolution plan by 2022. (Schweiz) AG, and the wind-down of certain trading In this context, FINMA also commended the substantial businesses. As of December 31, 2019, Credit Suisse progress made by Credit Suisse globally. According to reported CHF 41,138 million of gone-concern capital on a FINMA, Credit Suisse has taken important preparatory steps look-through basis. required to implement this resolution plan if necessary and has made considerable progress in terms of its global As regulators shift their attention to supervision and resolvability. In particular, FINMA views the requirements as enforcement, we continue to focus our efforts on investor fulfilled with regard to the separation of complex structures. protection and market transparency. In 2019, Credit Suisse In other areas, particularly the provision of the necessary International successfully submitted its benchmark adminisliquidity in the event of resolution, the regulatory and trator application to ensure continuity in the provision of its implementation work is still in progress. As further standards benchmark in compliance with the EU Benchmark Reguladevelop, Credit Suisse expects to continue investing into tion, which introduces new rules aimed at ensuring benchimprovements with respect to resolvability over the next marks are robust and reliable and at minimizing conflicts of couple of years. interest in benchmark-setting processes. Credit Suisse also continued enhancing its monitoring of benchmark usage for Financial integrity EU supervised entities as the two-year transition period Compliance operates as an independent Executive Boardimpacting usage of the EU non-critical benchmark came to level function, underscoring the high level of importance that an end on December 31, 2019. Credit Suisse assigns to this topic. The function’s mandate is to oversee compliance matters for Credit Suisse, and it Individual accountability as a regulatory principle is now a includes being a proactive, independent function that partners focus in many countries (e.g. in the UK with The Senior with the businesses by continuously challenging and Managers and Certification Regime – FCA). Credit Suisse supporting them to effectively manage compliance risk. continues to focus on effective governance and on cultivating a strong conduct culture. We also continue to invest in the The Internal Audit department forms an integral part of development and implementation of robust anti-money corporate governance at Credit Suisse by regularly and laundering (AML) and know-your-customer (KYC) rules and independently assessing the risk exposure of our various controls in order to enhance transparency and help identify business activities, taking into account industry trends, and prevent financial crime. strategic and organizational decisions, best practice and regulatory matters. Internal Audit uses a systematic and Data privacy regulations continue to develop globally, with disciplined approach that is designed to provide independent new locations progressing towards implementation. In and objective assurance with the goal of adding value by response, Credit Suisse continues to extend and strengthen enhancing the effectiveness of Credit Suisse’s risk manageits data protection framework to ensure continued ment, control and governance processes. Internal Audit compliance. regularly benchmarks its methods and tools against those of its peers. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 13 ﻿ Recognizing the critical role of employees in helping to communications, we have sought to create awareness across preserve financial integrity, we aim for the highest standards the bank regarding C&E. of personal accountability and ethical conduct from each member of our workforce. Credit Suisse employees at all Further information: levels of the organization, as well as the members of the >> see p. 44 Board of Directors, are obligated to adhere to our Code of Conduct. To ensure we are continuously informed of the Credit Suisse has a company-wide Business Continuity latest regulations and industry standards, our employees are Management (BCM) Program in place to support the required to participate in an annual targeted and tailored maintenance of critical business processes in the event of a training curriculum. It includes, but is not limited to, developmajor internal or external incident. The aim of the BCM ments in the finance industry and internal best practices for Program is to exercise a duty of care to employees, protect continued compliant growth. Since the launch of our six client and company assets and minimize the financial, Conduct and Ethics (C&E) Standards in 2017, Credit Suisse regulatory, reputational and strategic impact of such has focused on confirming that the C&E Standards are firmly incidents. In the case of a specific crisis event, Group-wide embedded in our processes throughout the bank. The six business continuity management response measures are C&E Standards – Client Focus, Meritocracy, Stakeholder triggered and overseen by the Executive Board. Such an Management, Accountability, Partner and Transparency – set event could include, for example, a sovereign crisis, large the values and conduct expectations for employees. C&E is a single name default, cyber or other operational incident and core part of everything we do – from recruitment to global macro or market event, as well as a public health performance management and our disciplinary process. crisis, such as the outbreak of the coronavirus disease Through comprehensive, top-down, consistent COVID-19. Capturing the potential of digitalization Digitalization is fundamentally altering the finance industry Going forward, we expect that the use of digital tech­ and is therefore an important topic for Credit Suisse. In nology will help the Group to further increase efficiency, particular, the evolving digital landscape is one of several strengthen client loyalty, simplify global access to our factors transforming the way clients interact with their offering, and address reputational and conduct risks at an bank. We believe that the development of innovative digital early stage. One of our most important initiatives in this concepts is key to ensure we can continue to offer clients context is the establishment of our Labs. In these design, excellent products and services in the future via the process re-engineering and analytics centers, we have channels they prefer. At the same time, we recognize the developed numerous Compliance applications that actively potential of digital solutions to drive cost efficiencies contribute to mitigating employee and client risk. In 2019, across our organization and to support labor-intensive we expanded the Labs to aid Risk, Internal Audit and processes. For example, the digital onboarding of new International Wealth Management in executing high-priority clients and updating of client data have resulted in deliverables such as the re-engineering of credit prosignificant time savings – allowing client-facing employees cesses, and credit and market risk analytics. to dedicate more time to interacting with and serving the needs of clients and business partners. We believe that protecting the integrity of the financial system persons (PEP), the prevention of money laundering and is a core responsibility of banks. At Credit Suisse, we are terrorist financing, bribery and corruption, as well as the committed to complying with all applicable financial crime adherence to applicable economic and trade sanctions laws. laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. In an effort to avoid direct and indirect involvement in such We have established global policies and procedures in an practices, we are committed to only doing business with effort to achieve more robust and consistent standards of clients and third parties who meet and adhere to our compliance, including in relation to politically exposed standards. We have a wide range of policies, procedures and 14 ﻿ internal controls, with requirements such as the evaluation of third parties who conduct business for or on behalf of Spotlight on client satisfaction Credit Suisse and dedicated controls for our employees The Credit Suisse Global Service Monitor Program measures client related to gifts and entertainment, employment opportunities, satisfaction and benchmarks it against the client satisfaction metrics of and charitable contributions. Credit Suisse maintains active some of our peers. Feedback from existing clients provides insights into participation in the Wolfsberg Group, a reflection of our how we can improve our service and advice. The results of our most continued commitment to understand the latest financial recent survey, which was conducted in selected markets1 in 2018, crime risks and controls, while also staying abreast of revealed consistently strong levels of satisfaction among our clients – with a total of 93% of private clients surveyed indicating that they important regulatory and market developments. We expect were satisfied or very satisfied with Credit Suisse overall. threats related to the global financial system to grow and 93% change, and we are actively developing and implementing risk management capabilities to combat financial crime. In addition, employees must ensure that transactions that may 7% affect the reputation of Credit Suisse undergo our bank-wide of private clients surveyed in selected standardized Reputational Risk Review Process. Employees markets are satisfied or very satisfied are required to regularly complete mandatory online training with Credit Suisse overall. 34% courses on topics ranging from the prevention of money Very satisfied laundering, terrorist financing and corruption to compliance 59% Satisfied with economic sanctions. Not satisfied Further information: >> see p. 45 – 46 1 Private Clients Switzerland, Private Banking Asia Pacific, and Credit Suisse manages improper employee behavior and Private Banking onshore Italy clients within International Wealth employee breaches through global disciplinary and escalation processes across three lines of defense. Our disciplinary process provides a structure that is designed to confirm that the bank’s standards of professional conduct (including our Credit Suisse participates in, and complies with, the C&E Standards and Code of Conduct), policies and requirements of the Automatic Exchange of Information and procedures (including on the prevention of money laundering, the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act – measures terrorist financing and bribery and corruption), and external designed and introduced by governments to combat tax laws, rules, regulations, standards and principles are adhered evasion and to facilitate tax transparency. Almost a decade to and enforced on an ongoing basis, subject to local after its signing, the 2009 Protocol to Amend the Double Tax differences. Our Conduct and Ethics Boards provide an Treaty between the Swiss Confederation and the United independent review of disciplinary matters and, where States of America was ratified by the US Senate in 2019. necessary, participate in or challenge disciplinary recommenThis key milestone paves the way for US tax authorities to dations that may impact employee compensation and request information regarding certain groups of accounts promotion opportunities. Additionally, employees have a booked in Switzerland and reported under FATCA. responsibility to report concerns of potential legal, regulatory Credit Suisse has taken action to be fully prepared and or ethical misconduct in a timely manner – in the first compliant with the requirements of such requests. instance to their line managers or to Compliance. Employees worldwide also have the option of calling our Integrity Hotline High-quality service and advice or using our secure web-based solution, where they can When providing advice to our clients regarding one or more report such issues anonymously, where permitted by local transactions involving financial instruments, we assess the law. suitability and appropriateness of such transactions. This suitability and appropriateness assessment ensures that our Commitment to client tax compliance clients have the necessary knowledge and experience to In 2017, Credit Suisse publicly announced its commitment to understand the relevant product characteristics and a zero-tolerance approach towards tax evasion by clients. To associated risks and to make sure that our advice is in line address the regulatory and reputational risks associated with with their investment objectives. When executing orders on undeclared assets held by private clients, our global client tax behalf of our clients, we assess the appropriateness of such compliance policy mandates that we do not accept or transactions and communicate potential mismatches. The manage client assets if we know or become aware of Credit Suisse advisory process helps us to understand our information that would support a suspicion of tax clients’ needs and plans, their financial circumstances, as non-compliance. well as their risk ability and risk tolerance. The advisory process incorporates sophisticated analytical tools that can Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 15 ﻿ – among other capabilities – identify counterparty concentralarger legislative effort to create uniform competitive tion risks and simulate potential returns based on different conditions for financial service providers, improve investor scenarios, providing an objective basis for client investment protection and bring Swiss legislation in line with new or decisions. Credit Suisse has been committed to strengthenemerging international standards. ing investor protection for a number of years and has invested in related systems, processes and employee training – including a mandatory certification program for relationship This chapter addresses the following issues: managers. Credit Suisse is fully dedicated to complying with 1 Culture of compliance and conduct the continuously evolving regulatory demands. The Federal 4 Company performance and strategy Financial Services Act (FinSA), as well as its implementing 7 Financial and political system stability ordinance the Financial Services Ordinance (FinSO), entered 8 Digitalization / fintech into effect on January 1, 2020. Most of the provisions have a 9 Consumer and investor protection transition period of two years and need to be applied as of 10 Quality and range of services and advice January 1, 2022. The FinSA regulates the provision of 11 Corporate governance financial services in Switzerland, including to Swiss clients from abroad on a cross-border basis, as well as the offering Further information: of financial instruments, and the admission to trading of >> see p. 7 financial instruments, in Switzerland. The FinSA is part of a >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking 4 Challenge and response Challenge: The changing behavior of clients – focuses on retail and small commercial clients who mainly ­especially digitally savvy individuals – and a significant use core banking products and services. Our aim is to increase in the number of smartphone banks and provide a digital, needs-oriented offering that gives them other fintech firms entering the financial sector are even faster and easier access to banking services – at any creating challenges for long-established financial time, in any place – combined with access to personal institutions. How is Credit Suisse adapting to these advice. changes to ensure it remains an attractive financial partner for clients across all age groups? As a bank for the digital age, we make substantial investments in creating digital solutions for areas with a Response: At Credit Suisse, we recognize that advancing strong advisory focus to meet the needs of wealthy clients, digitalization and the widespread use of smartphone entrepreneurs, companies and institutional clients. In technology have fundamentally altered client expectations Switzerland, Credit Suisse has a dedicated Digitalization & and behavior in many areas of daily life – from the way Products business area that is responsible for the design, people purchase goods and access information to their development and implementation of the bank’s digital interaction with service providers, including banks. offering across all client segments. In response to these changes, we are implementing a Importantly, we continue to offer a range of personal number of digital, client-centric initiatives across different touchpoints, from telephone advisory to personal advice in areas in order to expand our range of digital products and our regional branch network. By optimally combining new services along the client lifecycle and adapt the way we digital solutions with personal advice, we want to ensure deliver them to clients. For example, in Switzerland we Credit Suisse’s continued attractiveness as a banking launched our new Direct Banking business area within the partner in the future, allowing our clients to interact with us Swiss Universal Bank in August 2019. Direct Banking via their preferred channels. 16 ﻿ Risk management and sustainability A responsible approach to business is essential to achieving long-term success. We expect our employees to act professionally, with integrity and in compliance with applicable laws, regulations, due diligence requirements and industry standards. Sustainability issues are taken into account as an integral part of our risk review process. We strive to operate responsibly and to exercise a high will be transacted, and any potentially controversial environdegree of risk awareness in all our business activities. As part mental or social impacts of a transaction. of this commitment, all our employees globally and the members of our Board of Directors are obligated to adhere to Reputational risk potentially arising from proposed business Credit Suisse’s Code of Conduct. In addition, our Conduct transactions and client activity is assessed in the bank-wide and Ethics Standards are designed to ensure that people Reputational Risk Review Process. The Group’s global policy throughout Credit Suisse share the same understanding and on reputational risk requires employees to be conservative expectations in terms of our culture and conduct. Appropriate when assessing potential reputational impact and, where risk-taking, ensuring sustainability and acting responsibly certain indicators give rise to potential reputational risk, the towards society are key elements of these standards. relevant business proposal or service must undergo the Reputational Risk Review Process. Sustainability as an integral part of our business Managing sustainability and reputational issues has become In line with the expectations expressed in the OECD increasingly important, as many companies face growing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, environmental and economic, environmental and societal challenges. Our social risks are some of the aspects considered in that Statement on Sustainability defines the objectives and process. For example, companies operating in sensitive principles underpinning our approach to environmental and industries frequently play a key economic role in the global social issues in our business activities. It refers to internasupply of energy and commodities. They may also be major tional agreements that Credit Suisse has voluntarily pledged employers in economically weak regions. At the same time, to uphold, such as the UN Global Compact with its Ten we recognize that the activities of these companies can, in Principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, some cases, have a significant impact on the climate, environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts. In biodiversity, water resources or local communities. addition to these existing commitments, we introduced a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program in 2019 (see To assess environmental and social risks, our internal pages 19-20). More information on our sustainability specialist unit, Sustainability Affairs, evaluates whether the commitments is available at: client’s activities are consistent with the relevant industry >> credit-suisse.com/sustainabilitycommitments standards and whether the potential transaction is compatible with Credit Suisse’s policies and guidelines for sensitive Reputational Risk Review Process sectors. Based on the outcome of this analysis, Sustainability Credit Suisse uses a wide range of risk management Affairs submits its assessment to the responsible business practices to address the diverse risks that could arise from unit and/or enters it into the Reputational Risk Review our business activities. Reputational risk is among the key system for evaluation by a Reputational Risk Approver, who is categories of risk considered in that process. Potential a senior manager independent from the area of business in reputational risks may arise from various sources, including, question, or by the respective Reputational Risk Committee. but not limited to, the nature or purpose of a proposed They have the authority to approve, reject or impose transaction or service, the identity or activities of a potential conditions on our participation in a transaction or the client, the regulatory or political context in which the business establishment of a client relationship. In cases of particularly Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 17 ﻿ complex or cross-divisional transactions, the decision may be Sector policies and guidelines referred to the Position & Client Risk (PCR) cycle of the Certain industries are particularly sensitive from a social or Capital Allocation & Risk Management Committee (CARMC), environmental perspective. To assess potential transactions which assumed the responsibilities of the former Reputational with clients in these industries, we have defined specific Risk Sustainability Committee (RRSC) in 2020. The PCR policies and guidelines that are globally applicable, taking cycle of CARMC, chaired by the Group’s Chief Risk Officer, account of standards developed by international organizations is the most senior governing body responsible for the such as the UN and the World Bank. These policies and oversight and active discussion of reputational risks and guidelines cover the sectors oil and gas, mining, power sustainability issues (including climate change). The Risk generation, and forestry and agribusiness, which includes Committee and Audit Committee jointly assist the Board in pulp and paper as well as palm oil production. They address a fulfilling its reputational risk oversight responsibilities by range of topics such as: compliance with industry-specific, reviewing and approving the Group’s risk appetite framework internationally recognized standards on the environment and as well as assessing the adequacy of the management of human rights; measures to assess and reduce the environreputational risks. More information on this process is mental impact of operations, including on the climate; the available at: protection of the health and safety of company employees >> credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement and surrounding communities; and respect for the human rights of the local population (see page 20). The sector policies and guidelines also form an important component Assessment of sustainability risks within of our Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program the Reputational Risk Review Process (see pages 19-20). 1. Risk classification and responsibility Our policies and guidelines also describe business activities Potential environmental or social Other potential risks and operations that Credit Suisse will not finance. For risks example, we announced in 2019 that we would no longer provide any form of financing specifically related to the development of new coal-fired power plants. This restriction Internal specialist unit Sustaina­ Various specialist units bility Affairs was introduced in addition to the bank’s existing policy of not providing any form of financing that is specifically related to the development of new greenfield thermal coal mines. 2. Assessment and recommendation These commitments also apply to cases where the majority of the use of proceeds is intended for the development of a Aspects to be checked according to new coal-fired power plant or a new greenfield thermal coal internal policies and guidelines mine, respectively. Nature of transaction Our sector policies and guidelines are regularly reviewed and Identity and activities of potential and existing clients updated to take account of the latest developments and new challenges in the relevant areas. For example, in 2019, we Regulatory and political context integrated the concept of Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) into our policies on oil and gas, mining, and forestry Environmental and social Various risk-specific aspects and agribusiness in order to better respect the rights of aspects of client operations indigenous peoples who may be affected by project-related transactions. A summary of our sector policies and guidelines is available at: 3. Review and decision >> credit-suisse.com/sectorpolicies Decision by Reputational Risk Approver or Committee (approval / approval with conditions / rejection) Optional escalation Decision by Position & Client Risk CARMC or Global Reputational Risk Approver (approval / approval with conditions / rejection) 18 ﻿ Transactions assessed on the basis of potential environmental Sustainability risk assessments by sector in 2019 and social risks in 2019 Transactions assessed 1 2019 2018 Metals and mining 157 190 Forestry and agribusiness 85 84 73% approved 799 8% approved with conditions Oil and gas 125 242 transactions 10% rejected or not pursued assessed 9% pending¹ Power generation and transmission 105 89 Chemicals 20 32 Defense 13 22 Infrastructure and transportation 64 53 These statistics exclude potential transactions that were not formally reviewed as part of the risk review process because they were Finance 53 35 immediately identified by the relationship manager as being non-­ Other 177 195 compliant with the Group’s requirements and guidelines. Total 799 942 ¹ As of January 31, 2020. 1 Including Equator Principles (EP) transactions. In the context of sustainability risk management, Credit Suisse For a comprehensive disclosure in accordance with EP has applied the Equator Principles (EP) since 2003. This requirements, see: framework for the management of environmental and social >> credit-suisse.com/riskmanagement risks is based on standards defined by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and is applied by around 100 financial Climate Risk Strategy program institutions for specific types of finance for industrial and Credit Suisse acknowledges that financial flows also need to infrastructure projects. The Equator Principles were updated in be brought in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement 2019, following an EP Association process involving extensive and is continuing to expand its own role in supporting the dialogue with a wide variety of stakeholders – including the EP transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy. In Financial Institutions (EPFIs), EPFI clients, industry bodies and 2019, we introduced a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy NGOs. As a result, the Equator Principles’ scope of application program based on a three-pronged approach. First, we aim has been expanded to capture more project-related trans­ to work with our clients to support their transition to actions. Amendments and new commitments have also been low-carbon and climate-resilient business models and to made with regard to human rights, climate change, indigenous further integrate climate change into our risk management peoples and biodiversity. Credit Suisse played an active role in models. Second, we endeavor to focus on delivering the update process and was involved in the management of the sustainable finance solutions that help our clients achieve Equator Principles Association. their goals and contribute to the realization of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Credit Suisse would Recognizing the importance of environmental sustainability like to be the partner of choice when it comes to supporting and sustainable land use, we are also a member of the clients with capital and advice in their transition to funding Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in the “Banks investments in new, efficient technologies and production and Investors” sector. The RSPO is the leading certification processes as well as low-carbon products and services (see standard for palm oil and promotes the cultivation and use of pages 23-27). Third, we aim to further reduce the carbon sustainable palm oil products through global standards and footprint of our own operations (see pages 54-60). the engagement of stakeholder groups throughout the supply chain. Consequently, our Forestry and Agribusiness Policy As part of the Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program, includes requirements regarding RSPO membership and we have identified initial priority segments which have a RSPO certification that we expect our clients to observe. greater potential for adverse climate and associated socio-economic impacts. These include oil and gas, thermal/ In January 2020, Credit Suisse signed the Poseidon Principles. metallurgical coal mining, utilities/power generation, ship This global framework for responsible ship finance promotes finance and manufacturing (including cement, steel, the integration of climate considerations into lending decisions, chemicals, and automotive). For each of these sectors, we with the aim of enhancing the role of maritime finance in are formulating specific client strategies and assessing the addressing global environmental issues and advancing the readiness and progress of our clients to transition to decarbonization of the international shipping sector. low-carbon and climate-resilient business activities. We plan Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 19 ﻿ to engage with these clients to understand their transition Dialogue, knowledge-sharing and training strategy, including capital expenditure plans and timeframes. As Credit Suisse continues to develop its sustainability risk management practices, we engage in dialogue with a range The Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program also of stakeholders. This includes our ongoing exchange with consolidates our ongoing work to adopt the recommendaNGOs and other actors in the conversation on sustainability tions of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial risk management and climate change topics (see pages Disclosures (see box on page 21). 54-55), as well as our active participation in industry initiatives such as the Equator Principles, the Thun Group, Respecting human rights and the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment We strive to assume our responsibilities in the area of human (PACTA) project. We also served as a member of the rights in accordance with the International Bill of Human multi-stakeholder advisory group established by the OECD, Rights, the corresponding principles on human and labor which aims to develop best practice guidance for human rights set out in the UN Global Compact as well as the eight rights and environmental due diligence based on the fundamental conventions of the International Labour provisions of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Organization. We take account of these principles in our own Enterprises. The advisory group supported the development policies and business activities. Our Statement on Human of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Rights describes the basis of our responsibility to respect Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting published in human rights and the approaches and processes we use to October 2019. The paper provides recommendations for implement it. Equally, we expect our business partners to banks on how they can identify, respond to, and publicly recognize and uphold human rights. communicate on environmental and social risks associated with products and services provided to their clients. We also take into account the UN “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework and the UN Guiding Principles on In 2019, we also discussed regulatory developments, climate Business and Human Rights. To promote a better underrisks and opportunities, and challenges presented by the use standing of what the Guiding Principles mean for the banking of artificial intelligence at a meeting in London between sector, Credit Suisse co-initiated the Thun Group together banks and representatives of civil society. In Singapore, we with other banks in 2011. Since its inception, the Thun successfully held our 9th annual roundtable on environmental Group has worked on providing guidance for the practical and social risk management practices in investment banking, implementation of the Guiding Principles in the development with participants from 12 different banks. Furthermore, or structuring of banking products and services. At the 2019 Credit Suisse presented its approach to human rights due meeting of the Thun Group, representatives from banks, diligence at the UN Global Compact European business and governments, academia, civil society and other actors human rights peer learning meeting, hosted by the Internadiscussed topics such as the OECD projects on responsible tional Labour Organization (ILO) in Turin, Italy. To ensure that business conduct, effective human rights due diligence and the expertise required to address environmental and human performance measurement and actions to combat modern rights risks is firmly embedded within Credit Suisse, we slavery and human trafficking. provided around 540 employees in client-facing roles, control functions or relevant specialist units with training in sustainWe consider human rights issues in our risk management ability risk management in 2019. processes and recognize our responsibilities as an employer. Furthermore, our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement sets out the steps that Credit Suisse This chapter addresses the following issues: is taking to prevent the occurrence of modern slavery and 1 Culture of compliance and conduct human trafficking in our business operations and within our 2 Climate change supply chain. More information on the topic of human rights, 3 Environmental and social risk management including our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 13 Human rights Transparency Statement, can be found at: >> credit-suisse.com/humanrights >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking Further information: Further information: >> see p. 22 >> see p. 7 20 ﻿ Implementing the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures In 2017, the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on developing consistent climate-related metrics that we Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) published its believe are useful for risk management purposes. The final report with recommendations for the voluntary Group has enhanced its internal reports and is developing reporting on material risks and opportunities arising from further climate risk-related scenario analysis in addition to climate change. The implementation of the TCFD the 2°C and 4°C scenarios introduced in 2018. By recommendations by companies is expected to take offering green finance solutions to our clients and several years but is likely to result in more informed supporting clean and renewable energy businesses we are investment, credit and insurance underwriting decisions. also engaged in a range of activities that may support the Credit Suisse publicly expressed its support for the TCFD transition to a lower-carbon and more climate-resilient recommendations in 2017. Within the regulatory economy (see pages 26-27). framework established by the Paris Agreement, we expect our TCFD adoption efforts to provide us with further Risk management guidance for the transition toward a world that is progresClimate-related risks are embedded in our Group-wide risk sively less dependent on fossil fuels. Credit Suisse taxonomy. These risks – alongside other environmental continued its TCFD implementation efforts in 2019, and social risks – are considered within the Group-wide, following the four TCFD categories of Governance, standardized Reputational Risk Review Process (see Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets. pages 17-19). Moreover, we established a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program in 2019 (see pages Governance 19-20) and are working with other banks to develop The Credit Suisse program team has worked to formalize methodologies to measure the alignment of credit climate-related governance and definitions in key policies portfolios with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and our risk taxonomy, and to define the principles for (see page 65). Direct physical risks of climate change are climate risk management. Climate change-related identified and assessed through the business continuity responsibilities are included in the Board’s Risk Committee management process alongside other physical risks such charter. At the Executive Board level, the Position & Client as natural disasters. Risk (PCR) cycle of the Capital Allocation & Risk Management Committee (CARMC) assumes responsibility Metrics and targets for the overall climate change strategy and is mandated to We manage and disclose greenhouse gas emissions ensure that the capabilities for the management of (scope 1, 2, 3) from our in-house operations based on an relevant long-term risk trends, including climate change, ISO 14001-certified environmental management system are put in place. (see page 59). We also provide information on our green finance activities such as sustainability-related debt Strategy financing products and our clean and renewable energy We have identified several key risks and opportunities, businesses (see pages 26-27). Furthermore, we have originating from either the physical or transitional effects of developed a range of internal analytics on our own climate change. We aim to leverage existing risk manageexposures to climate-impacted sectors such as coal ment processes and capabilities for the management of mining, oil and gas and power generation. climate risk exposures by mapping the underlying climate risks to existing risk types such as credit risk, market risk, Information on Credit Suisse’s TCFD implementation non-financial risk, business risk or reputational risk. As efforts can also be found in our 2019 Annual Report. methodologies for assessing climate risk evolve, we are Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 21 ﻿ Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk Management (TPRM) Credit Suisse works with numerous suppliers and service parties, Credit Suisse introduced the Third Party Risk providers from a broad range of sectors. We expect these Management (TPRM) framework in 2016. Through partners to address risks responsibly and to conduct their TPRM, we assess potential environmental, social and labor business in a socially and environmentally responsible law-related risks, among others, in connection with third manner. Our Supplier Code of Conduct aims to ensure parties. The framework also allows Credit Suisse to that our external business partners respect human rights, regularly monitor these relationships, to raise and track labor rights, employment laws and environmental issues and, if necessary, to demand actions for improveregulations. To manage financial, operational and ment from suppliers and service providers. More informareputational risks and to meet the increasing regulatory tion is available at: requirements governing business relationships with third >> credit-suisse.com/suppliers 4 Challenge and response Challenge: International human rights frameworks greatest influence. In addition, the provision of certain primarily address states and state institutions. Howfinancial services may be linked to negative human rights ever, the role of businesses in respecting human impacts. While companies operating in sensitive sectors rights continues to be discussed on a national and frequently play a key economic role in the global supply of international level. The UN Guiding Principles on energy and commodities and as an employer, the activities Business and Human Rights are an important point of these companies can, in some cases, have a significant of reference in this area and marked a milestone impact on local or indigenous communities. Credit Suisse in the clarification of corporate responsibility for therefore examines aspects of client relationships or human rights when they were introduced in 2011. transactions that are sensitive from a human rights What is Credit Suisse’s approach to potential human perspective using our Reputational Risk Review Process. rights issues in its business activities and client This process is supported by sector policies and guidelines relationships? that include aspects such as the protection of the health and safety of company employees and surrounding Response: We strive to assume our responsibilities in the communities as well as a commitment to respect the area of human rights in accordance with the International human rights of local populations. Bill of Human Rights and the eight fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization. We are a In 2019, Credit Suisse and the Society for Threatened participant in the UN Global Compact and an active Peoples (STP) concluded a mediation process facilitated member of the Thun Group that focuses on the integration by the National Contact Point of Switzerland (Swiss NCP) of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human for the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Rights into the policies and practices of banking instituwhich was focused on due diligence and the rights of tions. Our Statement on Human Rights describes the indigenous peoples. As a result, we updated our policies basis of our responsibility to respect human rights and the on oil and gas, mining and forestry and agribusiness by approaches and processes we use to address this including the concept of Free, Prior and Informed Consent responsibility. Equally, we expect our business partners to (FPIC) with respect to project-related transactions as part recognize and uphold human rights, as stated in our of our expectations towards our clients. Also, Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct. played an active role in the update of the Equator Principles (see page 19), where new commitments have Credit Suisse’s most direct link to human rights issues is in been made in relation to human rights and indigenous our working relationship with our employees, and this is peoples, among other areas. consequently the area in which we can exercise the 22 ﻿ Sustainable, thematic and impact investing products and services Client demand for sustainable and impact investment opportunities has grown significantly in recent years. At Credit Suisse, we strive to create and facilitate investment products and services that generate environmental and social benefits as well as financial returns. The growing need to combine prosperity with environmental, ESG factors and related externalities, and we are engaging with social and governance (ESG) considerations has already them to further develop these models. started transforming patterns of consumption, the political and regulatory landscape for businesses and the world of investing. Sustainable investments have more than doubled in volume Consumers, clients and investors are essentially calling on over the last five years, with the volume of Sustainable companies to take greater account of long-term externalities Development Goals (SDG)-oriented thematic and impact and to help preserve natural capital and finite resources. As a investments increasing at an even faster pace. We have seen result, businesses across all sectors are seeking to create an especially strong rise in demand from institutional investors. more sustainable business models that address the risks and In addition, private clients – particularly high-net-worth leverage the potential of this transformation. individuals, next-generation investors and millennials – are increasingly expressing their desire to use their capital to have The transition to a sustainable world is an investment a positive impact on the world. At the same time, charitable opportunity foundations are looking for ways to align their investments with Due to their central function in the economy and society, their mission. These different client segments are all seeking financial institutions have a transformative role to play in ways to combine the achievement of financial returns with the the transition to a more sustainable world. The changing generation of positive social and/or environmental impacts investment landscape presents new challenges and – whether the client’s primary focus is purpose or profit. opportunities. It also reflects the long-term social trends that Credit Suisse has identified as global “Supertrends”: angry Providing sustainable finance solutions is one of the three societies; infrastructure; technology at the service of humans; pillars of Credit Suisse’s Climate Risk Strategy program, the silver economy; millennials’ values; and climate change. which was launched in 2019 (see pages 19-20). We also aim to support the realization of the UN Sustainable Credit Suisse has been a pioneer in the area of sustainable and Development Goals (SDGs) through our sustainable and impact investing for more than 17 years. Today, we continue to impact investing activities. In addition, we are a founding contribute substantially to the development of this market, as signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking of the UN well as integrating broader societal trends into our products and Environment Programme Finance Initiative (see page 8) and services. Credit Suisse views finance not as an end in itself but a signatory to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible rather as a means to realize ambitious objectives, and we strive Investment (PRI) – a voluntary, investor-led framework that to lead the way in supporting clients as they adapt their promotes a better understanding of the implications of business models and join the transition to a more sustainable sustainability for investing and the incorporation of ESG economic system. We collaborate with entrepreneurs who build information into investment decisions. businesses that generate positive impacts. We want to build a business model and financial offering that preserve social and Impact Advisory and Finance natural capital for future generations, with the aim of being a Our Impact Advisory and Finance (IAF) department reports net positive impact bank. We also want our clients to benefit directly to the CEO and combines all of Credit Suisse’s from this transition. We are therefore working with companies investment activities in sustainable investing around the globe that have adapted their business models to take account of within one organization, while defining the firm’s sustainability Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 23 ﻿ strategy relating to these efforts. The IAF department aims to investments, SDG-oriented thematic investments and index facilitate investable projects and initiatives that have a positive solutions. We offer sustainable single and multi-asset solutions economic and social impact while focusing primarily on across different regions, constantly seeking to broaden our generating a financial return for clients. Its mandate is to offering and align these solutions more closely with the define, guide and coordinate all of the Group’s activities in applicable SDGs. We design solutions that aim to generate this sector for the benefit of institutional, corporate and market rate or higher returns, by adding ESG factors to allow wealth management clients. Its remit covers sustainable as for better-informed investment decisions, while also reflecting well as SDG-oriented thematic and impact investments our clients’ personal values and taking into account long-term where the focus is on generating a financial return. externalities of their portfolios for people and the planet. We also provide clients with strategic advice and portfolio ESG Sustainable investing screening as well as investment advice based on sustainability Credit Suisse’s sustainable investment offering comprises criteria. In addition, we produce individual sustainability portfolio portfolio solutions and products across a range of asset reports and organize events with clients and other stakeholders classes, including equities, fixed income, real estate, alternative on the topic of sustainable investment. Definitions IAF on the spectrum Impact Advisory and Finance department Thematic & Impact Investing Traditional Exclusion ESG integration Thematic & impact Impact investing Philanthropy investments aligned Return first Impact first Delivering competitive financial returns Mitigating environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks Pursuing environmental, social and governance (ESG) opportunities Focusing on measurable high-impact solutions  Limited or no  Systematic avoid Consideration of  Participation in  Impact investing fully  Address societal consideration for ance of exposure to financially material sustainable growth compliant with the challenges that do environmental, social controversial ESG risks and themes IFC Principles not ask to generate a or governance ­business areas or opportunities  Contribution to the  Clear and direct financial return aspects in the unethical behaviour  Based on industrySustainable Developinvestor contribution investment approach  Norms-based specific sustainability ment Goals (SDG) to the impact of the exclusions expertise  Alignment of investor enterprises via  Values-based  Reflects the and enterprise financing growth or exclusions ­Credit Suisse house mission to generate active ownership  Country exclusions view on ESG topics impact  May include models (sanctions)  ESG Integration in  Address societal where the risk and  Exclusions based on investment processchallenges that return to investors business conduct es in combination generate competitive may be blended, i.e. (UN Global Compact with financial analysis financial returns catalytic capital to breaches)  Approach adapted to crowd in for profit asset class, product investors characteristics and investment objective Credit Suisse’s sustainable investment strategy considers of sustainability, portfolio management and asset manageESG aspects in addition to traditional financial criteria. For ment, as well as by the office of the Chief Investment Officer single securities, we use a multi-strategy framework that and the IAF department. This group also regularly reviews the allows our clients to translate their personal values into framework and suggests recommendations to align our investment decisions. This framework was created by a approach with the latest industry developments. Credit Suisse group of Credit Suisse specialists with expertise in the fields Asset Management has started to systematically reposition 24 ﻿ its products according to ESG criteria, working in partnership environmental mission and the development of financial with the IAF department. products, such as those designed to support smallholder farmers and high-potential students in developing countries. We Assets invested according to sustainability criteria at also act as the impact advisor to the Asia Impact Investment Credit Suisse grew to over CHF 44 billion as of end-2019. Fund I L.P. (AIIF I), which invests in fast-growing businesses that address social challenges across Asia. In 2019, AIIF I SDG-oriented thematic and impact investing invested in two healthcare companies in Southeast Asia and a SDG-oriented thematic and impact investing encompasses microfinance institution in Indonesia that provides access to investments in sustainability themes and in enterprises that microloans for local women entrepreneurs. One example is seek to make a positive social and/or environmental impact Halodoc, an Indonesian company which aims to simplify access in addition to generating a financial return. These strategies to healthcare services through its platform by integrating online offer clients exposure to fast-growing sectors such as electric and offline components of the healthcare ecosystem. vehicles, education and water. A growing number of investors are using the SDGs as a reference point to align investments In 2019, we partnered with a leading healthcare private and impact goals and are working with investee companies to equity investor in Asia in an effort to bring affordable, quality measure the impact of their products and services. For healthcare to those at the bottom of the economic pyramid in example, Credit Suisse participated in the launch of a Southeast Asia. The investments are focused on large, responsible consumer fund in 2019. The fund aims to invest scalable businesses that address mass-market demand at in businesses that are responsive to changing consumption affordable prices and aim to deliver positive investment patterns and pursue business models that generate returns while also having a social impact. sustainable products and services. At end-2019, Credit Suisse’s SDG-oriented thematic and Impact investing is the subset of strategies that can impact investing business included more than CHF 8 billion demonstrate the contribution that investors in particular can of assets under management, of which over USD 4 billion make to the impact of enterprises. These investments are are in the area of impact investing. typically part of private market strategies that see investors directly finance the growth of impactful companies and aim to Green and Sustainable Transition Bonds deliver measurable improvements in the sustainability Credit Suisse supports the Green Bond Principles and is a performance of the underlying investments. partner to the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI). In September 2019, we launched a “Sustainable Transition Bonds” initiative in Credit Suisse focuses on impact investments that demoncollaboration with the CBI to develop a new concept framestrate the intention to deliver impact based on a clear work. The framework aims to ultimately lead to a more inclusive strategy of change and that are able to measure such impact segment of the public bond markets that helps facilitate, in a tangible way. accelerate and support corporate transition pathways. Key factors that set impact investing apart from other From 2013 to the end of 2019, we supported the issuance sustainable investment practices include: of over USD 30 billion of sustainability-related debt financing  the intentionality of social and environmental impact; products such as green bonds, sustainability bonds, climate  the strategy to reach such impact; action bonds and bonds linked to the SDGs as well as green  the investor’s contribution to the impact (also referred certificates of deposits and commercial paper. We are also to as “additionality”); active in the sustainability lending market and during 2019  the measurement of impact outcomes. we participated in a total of over USD 20 billion worth of sustainability-linked loans. Given the growing interest from Due to the lack of a common standard defining such impact, responsible and sustainability-driven investors in short-term the International Finance Corporation (IFC) introduced the money markets, Credit Suisse in 2019 also issued green Operating Principles for Impact Management in 2019. The Yankee certificates of deposit in order to finance or refinance Principles establish a framework for impact investing focused a portfolio of eligible green assets, while providing investors on ensuring that impact considerations are purposefully with a debt instrument in the green finance space. integrated throughout the investment lifecycle. Credit Suisse believes that transparency and a common understanding of Further information: standards in impact investing are crucial to developing this >> see p. 27 market, and we decided to be a part of this initiative as a founding signatory. Access to finance We structure investments that are designed to provide Impact investing activities at Credit Suisse include investments economically disadvantaged people – especially those in in small and medium-sized businesses with a social or developing countries – with access to financial services. By Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 25 ﻿ providing these essential services, we believe that we can investment space. For example, Credit Suisse is a member help unlock inclusive growth. We offer a number of products of the Global Impact Investment Network (GIIN), which seeks that address this – for example, our six higher education to accelerate the industry’s development through focused solutions are designed to provide funding to talented students leadership and collective action, and by facilitating knowledge from frontier markets to get loans for advanced education, exchange, highlighting innovative investment approaches, the majority of whom have no alternative source of funding. building the evidence base for the industry, and producing tools and resources. In the area of financial inclusion, our investment activities benefited around 1.5 million people in 2019. We are a Renewable energy, advisory, capital markets and member of the European Microfinance Platform, a network project finance of about 130 organizations, and have a seat on its board. We Our Investment Banking & Capital Markets division serves are also part of the Swiss Capacity Building Facility, a clients through a range of products and services, including public-private partnership between the Swiss financial sector advisory services related to mergers and acquisitions, and the Swiss Agency for Development Collaboration (SDC). restructurings and spin-offs, as well as debt and equity Our Financial Inclusion Initiative (FII) helps to drive market underwriting of public offerings and private placements. We development and innovation in this sector. The initiative aims have wide-ranging expertise across the area of renewables to strengthen the ability of financial services providers to such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, biofuels, fuel cells serve the increasingly diverse financial needs of people at the and energy efficiency. base of the income pyramid. To this end, we support the development of new products and services focusing on Credit Suisse has strong renewable energy transaction and themes such as education, agriculture and gender diversity. capital markets experience. In 2019, Credit Suisse advised We also make the expertise of our employees available to our Sempra Energy on the USD 1.1 billion sale of its US wind financial inclusion and impact and SDG-oriented thematic portfolio. Credit Suisse also served as a joint bookrunner for investing partners through several volunteering programs Sunnova on its USD 170 million IPO, Enphase Energy on its (see page 36), and we invest in early-stage innovation and USD 132 million convertible senior note offering, Tesla on its financial technology (fintech) through our partnership with USD 2.7 billion follow-on and convertible senior note Accion’s financial technology accelerator Venture Lab. offering, and Clearway Energy on its USD 600 million high yield green bond. Nature conservation finance We are continuing our activities in the area of nature Credit Suisse is market leader in solar securitizations and tax conservation finance, a fast-growing environmental finance equity financing. In 2019, Credit Suisse served as structuring market focusing on the generation of long-term and agent and bookrunner on two solar securitizations for Sunrun, diversified sources of revenue that can play a major role in totaling USD 575 million, as well as Sunnova’s USD 168 milensuring biodiversity conservation and the health of natural lion solar securitization. In total, throughout 2019, Credit Suisse ecosystems. In 2019, we held the sixth Annual Conservation participated in transactions with a total volume of over Finance Investor Conference in New York City that brought USD 918 million of asset-backed securities issuance related together leading conservation experts, philanthropists and to distributed generation solar assets. In addition, we put in investors to showcase innovative financial solutions and place over USD 700 million in solar asset-backed warehouse structures in this severely underinvested space. In the marine capacity. conservation space, Credit Suisse structured and placed the Low Carbon Blue Economy Note after acting as sole Over the past decade, a total of around USD 4.2 billion of tax manager of a five-year note issued by the World Bank as part equity has been committed to 26 renewable energy opportuniof its Sustainable Development Bond program. The note is ties as a result of the collaboration between our Strategic part of ongoing efforts to raise awareness for the vital role Transactions Group and our Debt Capital Markets Solutions fresh and saltwater resources play for people, livelihoods, and team. A milestone transaction in 2019 was the launch of a the planet, in alignment with SDG 14 (Life Below Water). residential solar fund with Sunrun that finances residential solar panels across the US with a total capacity of 165 megawatts. Credit Suisse’s participation in industry organizations Credit Suisse is involved in organizations such as Swiss Capital for sustainable businesses Sustainable Finance (SSF) and Sustainable Finance Geneva, More broadly, Credit Suisse is focused on accelerating capital which aim to strengthen Switzerland’s position in the global for innovation and sustainable solutions across traditional marketplace for sustainable finance by informing, educating industries. In 2019, Credit Suisse served as the joint bookrunand catalyzing growth. One of their goals is to build bridges ner on the Beyond Meat IPO, one of the fastest-growing food between the finance industry and international organizations companies in the US offering a portfolio of revolutionary to leverage capacities and maximize impact. Furthermore, we plant-based meats. This transaction reflects the substantial contribute to the dialogue on developments in the sustainable investor demand for sustainable products and business models. 26 ﻿ Research Investment Strategies” analyzed ten themes that represent Throughout 2019, we conducted sustainability-related broad exposure to the SDGs – including renewable energy, research across our divisions. Investment Strategy & Research education and infrastructure – and the publication “The ABCs within Investment Solutions and Products – a division in of ESG” provided an overview of the increasing focus on ESG International Wealth Management – published several research and why it looks set to dominate investors’ agendas in the updates on sustainability topics. For example, in 2019, years ahead. research into the evolution of sustainable investments from a niche market into a core area of interest for asset owners Credit Suisse Global Markets Equity Research has developed a looked into the sustainability issues considered most important method to calculate the probabilities of achieving implied returns by specialists from a broad range of sectors, including finance, in infrastructure investments. In our Global Markets division, energy, technology and real estate. Credit Suisse HOLT®, a team focused on corporate performance and the valuation of listed companies, offers a The Credit Suisse Research Institute (CSRI) is governance framework that systematically scores over 4,000 Credit Suisse’s in-house think-tank. It studies long-term incentive plans based on their alignment with wealth-creating economic developments that have a global impact within and principles and pay-for-performance best practices. The team beyond the financial services sector or may do so in the also offers a product allowing investors to quantify the impact of future. The CSRI publishes original research on topics natural resource usage (carbon, water, etc.) on the economic ranging from economics and monetary policy to gender performance of companies and its subsequent impact on the equality and consumer behavior. valuation of a stock or portfolio of stocks. Most recently, the team has developed a HOLT Business Sustainability Scorecard In the area of investment research, we publish global combining financial and ESG metrics to measure whether or economic assessments and market outlooks in a range of not a company is focused on long-term value creation. reports. In 2019, we revised one of our core research publications for clients, which examined the role of corporate governance in family-owned companies. Previously, we also This chapter addresses the following issues: conducted assessments of the important role gender diversity 6 Responsible investments plays in corporate performance and published the findings in 10 Quality and range of services and advice our study entitled “The CS Gender 3000 in 2019 – The changing face of companies”. >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/banking Credit Suisse also addresses ESG topics through thematic Further information: research. For example, the ESG Research report “Sustainable >> see p. 7 4 Challenge and response Challenge: There is a clear need to access new corporate finance, as well as debt and equity underwriting sources of energy, raw materials, and clean tech­ of public offerings and private placements. Credit Suisse nologies to make more balanced and sustainable actively supports clean and renewable energy businesses use of the world’s natural resources. Investments and, by the end of 2019, had been involved in over that support environmentally sustainable devel130 transactions in this field with a value of more than opment – a sector known as green finance – are USD 100 billion since 2010. We also supported clients on thus growing in importance and scale. How does a number of green bond issuances in 2019. In our Global Credit Suisse contribute to green finance? Markets division, Credit Suisse’s HOLT offers a product allowing investors to quantify the impact of natural Response: Our green finance solutions cover a wide range resource usage on the economic performance of of asset classes and are designed to support the transition companies. Credit Suisse Global Real Estate has a to a low-carbon and climate-resilient economy, drawing on proactive strategy to significantly reduce energy use and the expertise of various specialist departments. Our related carbon emissions through a partnership with offering in the area of wealth management, for example, Siemens Switzerland AG (see page 55). Finally, comprises a number of funds focused on sustainability, Credit Suisse Energy Infrastructure Partners, an investgreen bond investments and sustainable real estate as ment manager specialized in investments in the European well as products and services in conservation finance. In energy sector, focuses on direct investments in the investment banking, we provide advice for buyside and capital-intensive elements of the value chain, such as sellside clients in mergers and acquisitions, project and energy transmission, generation, storage and efficiency. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 27 ﻿ Responsibility in the economy and society Our role in the economy and society 30 Our social commitments 35 Selected projects 2019 40 28 ﻿ Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 29 ﻿ Our role in the economy and society We want to create value for our clients and shareholders by conducting our business responsibly and sustainably. Through our diverse activities, we also aim to support the efficient functioning of the economy and to play a constructive role in society. Our primary function as a global bank is to be a reliable and Today, Credit Suisse works with a large number of entrepreprofessional partner to our clients around the world, offering neurs to help meet their wide-ranging daily needs. In addition them a range of financial products and services to meet their to products satisfying their core financial needs, we also offer individual needs. In this context, Credit Suisse also performs tailored solutions for complex financial matters – from functions that are viewed as systemically relevant, including forward-looking pension planning to sophisticated corporate deposit-taking and lending. We play an important role as a succession planning and financing. In this context, we are financial intermediary, bringing together borrowers and committed to offering entrepreneurs the best possible lenders of capital globally – from companies and public sector support in the complex management of private and business bodies to private individuals and institutions. We supply assets. Our advisory approach addresses both the private businesses with the capital resources they need to expand and operational financial interests of entrepreneurs and thus their activities and finance innovation, thus helping to drive offers holistic solutions from a single source. economic growth and job creation. By assuming market and credit risks, banks make an important contribution to the Serving more than 100,000 companies or around 1 in 3 efficient functioning of the economic system. Effective risk businesses in Switzerland, Credit Suisse is a highly trusted management is a significant part of this process. In the credit financial partner to Swiss corporate clients. They mainly business, for example, we analyze, measure and monitor comprise small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that credit risk exposures and charge appropriate interest rates on generally have no direct access to the capital markets and loans. Our capital policy is intended to ensure that we are are therefore often reliant on bank loans to fund working capable of absorbing potential credit losses in a variety of capital and/or investments. One of our goals is to support stress scenarios. In early 2020, the global economy faced these companies with a fair, competitive and risk-adjusted the challenge of how to respond to the rapid spread of the lending policy. We are committed to providing our Swiss coronavirus disease COVID-19. As a bank, we have put in corporate clients with needs-oriented advice and the best place various response measures in order to ensure possible support, and we advise them on strategic decisions continuity of our business operations and protect the health to help them run their businesses effectively. At the end of and safety of our employees and their families. 2019, Credit Suisse had over CHF 163 billion of loans outstanding in Switzerland, including mortgages and loans to Supporting economic growth and partnering with private companies, the public sector and private clients. entrepreneurs The importance of banks for the continued development and An integral part of the economy and society growth of the economy is demonstrated by our activities in We make a direct contribution to the economy and society in our Swiss home market. As the “Bank for Entrepreneurs”, we a variety of ways, including in our capacity as a taxpayer. offer a broad range of products for corporate clients of all Over the past five years, Credit Suisse has paid an annual sizes and for institutional clients, as well as private individuals average of CHF 0.4 billion in corporate income tax worldin Switzerland. We give them access to our wide-ranging wide. Credit Suisse is subject to further taxes unrelated to expertise in the areas of private, corporate and investment income, which totaled around CHF 0.3 billion in 2019 alone. banking. This interdisciplinary approach allows us to act as a strategic partner, supporting entrepreneurs and their We also contribute as a client and contractual partner. companies, as well as multinational companies domiciled in Credit Suisse purchased about CHF 5.0 billion of goods, Switzerland, throughout their lifecycle. services and licenses from suppliers around the globe in 30 ﻿ 2019. Suppliers are required to meet strict standards in conducting business with suppliers. Credit Suisse also plays areas such as business ethics and integrity, employee health an important role as an employer, offering progressive and safety, and environmental protection, as defined in working conditions, competitive compensation and interesting Credit Suisse’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The establishment career opportunities across a range of businesses to of reliable relationships with these external partners helps to 47,860 employees in around 50 countries worldwide. A total ensure the quality and value of the products and services we of 16,140 members of our global workforce are based in source. In addition, our Third Party Risk Management Switzerland – making us one of the largest employers in our (TPRM) framework is embedded in day-to-day sourcing and home market. vendor management processes to assess risks when Risk capital for growth and innovation Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG was founded in fintech, an investment was made in AlgoTrader AG, which May 2010 as a 100% subsidiary of Credit Suisse has created an innovative algorithmic trading software (Schweiz) AG. It provides venture and growth capital to system. small and medium-sized enterprises as well as entrepreneurs in order to foster entrepreneurship and to help By the end of 2019, Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG strengthen Switzerland’s position as a center of innovation. had provided CHF 142 million of capital to 58 companies Recent success stories include investments in the – helping to create and preserve jobs in Switzerland. innovative travel booking technology firm Nezasa AG and Schulthess Maschinen AG, a leading Swiss manufacturer More information is available at: of washing machines and tumble dryers. In the area of >> credit-suisse.com/entrepreneurcapital Maintaining a constructive dialogue Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG: Credit Suisse considers it important to engage in discussions Key figures for 2010 – 2019 with various stakeholders – from clients, employees and investors to policymakers, legislators, regulators and Number of financing Total sum invested since 2010: representatives of the business community and society – in requests considered: CHF 3,589 142 million order to understand the issues that are important to them and to help find constructive solutions to current challenges. This exchange of views and ideas has grown increasingly important in recent years in view of international developOver ments and discussions surrounding the role of the finance 58 300 industry in the global economy. Reflecting our commitment to dialogue, we are a member of a number of industry associations, umbrella organizations and think-tanks where firms have benefited patents are held by portfolio we discuss topics such as developments in financial market from funding. companies, underscoring their regulation and sustainable finance policy, among other things. innovative strength. In addition, in view of the scrutiny that banks, including Credit Suisse, face from climate activists, we are open to A total of engaging in a constructive dialogue about their concerns. 2,690 people have been employed by More information about our membership of industry bodies is available at: >> credit-suisse.com/network all the portfolio companies. Broader social commitments Credit Suisse views itself as an integral part of society and engages in a range of social initiatives across different regions to promote social cohesion and stability. These commitments Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 31 ﻿ take various forms – from our collaboration with selected This chapter addresses the following issues: partner organizations to the volunteer work of Credit Suisse 4 Company performance and strategy employees around the globe. Sponsorship, which has been an 7 Financial and political system stability integral part of our corporate strategy and culture for more 14 Contribution to the economy than four decades, is a further example of our social 15 Social commitments commitments. We sponsor activities that focus on the areas of sports and culture, with particular importance being >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society assigned to the promotion of young talent. More information about our sponsorship commitments is available at: Further information: >> credit-suisse.com/sponsoring >> see p. 7 Philanthropy In the area of philanthropy, Credit Suisse works with umbrella foundations have distributed a total of more than clients to help them incorporate their personal values and CHF 134 million to over 3,000 charitable initiatives objectives into their philanthropic engagements. We can worldwide, and in 2019 they carried out 200 projects in create subfoundations for clients under one of developing countries and in Switzerland. In Asia, SymAsia Credit Suisse’s umbrella charitable foundations – Accenhas received USD 125 million of donor-advised funds and tus, Empiris and Symphasis in Switzerland or SymAsia in has gifted around USD 88 million since it was established Singapore. Since they were established, the Swiss in 2010. 32 ﻿ In the European Union, Credit Suisse does not make any financial contributions to political candidates or parties. The bank constructively engages with EU policymakers on relevant financial services topics through legislative consultation processes and other channels. It discloses EU-related advocacy spend on an annual basis in the European Commission’s transparency register and abides by the EU’s Code of Conduct. In the US, Credit Suisse does not itself make any direct financial contributions to candidates or political parties. However, like many other companies and organizations in the US, it offers employees the option of making their own voluntary private donations through a Political Action Committee (PAC). Employees can support candidates Supporting the political system in Switzerland and running for US Congress but not presidential candidates beyond or specific political parties. These PAC donations take the form of a general contribution to the political system. The In our Swiss home market, we not only engage in an open PAC then distributes the combined employee donations to dialogue with policymakers that involves the regular members of relevant committees or districts, ensuring that exchange of information and ideas but also actively the funds are shared evenly between Democratic and support the functioning of the Swiss “militia” system of Republican candidates. politics, where Swiss citizens assume roles in political bodies at federal, cantonal or community level alongside Holders of public office their regular professions. Consequently, most members of the Swiss Parliament are not professional politicians and In Switzerland, Credit Suisse offers working time parties do not receive state funding. arrangements to employees who hold an elected public office alongside their role at the bank. These employees Credit Suisse helps to strengthen this system of politics by can devote up to 20% of their working hours to a public making financial contributions available to political parties role while receiving their full salary from the bank at the federal level that request funding, irrespective of – irrespective of their party affiliation and views. Each year, their political agenda and position. This financial support Credit Suisse’s Public Affairs and Policy department does not give rise to any obligations for the political parties organizes a meeting for the more than 300 employees that receive it. The only factor that influences the support who hold an elected public office. This annual event given by Credit Suisse is the number of parliamentary enables them to learn more about current policy issues mandates held by each party at the federal level and in the that may be relevant to their day-to-day work as well as to cantons: To be eligible, a party must have at least five their activities as elected representatives. It also gives seats in the Federal Assembly (Swiss Parliament). This them an opportunity to engage in discussions with their transparent approach – based on objective criteria colleagues and Credit Suisse’s top management. In 2019, – enables Credit Suisse to make a politically neutral the event centered around the Swiss “militia” system of contribution to support the work of the parties in performpolitics. After a welcome speech by Peter Derendinger, ing the functions of the state. Credit Suisse makes a Chairman of the Board of Directors of Credit Suisse maximum of CHF 1 million of financial support available (Schweiz) AG, the event featured two keynote speeches each year for this purpose. This support is exclusive to and a panel discussion with subject matter experts and Credit Suisse’s home market. policymakers – giving participants an insight into different aspects of the Swiss approach to politics. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 33 ﻿ 4 Challenge and response Challenge: How does Credit Suisse contribute to The survey is widely recognized as making an important the public conversation about economic, social and contribution to the public conversation about socio-ecopolitical topics and trends? nomic issues in Switzerland. The survey findings are discussed with thought leaders, key public figures and Response: Leveraging our in-house research capabilities political exponents at various events and platforms and are and working with independent research institutions, we regularly referenced in public discussions. produce a broad spectrum of publications, reports, analyses and specialist articles on economic and In 2019, we also conducted our second Progress socio-political topics. One example is the Global Wealth Barometer – this time with an international focus – to Report published by the Credit Suisse Research Institute, measure the desire for progress among voters in which provides comprehensive information on the 16 nations – focusing on economic, social and political development of global household wealth each year themes ranging from e-mobility to work/life balance to – attracting a high level of interest in the media and among development aid. The study, published at the start of diverse external stakeholders. 2020, revealed a negative correlation between the pressure for progress in a country and its degree of To keep our finger on the pulse of public opinion, we also economic development. It also demonstrated that produce a suite of Barometers in collaboration with an sustainability and equality are two issues where the desire independent research institute that are based on for progress transcends borders. Meanwhile, the representative surveys conducted in our home market of Credit Suisse Youth Barometer captures the views of Switzerland and/or in selected countries around the globe. young people across different regions of the world For example, the Credit Suisse Worry Barometer provides – providing the public with a valuable understanding of the an insight into the main concerns of the Swiss population lifestyle, problems and attitudes of the next generation. and gauges voters’ views on current political and economic issues. In 2019, the survey found that More information on our publications is available at: retirement provision is the greatest concern for the Swiss >> credit-suisse.com/gwr electorate, followed by health care/health insurance. >> credit-suisse.com/worrybarometer Published annually since 1976, the Worry Barometer also >> credit-suisse.com/youthbarometer reveals interesting changes in public attitudes over time. >> credit-suisse.com/progressbarometer 34 ﻿ Our social commitments Credit Suisse, our clients and employees are committed to fostering inclusive growth by addressing socio-economic challenges. We work with selected partner organizations, providing funding and professional expertise to support social and humanitarian projects around the world. Companies can only achieve long-term success if they operate in an economically stable and socially cohesive Financial education environment. To create a sustainable impact, we have Education is a source of economic empowerment and drives social established strategic partnerships that seek to contribute to mobility. Financial education in particular teaches young people how to the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable save and manage money and to think about basic business and Development Goals (SDGs) through our global and regional entrepreneurship concepts. These skills are of key importance for initiatives. We strive to make effective use of our social and young people around the world – especially girls and young women in financial capital to have a positive impact not only on society low-income communities within developing countries who are at higher risk of being marginalized. but also on employees and our core business. Since 2014, Credit Suisse has promoted financial education and life Empowering people through financial inclusion, skills programs for girls through our Financial Education Initiative. financial education and future skills Partners in our global Financial Education for Girls signature program Together with our employees, we work with selected partner are Aflatoun International, Plan International and Room to Read. As a global financial institution, we see first-hand the importance of financial organizations to help strengthen communities and address skills in allowing people to actively participate in the economy and social issues. We want to build a more inclusive future where society. The Financial Education for Girls program aims to increase the all people can access the resources and develop the financial knowledge of girls and to raise awareness of their social and financial, entrepreneurial and other skills they need to thrive economic rights – thus helping them to build a better future for in the economy and society. We regard education and access themselves. The program is working to improve the financial education and life skills of over 100,000 adolescent girls in Brazil, China, India, to financial services as key drivers of growth and an effective Rwanda, Sri Lanka and Tanzania by 2021, and it is aligned with both means of empowering people to help themselves. In 2019, the Financial Inclusion Initiative and our Future Skills program as well as Credit Suisse announced the launch of a new theme for the Credit Suisse’s core business. bank’s commitments to global education: Future Skills. Our Future Skills work will focus on programs that close the Financial Education Initiative – selected figures 2014 – 2019 education and employment gap and give young people from all socio-economic backgrounds the opportunity to realize their full potential as adults – especially by securing employment (see box on page 37). We also have the 1,547 schools have benefited from our support. opportunity to grow our impact beyond the funding of 127,900 adolescent girls worldwide have benefited long-term partnerships through our most valuable asset – our from financial education and life skills classes. employees. In addition to employee engagement, our social commitments therefore center around three themes: Financial Inclusion (enabling access to formal financial 3,760 teachers have been trained. services), Financial Education and Future Skills, as well as capacity building of these sectors and the organizations More information is available at: within them. >> credit-suisse.com/financialeducation Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 35 ﻿ Our global skills-based volunteering programs Through our skills-based volunteering programs, we offer Board Connect our employees around the world numerous opportunities to use their expertise to build capacity among our partners Our activities in the area of non-profit board service were and to simultaneously enhance their own skills and launched in the US in 2009 and rolled out globally in professional development. Our signature programs include 2015. In 2019, we continued these activities through our the Global Citizens Program, Board Connect and Virtual global Board Connect program, which provides training, Volunteering. placement support, networks and other resources for Credit Suisse employees who want to serve on non-profit Global Citizens Program boards. Not only does this form of employee volunteering add value to non-profit organizations (NPOs) and the The Global Citizens Program (GCP) is Credit Suisse’s community, but it also helps employees to improve their flagship international skills-based volunteering program. leadership, strategy and stakeholder management skills, Designed to promote the transfer of skills and expertise enhancing their ability to work in different environments. In between employees and social organizations, the GCP is 2019, 760 employees participated in our program, and building the capacity of our partners in the fields of 513 of them received training. financial inclusion and education. Assignments in this leadership development program last from one week to Virtual Volunteering three months and have become an important component of the Group’s learning and development offering. They Virtual Volunteering provides an opportunity for employees focus on the implementation of best practices in various to use their expertise and enthusiasm to support our fields, from specific assignments in the area of financial partner organizations without having to take extended services – such as risk management, credit assessments leave from personal or professional commitments. The and client research – to more general organizational topics program, which was originally developed in 2011 in such as IT infrastructure and the improvement of HR or conjunction with Accion’s Center for Financial Inclusion operational effectiveness. Since the GCP’s launch in (CFI), now includes a number of our regional and global 2010, Credit Suisse employees have completed over 400 partners across different fields. The partner organizations assignments in more than 50 countries across the globe. benefit from the support of highly qualified Credit Suisse employees who have a wide variety of skills (e.g. in project More information is available at: management, writing or research). In return, participating >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/gcp employees gain the opportunity to work alongside leading experts and organizations around the world, to contribute to the end result, and to collaborate with colleagues from other divisions of the Group. 36 ﻿ Future skills Financial inclusion In June 2019, Credit Suisse announced the launch of a new theme for Credit Suisse has been a leader in the field of financial inclusion and the bank’s commitments to education worldwide: Future Skills. Through microfinance since 2004, pioneering new funds and products, as well Future Skills, we want to provide young people with the opportunity to as IPOs and bond issuances to finance microfinance institutions. In reach their full potential as adults. By supporting access to education addition to capital, microfinance institutions and fintechs also need and skills, we are committed to ensuring that a young person’s success talent and know-how to be able to scale up their activities responsibly is not dictated by their or their family’s socio-economic status. Our with diverse products and services. Our Financial Inclusion Initiative is Future Skills initiative is expected to enable programs that close the designed to strengthen the capacity of these institutions so that they educational and employment gap. The definition of what future skills can serve the financial needs of clients at the base of the income are will change over time, even during the course of one’s career, so pyramid as effectively as possible. Here, the focus is on developing our goal is to prioritize education and skills that will enable young people financial products and services in areas such as financing for agriculture to be life-long learners and seek to empower them. This means, for and smallholder farmers, the construction and improvement of homes, example, developing critical and creative thinking skills and instilling an the provision of financial services tailored specifically to women as well entrepreneurial attitude towards grasping new opportunities. as the funding of education. For example, in 2019 our partner Opportunity International (OI) reached the milestone of bringing The Future Skills theme is a natural evolution of our longstanding affordable quality education to more than four million children across commitment to education in the communities where we live and work. It the globe – an effort that was heavily supported by Credit Suisse’s early is also a direct response to the challenges and concerns faced by funding of OI’s Education Finance team. young people in a fast-changing world. Over time, we hope to establish new partnerships with NGOs and social organizations to further develop the Future Skills theme. Where there is alignment, we will work with Selected figures for 2019 existing partners to develop the future skills capabilities within their 134 mandate. In July 2019, Credit Suisse announced a USD 1 million, microfinance institutions and fintech start-ups three-year commitment through its Credit Suisse Americas Foundation have benefited from our support. to HERE to HERE, a career pathways non-profit based in The Bronx, New York City. The partnership will support CareerWise New York, an employer-led, student-focused youth apprenticeship system based on a 1,140 local employees of microfinance institutions have been trained.1 model widely used in Switzerland with the aim of improving the pathways from education to employment. We also continue our partnership with the KIPP Foundation in the US, l’Institut de 372,200 people have access to new or improved products and services. l’Engagement in France, REACH in Asia Pacific, and Pro Juventute in Switzerland. Through its investments, our partner Accion Venture Lab generated an additional USD 130 million for financially inclusive fintechs. Opportunity International’s Education Finance team enabled over More information can be found at: USD 279 million2 in education loans for affordable quality education. >> credit-suisse.com/futureskills 1 Number of trainers trained through our programs 2 Accumulated and outstanding in 2019 Employee engagement Volunteering worldwide – selected figures for 2019 More information can be found at: 19,871 >> credit-suisse.com/financialinclusion volunteers 192 partners received both funding 52 countries in which our partners and skills-based volunteering are active support. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 37 ﻿ Employees: expertise, development, commitment our clients and develop impact investing products to further Within our three main themes, we particularly focus on increase our combined social impact. Through impact building the capacity of our partners. Our employees are investing, we give clients access to sustainable investments essential to this approach and to our broader commitment to that are designed to generate a financial return while also society, and they dedicated over 191,500 hours of their time producing a positive social and/or environmental impact and expertise in 2019 through volunteering activities. As part – including in the areas of financial inclusion and education. of the bank’s human capital strategy, we allow each Moreover, we are increasingly involving our clients in the employee to devote up to four days per year to support our development and delivery of volunteering, events and global partners or social initiatives in the communities where awareness-raising programs. In Switzerland, clients and we live and work. By leveraging the energy, skills and employees have the option of supporting selected partner professional expertise of our employees, we drive social and organizations through Micro-Donations, where payments business impact in the areas of financial inclusion, financial made by credit or debit card can be rounded up by a education and future skills. In 2019, we continued to place pre-defined amount. This amount, or the interest earned on an emphasis on volunteering programs that promote the their bank account, is donated to selected aid organizations transfer of skills and knowledge between employees and and charitable institutions among our partners. partners. This enables our employees to use their expertise to make a difference and gives them the opportunity to enhance their own skills and professional development. In This chapter addresses the following issues: 2019, Credit Suisse employees around the world dedicated 10 Quality and range of services and advice 60,378 hours to skills-based volunteering. These efforts also 15 Social commitments help to strengthen the Group’s corporate culture and foster cross-team and cross-cultural collaboration. Internal surveys Further information: have shown that employee participation in volunteering >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/society programs results in higher levels of employee satisfaction at >> see p. 7 work. More information on our initiatives in the areas of financial Further information: inclusion, financial education, future skills and employee >> see p. 36 engagement is available at: >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/initiatives Increasing impact through our core business, clients and partners Our Corporate Citizenship teams work closely with internal specialist units to provide philanthropic advice and services to 38 ﻿ 4 Challenge and response Challenge: The challenges and pressures facworking with new and existing partners in this area and we ing young people are steadily growing in today’s announced our first cornerstone partnership in this field in rapidly changing world. What contribution does the US in July 2019. CareerWise NY is a cross-industry Credit Suisse make through its social commitments and stakeholder effort led by non-profit HERE to HERE to to help young people embrace change and prepare test the potential of replicating the Swiss apprenticeship for the world of tomorrow? model in companies in New York City. The Credit Suisse Americas Foundation committed USD 1 million of funding Response: In 2019, we conducted a broad review of our to these efforts over the next three years and will also Corporate Citizenship strategy to ensure our commitment work with employees across the bank to implement continues to address the most pressing issues in the apprenticeship placements. In 2020, we expect to communities where we live and work. Based on the announce other cornerstone partnerships across the findings of this review, we shifted our regional education regions. commitments to focus on the topic of future skills. We are 5 Milestones and awards in 2019 In 2019, Credit Suisse celebrated a number of anniversaPrivate Banker as “Best Private Bank – Corporate Social ries, awards and milestones relating to our social Responsibility”. commitments. For example, 2019 marked the 60th anniversary of the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation and In Switzerland, we are evolving our approach in line with a milestone in our commitment to empowering people and industry and technology trends. As a result, we have given strengthening communities. The Foundation’s mission employees the opportunity to support charities and to centers around our belief that by contributing both time launch their own fundraising campaigns through the and money, we can maximize our impact in the community crowdfunding platform Copalana – Credit Suisse’s new and on the causes we care about most. Over the years, employee-designed portal to collect donations. In fall 2019, this has expanded to include transformative philanthropic the Copalana crowdfunding platform was opened up to the investments in education that have enabled thousands of public and it has since raised over CHF 1 million for young people from underserved communities to embark charitable projects around the globe. on a life of opportunity and upward mobility. Since its inception, the Foundation has helped build the capacity of In May 2019, Credit Suisse received Room to Read’s non-profits through more than USD 120 million in funding. “Champion Award” in New York for its ongoing commitIn addition, over the past 15 years, employees have ments to children’s literacy and female empowerment. In devoted more than 656,800 hours of service to the October 2019, our partnership with Plan International UK community. Today, the Foundation is the cornerstone of was recognized by the Bond International Development Credit Suisse’s commitment to Corporate Citizenship in Award for its accomplishments in financial education. the Americas region. These milestones and awards demonstrate the value of In 2019, we took final steps to establish the Credit Suisse the long-term partnerships we have established with APAC Foundation, which represents another milestone. charitable organizations around the globe, thus also The Foundation aims to pilot a pre-tax income funding contributing to the realization of the UN Sustainable model, with the first donations planned in 2020. The quality Development Goals. In particular, this includes Goal 17, of our Corporate Citizenship programming in the region was which states that growth and development can only be also recognized for the second year in succession by Asian achieved through a strong commitment to global partnerships and international cooperation. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 39 ﻿ Selected projects 2019 Our regional teams are committed to promoting future skills, financial inclusion and financial education. Through these efforts, combined with employee engagement, we make a positive contribution towards overcoming challenges in the communities where we live and work. Capacity building for our non-profit partners in Credit Suisse Americas Foundation commits to Asia Pacific youth apprenticeship model Launched in 2016 in partnership with Empact, the Pro Bono In July 2019, the Credit Suisse Americas Foundation School runs a series of workshops for social sector leaders announced a USD 1 million, three-year commitment to to enhance their skills with the help of corporate volunteers. HERE to HERE, a non-profit based in The Bronx, New In 2018, we sponsored four workshops involving 25 social York City. The partnership supports CareerWise New York organizations in Singapore. More than 50 Credit Suisse (CWNY), an employer-led, student-focused youth apprenemployees supported the workshops as facilitators and coticeship system based on a model widely used in Switzerland. trainers. Following the success of this program, we extended Specifically, the donation helps cover CWNY’s operations its reach by launching it in Hong Kong in 2019. Over 20 during the first three years and is complemented by the parsocial organizations participated in three workshops focusing ticipation of Credit Suisse HR experts on the HERE to HERE on budgeting, donor tracking and financial processes, supBusiness Council. The contribution is part of the bank’s ported by over 40 volunteers from our Singapore and Hong Future Skills initiative, which enables young people, regardKong offices. less of their socio-economic backgrounds, to access the skills and education they need to gain meaningful employment and fulfill their potential. 40 ﻿ More examples For a list of additional regional projects in 2019, see: >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/projects Leveraging partnerships in the UK Improving access to training and employment for In the UK, the Credit Suisse EMEA Foundation acts as the young people in Switzerland Pioneer Growth Partner to City Year UK (CYUK). The FounOur Corporate Citizenship activities in Switzerland have long dation’s grant supports teams of volunteers who serve as focused on workforce readiness – a basic skill to ensure mentors, role models and near-peer tutors to pupils from young people are prepared to enter the world of work. For disadvantaged communities, in schools in the West Midexample, the umbrella organization Check Your Chance – lands region, Manchester and London. Its aim is to improve which Credit Suisse has supported since 2010 – and its the attendance, behavior and academic attainment of chilmember organizations have so far helped close to 25,000 dren in CYUK partner schools and to enhance the skills and young people in the transition from school to the workplace. employability of these volunteers. The Foundation’s grant Our employees have also been sharing their expertise and supported the recruitment of 154 young mentors throughout experience with pupils and young students in their role as the 2018/2019 academic year to serve across 21 schools. volunteers through programs such as the Pro Juventute job In 2019, CYUK delivered a six-day Basic Training Acadinterview training and mentoring programs in conjunction emy program for volunteers to prepare them for their time with the University of St. Gallen and Job Caddie. In 2019, in school. Additional shorter Basic Training Academies took more than 300 Credit Suisse employees volunteered 5,000 place to prepare new starters for their deployment in schools. hours of their time for the benefit of 2,300 pupils and young At the end of the program, almost 100% of volunteers said students in future skills-focused programs. We also introthe experience had helped them to build skills that they can duced the Credit Suisse Red Cross Youth Award in 2019 to apply professionally. The partnership with CYUK has been incentivize and recognize the efforts of youth organizations supported through a number of employee engagements and of the Swiss Red Cross (SRC) in developing innovative projprograms, such as Virtual Volunteering or GCP assignments, ects with a sustainable impact. We will continue to expand as well as through the Art Education program in collaboraour work with the SRC’s Young Leaders Forum to encourage tion with the National Gallery. In recognition of its success, youth participation and engagement, to support Pro Juventhe partnership was nominated for the Lord Mayor’s Dragon tute in building capacity and programs in the field of future Award. skills, and to expand our partnership with ESST through its new organization wirtschaftsbildung.ch. In addition, the Credit Suisse Foundation’s portfolio in Switzerland has been adapted and refocused on financial education and future skills. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 41 ﻿ Responsibility as an employer Responsibility as an employer 44 42 ﻿ Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 43 ﻿ Responsibility as an employer Our ability to inspire trust and generate client satisfaction is a basic prerequisite for our long-term success. We can only achieve this if we have skilled, responsible and motivated employees. The success of our company ultimately depends on the skills, Regulatory Affairs Officer and Global Head of Human experience and conduct of our employees. For our business Resources to build on the existing strong foundation and to perform well, we must offer our clients best-in-class further enhance and cement our bank-wide approach to financial solutions and banking services. This goal can only Conduct and Ethics. be realized if we can attract and retain the most talented professionals in our role as an employer of choice. The Conduct and Ethics agenda remains a key priority under their leadership, with high importance being assigned to the At Credit Suisse, we offer exciting careers, progressive recognition of positive behaviors and preventative training, as employment conditions and wide-ranging training and well as to ensuring appropriate governance and sanctions for development opportunities. As a result, our employees negative conduct. In addition, “Local Culture Carriers” have benefit from attractive long-term career prospects in an been appointed in key hub locations, allowing us to compleinternational working environment, helping us to retain their ment the rollout of divisional and function-led initiatives by knowledge and experience within the bank and to derive tailoring them to local practices and cultures. maximum benefit from it in the interests of our clients. A culture of performance and development Conduct and Ethics Standards Our employees’ performance objectives are aligned with the With the introduction of a set of six Conduct and Ethics Group’s strategy, which places clients at the center of all that Standards across the bank in 2017, we have sought to we do. We measure our employees’ performance based on ensure a common understanding and consistent expectations their contribution to the achievement of our business goals in respect of our culture and conduct. The Conduct and and against our Conduct and Ethics Standards to ensure that Ethics Standards are underpinned by a governance the Group’s expectations in respect of conduct and cultural framework consisting of a Group Conduct and Ethics Board behavior are reflected and embedded in our daily work. Our (CEB) chaired by two of the Group’s Executive Board globally consistent performance management process members, as well as dedicated divisional CEBs and a joint enables line managers to assess the performance, behavior CEB for our Corporate Functions. Our Conduct and Ethics and development potential of employees throughout the year. Standards are sponsored by the Board of Directors and the Executive Board of Credit Suisse, underscoring their strategic The setting of clear objectives at the beginning of the year, importance to the bank. followed by mid-year and year-end reviews, allows line managers to perform a comprehensive individual performance The Conduct and Ethics Standards are a core part of evaluation in accordance with global process standards and everything we do – from recruitment to performance guidelines. Line managers complete various training courses management and our disciplinary process. 2019 saw a in which they learn how to support team members in rotation in the Executive Board leadership for Conduct and achieving their professional objectives. Furthermore, the Ethics with the appointment of the Chief Compliance and performance assessment process allows us to identify the 44 ﻿ potential of our employees in order to effectively manage our pool of talent and promote individual development. Talent development in 2019 We offer our employees market-driven and competitive rates of pay based on performance-related compensation 74,200 participants in instructor-led courses 58,900 structures. In doing so, we not only take account of classroom-delivered training days employee interests but also consider our obligations towards our shareholders, as well as regulatory expectations. Our compensation plans are aligned with our strategic ambitions 725 classroom leadership training sessions and developed in close consultation with shareholders and in accordance with regulatory requirements. 19 hours of training per employee (average) Leadership development In 2019, we remained committed to investing in the global 83% level of satisfaction among course participants (average) development of our leaders at all levels of the organization. We continued to run the Management Excellence Program (MEP) and we adjusted the Leadership Development 996,900 participants in e-learning courses curriculum to actively train and support the development of Credit Suisse leaders at various stages of their careers. All programs are based on the Conduct and Ethics Standards and our Credit Suisse-specific leadership model. In 2019, a Client skills and compliance total of 5,477 Credit Suisse managers participated in these Our training and development programs enable us to further programs. In the first quarter of 2019, we launched the New improve the quality of our service and advisory offering and to Managing Director Program, which is designed to introduce continuously adapt our business to evolving market and client recently promoted Managing Directors to their new role. needs. We offer a wide range of training and development Furthermore, we enhanced the development program for the opportunities to support our employees’ individual developbank’s senior leaders by rolling out our new Managing ment journeys, from their first day at Credit Suisse and Director Masterclasses. These classes aim to strengthen the throughout their career. Our state-of-the-art learning leadership capabilities and culture of our most senior leaders interventions enable employees to increase their skills and by providing an exclusive development platform with a knowledge about products, solutions and advisory offerings, first-class faculty. as well as compliance and risk. Our Conduct and Ethics Standards are an integral part of our development programs. We have continued to run the Senior Talent Program (STP), which is designed to further enhance the potential of our most Since 2017, client-facing employees have been required to talented senior leaders. The STP aims to develop the critical complete the Swiss Association for Quality (SAQ) certificaleadership capabilities required to operate at the most senior tion. This further increases cooperation between Swiss banks levels of the organization. To build a pipeline of future leaders, and institutions in the area of professional development. As we also launched the Emerging Leaders Program (ELP), of end-2019, around 2,100 client-facing Credit Suisse which is targeted at the most senior and talented Directors at employees are SAQ-certified and around 600 candidates are Credit Suisse. The ELP provides the next generation of currently working through the SAQ certification process. Credit Suisse leaders with key management skills, opportunities for self-awareness, and cross-functional business Credit Suisse offers employees a wide range of training assignments. The STP and ELP programs both provide programs involving traditional classroom instruction, opportunities for Credit Suisse managers to learn about the e-learning, video-based courses and online learning challenges of the future, deepen their understanding of all our communities. Additionally, employees can complete short businesses and gain continuous exposure to the bank’s most training programs on their mobile devices, enhancing the user senior leaders. Additionally, the programs foster personal experience. Each employee completed at least ten mandadevelopment based on feedback from various sources, tory training modules in the course of the year, depending on including assessments, executive mentoring and coaching. his or her area of responsibility. In 2019, we launched over 70 new mandatory e-learning programs on regulatory topics Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 45 ﻿ such as financial crime, cyber security and information awareness, as well as compliance with our Conduct and Employee facts and figures Ethics Standards. Our client-facing employees complete as of December 31, 2019 courses on cross-border activities and on topics such as the transition away from the IBOR benchmark interest rates to 47,860 employees with permanent contracts (full-time equivalents) Alternative Reference Rates. In addition, a new course on the identification and management of conflicts of interest was conducted to train all personnel on this topic, which is of 37% proportion of female employees (full-time equivalents) critical importance for the bank. 39% proportion of female employees (number of employees) Number of employees Full-time equivalents as of December 31, 2019 22% proportion of women in senior management positions (Managing Directors and Directors) By division Part-time work 12,350 Swiss Universal Bank Female Male 10,490 International Wealth Management 18.9% 4.7% Total: 7,980 Asia Pacific 47,860 12,610 Global Markets employees¹ 3,090 Investment Banking & Capital Markets ¹ Including 1,340 positions in the Corporate Center. Excluding fixed-term contracts. Employee age structure Part-time Full-time 1.1% < 20 years (apprentices) 18.6% from 20 to 29 years Proportion of women: Board of Directors/Executive Board 36.9% from 30 to 39 years 3 of 13 26.2% from 40 to 49 years 14.6% from 50 to 59 years members of the Board of Directors 2.6% > 59 years 3 of 12 members of the Executive Board Diversity and inclusion The diversity of our workforce, including the different skills, Employee turnover mindsets, knowledge and experience of our employees, gives us a better understanding of our clients’ expectations, 2019: 2018: cultural backgrounds and regional markets. Credit Suisse 9.8% voluntary turnover 11.4% voluntary turnover today employs people from 180 different countries. We are committed to providing and promoting equal opportunities, regardless of ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, 3.2% involuntary turnover 5.0% involuntary turnover gender identity, religion, age, civil or marital status, pregnancy, disability, or any other characteristics protected by law. A refreshed mandatory e-learning course “Working with Respect” was rolled out in 2019. 46 ﻿ Our internal experts work closely with our businesses across Internal mobility the globe to ensure that a diversity and inclusion framework At Credit Suisse, our commitment to internal mobility enables is firmly embedded in our corporate culture. They partner with our employees to benefit from interesting and varied career managers on the planning and implementation of initiatives to paths. We focus on building transferable skills and encourage promote an inclusive working environment. We also consider our employees to continue advancing in their careers by it important to engage in a dialogue with external partners in gaining expertise across businesses and locations. Through the area of diversity and inclusion. In January 2019, this culture of sharing, we create opportunities for them to Credit Suisse was once again awarded first place among expand their skills, knowledge and networks across the bank, participating institutions in the Diversity Index published by and to also enhance connectivity and collaboration across the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts. In business lines. 2019, AVTAR benchmarked Credit Suisse as one of the Top Ten Best Places to Work for Women and named the Bank as Our approach spans programs and tools including Internals an “Exemplar of Inclusion”. This underscores the Group’s First, a proactive outreach program for existing employees continuous commitment to diversity and inclusion in the based on internal opportunities across the organization. We workplace. Further information, including a list of the also have a range of job emailers that create transparency organizations, initiatives and events we supported in 2019, about open roles. In 2019, we ran an extensive program of can be found at: career forums around the globe, providing insights into >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/partnerships different business areas and career paths. Over 1,000 employees attended these forums. In 2019, Credit Suisse welcomed its sixth cohort of Real Returns as part of our award-winning program for experiInvesting in Young Talent enced professionals who are returning to work after an We provide a wide range of attractive opportunities for young extended career break. Launched in the US and UK in 2014, professionals and graduates who are interested in pursuing a the program has since expanded across the globe. It career at Credit Suisse. Junior hires receive specific training, currently runs in Switzerland, India and the US, where our mentoring and career advice, thus facilitating their transition original New York offering has been extended to Raleigh, to full-time employment. Within our campus programs, we North Carolina. Real Returns gives the participating are also committed to promoting diversity across multiple professionals the opportunity to return to the workplace areas, from social mobility to gender. These initiatives span through a tailored program of challenging project work, the globe. In the UK, for example, our award-winning Steps training, mentoring and new networking opportunities. The to Success program is now in its seventh intake, offering program runs for approximately 12 weeks. Since Real university scholarship funding for students from underpriviReturns was launched, a total of 360 professionals have leged and underrepresented backgrounds. In the US, a taken part in 22 classes. Over 60% of participants subsesimilar program fosters freshman students from underreprequently obtained a permanent position at Credit Suisse. sented backgrounds by providing information about careers in Credit Suisse runs the program in partnership with a number banking. of organizations, including i-Relaunch, Women Returners and the University of St. Gallen. Internal mobility: key figures for 2019 Advancement of women 3,728 Recognizing the positive impact of gender diversity on the performance of teams and the business as a whole, we want to ensure appropriate female representation in management positions. We run special programs to foster the development employees moved into a different of female professionals within and outside the organization. In role internally. 912 February 2019, the Board of Directors approved the appointment of two more women to the Group Executive Board. These changes reflect the quality of the talent available at Credit Suisse and the diverse backgrounds and employees were hired through experiences of the bank’s leaders. Moreover, Credit Suisse is Internals First – our internal a signatory to the Women in Finance Charter– a pledge to recruitment initiative. 48% support the progression of women into senior roles across our UK legal entities. More information is available at: >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/mentoring of our leadership roles (Managing Directors and Directors) were filled internally. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 47 ﻿ competition for university students involving real-time trading Population of Young Talents and campus recruits simulations when recruiting junior talent for our Global in our Swiss home market in 2019 Markets division in 2019, as well as a Global IT Coding Challenge in which universities across the globe competed 319 students in a Career Start Program against each other. 276 internships (from 12 weeks to six months) We also take steps to develop and support our youngest employees. In Switzerland, Credit Suisse contributes to the dual education system and offers commercial and IT 570 Young Talents¹ (commercial and IT apprentices, HMS and Junior Bankers) out of which vocational training as well as high school programs. 74 high school graduates In 2019, Credit Suisse launched its new Focus commercial apprenticeship program, which provides an educational basic training year. Additional initiatives allowed Young Talents to 464 commercial and IT apprentices¹ gain intercultural experiences by completing assignments or studying abroad in Wroclaw, Shanghai and London. We 32 HMS/WMS trainees continue to invest in our apprentices after graduation: In 2019, 73% of the young people who successfully completed in total young people in education benefited from a their training were offered a permanent position with the 1,165 structured training program.² bank. Credit Suisse won the ICT Award in recognition of its efforts to attract young female applicants for its IT ¹ Including Neue Aargauer Bank. apprenticeships. ² Including Career Starter Program, internships, Junior Bankers and apprenticeships. We continue to build our Diversity Internship Program aimed at offering internships to students from various academic backgrounds. Credit Suisse has long been committed to fostering young talent: In 2019, we celebrated the 10th In our Swiss home market, where Credit Suisse is one of the anniversary of our Summer Internship Program, where country’s biggest employers, we offer opportunities to a large students explore job opportunities before deciding on their number of students and undergraduates who are interested future career path after graduation. Our programs cover 12 in entering a career in banking. In 2019, Swiss business different job functions across all divisions and business areas. students named Credit Suisse as one of their top-three ideal employers. A total of 87% of all Career Start Program Attractive working environment and flexible working participants transferred to a junior position in 2019 after At Credit Suisse, we consider it important to offer our finishing their training and continued their career within the employees modern and flexible working models. Our office bank. In our efforts to promote gender diversity, we carried environment, which has been designed according to the out various initiatives during the year, including the Smart Working concept in many locations, allows employees Hack’n’Lead, the first women-friendly hackathon. to choose their workspace based on their needs at a specific point in time. Approximately 27,000 employees now work in Credit Suisse collaborates with leading universities around Smart Working environments in our offices worldwide. the world to source graduate talent. For instance, we deliver university courses in India, including Financial Risk Analytics We consider employee health and safety to be of the utmost and Business Management classes at BITS Pilani, as well as importance, and we have internal policies in place to help Financial Technology classes at colleges in Pune. In guarantee a safe office environment. Subject matter experts Switzerland, we offer a course on private banking at the ensure that continuous safety improvements are made in line University of Zurich and partner with the University of St. with local legal requirements. One example from 2019 is the Gallen (HSG) in holding a seminar where students analyze introduction of a global Health & Safety Incident Reporting current business challenges. In addition, we give lectures on System, which considerably simplifies the evaluation of various investment and private banking topics at several relevant statistics and thus supports the choice of appropriate universities globally, showing students the range of opportuaccident prevention measures. In 2011, Credit Suisse nities available to them as they plan their careers. By became the first Swiss financial services provider to be harnessing technology and social media, we strive to ensure awarded OHSAS 18001 certification (Occupational Health the visibility of our programs through webinars, Facebook and Safety Assessment Series) for its operations in Live chats and virtual career fairs in order to attract the most Switzerland. We successfully renewed this certification in promising students and future professionals. We ran our first 2018. 48 ﻿ Corporate Health Management implements various measures combine their professional and private commitments as in Switzerland to help employees strengthen their resilience in effectively as possible. To promote a dialogue that takes into an increasingly challenging environment. In collaboration with account the collective interests of our employees, various specialist units, we run cross-divisional national Credit Suisse has worked closely with organizations such as events aimed at maintaining and promoting employee health. the European Works Council and the Credit Suisse Staff In 2019, we continued our mindfulness campaign which had Council in Switzerland for many years. More information is been launched the previous year. The campaign included available at: various offers to help our employees maintain and improve >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/flexibilityhealth their resilience in an increasingly challenging environment. We have also increased paternity leave for our employees in Switzerland from five days to twelve days as of January 1, This chapter addresses the following issues: 2019. Furthermore, in 2016, Credit Suisse in Switzerland 1 Culture of compliance and conduct was awarded the “Friendly Work Space” label by Health 5 Incentives and compensation policy Promotion Switzerland (Gesundheitsförderung Schweiz), 10 Quality and range of services and advice demonstrating the successful implementation of our 12 Human resources and talent management corporate health management framework. In 2019, Credit Suisse was successfully recertified. Further information: >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/employer In consultation with various specialist units, we have >> see p. 7 developed several offerings that help our employees to 4 Challenge and response The employment landscape is evolving rapidly due  Workshops to teach presentation skills for interviews to the digitalization of work processes and demoand provide advice on how to create a short profile on graphic changes. What steps is Credit Suisse taking social media like LinkedIn. to support mature employees in Switzerland in the  The Generational Mentoring program: In this reverse later stages of their careers? approach, seasoned employees engage in an exchange with their younger colleagues about how At Credit Suisse, we are committed to helping employees they handle their current work environment, which realize their full potential at every stage of their career, communication channels they prefer, and how they including more mature professionals within our workforce manage daily challenges. who bring considerable skills and experience to their roles.  The external training program Skills 4.0 provided by We provide tailored support so that this group of employthe Challenge Your Potential (CYP) learning organizaees can adjust their skill sets to changing market needs, tion: This program focuses on developing the new adapt to new environments and remain employable in the skills and the mindset required for the digital age, labor market. including self-assessments and personal coaching. Our range of learning and development opportunities Furthermore, we offer senior executives over the age of include: 50 and with at least ten years of service the opportunity to  The VEP (Very Experienced Professionals) Network take a three-month sabbatical during which they receive 45+: This Diversity and Inclusion employee network 80% of their regular pay. We encourage these individuals offers tailored learning events and workshops and to take a break from daily business in order to focus on facilitates a dialogue between generations. Topics their personal and professional development. We believe range from the latest technology trends to advice on that fully committed employees with the right set of skills how to drive one’s career forward and create “one’s and a good grasp of technology over the entire employee own brand”. lifecycle are key success factors for the bank. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 49 ﻿ Responsible approach to compensation The objectives of the Group’s compensation policy include the overall compensation framework at Credit Suisse, the attracting and retaining employees, and motivating them to Compensation Committee took into account the feedback achieve sustainable results with integrity and fairness. The received from external stakeholders, as well as considerkey elements of the compensation framework for Group ing market developments to assess whether current employees comprise fixed compensation (base salary, practices remain appropriately competitive. As a result of pension and other benefits) and variable incentive this review, it determined that the overall compensation compensation, which is determined based on the Group’s framework continues to be appropriate. performance as well as individual performance evaluations. Variable incentive compensation is deferred for persons In determining the Group’s variable incentive compensawith a total compensation of CHF/USD 250,000 or tion pool for 2019, the Compensation Committee took into higher, mainly in the form of share-based awards or consideration the Group’s financial performance during the Contingent Capital Awards (CCA). All deferred compensayear as well as progress made against strategic objectives, tion awards contain provisions that enable the Group to relative performance, market position and market trends, reduce or cancel the awards prior to settlement under as well as control, risk, compliance and ethical considercertain circumstances. For the Executive Board, variable ations. While the Group significantly increased its incentive compensation comprises short-term incentive profitability in 2019, with income before taxes up by 40% (STI) awards, which are linked to the achievement of year-on-year, the Compensation Committee’s recommenpredetermined performance objectives for the prior year, dation to the Board of Directors was not to increase the and long-term incentive (LTI) awards, which are based on Group variable incentive compensation pool in order to future performance outcomes measured against predeterre-balance the distribution of profits between shareholders mined performance targets over a period of three years. and employees and to return more value to shareholders. Maximum STI and LTI opportunity levels are determined The total variable incentive compensation awarded for for each Executive Board member and are each expressed 2019 was CHF 3.2 billion, 1% lower than the prior year. as a multiple of base salary. At the end of the respective performance cycles, the maximum payout level for each In accordance with Swiss law, the Group will submit award is capped at 100% of the opportunity level. proposals on Board and Executive Board compensation for binding shareholder approval at the AGM in 2020. During 2019, we continued to engage with key shareholdComprehensive information on the Group, Executive ers and external stakeholders, both to listen to their views Board and Board compensation can be found in the 2019 on our current compensation practices, and to understand Compensation Report. any thoughts they had on areas of focus for the Compensation Committee in future years. In its annual review of 50 ﻿ This page is intentionally left blank Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 51 ﻿ Responsibility for the environment Responsibility for the environment 54 52 ﻿ Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 53 ﻿ Responsibility for the environment We take environmental impacts into account when conducting our business by developing sustainable products and services and addressing sustainability issues when managing risk. The implementation of various operational measures helps us to improve our own environmental performance. Credit Suisse is committed to developing and supporting business models; providing sustainable finance solutions; and measures that contribute to a more environmentally reducing the carbon footprint of our own operations (see sustainable economy. We believe that these efforts are in the pages 19-20). interests of both our organization and our clients and other stakeholders. Our approach is based on our Code of Conduct We also follow a sustainable investment approach for our real and our Statement on Sustainability, which explains how we estate investment portfolio (see box on page 55), and we aim to address environmental and social issues when continue to integrate climate issues in our risk management performing our activities as a bank. The UN Global Compact processes. To assess whether projects or client activities may and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are pose a major risk to the environment, the climate or other important points of reference in this area. biodiversity, we apply our Reputational Risk Review Process. Our sector policies and guidelines govern the responsible Further information: provision of financial services to clients and define the >> see p. 62−63 relevant environmental and social aspects that are to be considered when assessing individual transactions. Addressing climate change Climate change is a reality that must be addressed. The Paris Further information: Agreement charts the course of the global response to the >> see p. 17–22 threat of climate change with its overarching objective to limit the rise in the global temperature to well below 2° Celsius We are working on addressing the recommendations of the above pre-industrial levels. Based on the Paris Agreement, Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related countries have committed to implement transition plans to Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and we expect our TCFD lower their greenhouse gas emissions. As a global financial adoption efforts to provide us with further guidance for the institution, we recognize our share of responsibilities in transition toward a world that progressively minimizes its combating climate change by supporting the transition to a dependency on fossil fuels (see box on page 21). low-carbon and climate-resilient global economy. Our principles and our approach to climate protection are set out In 2019, Credit Suisse continued to participate in the in our Statement on Climate Change, which describes how dialogue about the development of strategies for sustainable, we intend to address climate-related risks, mobilize financial climate-friendly business practices. In Switzerland, for resources and reduce our own environmental footprint. example, we have hosted the Lifefair Forum event series for Furthermore, Credit Suisse signed the UN Principles for a number of years. At the 2019 Lifefair events, experts from Responsible Banking (PRB) in 2019, which call for the the business community, the political arena and NGOs banking sector to align with the objectives of the UN engaged in discussions about sustainability-related topics Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement such as smart climate action, and sustainable logistics and (see page 8). transportation. In 2019, Credit Suisse introduced a Group-wide Climate Risk Further information on climate-related topics and our Strategy with a three-pronged approach: supporting our Statement on Climate Change are available at: clients in their transition to low-carbon and climate-resilient >> www.credit-suisse.com/climate 54 ﻿ Global Real Estate in Credit Suisse Asset Management The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that To complement this approach, and to assess the energy buildings and the construction sector are responsible for and CO2 performance of its portfolio, all managed just over one-third of global final energy consumption and properties are monitored and controlled by the building nearly 40% of total direct and indirect CO2 emissions. technology company Siemens Switzerland AG with the aim Improving the energy efficiency of buildings and taking of ensuring transparency across the lifecycle of each account of various other sustainability considerations in property. As a result of Global Real Estate’s systematic real estate investment decisions are therefore important approach, the portfolio’s CO2 emissions have been components of global efforts to tackle climate change. reduced by 17.5% globally since 2010. We regard sustainability as an essential requirement in the To comprehensively assess its sustainability or Environmanagement and development of the properties within our mental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance, various real estate products. Global Real Estate in Global Real Estate has participated in the Global Real Credit Suisse Asset Management had over CHF 51 billion Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) since 2013. of assets under management at end-2019 and a portfolio GRESB allows for the measurement of the ESG perforof more than 1,300 properties across 14 countries. Global mance of each property portfolio, illustrates the potential Real Estate’s commitment to sustainable real estate is for improvements, and benchmarks companies’ perforreflected by its investment solutions and its sustainable mance against peer groups and across the industry. As of investment approach to the whole portfolio. end-2019, more than 1,000 real estate companies representing USD 4.5 trillion of assets under management To establish a comparable standard for all new buildings, across 65 countries benchmarked their real estate assets Global Real Estate relies on the Credit Suisse greenpropthrough the GRESB platform to evaluate their sustainabilerty quality seal that has been applied to more than 130 ity performance. Institutional investors use ESG data and properties across the portfolio. Other industry standards GRESB’s analytical tools to improve the sustainability such as LEED, BREEAM, DGNB or Minergie are also performance of their investment portfolios, engage with applied. investment managers and prepare for increasingly rigorous ESG obligations. Biodiversity and natural capital (RSPO) – of which we are a member – and the Forest At Credit Suisse, we view the protection of biodiversity as Stewardship Council (FSC). To promote good forestry and an integral part of our sustainability commitments, and we agribusiness practices and to discourage net forest converaddress this topic in a variety of ways. In our risk managesion, our policies also include restrictions on financing ment processes, we have incorporated biodiversity-related activities related to High Conservation Value Forests as well aspects into our sector-specific policies and guidelines. For as provisions for the particular scrutiny of peatland operations example, our policy requirements for the forestry and and the prohibition of financial services for operations in agribusiness sectors are aligned with relevant sustainability protected areas such as UNESCO World Heritage sites. initiatives such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 55 ﻿ We also engage with stakeholders on defining ways for the Recognizing the need for capital in conserving ecosystems, financial industry to contribute to preserving biodiversity and we are active in the conservation finance space, which the world’s natural habitats. For instance, we have acted as a focuses on the creation of new, long-term and diversified technical advisor to the Zoological Society of London’s sources of revenue that can play a role in ensuring terrestrial Sustainability Policy Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT) for a as well as marine biodiversity conservation and the health of number of years, and are part of the Technical Advisory natural ecosystems. We are expanding our product offering in Group for the palm oil and the timber and pulp sectors. this space. In 2019, Credit Suisse was also the sole manager SPOTT currently assesses over 200 commodity producers of a Sustainable Development Bond issuance by the World and traders on the public disclosure of their policies, Bank, focusing attention on the so-called “blue economy”. operations and commitments to environmental, social and governance best practices. We also supported the expansion Finally, we have hosted the Credit Suisse Annual Conservaof the SPOTT platform to the natural rubber sector in 2019, tion Finance Investor Conference in New York for seven and we continue to assist with SPOTT website design and years, providing a forum where specialists can discuss content updates through employee “virtual volunteering” solutions for further developing the conservation finance activities. Moreover, we provided support to the High sector. Conservation Value Resource Network (HCVRN) secretariat for the development of a training strategy to improve the More information is available at: quality of High Conservation Value and High Carbon Stock >> www.credit-suisse.com/biodiversity Assessments in the palm oil sector. Raising employee awareness of environmental issues We give employees the opportunity to make a personal awareness of environmental management as well as on-the-job contribution to environmental protection, and health and safety topics, we provided 17,600 hours of we inform them about environmental issues. In this training to 17,200 participants together with various context, around 3,500 employees worldwide had signed service providers in 2019. Credit Suisse participated in the up to our regional Sustainability Networks as of end-2019. “bike to work” campaign for the twelfth time in 2019, with In addition, Credit Suisse once again took part in the 86 teams of employees in Switzerland cycling to work in symbolic Earth Hour climate campaign in 2019, with the May and June, covering a distance of over 136,000 lights at 43 Credit Suisse offices around the world being kilometers – which is equivalent to circumnavigating the switched off for one hour on March 30, 2019. To increase globe more than three times. Environmental management energy efficiency by approximately 1.6 gigawatt hours Credit Suisse strives to make more efficient use of natural (GWh). resources and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We focus our efforts on energy management because energy We have a rigorous control framework in place to manage consumption is among the areas in which our operations our environmental impact. A key component of this framehave the greatest direct impact on the environment. In order work is our globally certified Environmental Management to reduce environmental impacts and lower costs, we System (EMS), which has been implemented in accordance continuously implement a variety of measures through our with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. In 2019, we successenvironmental management system. fully completed an EMS surveillance audit carried out by SGS, without any Corrective Action Requests (CARs). We In 2019, we continued to concentrate on improving energy also involve external service providers and suppliers in our efficiency and on reducing the consumption of electricity and continuous efforts to improve our environmental management fossil fuels. Through our energy efficiency program in measures where appropriate. Switzerland, for example, we were able to increase our 56 ﻿ 2025 environmental objectives We continuously review our environmental strategy to  Increase the office space in our portfolio that is ensure best practices are implemented into our daily certified as “green” – according to labels such as the management processes. We have strengthened our Credit Suisse greenproperty quality seal, LEED, commitment to environmental management by introducing BREEAM, DGNB or Minergie – to 50% of our total the following 2025 environmental objectives: office space portfolio  Reduce total greenhouse gas emissions by 75% with  Improve our regional energy efficiency by 1.5% per regard to the aspects based on which emissions from year from 2020 through 2025 our operational activities are reported, relative to 2010  Reduce single-use plastic and increase the share of levels products made from recycled and reusable materials  Procure 100% renewable electricity, and commit to  Reduce the amount of paper used by 10% compared the RE100 initiative, through which we pledge to to 2018 and ensure 100% of paper purchases carry continuously increase the green power share of an appropriate environmental label electricity consumed in our operations  Reduce water consumption by 10% per employee (full-time equivalent) compared to 2018 Reducing our environmental footprint global greenhouse gas emissions. To reduce the number of By systematically pursuing our four-pillar strategy to achieve flights taken, our relevant policy encourages employees to greenhouse gas neutrality (see chart on page 58), we have travel by train when covering shorter distances, and to use reduced our annual net global greenhouse gas emissions by telephone and video conferencing whenever possible. around 23% since 2017. This achievement is in part based Emissions from air travel, as all residual emissions from our on continued energy efficiency measures across our operations, are offset through ERCs. In 2019, this amounted premises as well as investments to reduce energy consumpto around 70,800 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. tion. These measures constitute pillars 1 and 2 of our strategy. Furthermore, as part of these efforts to substantially We also reduced our environmental footprint through the use reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the of certified paper produced from forests that are managed share of climate-friendly energy sources, we purchased sustainably in line with, for example, the Forest Stewardship Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for selected Council (FSC) criteria; this accounted for 78% of our global Credit Suisse offices in Poland, Russia, the UK, the US, paper consumption in 2019. Furthermore, we were able to Mexico and Brazil, Hong Kong, India and Japan to increase reduce our water consumption in Switzerland by approxithe share of climate-friendly energy sources. In Switzerland, mately 2,700 m³ compared to 2018. Finally, flexible working we have been able to set up electricity supply contracts that models that enable our employees to work from home from cover our entire electricity consumption with RECs from time to time can also help to reduce local emissions from hydropower. As a result, 90% of our global electricity regional commuter traffic. consumption in 2019 was from renewable sources. The purchase of RECs is the main component of pillar 3 of our strategy. Finally, the remainder of emissions is offset through This chapter addresses the following issues: Emissions Reduction Certificates (ERCs) (pillar 4 of the 2 Climate change strategy). Through these combined efforts, we again 3 Environmental and social risk management achieved global greenhouse gas neutrality in 2019, a goal 6 Responsible investments we first achieved in 2010. >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility/environment Business travel continues to pose a challenge for Credit Suisse due to the global nature of our business. It is Further information: often essential to maintain direct contact with clients, which >> see p. 7 is why business air travel accounts for around 56% of our Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 57 ﻿ Global greenhouse gas neutrality – our four-pillar strategy Credit Suisse has been greenhouse gas neutral globally since 2010. To the purchase of ERCs. As a result of the various measures taken across achieve this, we systematically pursue our four-pillar strategy based on the first three pillars of our strategy, our net global greenhouse gas operational efficiency improvements, energy-saving investments, the emissions decreased by around 70% to 127,500 metric tons of CO2 substitution of existing energy sources through climate-friendly energy and equivalents in 2019 compared to the year 2010. RECs, and finally by compensating for the remaining emissions through Four-pillar strategy 1. Optimizing operations 2. Investments 3. Substitution 4. Compensation Efficiency gains and reduction of Reduction of energy consumption Use of climate-friendly energy Purchase of Emissions Reduction energy consumption through the through energy-saving sources (2019: A total of Certificates (ERCs) (in 2019, optimization of installations investments 342 gigawatt hours or 90% 60% of ERCs met the Gold of electricity consumed globally Standard)1 were generated using renewable resources) Reduction of own material and energy consumption Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions each time energy is consumed Reduction of own greenhouse gas emissions Compensation of remaining greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas neutrality ¹ 60% of the ERCs in the 2019 portfolio met the Gold Standard. 40% of the ERCs are generated in Turkey; 20% are generated in China, India and Brazil, respectively. Due to the increased purchase of renewable power via RECs in 2019, greenhouse gas emissions offset through the purchase of ERCs could be reduced by a further approximate 70,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents. 58 ﻿ Credit Suisse’s greenhouse gas Portfolio of purchased Greenhouse gas emissions emissions in 2019 Emissions Reduction Overview of scope 1− 3 emissions Certificates (ERCs) 2019¹ (rounded net figures; CO2 equivalents in metric tons) Directly through burning fuels and losses from 15,600 coolants and fire extinguishers (scope 1)² Total: 127,500 19,500 metric tons Indirectly from energy production (scope 2 market-based)² 142,400 Indirectly from energy production (scope 2 location-based)² 60% Business travel 40% Wind Indirectly through sources such as energy 34% Energy use of buildings 6% Paper, waste, water, 20% 20% Biomass/biogas power Photovoltaic power 92,400 precombustion, business travel, paper, waste and water (scope 3)² extinguishing agent 20% Geothermal power losses and coolant losses Global key performance indicators for environmental management 3 2019 2018 4 2017 4 Absolute Per FTE 5 Absolute Per FTE 5 Absolute Per FTE 5 Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalents in metric tons) 6 127,500 2.6 152,900 3.3 164,800 3.5 Energy (MWh) 462,900 9.5 489,400 10.6 510,500 10.8 Business travel (km) 437,400,000 9,000 420,600,000 9,100 418,900,000 8,850 Paper (t) 2,300 0.05 2,600 0.06 2,700 0.06 Water (m3) 765,000 16 740,900 16 944,900 20 Waste (t) 6,300 0.13 7,700 0.17 12,700 0.27 ¹ 60% of ERCs meet the Gold Standard. 4 Rounded figures; minor adjustments made to 2018 and 2017 data sets. ² For details of scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 emissions, see environmental 5 As of December 31 of the reporting year; employees (full-time performance data for in-house operations at credit-suisse.com/crr equivalents). 3 VfU standard 2018 (rounded figures) newly applied to data set 2019, as 6 Net greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2 market-based) prior to offsets well as retrospectively applied to data sets 2017 and 2018. made to achieve greenhouse gas neutrality. Further information on environmental management and Detailed information on Credit Suisse’s four-pillar strategy is examples of measures taken globally and in all our regions available online at: are available at: >> credit-suisse.com/4pillarstrategy >> credit-suisse.com/environmentalmanagement Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 59 ﻿ 4 Challenge and response Challenge: Tackling climate change is a major global company’s greenhouse gas footprint and its energy challenge, receiving increasing attention from a efficiency objectives, while some of our policies and wide range of stakeholders, including policymakers guidelines require clients to have a plan in place to deal and regulators, investors, NGOs, climate activists, with climate change risks. In 2019, our sector policies and the media and the broader public. The year 2019 guidelines, which had previously excluded any form of saw large-scale demonstrations demanding climate financing for new greenfield thermal coal mines, were action around the world, some of which addressed updated to also exclude any form of financing specifically the role of financial institutions. Making finance related to the development of new coal-fired power plants flows consistent with a pathway towards low green(see page 18). house gas emissions and climate-resilient development is also an important component of the Paris We continued our work on addressing the recommendaAgreement, which entered into force in 2016. What tions of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on steps is Credit Suisse taking to help address the Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (see box on challenge of climate change? page 21). In that context, Credit Suisse participated in the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment pilot Response: Credit Suisse recognizes its share of responsiproject in 2019, working with other international banks to bility in addressing the challenges of climate change, and develop and test methodologies for measuring the we acknowledge that financial flows also need to be alignment of corporate lending portfolios with the Paris brought in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Agreement. We are also participating in Phase II of the We believe that our role as a financial intermediary is to TCFD Banking pilot under UNEP FI, through which a act as a reliable partner in the transition to a low-carbon systematic, repeatable and comprehensive approach to and climate-resilient economy. Our principles and our assess transition and physical risks in accordance with the approach to climate protection are set out in our StateTCFD recommendations is being developed. Credit Suisse ment on Climate Change, and we became a founding is also continuously expanding its activities in the area of signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking of the green finance (see page 27). In our own operations, we UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) have been greenhouse gas neutral on the reported in 2019 (see page 8). aspects since 2010 and have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 70% since 2010 (see pages 56-59). In the same year, we introduced a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program, integrating our existing efforts as Finally, Credit Suisse engages in an ongoing dialogue with well as defining new measures (see pages 19-20). As a NGOs and other actors in the conversation on climate part of this strategy, we are working with our clients to change. The concerns expressed in that context are support their transition to low-carbon and climate-resilient important. We take a variety of viewpoints on the nature, business models. We also continue to integrate climate scope and pace of actions required into account when change into our risk management process (see page further developing our approach to addressing this 17-18). This includes evaluating factors such as a challenge. 60 ﻿ Reporting on Corporate Responsibility Through our reporting on corporate responsibility, we inform GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards our stakeholders openly and transparently about the ways in Our reporting on corporate responsibility addresses the growwhich we address economic, environmental and social chaling importance of non-financial reporting and the increasing lenges in our daily business activities, as well as about the stakeholder demand for relevant information in this area. The principles that guide us in our work. These principles are set GRI Standards provide a framework for voluntary sustainabilout in our Code of Conduct and in our Conduct and Ethics ity reporting, helping to increase transparency and comparaStandards. They apply to all our activities and to our relationbility. In line with the GRI Standards, Credit Suisse regularly ship with our different stakeholders. Further guidance is proconducts a materiality assessment to better understand the vided by the Group-wide Statement on Sustainability. views and interests of our stakeholders. This report focuses on issues classified as particularly important in the context of See also: the materiality assessment. >> credit-suisse.com/sustainabilitycommitments Further information: Scope of the report >> see p. 6 – 7 This report forms an integral part of our Annual Reporting Suite and focuses on the financial year 2019. It explains how Credit Suisse’s 2019 reporting documents on corporate our commitments and aspirations in the area of corporate responsibility reflect the GRI Standards for sustainability responsibility are put into practice as a key component of our reporting (core option). Selected indicators in our GRI-based operations, and it provides an overview of our principal actividisclosure on corporate responsibility are externally assessed ties and milestones in 2019. It also documents the progress and independently assured by SGS. Our Corporate Responwe have made in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN sibility Report 2019 will be submitted voluntarily to the SIX Global Compact, as well the measures we have put in place Swiss Exchange in accordance with the opting-in regulation to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Developfor companies issuing sustainability reports. ment Goals. Further details regarding our GRI indicators and the external The contents of the report, along with additional information review are available at: about our efforts relating to corporate responsibility, are also >> credit-suisse.com/gri available at: >> credit-suisse.com/responsibility Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 61 ﻿ Implementation of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Over 10,000 businesses from around 160 countries have pledged to uphold the principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption efforts defined in the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Credit Suisse has been a WE SUPPORT signatory to this leading international initiative since its inception in 2000, and we are an active member in the Global Compact Network Switzerland. Through our Corporate Responsibility Report, we communicate annually on the progress we have made in implementing the Ten Principles. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Implementation at Credit Suisse See pages Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and  Participation in the Thun Group to promote a better understanding 20 respect the protection of internationally of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights for the banking sector proclaimed human rights; and  Statement on Human Rights 20 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit  Sustainability risk management 17 – 22 in human rights abuses.  Sector-specific policies and guidelines 18 – 19 Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of  Credit Suisse Staff Council in Switzerland (internal employee 49 representation) association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  European Works Council 49 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced  Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk 22 and compulsory labor; Management (TPRM) framework  Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Transparency Statement 20 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor;  Sector-specific policies and guidelines 18 – 19 and  Credit Suisse Supplier Code of Conduct and Third Party Risk 22 Management (TPRM) framework Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect  Diversity and inclusion 46 – 47 of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a  Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program 19 – 20 precautionary approach to  Statement on Climate Change 54 environmental challenges;  Sustainability risk management 17 – 22  Sector-specific policies and guidelines 18 – 19  Signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) 8  Signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 23  Addressing the recommendations of the Financial Stability 21 Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (FSB TCFD)  Signatory to the Poseidon Principles 19 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater  Global greenhouse gas neutrality since 2010 58 environmental responsibility; and  ISO 14001-certified environmental management system 56  Activities in the area of conservation finance 26  Impact Advisory and Finance (IAF) department 23 – 24 Principle 9 encourage the development and  Use of climate-friendly energy sources for our operations 57 diffusion of environmentally friendly  Green finance 27 technologies.  Renewable energy project financing 26  Sustainable real estate 55 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against  Member of the Wolfsberg Group 15 corruption in all its forms, including  Internal standards and training for employees 44 – 46 extortion and bribery.  Integrity Hotline 15 62 ﻿ Our contribution to the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable development is a key aspect of our corporate responsibility. Since the introduction of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the UN in 2015, we have been pursuing activities designed to contribute to the realization of the SDGs in our role as a global financial institution. In 2019, in the context of our materiality assessment survey, we again consulted with our stakeholders to learn about their perception of Credit Suisse’s most significant impacts on the SDGs. Among the 17 SDGs, Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) and Climate Action (SDG 13) were mentioned most frequently. These results confirm our previous priority areas. The following table provides an overview or our wide-ranging activities relating to selected objectives. Objective Our contribution See pages Goal 4: Quality education Ensure inclusive and equitable quality  We promote access to education and help to improve the quality of education 35 education and promote lifelong through our Global Education Initiative learning opportunities for all.  We run a financial education program for girls in Brazil, China, India, Rwanda, 35 Sri Lanka and Tanzania  We support regional education programs in collaboration with partner organizations 35, 40 – 41 Goal 5: Gender equality Achieve gender equality and empower  We foster diversity and inclusion within our organization 46 – 47 all women and girls.  We take measures to increase the proportion of women in management positions 47 within our organization  We promote access to financial services for women in developing countries 35 – 41 and emerging markets through our financial inclusion activities and run a financial education program for girls Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy Ensure access to affordable, reliable,  We provide renewable energy financing 26 sustainable and modern energy for all.  We use climate-friendly energy sources for our business premises and have buildings 55 – 57 certified according to energy efficiency standards  We run an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system 56 Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Promote sustained, inclusive and  We offer progressive working conditions for our employees 44 – 50 sustainable economic growth, full  We support economic growth and entrepreneurship through our role as a lender 30 – 34 and productive employment and and financial intermediary decent work for all.  We are an integral part of the economy and society in our role as an employer, client, 30 – 34 contractual partner and taxpayer  We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries and emerging markets 37 – 41 through our activities in the area of financial inclusion Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure Build resilient infrastructure, promote  We supply risk capital to support growth and innovation, including through 31 inclusive and sustainable Credit Suisse Entrepreneur Capital AG in Switzerland industrialization and foster innovation.  We help to strengthen local economies in developing countries and emerging markets 35 – 37 through our activities in the area of financial inclusion  We provide renewable energy financing 26  We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies 17 – 22 and guidelines in place Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities Make cities and human settlements  We invest in sustainable real estate 55 inclusive, safe, resilient and  We are committed to continuously improving the ESG performance (environmental, 55 social and governance performance), energy efficiency and carbon footprint of our sustainable. real estate investment portfolio Goal 13: Climate action Take urgent action to combat climate  We have a Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program in place 19 – 20 change and its impacts.  We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies 17 – 22 and guidelines in place  We are addressing the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task 21 Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (FSB TCFD)  We offer a range of green finance products and services for our clients 27  We are greenhouse gas neutral across all our operations globally 58  We are a signatory to the Poseidon Principles 19 Goal 15: Life on land Protect, restore and promote sustainable  We are active in the area of conservation finance 26 use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably  We have an ongoing advisory role to the Zoological Society of London’s Sustainability 56 manage forests, combat desertification, Policy Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT) and halt and reverse land degradation  We focus on sustainability risk management and have sector-specific policies 17 – 22 and guidelines in place and halt biodiversity loss. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 63 ﻿ Sustainability indices and ratings assigned to Credit Suisse in 2019 Indices Brief description Credit Suisse Dow Jones Sustainability Global best-in-class approach: The top 10% of the 2,500 Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the Dow Jones World Index (DJSI World) largest companies in the S&P Global Broad Market Sustainability World Index since it was launched in 1999. IndexSM that lead the field in terms of sustainability. Dow Jones Sustainability European best-in-class approach: The top 20% of the Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the European Europe Index (DJSI Europe) 600 largest European companies in the S&P Global Index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices since Broad Market IndexSM that lead the field in terms of it was launched in 2001. sustainability. FTSE4Good Index Companies that meet globally recognized corporate Credit Suisse has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good responsibility standards. Index Series since it was launched in 2001. Ratings Brief description Credit Suisse CDP CDP represents institutional investors with invested B (rating scale: D– to A) assets of over USD 100 trillion; its aim is to offer transparent guidance to investors on climate-related opportunities and risks for companies. MSCI ESG Rating MSCI ESG Ratings assess a company’s performance BBB (rating scale: AAA to CCC) based on environmental, social and governance (ESG) themes, focusing on key ESG issues identified for the industry. SAM Corporate The SAM CSA analyzes the sustainability performance of Overall company score: 68 (rating scale: 1 to 100) Sustainability Assessment over 4,500 listed companies every year based on (94th percentile); Economic dimension score: 56; (CSA) environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. Environmental dimension score: 88; Social dimension score: 79 Sustainalytics The sustainability research carried out by Sustainalytics 65 points (rating scale: 1 to 100) focuses on environmental, social and governance (ESG) (70th percentile; rated 108 out of 353) criteria. Sustainability networks and initiatives Credit Suisse actively participates in a number of sustainability networks and initiatives worldwide. Climate Bonds Initiative Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Equator Principles Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) UN Environment Programme Finance Green Bond Principles Initiative (UNEP FI) Oebu – Swiss Business Council for UN Global Compact Sustainable Development WE SUPPORT Founding Signatory of: Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) Further information can be found online at: >> credit-suisse.com/agreements 64 ﻿ Achievements and objectives 0 Banking Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019  Continue our efforts to drive a robust  Through our Conduct and Financial Crime Control Committee, we continued to actively monitor and compliance culture throughout the bank assess financial crime compliance risks and drive initiatives focused on vigilance within the context of through targeted measures that take account of combating financial crime. the changing operating environment.  We continued to focus on developing and enhancing our data and technology platforms that contribute to mitigating employee and client risk.  Take steps to address the implications of  In order to provide continued services to EU clients and access to EU markets, we are leveraging the UK’s decision to leave the EU in order our existing legal entity network and, where necessary, transferring our EU clients and EU venueto minimize disruption to the business and to facing broker-dealer business to Group entities, including those incorporated in Spain, Credit Suisse clients. Securities Sociedad de Valores S.A., and Germany, Credit Suisse (Deutschland) AG.  Focus on generating capital in order to return  We continued to generate capital and reported an increased common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio it to shareholders; our long-term objective is to of 12.7% at end-2019. We distributed CHF 1.7 billion of capital to our shareholders last year – distribute around 50% of profits to shareholders including through the successful completion of our CHF 1 billion share buyback program for 2019. for 2019 and 2020. We commenced a similar program for 2020 and, prior to the spread of COVID-19, had expected to buy back at least CHF 1 billion of shares this year, subject to market and economic conditions. Having completed the initial share purchases under the 2020 program earlier this year, the Board of Directors will review its expectation for the balance of the program when there is greater certainty over the economic, financial and market outlook.  Develop methodologies and tools for the  In 2019, we joined the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (PACTA) pilot project, alignment of credit portfolios with the Paris recognizing that financial flows also need to be brought in line with the objectives set out in the Paris Climate Agreement, working with other banks. Agreement. Within that project, Credit Suisse is working with other international banks to develop and test methodologies for measuring the alignment of corporate lending portfolios with the Paris Agreement. We are also participating in Phase II of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Banking pilot under the United Nations Environment Programme, wherein a systematic, repeatable, and comprehensive approach to assess transition and physical risks in accordance with the TCFD recommendations is being developed.  Launch pilot phase to define internal climate  We have identified several key risks and opportunities, originating from either the physical or transition risk terminology and measure certain sector effects of climate change. exposures against defined climate scenarios.  Climate-related risks are embedded in our Group-wide risk taxonomy. They could manifest themselves through existing risk types such as credit risk, market risk, non-financial risk, business risk or reputational risk.  The Group has enhanced its internal reports and is developing further climate risk-related scenario analysis in addition to the 2°C and 4°C scenarios introduced in 2018.  Review and further develop Credit Suisse’s In 2019, we made the following updates to our sector policies and guidelines for sensitive industries: sector policies and guidelines for sensitive  Update of the Power Sector Guidelines to exclude any form of financing specifically related to the industries. development of new coal-fired power plants.  Inclusion of the concept of Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) in our policies on oil and gas, mining as well as forestry and agribusiness in order to better respect the rights of indigenous peoples that may be affected by project-related transactions.  Continue to engage with peers and industry  We continued our active participation in industry initiatives such as the Equator Principles and the groups for the development of environmental Thun Group. and social (E&S) due diligence approaches and  Credit Suisse played an active role in the update process of the Equator Principles and in the ongoing the improvement of E&S disclosure. management of the Equator Principles Association.  At the 2019 Thun Group meeting, Credit Suisse discussed topics such as the OECD Responsible Business Conduct guidelines, effective human rights due diligence and performance measurement and measures to combat modern slavery and human trafficking with representatives from banks, governments, academia, civil society and other actors.  We served as a member of the multi-stakeholder Advisory Group established by the OECD, which aims to develop best practice guidance for human rights and environmental due diligence based on the provisions of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In 2018 and 2019, the advisory group worked to develop the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting, published in October 2019.  In Singapore, we held our ninth annual roundtable on environmental and social risk management practices in investment banking, with participants from 12 different banks. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 65 ﻿ Objectives 2020  Achieve consistent growth and continued disciplined execution as we work towards achieving our return on tangible equity (RoTE) ambition of approximately 10% for 2020. However, the extent to which COVID-19 impacts our business, including with respect to our financial goals and related expectations and ambitions, is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time.  Continue to leverage existing risk management processes and capabilities for the management of climate risk.  Further develop our Group-wide Climate Risk Strategy program, assessing the readiness of our clients to transition to low-carbon and climate-resilient business activities.  Take steps to implement the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking. 66 ﻿ Achievements and objectives 1 Economy and society Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019  Continue to engage in an active dialogue with  We continued our longstanding dialogue with regulators and policymakers on various policy matters policymakers and regulators in order to ensure in 2019. Key topics included regulatory cooperation to avoid fragmentation of global standards, the competitiveness and resilience of the introduction of the new Basel III regulations in Switzerland as well as financial institutions’ share of financial sector. responsibilities in combating climate change by supporting the transition to a low-​carbon and climate-​ resilient global economy. We furthermore continued our engagement in various industry associations on both on a national and international level.  After the success of our global initiatives over  In 2019, we thoroughly reviewed and updated our global Corporate Citizenship strategy, taking the last decade and based on our long-running into consideration societal needs and developments in all the regions where we operate. Our newly regional efforts, we want to build on our introduced Future Skills program complements our two global initiatives in the areas of financial strengths and continuously adapt to changing inclusion and financial education and is a natural evolution of our longstanding commitment to needs within society. In 2019, we want to education in the communities where we live and work. It also helps us to even better leverage the further develop our strategy and processes in resources at our disposal and to coherently showcase our programs and their impact in the different the area of corporate citizenship in order to regions. identify trends and issues at an early stage and to align our programs with them as effectively as possible. At the same time, we will strive to further optimize our internal resources. Objectives 2020  Provide thought leadership on and advocate proportionate and effective financial market regulation. Continue to engage with policymakers, trade associations and regulators on sustainable finance policy topics, with a particular focus on the EU Action Plan on Sustainable Finance, Swiss sustainable finance developments (e.g. total revision of the CO2 Act post 2020) and other global developments such as ESG disclosure requirements.  Further develop and establish our Future Skills program by identifying and collaborating with innovative partner organizations who are trying new models, as well as linking the program to core HR activities and thought leadership in the area of workforce development where possible. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 67 ﻿ Achievements and objectives 2 Employer Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019  Strengthen systematic nurturing and  In 2019, we positioned Credit Suisse as an inclusive employer that attracts and develops diverse development of diverse talent at Credit Suisse. talent. We leveraged our messaging from the Employer Value Proposition to communicate our focus on Diversity & Inclusion and we strengthened targeted recruitment campaigns that focus on diverse groups, e.g. our Real Returns program and Campaign for Women. As a result, we were awarded first place in the Diversity Index Switzerland and have been named as one of the top ten best places to work for women. We were also recognized as an «Exemplar of Inclusion» in the 2019 AVTAR.  Continue to foster collaboration and  In 2019, we increased investment in the systematic development of our key Senior Talent & Leaders. development of our leaders. We expanded our Leadership Development curriculum with the launch of the New Managing Director Program and the MD Masterclasses. We also continued the Senior Talent Program for our most senior Managing Director talents and introduced a similar pipeline program – the Emerging Leaders Program – for our Director talents. Objective 2020  Foster a culture of lifelong learning, and facilitate personalized learning to enable the upskilling of the Credit Suisse workforce in the context of continuous changes in the working environment and digital transformation. 68 ﻿ Achievements and objectives 0 Environment Objectives 2019 Achievements 2019  Continue support for sustainable soft  We continued to be a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). commodities, including industry standards, peer  We continued to act as a technical advisor to the Zoological Society of London’s Sustainability Policy collaboration, client advisory and disclosure. Transparency Toolkit (SPOTT), and are part of the Technical Advisory Group for the palm oil and the timber and pulp sectors. We also supported the expansion of the SPOTT platform to the natural rubber sector.  Maintain and further develop our ISO 14001  We reviewed our ISO14001 documentation and related processes and updated and optimized them environmental management system (EMS), where necessary. In particular, we optimized the management and governance of all electronic including continuous improvements in our information using a centralized document management system. environmental performance.  Ensure a successful global ISO 14001  We successfully passed the surveillance certification audits according to the ISO 14001:2015 surveillance audit under the direction of the Standard under the direction of the certification company SGS. Credit Suisse did not receive any certification company SGS. Corrective Action Requests (CARs) in the 2019 audit.  Continue to increase the green power share of  All electricity as well as all gas contracts in which Credit Suisse is a direct contractual partner and electricity consumed in our operations. which were put out to tender and awarded in 2019 are 100% renewable and therefore in line with our new 2025 environmental objectives. By the end of 2019, our global electricity consumption drew from 90% renewable sources.  Further strengthen the strategy for managing  We have updated and improved our environmental objectives strategy for our operations, in the Group’s operational footprint, including accordance with our environmental management system, our internal policies and our public consideration of multi-year environmental statements on sustainability and climate change. We have formulated a set of new environmental objectives. objectives that we seek to achieve by 2025. Objectives 2020  Continue our support for sustainable soft commodities, including industry standards, peer collaboration, client advisory and disclosure.  Ensure a successful global ISO14001 surveillance audit under the direction of the certification company SGS.  Roll out the implementation plan for the 2025 environmental objectives in all regions, and measure and report on related 2020 achievements. This includes a particular focus on: – Credit Suisse joining the global RE100 initiative and thereby striving to further increase the green power share of electricity consumed in our operations. – The goal of reducing single-use plastic items and increasing the share of products made from recycled and reusable materials; our goal is to implement a global roll-out at more than 15 major locations by end-2020.  Carbon Trust Standard: Successful recertification for energy and waste management for our UK facilities. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 69 ﻿ ﻿ Disclaimer/inquiries Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking  the effects of, and changes in, fiscal, monetary, information exchange rate, trade and tax policies, as well as This report contains statements that constitute forward-­ ­currency fluctuations; looking statements. In addition, in the future we, and  political, social and environmental developments, ­others on our behalf, may make statements that constitute ­including war, civil unrest or terrorist activity and climate forward-­looking statements. Such forward-looking statechange; ments may include, without limitation, statements relating  the ability to appropriately address social, environ­mental to the following: and sustainability concerns that may arise from our  our plans, targets or goals; business activities;  our future economic performance or prospects;  the effects of, and the uncertainty arising from, the  the potential effect on our future performance of certain UK’s withdrawal from the EU; contingencies; and  the possibility of foreign exchange controls, expropriation,  assumptions underlying any such statements. nationalization or confiscation of assets in countries in which we conduct our operations; Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,”  operational factors such as systems failure, human “intends” and “plans” and similar expressions are intended error, or the failure to implement procedures properly; to identify forward-looking statements but are not the  the risk of cyberattacks, information or security exclusive means of identifying such statements. We do not breaches or technology failures on our business or intend to update these forward-looking statements. operations;  the adverse resolution of litigation, regulatory proceedings, By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve and other contingencies; inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific,  actions taken by regulators with respect to our business and risks exist that predictions, forecasts, projections and and practices and possible resulting changes to our other outcomes described or implied in forward-looking business organization, practices and policies in countries statements will not be achieved. We caution you that a in which we conduct our operations; number of important factors could cause results to differ  the effects of changes in laws, regulations or accountmaterially from the plans, targets, goals, expectations, ing or tax standards, policies or practices in countries in estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking which we conduct our operations; statements.  the expected discontinuation of LIBOR and other interbank offered rates and the transition to alternative These factors include: ­reference rates;  the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity and access  the potential effects of changes in our legal entity capital markets; structure;  market volatility and interest rate fluctuations and devel competition or changes in our competitive position in opments affecting interest rate levels, including the pergeographic and business areas in which we conduct sistence of a low or negative interest rate environment; our operations;  the strength of the global economy in general and the  the ability to retain and recruit qualified personnel; strength of the economies of the countries in which we  the ability to maintain our reputation and promote our conduct our operations, in particular the risk of continued brand; slow economic recovery or downturn in the EU, the US  the ability to increase market share and control or other developed countries or in emerging markets in expenses; 2020 and beyond;  technological changes instituted by us, our counter­  the emergence of widespread health emergencies, parties or competitors; infectious diseases or pandemics, such as COVID-19;  the timely development and acceptance of our new  the direct and indirect impacts of deterioration or slow products and services and the perceived overall value of recovery in residential and commercial real estate these products and services by users; markets;  acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired  adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies in respect businesses successfully, and divestitures, including the of us, sovereign issuers, structured credit products or ability to sell non-core assets; and other credit-related exposures;  other unforeseen or unexpected events and our  the ability to achieve our strategic goals, including those ­success at managing these and the risks involved in the related to our targets, ambitions and financial goals; foregoing.  the ability of counterparties to meet their obligations to us and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses; We caution you that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. When evaluating forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider the foregoing factors 70 ﻿ and other uncertainties and events, including the information Inquiries set forth in “Risk factors” in I – Information on the company in our Annual Report 2019. Credit Suisse Corporate Communications Tel. +41 844 33 88 44 Important information about this publication Information referenced in this Corporate Responsibility media.relations@credit-suisse.com Report, whether via website links or otherwise, is not incorresponsibility.corporate@credit-suisse.com porated into this Corporate Responsibility Report. Photography Credit Suisse is subject to the Basel III framework, as implemented in Switzerland, as well as Swiss legislation Credit Suisse (p. 4), Dean Jaggy, Luxwerk (p. 10), and regulations for systemically important banks (Swiss Getty Images (p. 42, p. 52), iStockphoto (p. 28) requirements), which include capital, liquidity, leverage and large exposure requirements and rules for emergency Design plans designed to maintain systemically relevant functions in the event of threatened insolvency. SOURCE Associates AG As of January 1, 2015, the Bank for International SettleRealisation ments (BIS) leverage ratio framework, as issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, was impleManagement Digital Data AG mented in Switzerland by FINMA. Unless otherwise noted, leverage exposure is based on the BIS leverage ratio framework and consists of period-end balance sheet assets and prescribed regulatory adjustments. The BIS tier 1 leverage ratio and CET1 leverage ratio are calculated as BIS tier 1 capital and CET1 capital, respectively, divided by period-end leverage exposure. We may not achieve all of the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. Factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the market and economic conditions, changes in laws, rules or regulations and other challenges discussed in our public filings, could limit our ability to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of these initiatives. References to Wealth Management mean Private Clients within Swiss Universal Bank, Private Banking within International Wealth Management, and Private Banking within Wealth Management & Connected in Asia Pacific or their combined results. References to Wealth Managementrelated businesses mean Swiss Universal Bank, Inter­ national Wealth Management and Asia Pacific Wealth Management & Connected or their combined results. Credit Suisse – Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 71 ﻿ ﻿ CREDIT SUISSE GROUP Paradeplatz 8 8070 Zurich Switzerland credit-suisse.com
