FORWARD Sustainability Report 2019 31 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS VISION Economic Sustainability 31 Corporate Governance 31 A leading real estate company, Risk Management 35 shaping the best for future generations. Supply Chain and Responsible Procurement 37 Product Quality and Safety 38 MISSION 39 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Guided by our operating principles People Matter 39 and core values, we will create value Occupational Safety and Health 45 for all our stakeholders through Community Development 50 innovative real estate solutions. 54 OTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index 54 International Network 59 02 OVERVIEW About this Report 2 Corporate Profile 3 Highlights 4 Letter to Stakeholders 5 Sustainability Framework 9 Sustainable Development Goals 10 Commitment to Stakeholders 12 Managing Sustainability 13 14 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Climate Action 14 Environmental Management 14 WE PROVIDE SUSTAINABLE AND INNOVATIVE REAL ESTATE SOLUTIONS. A multi-faceted real estate player, Keppel Land provides innovative real estate solutions with its sterling portfolio of residential developments, commercial properties and integrated townships, while placing sustainability at the heart of its strategy and operations. OVERVIEW ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI 102-45 | 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-48 | 102-49 | 102-50 | 102-51 | 102-52 | 102-53 | 102-54 Keppel Land reaffirms its commitment towards sustainability with the publication of this sustainability report 2019 (the Report). GRI STANDARDS This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. It focuses on topics which have been identified as material to Keppel Land’s business and its key stakeholders. These material topics are detailed in the section on Managing Sustainability. The GRI Content Index contains the list of GRI Standards used in the Report. This Report has successfully completed the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service. It has also been reviewed and approved by Keppel Land’s Sustainability Committee, which ensures that all material issues are addressed. REPORTING PERIOD AND SCOPE Keppel Land has been publishing its sustainability report annually since 2008. The Report details the Company’s approach and initiatives taken in integrating sustainability into its policies, structure and daily operations. The Report provides an account of Keppel Land’s sustainability performance as well as its strategies and practices, while highlighting the economic, environmental and social impacts of the Company’s activities and developments across its properties in Singapore and overseas. It is based on Keppel Land’s fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2019. Where possible, the Report provides up to three years of historical information to allow sufficient basis for comparison. This Report demonstrates Keppel Land’s commitment to keep its stakeholders, including employees, customers, business partners, partner agencies and community members abreast of the Company’s efforts and developments in sustainability. To minimise the impact on the environment, no hard copies of this Report have been printed. The Report can be downloaded at Keppel Land’s corporate website, www.keppelland.com. 2 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited OVERVIEW CORPORATE PROFILE GRI 102-1 I 102-2 I 102-3 I 102-4 I 102-5 I 102-6 I 102-7 Keppel Land is the property arm of Keppel Corporation, one of Singapore’s flagship multinational companies with a global footprint in more than 20 countries. Keppel Corporation provides solutions for sustainable urbanisation, focusing on energy & environment, urban development, connectivity and asset management. As a multi-faceted property company, Keppel Land provides innovative real estate solutions with its sterling portfolio of award-winning residential developments, investment-grade commercial properties and integrated townships. Keppel Land is geographically diversified in Asia, with Singapore, China and Vietnam as its key markets, while it continues to scale up in other markets such as Indonesia and India. COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Keppel Land has been a signatory to the UNGC since 2011. Keppel Land has adopted six of the United Nations’ Sharing the same conviction that business practices which 17 Sustainable Development Goals which are most aligned are rooted in universal principles help the global marketplace with its business. They are Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being; to be more socially and economically inclusive, Keppel Land Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; Goal 11: has pledged its commitment to the UNGC’s 10 universal Sustainable Cities and Communities; Goal 12: Responsible principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment Consumption and Production; Goal 13: Climate Action; and and anti-corruption. Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals. RESPONSIBLE DESIGN VALUES INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM To encapsulate Keppel Land’s conscious effort to deliver Keppel Land has an Integrated Management System in place, the best standards in liveability, quality, aesthetics and which allows the Company to have an integrated approach sustainability, a set of Responsible Design Values was in the design, construction and development of its properties. developed. These guidelines are based on four key principles, This system combines the ISO 9001 quality management system, namely, innovative designs to differentiate Keppel Land’s the ISO 14001 environmental management system and the properties, integration of values, cost effectiveness and the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety management marketability of development projects. These design values system into a single framework, and ensures that all environmental, are adopted for all of Keppel Land’s new developments social and governance-related risks and issues at various stages in Singapore and overseas. of a development’s life cycle are assessed and addressed. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 3 OVERVIEW HIGHLIGHTS GRI 103-3 | 201-1 Net Profit Return on Equity $527m 14.3% Net profit was $527 million for FY2019, compared to Achieved 10-year average return on equity of 14.3%, $944 million for FY2018. from 2010 to 2019. Total Assets Carbon Emission Reduction $14.2b 93,000 tonnes Total assets increased by 1.6% year-on-year to When fully completed, the total reduction in $14.2 billion. carbon emissions from all of Keppel Land's BCA Green Mark-awarded projects will be about 93,000 tonnes per annum. Energy Savings Green Mark Awards $55m 84 awards Total estimated energy savings of over 220 million kWh Total of 84 BCA Green Mark Awards to-date, per annum, translating to cost savings of over $55 million including 17 Platinum and 12 GoldPLUS Awards. per annum, can be achieved from Keppel Land’s 84 BCA Green Mark-awarded developments when they are fully completed. Sterling Safety Record Safety Training & Education Zero fatalities 78,000 workers Strong track record in safety with over 21 million As at end-2019, a total of over 78,000 workers man-hours worked and zero fatalities in 2019. have been trained at Keppel Land's Safety Awareness Centres in China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia. Employee Engagement Volunteerism 91% 8,050 hours Achieved an overall employee engagement score A total of about 8,050 hours were clocked by staff of 91% in 2019, an increase of 5% from 2017 for community outreach activities in Singapore and when the last full survey was done. overseas in 2019. 4 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS Keppel Land is committed to supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals through responsible business practices as well as the development and management of low-carbon buildings. We will continue to sharpen our focus on innovation to provide smart and sustainable real estate solutions, which contribute to climate action. DEAR STAKEHOLDERS, in various Chinese cities but has since shown signs of recovery, while the market I am pleased to present Keppel Land’s in Vietnam has remained relatively resilient. Sustainability Report for 2019. In the wake of COVID-19, the design STAYING RESILIENT and use of offices and homes will evolve. The COVID-19 pandemic is inflicting The pandemic has brought to the fore the significant human costs worldwide and importance of smart, flexible and sustainable massively impacting the global economy. designs, as well as building features that The World Bank envisions a 5.2% contraction improve health and wellness. These are in global GDP in 2020, while Singapore’s attributes that Keppel Land’s developments Ministry of Trade and Industry has also have long been known for, and we will downgraded the nation’s GDP growth continue to seize business opportunities forecast to -7.0 to -4.0% for the year. in smart, green developments of the future. For companies, the pandemic highlights the ACCELERATING CLIMATE ACTION importance of business resilience – which The call for climate action took on greater includes robust business continuity plans urgency in 2019. With global emissions reaching as well as having a sustainable business and record levels and showing no sign of peaking, nimble workforce that can thrive and even at the United Nations (UN) Climate Action emerge stronger through these trying times. Summit held in September 2019, 70 countries committed to deliver more ambitious national Keppel Land’s diversification allows us to climate plans in 2020, in line with the objective better weather the impact of COVID-19. of net-zero emissions by 2050. Our commercial portfolio, comprising mainly office developments, is relatively resilient to Building on its earlier commitments, Singapore COVID-19. For the tenants in our commercial has also pledged to stabilise emissions with properties who have been affected by COVID-19, the aim of peaking around 2030. Beyond 2030, we have rolled out a series of measures to Singapore aspires to halve emissions from support them in these tough times, and are its 2030 peak by 2050, with a view to achieving committed to continue working closely with net-zero emissions as soon as viable in the them to render support, where possible. second half of the century. For residential trading projects, the impact varies across markets. In Singapore, the Keppel Land is committed to supporting market slowed down with the closure of the efforts of the international community sales galleries during the Circuit Breaker, and the Singapore government to accelerate coupled with more cautious sentiments climate action. We are committed to reduce our among buyers. Overseas, the Chinese carbon footprint both from the development of market slowed down during the lockdowns our properties and from operational activities. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 5 OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS We had met our target to reduce our carbon emission intensity by 16% below 2010’s level by 2020 ahead of time. We are pleased to share that our carbon emission intensity was about 22% below 2010’s level in 2019. We have since set a higher target of a 40% reduction below 2010’s level by 2030. STEADFAST SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Keppel Land adopts an integrated approach towards sustainability. We are committed to sound corporate governance practices and strive to carry out our business in a profitable yet socially and environmentally responsible manner. The key material environmental, social and governance issues for Keppel Land have been identified, reviewed and taken into consideration as part of the Company’s strategy formulation by the Board and management. TAN SWEE YIOW Since 2011, Keppel Land has been a signatory Chief Executive Officer of the UN Global Compact, the world's largest corporate sustainability initiative promoting sustainable business practices. We affirm our support of the Global Compact's 10 principles on human rights, labour, environment and We are committed to doing our part in an initiative by the BCA which reinforces anti-corruption, and this report serves as greening the built environment. We have the drive towards greater energy efficiency our Communication on Progress. set the benchmark1 for all new Singapore through green building research, design developments and overseas commercial and development capabilities. As part The Company is also committed to advancing projects to be certified to the Building of the GBIC programme, Keppel Land sustainable development through supporting and Construction Authority of Singapore’s piloted five technologies in certain parts the achievement of the UN Sustainable (BCA) Green Mark GoldPLUS standard, of Keppel Bay Tower, with the aim of Development Goals (SDGs). We have adopted or its equivalent, and for all overseas reducing the building’s energy consumption six of the SDGs which are most aligned with residential developments to be certified of 147 kWh/m2 per year by 20%. To-date, our business and material issues, and have to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, the annualised energy consumption of established stretch targets and aligned our or its equivalent. All newly acquired the building is 114.2 kWh/m2 per year, existing strategies with these SDGs. completed commercial buildings are which translates to a reduction of 22.3%, also to be certified to the BCA Green Mark exceeding our initial target. If the We support the Task Force on Climate-related Gold standard, or its equivalent, within technologies were applied to the entire Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and are working two years. To-date, Keppel Land has garnered building, the energy consumption of towards incorporating its recommendations a total of 84 BCA Green Mark Awards, of Keppel Bay Tower is estimated to be in our reporting framework. In this year’s report, which 17 are Platinum. The total estimated further reduced to 72.5 kWh/m2 per year. we have included a voluntary disclosure on reduction in energy consumption from all the Company’s approach in four key areas of our BCA Green Mark-awarded projects, Furthering our efforts to transform as recommended by the TCFD. when they are fully completed, will be over Keppel Bay Tower into Singapore’s first 220 million kWh per annum, which is the super low-energy high-rise existing ENVIRONMENTAL STALWART equivalent amount of energy required to commercial building, we are pleased that To achieve our emission reduction target power about 50,000 homes2 in Singapore as at 1 January 2020, Keppel Bay Tower of 40% below 2010’s level by 2030, we will for one year. This also translates to cost became the first commercial development continue to undertake carbon reduction savings of over $55 million annually. This in Singapore to utilise renewable energy measures which include developing is in addition to total annual water savings to power all its operations, including the high-performance commercial buildings, of about 2.5 million m3 and annual carbon offices of tenants in the building. improving energy efficiency of existing emission reduction of about 93,000 tonnes. buildings and tapping renewable energy. As a sustainable landlord, we actively do Meeting the 40% reduction target will For our steadfast commitment in delivering our part to encourage our tenants to adopt result in a cumulative reduction of almost high-quality, sustainable developments, green practices. In 2019, we achieved 100% 140,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, we were awarded 11 accolades at the participation from all our office tenants at which will yield potential savings of over BCA Awards in 2019, including the coveted Keppel Bay Tower in signing green leases. $75 million, from 2010 to 2030. Beyond 2030, BCA Quality Excellence (Platinum) Award. This is a demonstration of our commitment an annual reduction of about 17,000 tonnes to work with tenants to provide energy-efficient, of carbon emissions, or annual savings Keppel Land is a partner in the Green Buildings resource-efficient and healthier interior of about $9 million, are expected. Innovation Cluster (GBIC) programme, spaces for building occupants. 1 Keppel Land's environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or operational control. 2 Based on the average energy consumption of a Housing Development Board five-room flat, which is 368 kWh/month. (Source: SP Services) 6 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited We continue to support the fight against our workforce, we continued to invest plastic pollution and are committed to in safety training and education. As at avoiding single-use plastics in our Singapore end-2019, we have trained a total of over and overseas operations, where possible. 78,000 workers at our Safety Awareness In Singapore, together with Keppel REIT Centres in China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Management, we organised the showcase Malaysia. We are also working towards of ‘Ayer Ayer Project Table’, an interactive converting our current OHSAS 18001 microplastics artwork made from Singapore’s health and safety management system shore debris, at Keppel’s commercial to the latest ISO 45001:2018 system. properties. Separately, in Vietnam, we collaborated with partners to showcase Keppel Land adheres to the Keppel a plastic straw art installation, ‘The Parting Supplier Code of Conduct and encourages of the Plastic Sea’, at our retail mall, the adoption of Keppel’s sustainability Estella Place, in Ho Chi Minh City, which principles throughout our supply chain. won the Guinness World Record for the In addition, we share our Responsible Design ‘Largest drinking straw sculpture (supported)’ Values with our consultants to ensure that in 2019. they are incorporated in proposals for building designs. In support of Earth Day 2019, Keppel organised a public screening of the world’s first feature-length documentary on the circular economy, ‘Closing the Loop’, to an audience of close to 1,000 people Keppel Land adopts a holistic approach towards corporate social at the Singapore Botanic Gardens. The documentary showcases examples from around the world on innovative applications of technology, process responsibility. In 2019, Keppel Land improvements and labour solutions to reduce waste and pollution. committed a total of about 8,050 hours We continue to seek opportunities to grow of volunteerism, with a focus on our green funding sources. In June 2019, environmental stewardship and social responsibility. through a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keppel Land China, we secured our first green loan facility of RMB 850 million from the HSBC Group China for the development of Seasons City (Phase 1) in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, China. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE We recognise that people are our We embrace innovation and have set greatest asset. The Company invests a target to invest, on average, 2% of the in the development of its employees Company’s annual profit to support and seeks to build an engaged workforce. sustainable development by 2030. In 2019, In 2019, Keppel Land achieved an overall we launched the K-Lab initiative, with the employee engagement score of 91%, aim to drive a culture of innovation among an increase of 5% from 2017 when the staff through seed funding for innovative last full survey was done. ideas. The Company has committed to invest $500,000 annually in this programme. We will continue to attract and build a deep talent pool through staff redeployment, STRONG VALUES job rotation and enlargement, localisation, Guided by the Keppel Group’s core values performance management and manpower and operating principles, we are unwavering planning, in order to nurture a highly-skilled in our commitment to strong corporate and competitive workforce. Our localisation governance and prudent risk management. efforts continued in 2019, with locals The Company’s integrity and accountability accounting for 47% of all department head are fundamental to the way we do business. positions at our key overseas offices We are currently working towards achieving of China, Vietnam and Indonesia. the ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management System certification in 2020. CARING FOR THE COMMUNITY Over the year, we continued to engage Safety is one of Keppel’s core values, and and positively impact local communities. we have a Health, Safety and Environment The Company adopts a holistic approach policy which all our employees and towards corporate social responsibility contractors are expected to adhere to. with a focus on environmental stewardship We continued to build on our strong and social responsibility. In 2019, Keppel Land track record in safety with zero fatalities committed a total of about 8,050 volunteer in 2019. Recognising the importance of hours for various community outreach building a strong safety culture among activities in Singapore and overseas. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 7 OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS 2019 saw the successful completion In China, Keppel Land worked with the Keppel Land also clinched a total of of the BCA-Keppel Land Public Outreach Shanghai Charity Foundation, the Shanghai 23 accolades in the Euromoney Real Estate Programme in Singapore, GreenSeeds. Jing’an District Education Bureau and Survey 2019, including being named Over the three-year programme, the Shanghai Jing’an District Education Best Overall Real Estate Developer in the nine schools had created green spaces Association to provide teaching resources Global and Asia Pacific categories, as well as within their compounds as part of their to schools in impoverished areas in Yunnan in China, Vietnam and Indonesia. efforts to raise awareness on upcycling, Province. As part of the Keppel Group, we conservation and resource efficiency. also collaborated with the China Foundation As we seek to build a sustainable future, The programme reached out to about for Poverty Alleviation to provide aid to we look forward to strengthening our 35,000 students and members of impoverished communities in Sichuan collaboration with our stakeholders to the public through a total of about Province. In Vietnam, we continued our provide innovative real estate solutions 140 events during its run. partnership with the Singapore International for a cleaner, greener world. Foundation for Phase Two of the Words I am pleased to share that Keppel Land on Wheels (Ho Chi Minh) mobile library will be embarking on another public programme, which has reached out to Yours sincerely, outreach campaign, ‘R.I.S.E. to the about 7,000 students in Districts 2 and 8 Challenge’, in the second half of 2020. of Ho Chi Minh City since its launch in 2018. The campaign is a collaboration with the PUB and the Sustainable Singapore Gallery FORWARD TOGETHER and aims to raise awareness on the causes We are heartened that our efforts in and dire consequences of rising sea levels, achieving corporate excellence, quality as well as promote climate action. It will and sustainability have been recognised. include a series of exhibitions at the In the Global Real Estate Sustainability TAN SWEE YIOW Sustainable Singapore Gallery, schools, Benchmark 2019, Keppel Land was named Chief Executive Officer as well as Keppel’s commercial properties. Overall Global Real Estate Sector Leader. 9 July 2020 As a leading green developer, Keppel Land develops sustainable and innovative live-work-play environments of enduring value. Testament to the Company’s efforts, Keppel Bay Tower (in foreground), located in the world-class Keppel Bay waterfront precinct, is on track to become Singapore’s first super low-energy high-rise existing commercial building. The BCA Green Mark Platinum development is also fully powered by renewable energy. 8 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK We place sustainability at the heart of our strategy, delivering solutions for sustainable urbanisation while creating enduring value for our stakeholders – through environmental stewardship, responsible business practices, and nurturing our people and the communities, wherever we operate. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBLE PEOPLE AND STEWARDSHIP BUSINESS COMMUNITY We will do our part to The long-term We are committed combat climate change, sustainability of to providing a safe and are committed our business is driven and healthy workplace, to improving resource at the highest level of investing in developing efficiency and reducing the organisation through and training our people, our environmental strong corporate and uplifting communities impact. governance and prudent wherever we operate. risk management. For more information, For more information, For more information, go to: pages 14 to 30 go to: pages 31 to 38 go to: pages 39 to 53 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 9 OVERVIEW SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS At the UN Sustainable Development The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable through aligning its activities with selected Strategic Pillars SDGs Material Issues Approach Highlights Summit in 2015, the UN General Development calls for worldwide goals. The Company has adopted six SDGs Assembly adopted the 2030 Agenda collaboration among governments, which are most aligned with its business People and Occupational Providing a safe and healthy working Keppel Land achieved its goal of zero Safety & Health environment for all stakeholders is fatalities across its countries of operations for Sustainable Development that businesses and the larger community and material issues. Steps were also taken Community fundamental to Keppel Land’s commitment in 2019 and is committed to maintain an includes 17 Sustainable Development to mobilise their efforts to achieve a to establish stretch targets and align its Labour Practices, to conduct its business responsibly. incidentand injury-free work environment. Goals (SDGs) and specific targets common set of goals. existing strategies with these six SDGs, Talent Management that aim to tackle the world’s biggest which were identified based on the & Human Rights Keppel Land is a strong advocate for safety Keppel Land’s stance on human rights is and health in the broader community, and articulated in the Keppel Group corporate sustainable development challenges Keppel Land is committed to contribute Company’s potential impact on and Community champions national and industry initiatives statement on human rights, while its stance by 2030. to advancing sustainable development contribution to these goals. Development to raise standards and drive innovation on diversity and inclusion is articulated in in these aspects. the Keppel Group corporate statement on diversity and inclusion, which was formalised Keppel Land’s business sparks economic growth, in early 2019. Both statements are publicly productivity and jobs. The Company’s hiring available on Keppel Corporation’s website. Strategic Pillars SDGs Material Issues Approach Highlights policies ensure equal employment opportunities Environmental Climate Action Keppel Land is focused on creating To support the climate change agenda, for all. Keppel Land is also committed to invest The Company is committed to continue properties that harmonise with and enhance Keppel Land is committed to developing in nurturing its human capital. its efforts in collaborating with partners Stewardship Environmental the environment. Its suite of solutions for green properties, optimising resource and stakeholders through the sponsorship Management urban living helps cities urbanise in a efficiency, as well as tapping on renewables. Keppel Land upholds human rights and support of thought leadership and sustainable manner. principles and adheres to fair employment dialogue platforms. In line with its sustainability strategy, practices. The Company provides equal The Company is committed to minimising the Company targets to reduce its opportunities with regard to the recruitment A total of about 8,050 hours were clocked its environmental impact and is focused on carbon emission intensity, as well as and career development of its employees. by staff for community outreach activities sustainable management and efficient use energy and water intensities. Keppel Land is a signatory of the Employers’ in Singapore and overseas in 2019. of natural resources. Pledge of Fair Employment Practices and Keppel Land is committed to continue abides by the Tripartite Guidelines on It aims to reduce wastage through its efforts in collaborating with partners Fair Employment Practices. resource efficiency, reuse of natural such as the World Green Building Council, resources and recycling. Singapore Green Building Council and Through collaboration with its stakeholders, the Building and Construction Authority Keppel Land mobilises and shares knowledge, Keppel Land supports the Task Force of Singapore (BCA) to support expertise and technology, as well as financial on Climate-related Financial Disclosures climate action. and human resources to support the achievement and is working towards incorporating its of the SDGs. recommendations into the Company’s It is also committed to develop properties reporting framework. that meet international green building standards such as the United States Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design and the BCA’s Green Mark scheme. SUPPORTING SIX RELEVANT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Responsible Economic Keppel Land regards sustainability both Keppel Land’s business operations SDGs Goal Objective Targets* Sustainability as a corporate responsibility and a source generate employment, opportunities Business of business opportunities. The Company for suppliers and tax revenues Ensure healthy lives and • To maintain an incidentand injury-free work environment. Corporate is committed to applying its knowledge for governments. promote well-being for all • To equip all frontline managers with the knowledge and skills of safety leadership. Governance & and skills to drive innovation, as well as at all ages. • To have all new commercial developments certified to a recognised standard that supports and Risk Management support economic development and the A mandatory online training and promotes the health and well-being of building occupants. well-being of its communities. assessment exercise covering key Supply Chain policies, including Keppel’s Employee & Responsible The Company holds itself to the highest Code of Conduct, is carried out on an Build resilient infrastructure, • To invest, on average, 2% of the Company’s profit in innovations to support sustainable development Procurement ethical standards and complies with all annual basis. promote inclusive and by 2030. applicable laws and regulations wherever sustainable industrialisation Product Quality it operates. Its tone on regulatory compliance All of Keppel Land’s suppliers are qualified and foster innovation. & Safety is clear and consistently reiterated from the in accordance with the Company’s top of the organisation. It has zero tolerance requisition and purchasing policies, for fraud, bribery, corruption and violation screened based on environmental, Make cities and human • To have all new Singapore developments and overseas commercial projects certified to the of laws and regulations. social and governance criteria, and settlements inclusive, safe, BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS standard, or its equivalent. are expected to sign and abide by the resilient and sustainable. • To have all overseas residential developments certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent. The Company works closely with its Keppel Supplier Code of Conduct. • To have all newly acquired completed commercial buildings certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold suppliers to make a positive impact standard, or its equivalent, within two years. on their sustainability performance. Keppel Land is working towards achieving the ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management Ensure sustainable • To reduce energy and water intensities by 30% from 2010’s levels by 2030. The Company exercises due care and System certification in 2020. consumption and • To increase the amount of green materials used (e.g. green-labelled products, low-emission products, diligence in the design, construction and production patterns. or products with recycled content) to 50% by 2030. operation of its products and services to The Company has set targets to invest ensure that they do not pose hazards in innovations that support sustainable to customers. development, and has launched the K-Lab initiative to provide seed funding Take urgent action to • To reduce carbon emission intensity by 40% from 2010’s level by 2030. for innovative ideas. combat climate change and its impacts. In addition, Keppel Land is also committed to increase the procurement and use of green-labelled materials. Strengthen the means • To continue collaborating with partners and stakeholders in communities where the Company operates Keppel Land has developed and adopted of implementation to build a sustainable future. a set of Responsible Design Values to and revitalise the ensure quality and safety principles are global partnership for incorporated into the designs of its sustainable development. developments right from the start. * Keppel Land’s environmental targets apply to all projects where it has a majority stake and/or operational control. 10 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 11 OVERVIEW COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-40 | 102-42 As a leading real estate company, shaping the best for future generations, we are guided by the Keppel Group’s operating principles and core values to create positive impact and shared value for all our stakeholders through innovative real estate solutions. We believe that driving meaningful dialogue and regular engagement with our stakeholders is crucial to our success as a company. The following key stakeholder groups have been identified. VALUE FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS We work closely with We integrate our We help our employees regulatory and non-governmental strong regional network and realise their full potential, agencies to achieve high knowledge with the strengths cultivate a nimble and dedicated environmental, health and of our partners to capitalise workforce, as well as promote safety standards. on opportunities. workforce welfare. Our Partner Our Business Our Agencies Partners Employees Our Our Customers Community We develop quality properties We strive to be a committed and products with good investment value, and responsible corporate citizen, as well as build on our brand equity to nurturing communities enhance our competitive edge. wherever we operate through our key strategic focus areas of environmental stewardship and social responsibility. 12 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited OVERVIEW MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY GRI 102-19 | 102-20 As a responsible corporate citizen, Keppel Land matters. The key material ESG issues for issues that are most relevant and significant strives to operate in a profitable yet socially Keppel Land have been identified, reviewed to the Company and its stakeholders. and environmentally responsible manner. and taken into consideration as part of the A matrix-based approach was adopted in The Company adopts a proactive and Company’s strategy formulation by the the materiality assessment undertaken by holistic approach towards sustainability. Board and management. the Sustainability Committee and senior management personnel. Materiality was Keppel Land is committed to upholding BENCHMARKS OF EXCELLENCE assessed based on the importance of an high standards of corporate governance Keppel Land aligns itself with the issue to internal and external stakeholders and risk management in its daily operations. International Organisation for Standardisation using clearly defined threshold criteria. The Company fosters a strong safety (ISO) standards, including ISO 9001 culture so as to achieve a zero-harm on quality management and ISO 14001 These criteria are based on AA1000 workplace. At the same time, Keppel Land on environmental management, as well as Standard’s five-part Materiality is committed to nurturing a nimble, skilled OHSAS 18001 on occupational health and Test comprising: and engaged workforce to drive long-term safety management. As part of continuous 1. Issues that have direct short-term sustainable growth. improvement efforts, Keppel Land is financial impact; working to meet the requirements of the 2. Issues where the Company has policy SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and statements of strategic nature; GRI 102-32 Safety Management System, which provides 3. Issues that comparable organisations Driving Keppel Land’s sustainability efforts robust and effective processes for improving consider material; is its Sustainability Committee, which safety in global supply chains. 4. Issues important to stakeholders; and includes senior management personnel 5. Issues that are considered to be from various business units within the Keppel Land’s Sustainability Report 2019 social norms. Company. The Committee is responsible has been prepared in accordance with for formulating the Company’s sustainability the GRI Standards. This allows Keppel Land to review the framework, implementing initiatives and significance of such issues periodically, monitoring its sustainability performance. DEFINING REPORT CONTENT based on changing stakeholder expectations. GRI 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-49 | 103-1 The Committee reports to the Board of Materiality Assessment and The table below shows how the Company’s Directors (the Board), which has oversight of Stakeholder Engagement key material issues are linked to its overall environmental, social and governance (ESG) Keppel Land has identified and prioritised strategy and risk management approach. KEPPEL LAND’S MATERIAL ISSUES GRI 102-47 | 102-49 Material Topics Topic Boundary and Impact LEVEL 1: Key Material Issues Economic Performance Sustainable financial performance, occupational and customer health and safety, as well as Health and Safety Compliance compliance with national or international standards in areas including corporate governance, environment, safety, product responsibility and society, are material to both internal (employees) and external (customers, business partners, partner agencies and the community) stakeholders. This applies to Keppel Land’s operations in Singapore and overseas. LEVEL 2: Highly Critical Issues Environmental Impact Environmental aspects, including the use of environmentally friendly materials, energy and • Materials usage water conservation, reducing carbon emissions, efficient effluent and waste management, • Energy efficiency as well as sustainable performance of products and services, are important elements in • Water management addressing climate change. • Carbon emission reduction • Effluent and waste management These aspects are relevant to the Company’s internal and external stakeholders. • Sustainable products and services Environmental guidelines relating to these areas apply in all geographical locations where the Company operates. Labour Practices Positive employment practices are critical in attracting, retaining and developing its talent • Employment pool as the Company strives to be an employer of choice. These practices directly impact • Training and education employees in Keppel Land’s offices in Singapore and overseas. • Labour-management relations Social Responsibility The Company is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen, contributing and enriching • Local communities the lives of local communities wherever it operates. • Business ethics Across Keppel Land’s countries of operations, community engagement and business ethics are material to all internal and external stakeholders. LEVEL 3: Emerging or Moderately Material Issues Market Presence As Keppel Land seeks to integrate sustainable policies, strategies and practices into its Marketing Communications business operations, its market presence, as well as adherence to standards relating to Anti-child Labour marketing communications, prohibition of child labour and policy of non-discrimination Non-discrimination are important and relevant to all its operations. These aspects have an impact on all of the Company’s stakeholder groups. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP KEPPEL LAND ADOPTS A PROACTIVE AND HOLISTIC APPROACH TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY AND IS COMMITTED TO HIGH ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS. Keppel Land is committed to advancing environmental sustainability through green developments, such as Seasons City in Tianjin, China, which has garnered the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award (Provisional) for its Phase 1 development. CLIMATE ACTION ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Carbon Emission GRI 103-2 Environmental Sustainability Strategy Intensity Reduction Keppel Land strives to carry out its business The Company recognises key environmental 22% in an environmentally responsible manner challenges and risks, and has adopted and has in place a comprehensive suite of an environmental sustainability strategy. measures to build sustainable, low-carbon The strategy focuses on five main areas, Keppel Land’s carbon emission urban developments. The Company adopts namely, the formulation of corporate intensity in 2019 was about a proactive and holistic approach towards policies and programmes, development 22% below 2010’s level. sustainability and strives to continually of new projects, management of improve its environmental performance completed buildings, implementation through harnessing human capital, of management systems, as well as Annual Energy Savings technology and innovation. organisation of outreach initiatives. 220m kWh Under Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Plan, the Company aims to reduce its carbon The Sustainability Committee, which includes senior management personnel, The total estimated reduction emission intensity by 16% below 2010’s oversees Keppel Land’s sustainability in energy consumption from level by 2020, a goal which it met in 2016. efforts such as environmental management all of Keppel Land’s 84 BCA Keppel Land has since set a higher target and protection. The Committee formulates Green Mark-awarded projects, of reducing its carbon emission intensity Keppel Land’s eco-policy, principles, when they are fully completed, by 40% below 2010's emission level by 2030. targets and framework for action, will be over 220 million kWh The Company has also set the benchmark implements green initiatives, as well as per annum, equivalent to the for all new Singapore developments and sets performance benchmarks for energy required to power about overseas commercial projects to be certified continuous improvement. The Committee 50,000 homes in Singapore to the Building and Construction Authority also leads the implementation of the for one year. of Singapore’s (BCA) Green Mark GoldPLUS Integrated Management System (IMS) standard, or its equivalent, and for all overseas and the ‘Go Green with Keppel Land’ residential developments to be certified to outreach programme. the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent. All newly acquired completed Integrated Management System commercial buildings are also to be certified Keppel Land implemented the IMS for its to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its operations in Singapore, China and Vietnam equivalent, within two years. in 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively. 14 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited The IMS combines the ISO 9001 quality This contributed to the Company’s management system, the ISO 14001 achievement of the ISO 9001:2015 standard environmental management system for quality management and ISO 14001:2015 and the OHSAS 18001 occupational standard for environmental management for health and safety management system its Singapore, China and Vietnam operations. into a single framework, thereby The Company is also working towards streamlining processes and increasing converting its current OHSAS 18001 health overall operational efficiency and safety management system to the latest and productivity. ISO 45001:2018 system in 2020. CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND STRATEGIES GRI 102-15 | 201-2 RISKS Physical Mitigation strategies Climate change and global warming have resulted in more frequent and extreme weather conditions such as flooding, storms, droughts and rising Formulation of policies sea levels. As a result, higher operating costs are expected to be incurred • Carbon Management Plan due to damage recovery as well as higher cooling and heating needs. • Responsible Design Values Greater emphasis is expected to be placed on protecting ecosystems • Green Procurement Policy and the well-being of the community. • Supplier Code of Conduct Transition Development of new projects and More stringent regulations and policies such as carbon tax and stricter building management of completed buildings standards to address carbon emissions are expected to be implemented. • Legal compliance • High BCA Green Mark standards, Energy and material costs will increase due to depleting natural resources, or their equivalent leading to higher expectations for companies to source responsibly. • Responsible Design Values • Environmental Operations Plans New technologies that will result in better resource efficiency and sustainability • Energy Optimisation for businesses are expected to emerge and disrupt the building industry. • Renewable Energy Reduced demand for products due to shifts in customers’ preferences. The market Implementation of Integrated is increasingly expecting sustainable developments and green features to be Management System standard provisions. Developers face the challenge of balancing environmental • ISO 9001 sustainability with economic viability. • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 OPPORTUNITIES Resource efficiency Keppel Land has set a policy for all new commercial developments to meet Organising outreach initiatives at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS standard. This ensures improved efficiency • Stakeholder engagement as well as reduced use of resources and wastage, which translates to lower • Community outreach programmes operating costs and potentially higher building value. Products and services Keppel Land’s commitment to achieve at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS Award for all new developments is two levels above regulatory compliance. This has increased Keppel Land’s competitive advantage as there is an upward trend of homeowners and tenants who prefer sustainable developments. New markets Keppel Land embraces innovations that support sustainable development. As part of Keppel’s continued efforts to transform Keppel Bay Tower into Singapore’s first super low-energy high-rise existing commercial building, in 2018, Keppel Land received a grant from the BCA to testbed five innovative technologies which would reduce the building’s energy consumption significantly and improve its energy efficiency by 20% compared to other BCA Green Mark Platinum buildings by June 2020. Initiatives like this provide opportunities for the Company to embark on new collaborations, ventures and investments. Resilience As part of Keppel Land’s sustainability strategy, the Company has increased its use of renewable energy. Keppel Bay Tower is the first commercial building in Singapore to be fully powered by renewable energy through onsite and offsite solar power. Keppel Land’s portfolio of sustainable and energy-efficient buildings helps the Company offset potential risks and impacts of higher energy cost and carbon taxes, as well as helps the Company lower its carbon footprint. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Compliance in recognition of its continual improvement BCA Green Mark Awards GRI 307-1 | 419-1 in its environmental, social and governance Keppel Land garnered multiple 1 awards at the BCA Awards 2019, 84 In 2019, the main contractor appointed (ESG) standards. including the coveted BCA Quality by the Company for a residential project Excellence (Platinum) Award. in Singapore was fined $10,000 for exceeding For its commitment and achievement To-date, Keppel Land has the permissible noise level at the construction in delivering high-quality, sustainable The Company aims to develop garnered 84 BCA Green Mark site. Mitigating actions have since been developments, Keppel Land garnered 2 quality developments that Awards, of which 17 are taken to prevent recurrence. 11 accolades at the BCA Awards 2019, harmonise with the environment wherever it operates. Pictured is Platinum and 12 are GoldPLUS. including the coveted BCA Quality Excellence Saigon Centre in Ho Chi Minh City, Benchmarks of Excellence (Platinum) Award. The Garden Residences, Vietnam, which achieved the BCA Green Mark Gold Award Keppel Land aligns with and benchmarks one of Keppel Land's residential developments in 2019. its business practices against global in Singapore, also won the BCA Green Mark standards in sustainability. These include GoldPLUS Award. the United States Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental To-date, Keppel Land has garnered a total Design (LEED), the BCA’s Green Mark scheme, of 84 BCA Green Mark Awards for its the Audubon International certification, properties in Singapore, China, Vietnam, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Indonesia, India, Myanmar and the Philippines. standards, as well as GRI Standards. They include 17 Platinum, 12 GoldPLUS, 49 Gold and six Certified Awards. Awards and Recognition Keppel Land continues to gain recognition In 2019, Keppel Land’s Park Avenue Central both regionally and internationally for its development in Shanghai, China, bagged environmental stewardship. multiple prestigious accolades in sustainability, including the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award At the Global Real Estate Sustainability (Provisional), LEED Gold (Core & Shell) Benchmark 2019, Keppel Land was named precertification, as well as the WELL Building Overall Global Real Estate Sector Leader Standard Gold precertification. 2 Keppel Land owns and operates three is the equivalent amount of energy innovation among staff through seed funding Audubon International-certified golf courses required to power about 50,000 homes1 for innovative ideas. The Company has in China and Indonesia. Eco-City International in Singapore for one year. This also committed to invest $500,000 annually in this Country Club in Tianjin, China, was the translates to cost savings of over programme, and up to $50,000 for each idea. first in the world to achieve the prestigious $55 million annually2. This is in addition Several initiatives are being implemented Audubon Classic Sanctuary status in 2009, to total annual water savings of about as a result of the programme, including the followed by Spring City Golf & Lake Resort 2.5 million m3 and annual carbon emission sea-bins at Marina at Keppel Bay, which help (Spring City) in Kunming, China, and Ria Bintan reduction of about 93,000 tonnes. keep the marina waters clean, smart sanitary Golf Club (Ria Bintan) in Indonesia, in 2010. wares that ensure more efficient use of water, INNOVATION as well as an eco-friendly umbrella dryer that Energy and Cost Savings Keppel Land embraces innovation and reduces the need for single-use plastics. GRI 201-2 has set a target to invest, on average, The total estimated reduction in energy 2% of its annual profit to support Keppel Land also taps on the expertise consumption from all of Keppel Land’s sustainable development by 2030. of Keppel Technology & Innovation 84 BCA Green Mark-awarded projects, which serves as a Keppel Group-wide when they are fully completed, will be In 2019, Keppel Land launched the K-Lab resource to sharpen the Group’s focus 1 over 220 million kWh per annum, which initiative, with the aim to drive a culture of on innovation and be a catalyst for change. 16 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARKS Recommended Disclosure Our Approach Page Reference Certification/Rating Number of Awards Type of Development Location LEED STRATEGY Through its materiality assessment conducted with key stakeholders, Keppel Land has 9 to 15 identified and prioritised ESG issues that are most relevant and significant to the Company, Platinum 1 Commercial Singapore Actual and potential with climate-related issues integrated into its business objectives and strategy. As part of Gold 2 Commercial Shanghai, China impacts of climate-related its environmental sustainability strategy, the Company will continue to develop new high-performance Mandaluyong City, the Philippines risks and opportunities. buildings, optimise resource efficiencies of completed properties and tap renewable energy. Total 3 ESG considerations are incorporated across the entire life cycle of its projects. WELL To ensure that climate-related risks are addressed at the design stage of its projects, the Company Gold 1 Commercial Shanghai, China has a set of Responsible Design Values, including design standards for sustainability, that are Total 1 adopted for all its new developments. BCA Green Mark Keppel Land has a robust supply chain management process that extends to its key suppliers Platinum 8 Commercial Singapore and stakeholders in its value chain. This allows the Company to manage climate-related 1 Commercial Shanghai, China impacts throughout the life cycle of its developments. 1 Commercial Jakarta, Indonesia 5 Data Centre Singapore To drive resource efficiency and expand its low-carbon portfolio, the Company has also 1 Residential Tianjin, China set a target to invest, on average, 2% of its annual profit to support sustainable development 1 Hospitality Zhongshan, China by 2030. This includes the adoption of green construction technologies, the incorporation of smart designs, as well as features that promote occupant health and wellness. GoldPLUS 5 Commercial Singapore 4 Residential Singapore To manage its exposure to climate-related risks and support low-carbon investments, 2 Residential Wuxi, China the Keppel Group will be adopting an internal carbon price in the evaluation of all major 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar investment decisions. Gold 3 Commercial Singapore RISK A Sustainability Risk Framework, aligned to the Keppel Group’s Enterprise Risk Management 35 to 37 1 Commercial Tianjin, China Framework, guides the Keppel Group on the specific processes and methods applied in MANAGEMENT 2 Commercial Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam identifying, assessing and managing sustainability-related risks and opportunities. 1 Commercial Mandaluyong City, the Philippines Processes used 1 Commercial Johor Bahru, Malaysia to identify, assess Risks assessments in the areas of sustainability, including environmental and social impacts, 10 Residential Singapore and manage are incorporated in Keppel Land’s Investment Review and Risk Assessment, which is used 23 Residential Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Wuxi, Jiangyin, Nantong and climate-related risks. in the acquisition of major projects and submitted to the Board and management for approval. Kunming, China Such assessments form part of the management process in addressing such risks and their respective mitigation strategies. 6 Residential Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 1 Residential Jakarta, Indonesia The Company has in place the IMS, which ensures that all ESG-related risks and impacts 1 Hospitality Yangon, Myanmar at various stages of a development’s life cycle are assessed and addressed adequately Certified 1 Data Centre Singapore to effectively maintain an integrated approach in its design, construction and development. 4 Residential Shanghai, Jiangyin and Shenyang, China 1 Residential Kolkata, India METRICS Keppel Land has been reporting its sustainability performance in its annual Sustainability 10 to 11 AND TARGETS Report since 2008. The reports are prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and 28 to 29 Total 84 focused on material ESG issues. Keppel Land is also a signatory of the United Nations Global Audubon Classic Sanctuary Metrics and targets Compact (UNGC) and annually communicates its progress in implementing these principles Certified 3 Golf Course Tianjin and Kunming, China, as well as Bintan, Indonesia used to assess and to the UNGC. Total 3 manage climate-related risks and opportunities Keppel Land has adopted six Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which are most aligned which are material to with its business operations and material issues. Steps were also taken to establish stretch our business. targets and align the Company’s existing strategies with its six adopted SDGs. TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES Keppel Land is committed to reducing its carbon emission intensity by 40% below 2010’s level by 2030, as well as to reduce energy and water intensities by 30% from 2010’s levels Keppel Land supports the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and is working towards incorporating its recommendations by 2030. The Company is also committed to develop properties that meet international in its reporting framework. The Company has voluntarily disclosed its approach in four key areas as recommended by the TCFD. green building rating standards, such as the US Green Building Council’s LEED and the BCA Green Mark standards. Recommended Disclosure Our Approach Page Reference Keppel Land has in place a set of Responsible Design Values for its new developments and GOVERNANCE The key material ESG factors for Keppel Land, which include climate-related risks and opportunities, 31 to 35 Environmental Operations Plans for the management of its completed properties. The Company have been identified and are regularly reviewed by the management. The Company’s Board has established stretch targets in the areas of environmental certification, energy, water, Governance around of Directors oversees the management and monitoring of these factors and takes them landscaping and materials used to improve resource efficiency and building productivity. climate-related risks into consideration in the determination of the Company’s strategic direction and policies. and opportunities. The Sustainability Committee, comprising senior representatives from various business units, Keppel Land has been tracking its Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions since 2010. In measuring leads in the implementation of initiatives. The Sustainability Committee monitors and reports and reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, the Company references global standards, the Company’s sustainability strategies and performance. including the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and uses the operational control approach in accounting for its emissions. The Keppel Group Sustainability Steering Committee is chaired by Mr Loh Chin Hua, Chief Executive Officer of Keppel Corporation and concurrently Chairman of Keppel Land. The Keppel Group Sustainability Steering Committee also comprises senior management from across the Group, who provide guidance on the Group’s sustainability strategy. Environmental sustainability has been woven into Keppel Land’s Corporate Scorecard, with performance indicators linked to environmental targets, including improving energy efficiency and reducing carbon emissions. 18 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES GRI 102-21 | 102-33 | 102-34 | 102-43 | 102-44 | 103-3 Objectives To develop environmentally To adopt an integrated To meet national or To raise environmental To underscore importance To develop green capabilities, To preserve biodiversity friendly properties that minimise approach in the design, international standards on awareness among stakeholders. of environmental ownership knowledge and skills to enhance in local environments. pollution and other adverse construction and development environmental protection. among stakeholders. building performance. impacts on the environment. of sustainable developments. Targets To have all new Singapore Reduce carbon footprint and Expand the scope of the ISO 14001 Engage staff, tenants and the Promote green practices among Build a core team of in-house Preserve biodiversity and developments and overseas implement sustainable practices environmental management system wider public through environmental tenants and employees through green building specialists through maintain high standards of commercial projects certified when developing new buildings certification to include the Company’s initiatives, including the ‘Go Green with the BCA-HPB Green Mark for courses on sustainability and environmental protection in to the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS and managing existing properties. business operations overseas. Keppel Land’ outreach programme. Healthier Workplaces programme. green building technology. native environments to standard, or its equivalent; all ensure a balanced and overseas residential developments intact ecosystem. certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent; as well as all newly acquired completed commercial buildings certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. Performance in 2019 • Named Overall Global • Conducted annual reviews • Completed surveillance • Organised the showcase of • Achieved the BCA-HPB Green Mark • To-date, about 20% of the • Made conscious efforts to Real Estate Sector Leader to track the progress of the audit for the IMS. ‘Ayer Ayer Project Table’ at for Healthier Workplaces Platinum Company’s project and property preserve the biodiversity at in GRESB 2019. Environmental Operations and Keppel’s properties jointly Award for Keppel Land’s corporate managers in Singapore and the Company’s golf courses, Carbon Management Plans with Keppel REIT Management. office in Keppel Bay Tower. Keppel overseas have been trained and such as Spring City in Kunming, • Attained a total of 84 BCA to ensure they remain relevant The display is an interactive Corporation and Keppel Capital’s equipped with green certifications. China, and Ria Bintan in Indonesia. Green Mark Awards to-date and up-to-date. microplastics artwork made corporate offices, which are also for properties in Singapore from Singapore’s shore debris housed in Keppel Bay Tower, also and overseas, including and aims to raise awareness received the Platinum Award. 17 Platinum, 12 GoldPLUS and of plastic pollution among 49 Gold Awards in Singapore, stakeholders, including staff, • Partnered Keppel Electric China, Vietnam, Indonesia, India, tenants and the general public. to utilise renewable energy Myanmar and the Philippines. to fully power tenants’ offices • Partnered artist Von Wong, at Keppel Bay Tower. • Clinched a total of 23 accolades non-profit organisation, Zero Waste in the Euromoney Real Estate Saigon, and Starbucks Vietnam • Assisted tenants of Keppel Bay Survey 2019, including being to showcase an art piece Tower to retrofit their existing named Best Overall Real Estate ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’ conventional office lamps Developer in the Global and at the Estella Place retail mall with more energy-efficient Asia Pacific categories, as well as in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. LED lighting on a zero capital in China, Vietnam and Indonesia. expenditure scheme. • Organised the public screening of ‘Closing the Loop’ as part of • 28 of Keppel Land’s commercial, the Keppel Group. The screening residential and hospitality was held in conjunction with developments in Singapore Earth Day to highlight the need and overseas participated for waste reduction. in Earth Hour. • Committed to avoiding single-use plastics in its Singapore and overseas operations. Plans Ahead • To have all new Singapore • Implement guidelines comprising • Roll out the IMS to cover all • To continue to raise eco-awareness • To achieve optimal levels of • To have all project managers • To partake in good stewardship developments and overseas stretch targets in the areas of overseas operations. through partnerships with related energy, paper and toner usage trained as Green Mark of the natural environment and commercial projects certified to environmental certification, agencies and bodies in Singapore at the corporate office. Accredited Professionals adopt best practices and policies the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS energy, water, landscaping and overseas. within two years of joining that support healthy ecosystems, standard, or its equivalent, and materials used in new • To encourage more tenants the Company, so as to develop promote biodiversity and sustain and all overseas residential developments in Singapore • To continually engage and to renovate their premises in a pool of in-house professionals natural resources. developments to be certified and overseas. inculcate a green mindset among accordance with the requirements with expertise in sustainable to the BCA Green Mark Gold various stakeholder groups for BCA-HPB Green Mark for design processes, encourage standard, or its equivalent. through sharing best practices Healthier Workplaces. integrated designs and enhance at environmental conferences, the environmental performance • To have all newly acquired organising outreach programmes of Keppel Land’s buildings. completed commercial buildings and supporting eco-related events. certified to the BCA Green Mark Gold standard, or its equivalent, within two years. 20 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP SPECIAL FOCUS GEARING TOWARDS A Singapore’s First Commercial Development A clean desk policy ensures that no to be Fully Powered by Renewable Energy equipment is left switched on overnight, Energy Reduction SUPER LOW-ENERGY BUILDING 22.3% Keppel Bay Tower is the first commercial thereby reducing energy wastage. development in Singapore to utilise The implementation of these features renewable energy to power all its operations, and measures helped to reduce energy including the offices of tenants in the building. consumption at the corporate office With the implementation of the Keppel Land, the owner and operator of to about 70,000 kWh in 2019, compared new technologies, the annualised In September 2018, Keppel Land was awarded design and development capabilities. Keppel Land implemented the technologies Keppel Bay Tower, will be installing an to about 300,000 kWh in 2018. Energy energy consumption of Keppel a grant of up to $1.28 million by the BCA to It comprises academic institutions, in certain parts of the 18-storey building assembly of photovoltaic (PV) panels usage per gross floor area was reduced Bay Tower has reduced by testbed new and emerging energy-efficient developers and other professionals and had expected to reduce the annual spanning about 400 m2 on the roof of the from 53 kWh/m2 in 2018 to about 22.3% to 114.2 kWh/m2 per year technologies at Keppel Bay Tower, which in the green building industry. energy consumption of the building by 20%, 18-storey Keppel Bay Tower, as well as 27 kWh/m2 in 2019. to-date, exceeding Keppel Land’s would reduce its annual energy consumption from 147.0 kWh/m2 per year to 117.6 kWh/m2 at its six-storey podium block. In addition, initial target. by 20% and make the development Singapore’s The five technologies that were piloted per year. To-date, the annualised energy Keppel Land, through its electricity retailer, In terms of health and well-being, ergonomic first super low-energy high-rise existing at Keppel Bay Tower include a high-efficiency consumption of the building is 114.2 kWh/m2 Keppel Electric, is purchasing Renewable office furniture, including sit-stand desks, commercial building. air distribution system, a revolutionary per year, a reduction of 22.3% — exceeding Energy Certificates (RECs), which are standing workstations, adjustable monitor cooling tower water management system, Keppel Land’s initial target. generated from PV panels installed in screens and ergonomic chairs provide BCA’s funding support comes under the integrated sensor technology to optimise Keppel Offshore & Marine’s yards in Singapore. employees better comfort and wellness. Green Buildings Innovation Cluster (GBIC) fresh air intake, smart lighting solutions, If the technologies were applied to Acoustic panels and phone booths help to programme, of which Keppel Land is as well as an intelligent building control the entire building, the annual energy A Green and Healthy Office minimise noise levels. Green-labelled and low a partner. An initiative by the BCA, the GBIC system. It was the first time that any of consumption of Keppel Bay Tower is Keppel Land places great importance volatile organic compound materials are used reinforces the drive towards greater energy these technologies were implemented estimated to be further reduced to on employees’ health and well-being. so as to improve indoor air quality, which is efficiency through green building research, in a development in Singapore. 72.5 kWh/m2 per year. In recognition of Keppel Land’s efforts continuously monitored via display panels. to promote a healthy lifestyle among its Pantries and hydration points are located employees, the Company was conferred around the office, offering easy access to the Platinum Award under the new BCA-HPB healthier food options such as fruits and Green Mark (for Healthier Workplaces) filtered water. scheme, introduced by the BCA and 1 the Health Promotion Board (HPB). Energy-Efficient Lighting Keppel Land recognises that energy development to be fully powered by renewable energy Within its corporate office, Keppel Land uses Energy Star-labelled computers consumed by tenants within tenanted spaces for lighting and general power as well as eco-friendly products such as totally accounts for about half of the total energy chlorine-free or elemental chlorine-free used in an office building. Demonstrating Reduction of over 2,400 tonnes of Overall energy printing paper. Copiers with secure printing its leadership and strong commitment carbon emissions per annum savings of 20% or Index (EEI) of 1.5 million kWh/year 115 kWh/m2 per year features also help to reduce paper wastage. towards a sustainable built environment, Equivalent to the An average BCA Green Mark In addition, Keppel Land has a systematic the Company partnered Signify Singapore Together with the installation of onsite PV panels at Keppel Bay amount of energy Platinum building has an EEI Tower, these initiatives will result in a reduction of over 2,400 required to power more of 145 kWh/m2 per year paper management and recycling programme. (formerly Philips Lighting) to roll out tonnes of carbon emissions per annum – an amount which would 300 The Company has implemented various a scheme for Keppel Bay Tower’s tenants otherwise require about 12,000 trees to absorb over about 50 years initiatives, including setting printers to to replace their existing office lamps with 2 3 print double-sided by default, encouraging energy-efficient LED lighting with no upfront the use of e-mails and the intranet for capital investment required. This initiative Smart, eco-features of Keppel Bay Tower the broadcast and storage of documents, helps tenants enjoy about 30% savings 1 1 2 3 utilising smaller printouts, as well as on their utility bills and reduces the total 5 PV Panel System Energy-Efficient Air Demand Control Fresh switching to electronic greeting cards. building energy consumption by about 5%. allows the harvesting Distribution System Air Intake System of about 100,000 kWh features an air handling utilises integrated sensors Recycling bins, which are placed at per annum unit fan which is about to regulate fresh air intake convenient locations in all departments, Green Leases according to indoor activities, further encourage green behaviour. As a sustainable landlord, Keppel Land than other best-in-class optimising energy usage for 6 technologies better thermal comfort and A recycling company has also been encourages its tenants to adopt green indoor environmental quality contracted to collect used paper regularly. practices. All office tenants at Keppel Bay 4 5 6 Tower have signed green leases, which Intelligent Building Cooling Tower Water Smart Lighting System Keppel Land’s corporate office also is a demonstration of the Company's Control System Management System utilises occupancy employs a highutilises a patented solution sensors which allow incorporates demand control strategies commitment to work with its tenants to 4 precision physicsthat reduces cooling seamless transition in that help reduce energy usage. For example, provide energy-efficient, resource-efficient based simulation tower water usage and lighting levels according to a smart LED lighting system utilises and healthier interior spaces for building engine to improve data eliminates the need for building occupancy analytics and control chemical water treatment occupancy sensors to adjust lighting occupants. Adopting the practices specified levels according to occupancy load. in the green leases effectively helps tenants Photo-sensors dim perimeter lightings meet all the requirements of the BCA-HPB when there is sufficient daylight near Green Mark (for Healthier Workplaces) the window area. Certified standard. 22 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP PROMOTING ECO-CONSCIOUSNESS inculcating in its employees a sound construction industry towards environmental Sustainable Development Goals AMONG STAKEHOLDERS understanding of green technologies and sustainability by promoting green building Keppel Land is committed to contribute to Tenant Engagement and Outreach knowledge of sustainability management. designs, practices and technologies, integrating advancing sustainable development through In 2019, various environmental exhibitions eco-initiatives into mainstream design, aligning its activities with selected goals. and roadshows were organised at Keppel’s To-date, about 20% of all project and construction and operation of buildings, The Company has adopted six SDGs which properties to promote sustainability property managers in Singapore and as well as building industry capabilities and are most aligned with its business operations awareness among staff, tenants and overseas have been trained as professionalism to support wider adoption and material issues. Stretch targets, including the general public. Green Mark Accredited Professionals, of green building development and practices. reduction in emission, energy and water use, Green Mark Accredited Professionals were established to align its existing strategies Public Outreach Programme (Facilities Management) or Green Mark Mr Tan Swee Yiow, CEO of Keppel Land, with these six SDGs, which were identified Keppel Land will be embarking on a two-year Advanced Accredited Professionals, is a Board Director and Treasurer of the based on the Company’s potential impact public outreach campaign, ‘R.I.S.E. to the or have undergone the Singapore WGBC, as well as Immediate Past President on and contribution to these goals. More Challenge’, in the second half of 2020. Certified Energy Manager programme. of the SGBC. He has been instrumental information on the Company’s integration of The campaign is a collaboration with the in championing climate change-related the SDGs into its sustainability strategy can PUB and the Sustainable Singapore Gallery, GREEN BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS programmes such as WGBC’s ‘Advancing be found on pages 10 and 11 of this report. and aims to raise awareness on the causes GRI 102-12 | 102-13 Net Zero’ and ‘Better Places for People’ and dire consequences of rising sea levels, Keppel Land is a founding member of campaigns, as well as SGBC’s Climate Carbon Management Plan as well as promote climate action. It will the World Green Building Council (WGBC) Action Campaign 2018 and ‘Green Keppel Land’s Carbon Management Plan include a series of exhibitions at the Corporate Advisory Board and works Schools Initiative’. outlines the initiatives and programmes Sustainable Singapore Gallery, schools, with the global network of green building that the Company undertakes to reduce as well as Keppel’s commercial properties. councils to implement strategies, ideas and ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS its emissions. projects for a sustainable built environment. Recognising the twin benefits of GREEN CAPABILITIES environmentally friendly business practices Having met its target to reduce its carbon GRI 404-2 The Company is also a founding member of on the environment and its bottomline, emission intensity by 16% below 2010’s As part of its plan to improve its environmental the Singapore Green Building Council (SGBC), Keppel Land has set strategic plans for level by 2020 ahead of time, Keppel Land performance, Keppel Land is committed to which propels Singapore’s building and continual improvement. has set a higher target of reducing its carbon emission intensity by 40% below 2010’s emission level by 2030. To achieve this, Keppel Land will undertake Keppel Land shapes skylines carbon reduction measures which include 1 through developing vibrant homes and commercial developments developing high-performance commercial that form the building blocks of buildings, improving energy efficiency of existing sustainable cities. Pictured is Highline Residences in Singapore, buildings and tapping renewable energy. 2 which has been conferred the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS Award. To raise awareness on the 2 impact of plastic waste on the ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS environment, in conjunction with Earth Day 2019, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT Management jointly organised the display of an interactive microplastics artwork made from Singapore’s shore debris, named ‘Ayer Ayer Project Table’. 2017 2030 Committed to To reduce carbon achieve at least emission intensity 2012 the BCA Green by 40% below 2010’s Committed to Mark GoldPLUS Award, 2020 emission level. train all Project or its equivalent, To reduce carbon 2008 Managers as Green for new commercial emission intensity To reduce energy Committed to achieve Mark Managers. developments by 16% below 2010’s and water intensities at least the BCA overseas. emission level*. by 30% below Green Mark Gold Award, 2010’s level. 2015 or its equivalent, for Committed to Committed to 2022 new developments in achieve at least maintain at least the BCA Green Mark To incorporate TCFD Singapore and overseas. the BCA Green Gold Award, or its recommendations in Mark GoldPLUS Award equivalent, for newly reporting framework. 2012 for completed acquired commercial Committed to achieve commercial buildings at least the BCA Green buildings within in Singapore. two years. Mark GoldPLUS Award for new developments in Singapore. 1 * Achieved 2020 target in 2016 with a 16.5% reduction in carbon emission intensity below 2010’s emission level. 24 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Meeting the 40% reduction target will certification, energy, water, landscaping reductions in waste as well as energy and result in a cumulative reduction of almost and materials used to improve resource water usage at each property. These include Keppel Land will incorporate 1 myriad green features in the 140,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, efficiency and building productivity. adhering to Keppel Land’s environmental development of Park Avenue Central which will yield potential savings of policy and green procurement guidelines. in Shanghai, including an integrated air purification system, as well as over $75 million3, from 2010 to 2030. Environmental Operations Plans These measures will continue to help the intelligent lighting and energy Beyond 2030, an annual reduction of Keppel Land has implemented Environmental Company achieve its goal of maintaining conservation systems, among others. about 17,000 tonnes of carbon emissions, Operations Plans for the management at least the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS or annual savings of about $9 million, of its completed commercial buildings rating for all its completed commercial are expected. in Singapore and hospitality properties buildings in Singapore. Mr Desmond Lee (centre), Minister overseas since 2012. In 2014, the scope 2 for Social and Family Development and Second Minister for National Responsible Design Values was expanded to include completed OVERSEAS Development, accompanied by Keppel Land has in place a set of commercial buildings overseas. Keppel Land’s commitment towards Mr Tan Swee Yiow (left), CEO of Responsible Design Values for its the management and protection of the Keppel Land, and senior management from National Parks Board, toured new project developments which include These plans outline environmental targets environment goes beyond Singapore Marina at Keppel Bay in March 2019. stretch targets in the areas of environmental and programmes to yield measurable to countries overseas where it operates. The delegation was briefed by Mr Tan on the development of Keppel Bay, as well as Keppel’s In 2019, Keppel Land’s Park Avenue Central efforts in environmental conservation, which has resulted in the thriving development in Shanghai, China, bagged marine life in Keppel Bay’s waters multiple prestigious awards in sustainability, and vibrant greenery on including the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award Keppel Island. (Provisional), LEED Gold (Core & Shell) precertification, as well as the WELL Building Standard Gold precertification. 2 Sustainable features that will be incorporated in the development include a high-performance chiller system, energy-efficient air handling unit fans and LED lightings, as well as Preserving Biodiversity its golf courses. Local species of shrubs an advanced cooling tower water Conscious efforts are made to preserve and groundcovers have been planted to management system. the biodiversity in Keppel Land’s golf courses, minimise maintenance work. including Spring City in Kunming, China, and In line with Keppel Land’s aim of creating Ria Bintan in Indonesia. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE properties that enhance the health and GRI 103-3 wellness of their building occupants, Spring City was originally an arid and This section reports on Keppel Land’s energy Park Avenue Central will feature a PM 2.5 filter mountainous site afflicted by poor surface and water use, waste discharged and recycled, and photocatalyst sterilisation system, drainage and severe soil erosion. Today, materials used, as well as emission to air for optimise fresh air intake and will have Spring City is home to two world-class major properties in Singapore and overseas. acoustic ceilings for reduced noise levels, golf courses, the Mountain Course and thereby providing a better environment for Lake Course. Indigenous flora, like eucalyptus It covers data for its corporate office, its occupants. trees and wildflowers, were carefully preserved Singapore and overseas properties under during and after construction to ensure that Keppel Land and Keppel REIT’s portfolios, Hospitality Properties the ecosystem remained balanced and intact. as well as hospitality developments Keppel Land operates and manages a portfolio Spring City also features a 1.7-km nature trail managed by Keppel Land. Residential of hospitality properties across Asia, including with over 300 plant species, most of which developments have been excluded unless hotels, serviced residences, golf courses, are native to the Yunnan province. Information otherwise stated as they are trading resorts and marinas. The Company is boards have also been placed along the properties, which will eventually be sold. committed to good environmental trail to help spread the message on the stewardship at these properties. importance of preserving the local biodiversity. To account for the variation in the type, number and construction stages of Sedona Hotel Yangon’s Garden Wing The Ocean and Forest Courses at Ria Bintan projects undertaken every year, Keppel Land is the first property in Myanmar to are constructed around existing natural measures the energy consumption of achieve the BCA Green Mark Gold Award. contours so as to preserve wildlife corridors. each project over the period of its entire Its Inya Wing, which opened in May 2016, Its design allows for the resort to be integrated construction. The information is disclosed also boasts myriad eco-friendly features seamlessly with nature. Ria Bintan has also upon the completion of the project to and is Myanmar’s first building to have been embarked on a programme to reduce water allow for more meaningful comparisons 1 conferred the BCA Green Mark GoldPLUS Award. and fertiliser usage in the maintenance of between developments. 26 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENERGY USE ENERGY CONSUMPTION5 GRI 302 | CRE1 Energy Use (mil kWh) Energy Intensity (kWh/m2) In 2019, total direct energy consumption from the use of diesel (over 900,000 litres) 90 130 was about 30,000 GJ, while total indirect 75 125 energy consumption from the use of electricity (about 85 million kWh) was about 310,000 GJ4. 60 120 45 115 Energy conservation measures undertaken by the Company in 2019 include developing 30 110 energy-efficient buildings, upgrading and optimising chiller plant systems, as well as 15 105 replacing conventional lightings with LED 0 100 tubes at its commercial properties. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Corporate Office 0.3 (60) 0.3 (64) 0.3 (53) 0.1 (27) WATER USE GRI 303 I CRE2 Singapore Commercial6 22.1 (101) 22.2 (101) 20.7 (95) 26.1 (106) Water Consumption Overseas Commercial7 12.4 (149) 25.0 (138) 35.2 (148) 41.1 (134) In 2019, Keppel Land’s total water Hospitality Properties 8 21.4 (115) 16.6 (93) 16.3 (115) 18.1 (142) consumption was about 820,000 m3. Total Energy (mil kWh) 56.2 64.1 72.5 85.4 In Singapore, water is drawn from Energy Intensity (kWh/m2) 120 120 123 125 public supply sources such as local catchment areas, imported water, Note: Values in brackets are energy intensity figures. reclaimed water (NEWater) and desalinated water. Potable water is consumed at Keppel Land’s commercial properties for drinking, sanitation, irrigation and WATER CONSUMPTION general washing. Water Use (’000 m3) Water Intensity (m3/m2) Water conservation measures include 900 2.10 the use of water-efficient fittings certified 750 1.75 under the PUB’s Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme, such as self-closing taps and flow 600 1.40 regulators. All of Keppel Land’s commercial 450 1.05 properties in Singapore have been conferred the PUB Water Efficient Building Silver Award 300 0.70 for outstanding efforts in water conservation. 150 0.35 Water Discharge 0 0 GRI 306-1 2016 2017 2018 2019 Water drawn from public utilities at Corporate Office 3 (0.5) 3 (0.7) 3 (0.7) 2 (0.6) the construction sites of Keppel Land’s Singapore Commercial 166 (0.8) 192 (0.9) 179 (0.8) 230 (0.9) developments in Singapore is generally recycled and reused for washing vehicles. Overseas Commercial 104 (1.2) 170 (0.9) 239 (1.0) 368 (1.2) With appropriate earth control measures, Hospitality Properties 284 (1.8) 203 (1.6) 196 (1.0) 217 (1.2) discharged water contains a lower amount Total Water Use (’000 m3) 557 568 617 817 of total suspended solids than the legal Water Intensity9 (m3/m2) 1.19 1.06 1.05 1.20 allowable limit of 50 mg/litre. Note: Values in brackets are water intensity figures. In Singapore, discharged water is conveyed by a network of pipelines nationwide to waterworks or wastewater treatment plants where it is chemically treated, filtered and disinfected. The treatment frees the water of harmful bacteria and makes it clear, odourless and colourless. The treated water is then pumped into the distribution system and service reservoirs. Similarly, overseas, wastewater is recycled for use whenever possible. 28 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited CARBON EMISSIONS10, 11 Emission (tonnes) Emission Intensity (kg/m2) 45,000 66 37,500 65 30,000 64 22,500 63 15,000 62 7,500 61 0 60 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fuel (Scope 1) 2,410 2,290 2,150 2,400 Refrigerants (Scope 1) 750 640 550 550 Electricity (Scope 2) 24,350 28,510 32,800 39,500 Business Travel (Scope 3)12 1,330 1,910 1,900 400 Staff Commuting (Scope 3) 200 180 180 250 Water Consumption (Scope 3) 200 200 220 300 Total Emissions (tonnes) 29,240 33,730 37,800 43,400 Emission Intensity (kg/m2) 62.5 63.3 64.1 63.7 WASTE MANAGEMENT In 2019, total carbon emissions was Waste Recycled about 43,400 tonnes. The largest source GRI 306-2 of emissions was the use of electricity Total waste generated at Keppel’s completed in its commercial properties, which properties in Singapore and overseas in 2019 accounted for about 90% of the Company’s was estimated at about 6,700 tonnes. carbon footprint. Normalising the carbon Of this, about 340 tonnes of waste, including emissions by the total floor area of all its paper, plastics and cans, was recycled at commercial properties, its carbon emission Keppel Land’s commercial properties. intensity in 2019 was about 64 kg/m2 gross floor area (GFA). Tenants at these buildings are also encouraged to recycle. For instance, at Ocean Financial Keppel Land’s performance in terms of Centre, a central paper recycling chute complete emission reduction is based on the weighted with a paper shredder for disposing confidential average of each country’s emission intensity documents within their premises enables reduction normalised by GFA. GFA figures tenants to recycle used paper. Recycling bins, for hospitality and retail projects are adjusted including those for electronic waste, are to account for their higher energy consumption also centrally provided within the buildings, as compared with office buildings. This is making it convenient for tenants to recycle. to better reflect the Company’s actual sustainability efforts. DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS Emission to Air Based on this methodology and considering GRI 305 | CRE3 | CRE4 only Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Keppel Land’s The Company’s carbon emissions include carbon emission intensity in 2019 was about direct emissions from fuel used in power 22% below 2010’s level. generators and loss of refrigerants in air conditioning systems, indirect emissions Implementation of energy conservation due to purchased electricity consumed at measures, including the upgrading and commercial properties and hotels, as well as optimisation of chiller plant systems, other indirect emissions arising from water as well as the replacement of conventional usage at commercial properties, business lightings with LED tubes at its commercial travel and employees commuting to and properties, have improved the Company’s from the workplace. environmental performance. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Keppel Land will continue to implement CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS total materials used per project is reported similar energy conservation measures in Materials Usage upon project completion. all its properties, including those overseas. GRI 301-1 | 301-2 The construction and real estate sector A total of ten most commonly used materials in Construction Projects consumes a considerable amount of materials. building construction have been identified and While emissions due to construction activities However, the amount of materials used measured. The materials are cement, sand, that occur within the boundaries of a within a reporting year is not comparable concrete, aggregate, bricks, steel, aluminium, development site are a result of the over the years as the number of projects glass, paints, as well as ceramic and granite tiles. contractor’s direct and indirect emissions, varies every year and the construction Keppel Land recognises the significant stages of each project differ. To meaningfully Keppel Land is committed to conserving environmental impact of construction track such data, Keppel Land discloses global resources by minimising the carbon activities. The Company measures and the usage of materials over the entire footprint from its construction and operation monitors energy and emission data from construction period of a project instead of activities, as well as from the production its construction sites. on a yearly basis. For comparison purposes, and distribution of building materials. ENERGY USE, MATERIALS USED, EMBODIED CARBON AT CONSTRUCTION SITES13 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 Ocean Reflections at Madison The Lakefront Corals at The Highline Financial Centre Keppel Bay Residences Residences Keppel Bay Glades Residences Direct Energy, 0.19 0.45 0.28 0.37 0.30 0.40 0.33 Diesel (GJ/m2)14 Indirect Energy, 0.09 0.12 0.13 0.01 0.14 0.03 0.07 Electricity (GJ/m2)14 Materials Intensity 2.20 2.90 3.60 3.80 3.70 3.50 2.80 (tonnes/m2) Embodied Carbon from 0.03 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 Energy Use (tonnes/m2)15 Embodied Carbon from 0.51 0.86 0.92 0.97 1.04 0.59 0.70 Materials Used (tonnes/m2)15 1 Average consumption of a Housing Development Board five-room flat is 368 kWh/month (Source: SP Services). 2 Energy cost: 1 kWh = $0.2507 (Source: SP Services, 4Q 2019). 3 Based on a grid conversion factor of 0.5016 kg/kWh and a utility rate of $0.2698/kWh in 2011, when the Company's Carbon Management Plan was formulated. 4 1 litre of diesel = 0.0331 GJ; 1 kWh of electricity = 0.0036 GJ. 5 Energy data includes energy for mechanical and electrical services such as air-conditioning, lifts and lightings in all common areas, but excludes tenants’ energy consumption as tenants are charged separately for the use of electricity within their tenanted space. 6 Includes Ocean Financial Centre, Bugis Junction Towers, Keppel Towers and Keppel Towers 2, Keppel Bay Tower, as well as i12 Katong. As Bugis Junction Towers was divested on 29 November 2019, this report includes 11 months of the building's environmental data. 7 Includes K-Plaza in China, Saigon Centre and Estella Place in Vietnam, and International Financial Centre Jakarta in Indonesia. 8 Includes Sedona Hotel Yangon in Myanmar and Spring City Golf & Lake Resort in Kunming, China. 9 Water intensity figures are computed based on the GFA in each respective year. 10 Energy conversion ratio: 1 kWh electricity = 0.4188 kg CO2 (Source: Energy Market Authority, Energy Statistics, 2018). 11 Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions from fuel used in power generators and loss of refrigerant in air-conditioning systems. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions due to purchased electricity consumed at commercial properties and hotels. Scope 3 emissions include other indirect emissions arising from water usage at commercial properties, business travel as well as employees commuting to and from the workplace. 12 Emissions arising from business travel in 2019 excludes inter-city travel data within China. This data when made available will be adjusted in next year’s report. 13 Data for construction sites are disclosed on project basis instead of by year, to allow for meaningful comparisons. 14 Energy data represents the total energy consumed during the entire construction period of the project. 15 The emission data represents the project’s total embodied carbon from materials used and energy consumed at the construction site. Embodied carbon index of materials is sourced from The Inventory of Carbon & Energy 2011, based on cradle-to-grave boundaries. 30 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS KEPPEL LAND IS COMMITTED TO CONDUCT ITS OPERATIONS SAFELY AND RESPONSIBLY. Keppel Land conducts its business in a responsible manner and ensures fair consideration of its key stakeholder groups’ interests in business decisions. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY from the HSBC Group China for the Keppel Land is committed to achieving development of Seasons City (Phase 1) long-term economic growth without in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, China. negatively impacting the environment, society and the community. We are This is the first green loan granted by committed to applying our knowledge HSBC Group China to support the development and skills to drive innovation, as well as of a property project in Mainland China. support economic development and Green loans are loan instruments made the well-being of our communities. available exclusively to finance or re-finance eligible green projects, where the project Amidst a challenging macroeconomic must demonstrate clear environmental environment, Keppel Land delivered a benefits which can be assessed. creditable set of results in 2019, with a net profit of $527 million for the year. This was Phase 1 of Seasons City has been conferred about 44% lower year-on-year, due to fewer the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award en-bloc sales and divestments in 2019. (Provisional), the highest accolade under Excluding en-bloc sales, as well as revaluation, the BCA Green Mark scheme. Seasons City impairment and divestment gains in both adopts energy-efficient lighting designs, years, Keppel Land’s net profit in 2019 was chillers and ventilation systems, as well as about $260 million, an improvement over the utilises non-potable water to reduce water $236 million in 2018. In 2019, the Company consumption. A photovoltaic system sold about 5,150 homes, 16% more than and a solar hot water system have also the 4,440 homes sold in 2018, achieving been installed to tap renewable energy. a total sales value of about $3.2 billion. The total energy and water savings to be achieved by Seasons City (Phase 1) is Keppel Land achieved an average return estimated to be over RMB 9 million a year. on equity of 14.3% over the last 10 years, from 2010 to 2019, and its total assets CORPORATE GOVERNANCE increased by 1.6% year-on-year to $14.2 billion. GRI 102-18 | 102-25 | 102-26 | 102-27| 102-28 | 103-2 Keppel Land’s Directors and Management Keppel Land also seeks opportunities to firmly believe that sound corporate governance grow its green funding sources. In June 2019, practices are key to the sustainability of the Keppel Land, through a wholly-owned Company’s business and performance, subsidiary of Keppel Land China, secured as well as to protect stakeholders’ interests its first green loan facility of RMB 850 million and enhance long-term stakeholder value. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD MATTERS The Directors provide an appropriate expertise, knowledge and experience on GRI 102-22 | 102-23 | 102-24 balance and diversity of skills, experience, the Board is evaluated and, in consultation The Board’s Conduct of Affairs gender and knowledge of the Company, with Management, the role and the desirable The Board oversees the effectiveness as well as relevant core competencies competencies for a particular appointment of Management as well as the corporate in areas such as accounting or finance, is determined. Recommendations from, governance of the Company with the objective legal, business or management experience, inter alia, Directors and Management are of maximising long-term stakeholder value industry knowledge, strategic planning the usual source for potential candidates. and protecting the Company’s assets. experience and customer-based experience However, external search consultants are Its key roles include the review and approval or knowledge. In terms of composition also considered. of Keppel Land’s corporate strategies and of the Board, external Directors form directions, annual budgets, major investments, the majority. Formal interviews with the shortlisted divestments and funding proposals, as well candidates are conducted to assess as the review of the Company’s financial Chairman and CEO their suitability and the candidates performance, risk management processes To ensure an appropriate balance are verified of their awareness of the and systems, and sustainability considerations, of power, increased accountability expectations and the level of commitment including corporate governance practices. and a greater capacity of the Board required, after which suitable candidates The Board is also responsible for setting for independent decision-making, will be approved. the Company’s core values and ethical the Company has a clear division of standards. Board Committees include responsibilities at the top level of the The following criteria are used to assess the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) and Company, with the non-executive all new appointments: Board Safety Committee (BSC). Chairman and the CEO having 1. Integrity; separate roles. 2. Independent mindedness; These Board Committees have clearly 3. Possession of core competencies defined written terms of reference. Matters The Chairman leads the Board and is that meet the needs of the Company which are delegated to Board Committees responsible for the management of the and complement the skills and for more detailed evaluation and approval Board, encourages the Board’s interaction competencies of the existing Directors are reported to and monitored by the Board. with Management, facilitates effective on the Board; contribution of the Directors, encourages 4. Ability to commit time and effort to The Board has included in its oversight, constructive relations among the Directors, carry out duties and consideration of sustainability issues such as and promotes high standards of corporate responsibilities effectively; environmental, social and governance (ESG) governance. The Chairman approves 5. Track record of making good decisions; factors in the strategic formulation and the agenda for Board meetings and 6. Experience in high-performing execution of the Company’s objectives. ensures sufficient time is spent to cover organisations; and The Board meets regularly on a quarterly all items in the agenda, especially on 7. Financial literacy. basis and as warranted. strategic issues. The Chairman and CEO are separate persons and are The internal guideline adopted by the Board Composition not related to each other. Company to address the issue of multiple Presently, there are seven Directors. board representations is that Directors With the exception of Mr Tan Swee Yiow, The CEO has full executive responsibilities should not have board representations who was appointed the Chief Executive over the business directions set by the on more than six listed companies and Officer (CEO) and an executive Director Board and operational decisions of other principal commitments. of Keppel Land on 1 January 2019, the Keppel Land. The CEO is accountable other six Directors are non-executive to the Board for the conduct and The Board recognises that proper Directors. With the exception of performance of the Company. succession planning plays an important Mr Loh Chin Hua, Mr Tan Swee Yiow role in ensuring continuous and effective and Mr Chan Hon Chew, the other BOARD MEMBERSHIP stewardship of the Company. As such, four Directors are external Directors. Process and Criteria Used for Selection the Company’s succession plans are External Directors are directors who do and Appointment of New Directors reviewed annually to ensure the not have an executive position within the To increase the reliability of the process, progressive renewal of the Board, Company and/or its related companies. the Board’s diversity in terms of mix of including the Chairman. Succession and leadership development plans for Management are also reviewed. The nature of current Directors’ appointment and membership on Board Committees are REMUNERATION MATTERS as follows: Remuneration Policy for Key Management Personnel Board Committee Memberships GRI 102-35 | 102-36 | 102-37 Directors Board Membership Audit and Risk Board Safety The Company adopts a remuneration Loh Chin Hua Chairman – Member system that is aimed at attracting, Non-External Director retaining and motivating talent on a Tan Swee Yiow Chief Executive Officer – Member sustainable basis. In designing the Non-External Director remuneration structure, the Company Tan Yam Pin External Director – Chairman seeks to ensure that the level and mix Koh-Lim Wen Gin External Director – Member of remuneration is competitive, relevant and appropriate in finding a balance Yap Chee Meng External Director Chairman – between current versus long-term Chan Hon Chew Non-External Director Member – remuneration and between cash versus Willy Shee Ping Yah External Director Member – equity incentive remuneration. 32 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited The Company reviews its total remuneration Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) internal controls systems, including structure regularly to reflect four key objectives: The ARC’s primary role is to assist the financial, operational, compliance 1. Stakeholder alignment: To incorporate Board to ensure the integrity of financial and information technology (IT) performance measures that are aligned reporting, the adequacy and effectiveness controls (such reviews can be carried to stakeholders’ interests; of risk management and internal control out internally or with the assistance 2. Long-term orientation: To motivate systems, to oversee risk management of any competent third parties); employees to drive sustainable in Keppel Land and to ensure that a robust 3. Review audit plans and reports of the long-term growth; risk management system is maintained. external auditors and internal auditors, 3. Simplicity: To ensure that the structure The ARC is kept abreast of changes to and consider the effectiveness of actions is easy to understand and clear accounting as well as governance standards or policies taken by Management on the to stakeholders; and issues which have a direct impact recommendations and observations; 4. Synergy: To facilitate talent mobility and on financial statements through quarterly 4. Review the independence and objectivity enhance collaboration across businesses. updates and discussion with the external of the external auditors; auditors. The ARC also reviews and guides 5. Meet with external and internal auditors The total remuneration structure comprises Management in the formulation of risk without the presence of Management two key components, namely, annual fixed policies and processes to identify, evaluate at least annually; cash and annual performance bonus. and manage significant risks, to safeguard 6. Receive all whistle-blower reports The annual fixed cash component comprises stakeholders’ interests and the Company’s pertaining to the Company from the the annual basic salary plus any other fixed assets. In addition, the ARC discusses Receiving Officer immediately upon allowances, which the Company benchmarks risk management strategies with receipt of a complaint. The ARC shall with the relevant industry market median. Management and the Board, makes provide oversight, under expressed The size of the annual performance bonus visits to the Company’s project sites, authority from the Board and KCL’s pot is determined by the Keppel Group's as well as discusses the risk mitigation Whistle-Blower Committee and receive financial performance, as well as Keppel Land's actions and issues that Keppel Land the final report upon the completion financial and non-financial performance, faces in the various markets. of such investigations. On a quarterly and is distributed to employees based on basis, the ARC shall also receive an individual performance. For eligible employees, The ARC is guided by the following terms update on the whistle-blower reports a portion of the annual performance bonus of reference: received during the quarter and the is granted in the form of deferred shares 1. Review financial statements, as well as status of any such pending investigations; that are awarded under the Share Plans significant financial reporting issues 7. Review the adequacy and effectiveness of Keppel Corporation Limited (KCL). and judgements contained in them, of the Company’s internal audit function, for better assurance of the integrity at least annually; ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT of such statements; 8. Receive, as and when appropriate, The Board, supported by the ARC, oversees 2. Review and report to the Board, at least reports and recommendations from Keppel Land’s system of internal controls annually, the adequacy and effectiveness Management on risk tolerance and and risk management. of Keppel Land’s risk management and strategy, and recommend to the Board KEPPEL’S SYSTEM OF MANAGEMENT CONTROLS POLICIES 4 Board Oversight Board of Directors Business Unit Internal External 3 Assurance Representation Audit Audit SYSTEMS PROCESSES Management & Self-Assessment Enterprise Risk Regulatory IT Governance 2 Assurance Frameworks Process Management Compliance Framework Core Values, Corporate & Employee Conduct Business Governance/ 1 Rules of Governance Policy Compliance Operational Financial Management Governance Governance Governance PEOPLE Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS for its determination the nature and Management on the recommendations and effectiveness of such policies, processes extent of significant risks which the made by the internal and external auditors and systems in managing each of these Company may take in achieving its in this respect. The ARC also performed key risk areas every quarter. strategic objectives and the overall independent reviews of the financial Company’s levels of risk tolerance statements of the Company. The ARC has In addition, the Company has in place and risk policies; explicit authority to investigate any matter a System of Management Controls 9. Review and discuss, as and when within its terms of reference, full access Framework, which outlines the Company’s appropriate, with Management the to and cooperation by Management and internal control and risk management Company’s risk governance structure full discretion to invite any Director or processes and procedures. The Framework and framework, including risk policies, executive officer to attend its meetings, comprises three Lines of Defence towards risk mitigation and monitoring processes and has reasonable resources to enable ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness and procedures; it to discharge its functions properly. of the Company’s system of internal 10. Receive and review quarterly reports from controls and risk management. Management on major risk exposures The ARC held five Meetings during and the steps taken to monitor, control the year. The Company’s internal and Under the first Line of Defence, management and mitigate such risks; external auditors reported their audit is required to ensure good corporate 11. Review the Company’s capability to findings and recommendations governance through the implementation identify and manage new risk types; independently to the ARC. The ARC also and management of policies and procedures 12. Review and monitor Management’s met with the internal and external auditors, relevant to the Group’s business scope and responsiveness to the findings and without the presence of Management. environment. Such policies and procedures recommendations of the risk At the meetings, the external auditors govern financial, operational, IT and regulatory management department; briefed the members of the ARC on the compliance matters and are reviewed and 13. Investigate any matters within the ARC’s latest developments in accounting and updated periodically. Compliance governance purview, whenever it deems necessary governance standards and practices. is governed by the respective regulatory or as may be directed by KCL; In addition, the ARC reviewed the compliance management committees and 14. Report to the Board on material matters, independence and objectivity of the working teams. Employees are also guided by findings and recommendations; external auditors through discussions the Group’s core values and expected to comply 15. Provide timely input to the Board on with the external auditors. strictly with the Keppel Group Code of Conduct. critical risk and compliance issues; 16. Review the ARC’s terms of reference The ARC comprises three directors, Under the second Line of Defence, significant annually and, after consultation with of whom two are non-executive and business units are required to conduct KCL Audit Committee and Board Risk external Directors. a self-assessment exercise on an annual Committee, recommend any proposed basis. This exercise requires such business changes to the Board for approval; Risk Management and Internal Controls units to assess the status of their respective 17. Perform such other functions as KCL’s Board has defined three risk internal controls and risk management determined by the Board; tolerance guiding principles for the processes via self-assessment. Where 18. Sub-delegate any of its powers within its Keppel Group which determines the required, action plans are developed to remedy terms of reference as listed above from nature and extent of the significant risks identified control gaps. As described under time to time as the ARC may deem fit; which the KCL Board is willing to take the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management 19. Receive and review updates from in achieving strategic objectives. Framework, significant risk areas of the Management to assess the adequacy Group are also identified and assessed, and effectiveness of the Company’s These principles are: with systems, policies and processes compliance framework in line with 1. Risk taken should be carefully put in place to manage and mitigate the relevant laws, regulations and evaluated, and commensurate identified risks beyond internal thresholds best practices; with rewards and in line with the of appetite. It includes the reporting and 20. Through interactions with the Keppel Group’s core strengths oversight structure involving both boards Compliance Lead who has a direct and strategic objectives; and management of the Group and reporting line to the ARC, review 2. No risk arising from a single business divisions and seeks to embed and oversee performance of area of operation, investment sound risk management practices in business the Company’s implementation or undertaking should be so decisions and operations across Group of compliance programmes; and huge as to endanger the entire entities. Regulatory Compliance supports 21. Review and monitor the Company’s Keppel Group; and and works alongside management to approach to ensuring compliance 3. The Group does not condone ensure that relevant policies, processes with regulatory commitments, safety breaches or lapses, and controls are effectively designed, including progress of remedial non-compliance with laws and managed and implemented. actions where applicable. regulations, as well as acts such as fraud, bribery and corruption. Under the third Line of Defence, to assist During the year, the ARC reviewed the the Group to ascertain the adequacy and internal and external auditors’ plans and The Company also has in place a Risk effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls, findings to ensure that they are sufficient Management Assessment Framework business units’ CEOs and Chief Financial to assess the adequacy and effectiveness to facilitate the Board’s assessment Officers (CFOs) are required to provide the of the Company’s significant internal on the adequacy and effectiveness of Group with written assurances as to the controls, including financial, operational, the Company’s risk management system. adequacy and effectiveness of their system compliance and IT controls, as well as The Framework lays out the governing of internal controls and risk management. management of risks of fraud and other policies, processes and systems pertaining Such assurances are also sought from irregularities. The ARC also reviewed the to each of the key risk areas of the Company, the Group’s internal and external auditors effectiveness of the actions taken by and assessments are made on the adequacy based on their independent assessments. 34 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Employee Code of Conduct responsible environmental management. 1. Establish health and safety GRI 102-16 | 102-17 All new suppliers that provide Keppel Land (H&S) policies; Keppel Land adheres to the Keppel Group with products and services valued at $200,000 2. Monitor the Company’s compliance Code of Conduct. All employees are or more per contract or over cumulative with the approved H&S policies by: required to acknowledge and comply with purchase orders in the prior calendar year (a) Assessing the adequacy of the Employee Code of Conduct as well as are expected to sign and abide by the H&S standards; complete a mandatory annual online training Keppel Supplier Code of Conduct. (b) Assessing the Company’s and assessment exercise. The Code sets out operations through training, important principles to guide employees in Whistle-Blower Policy safety audits, elimination, control carrying out their duties and responsibilities to Keppel’s Whistle-Blower Policy encourages and minimisation of H&S risks; and the highest standards of business integrity. the reporting of suspected bribery, violations (c) Assessing the compliance It covers areas from conduct in the workplace or misconduct through a clearly-defined of the Company with to business conduct, including clear provisions process and reporting channel, by which applicable legislation; on prohibitions against bribery and corruption, reports can be made in confidence and 3. Recommend the adoption of acceptable and conflicts of interest amongst others. without fear of reprisal. The whistle-blower H&S practices in the industries in which reporting channels are widely communicated the Company operates; The Group continues to review and enhance and made accessible to all. 4. Receive reports concerning H&S incidents the Employee Code of Conduct to ensure within the Company; and that it stays updated and properly instructive. Briefings for all staff on the Keppel Group 5. Consider H&S issues that may have Appropriate disciplinary action, including Code of Conduct and Whistle-Blower strategic, business and reputational suspension or termination of employment, Protection Policy were held when the implications for the Company. is taken if an employee is found to have policies were introduced. New employees violated the Code. are briefed on the policies during orientation. RISK MANAGEMENT Subsequently, to maintain awareness, GRI 102-15 | 102-29 | 102-30 | 102-31 The Group has procedures to ensure that all employees are required to acknowledge Strong Risk-Centric Culture disciplinary actions are carried out consistently the policies annually, as well as complete GRI 103-2 and fairly across all levels of employees. a mandatory annual online training and Keppel Land fosters a strong risk-centric All third parties who represent Keppel in assessment exercise. Any revisions are culture within the Company. Acknowledging business dealings, including joint venture highlighted to them when they perform that effective risk management hinges partners, are also required to comply with the annual acknowledgements. equally on mindsets and attitudes, as well as and follow the requirements of the Code. systems and processes, the Company Board Safety Committee (BSC) constantly reviews and refines its risk Supplier Code of Conduct The Company’s BSC guides Management management methodology, systems and GRI 102-9 | 102-10 on workplace safety matters. The BSC processes to ensure that it can respond The Company is committed to conducting meets quarterly to discuss safety issues, promptly and effectively in the constantly its businesses ethically and responsibly. as well as provide guidance and direction evolving business landscape. The Company’s integrity and accountability to chart safety milestones to ensure that are fundamental to the way it does businesses, the Company is complying with local Sound and Robust Risk Management including how it manages its supply chain regulations and industry best practices. Keppel Land adopts a five-step risk and the impact of the Company’s business management process which comprises activities beyond its direct operations. The BSC is supported by the Operational risk identification, risk assessment, Excellence (OE) department. Helmed by the formulation of risk mitigation measures, Keppel Land adheres to the Keppel Supplier General Manager of OE, the department is communication and implementation, Code of Conduct and encourages the supported by a team of safety professionals as well as monitoring and reviews. adoption of Keppel’s sustainability principles from various engineering disciplines. throughout the supply chain. OE conducts regular site safety inspections Keppel Land has established a robust and audits on all ongoing projects in business continuity management (BCM) The areas covered within the Keppel Supplier Singapore and overseas. framework that allows it to address Code of Conduct include proper business potential crises and external threats, conduct, human rights, fair labour practices, The BSC is guided by the following terms while minimising the impact on its people, stringent safety and health standards, and of reference: business, operations and assets. FIVE-STEP RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Identify Assess Mitigate Implement Monitor Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Understand the Prioritise risk factors Develop action plans Communicate Monitor mitigation strategy, identify by assessing their to mitigate risks and implement results and KRI. value drivers and potential impact and identify key risk action plans. risk factors. and likelihood indicators (KRI) to of occurrence. monitor risks. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS To ensure crisis-preparedness, BCM plans compliance policies. The content of the accordance with the Singapore Financial are regularly carried out. Led by the BCM programmes were developed and tailored Reporting Standards (International) and Steering Committee, business units in to the target audiences. International Financial Reporting Standards. various locations conduct a range of simulations covering a broad spectrum In addition, employees are required to Where required, Keppel Land leverages of potential disruptions. Such BCM plans complete a mandatory annual online training, the expertise of the engaged auditors are tested and continually refined to assessment and declaration exercise. in the interpretation of financial reporting ensure responses are relevant, practical, These programmes cover key policies and standards and changes. executable and effective. employees are required to acknowledge their understanding of these policies and Strong corporate governance and internal Regulatory Compliance declare any potential conflicts of interest. control procedures have been established Keppel Land operates in an ethical and and are frequently reviewed to prevent proper manner, and complies with all Managing Key Risks fraud or other improper financial conduct. applicable laws and regulations. The key risks identified, and appropriate mitigating actions undertaken by 4. Project Management Risks Keppel Land’s Regulatory Compliance Keppel Land in 2019, are as follows: Project management processes are Governance Structure is designed to reviewed regularly. Keppel Land strengthen the Company’s policies and 1. Business Strategy Risks adopts best industry practices so processes surrounding regulatory compliance. Keppel Land’s strategic direction and as to deliver quality projects on time business strategies are reviewed by the and within budget. Keppel Land’s Regulatory Compliance Board and senior management regularly. Management Committee (RCMC) is chaired Factors including laws and regulations, Regular trainings are conducted for by the CEO. Its key members include heads market conditions and the competitive project managers to ensure their of business units. The RCMC is supported landscape within each market are compliance with the processes by the Regulatory Compliance Working considered carefully. Keppel Land and project audits are conducted Teams (RCWT). continues to explore technology and to ensure compliance with the innovation as part of its strategy to develop standard operating procedures. Together, the RCMC and the RCWT innovative products and solutions. drive the implementation of regulatory After-action reviews are regularly compliance programmes. To ensure that Keppel Land is not conducted internally to ensure overexposed to any single project or knowledge-sharing within the Company. Policies and Procedures market, the Company has established Keppel Land adheres to Keppel Group policies, a concentration risk management 5. Human Resources Risks including the Keppel Group Code of Conduct, policy which governs the exposure Keppel Land leverages leadership Global Anti-Bribery Policy including the limits of each market and project. development and local graduate Anti-Bribery and Corruption Statement, Exposure to all countries and projects programmes to identify and develop Corporate Statement on Human Rights, are monitored regularly. its talent pipeline. Whistle-Blower Policy, Insider Trading Policy, Competition Law Compliance Manual, Guided by internal policies and other Succession plans for key executive Guidance on Conflict of Interests and investment parameters, all major positions are reviewed regularly and other relevant policies. investments undergo due diligence rigorously to ensure relevance. processes and are evaluated by the All new employees are briefed on these key Board. All investment and divestment 6. IT Risks policies upon onboarding and orientation, proposals submitted for Board approval The Digital & Technology department while all employees undergo refresher courses are required to be accompanied by has established a stringent threat through annual online training and declarations. a detailed risk assessment, which and risk evaluation methodology to The Keppel Group ensures that policies are specifies pertinent areas for the assess that new and major IT solutions updated as necessary and communicated investment team to consider. consistently meet the Keppel Group’s to all relevant parties. IT governance standards. 2. Exposure to Financial Market Risks Training and Communication Keppel Land monitors its foreign IT audits and reviews are carried out Keppel Land will continue to invest in training exchange and interest rate risks, and periodically to ensure alignment to initiatives for staff to raise employees’ hedges against such risks through IT policies and procedures. risk management awareness, equip them with the utilisation of various financial the knowledge to engage in prudent risk-taking instruments, where appropriate. The IT Disaster Recovery Plan is in decision-making and business processes, reviewed and tested regularly to ensure as well as enhance sharing of key lessons learnt. Keppel Land ensures that adequate the robustness of the IT system. funding resources are available for The Company continues to refine its investments and cash flows are Policies governing end-user computing compliance training programmes and actively managed. as well as the safeguarding of information curriculum for new and existing employees. are in place and regularly emphasised 3. Misstatement of Financial Statements to employees. IT awareness and During the year, policy-related training and Public Disclosures Risks refresher programs on cybersecurity, programmes were conducted for staff in As part of the Keppel Group, Keppel Land Group IT and related policies are Singapore and overseas to raise awareness ensures that its consolidated financial conducted across the business and and deepen understanding of the Company’s statements have been prepared in market segments. 36 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited 7. Business Continuity Risks Keppel Land has in place Financial operating procedure for defects Business units continually review Authorisation Limits and Control management and handover and test their business continuity Self-Assessment tools to mitigate of units at its properties. plans to ensure effective response the risk of fraud, corruption and to potential business disruptions. misconduct by staff. 10. H&S Risks Keppel Land has a H&S policy which Critical business functions are determined Internal and external audits are promotes staff awareness on the and alternative processes, resource conducted regularly to identify, importance of workplace health requirements and interdependencies detect and mitigate fraud or and safety. are identified to support operations in bribery risks. times of disruption. To inculcate a strong safety culture 9. Quality of Deliverables Risks among all employees, various initiatives A security strategic framework has Keppel Land has quality assurance and programmes are implemented been established to coordinate security and quality control procedures by the Company’s Workplace Safety measures for Keppel Land’s assets. in place to ensure quality in and Health team. The framework adopts a codified project deliveries. approach based on the strategic thrusts SUPPLY CHAIN AND of deterrence, detection and response, To encapsulate Keppel Land’s efforts RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT which guides the development of to deliver the best standards in the GRI 102-9 | 102-10 Keppel Land’s security initiatives. design of its projects, the Company Keppel Land is committed to managing has a set of Responsible Design Values its supply chain and ensuring responsible 8. Compliance Risks for all new developments in Singapore procurement across the whole life cycle Key compliance processes are in and overseas. To ensure customer of all its projects, from the initiation and place to ensure effective compliance satisfaction of products delivered, design development stages to subsequent with relevant laws and regulations. Keppel Land has established a standard construction and operation stages. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Project Initiation Design Development Tender Construction Operation Sustainable Concept and Tender Documentation Construction Procurement Design Brief Schematic Select contractors Ensure Environmental State ISO 14001 Set high Design Review based on their track Aspects Impact specifications in BCA Green Mark Appoint consultants record, financial Assessment is the contracts targets for to conduct strength as well as conducted to identify for procurement new developments. environmental commitment towards and mitigate of services. impact assessment. high standards of environmental issues. Share Responsible quality, environmental Design Values with Monitor contractors’ management design team and energy, water and safety. consultants for and construction incorporation Preference for ISO materials usage. in proposals. 9001-, ISO 14001and OHSAS 18001Ensure contractors certified contractors. abide by the Keppel Supplier Code Set out standards of Conduct. of conduct for contractors, including in the areas of legal compliance, health and safety, as well as environmental management. Include environmental and safety specifications in tender documents. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS In selecting its main contractors for All new suppliers that provide Keppel with they are fit for use and do not pose health Keppel Land’s new projects in Singapore products and services valued at $200,000 or safety hazards. The Company monitors and overseas, contractors are assessed or more per contract or over cumulative potential health and safety impacts based on stringent criteria, which include purchase orders in the prior calendar year throughout the life cycle of its products and track record, financial strength, as well as are expected to sign and abide by the services, mitigating them where necessary. commitment towards high standards Keppel Supplier Code of Conduct, which of quality, environmental management covers areas pertaining to business conduct, A set of Responsible Design Values was and safety. Contractors with ISO 9001, labour practices, safety and health, as well developed and adopted for all of Keppel Land’s ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications as environmental management. All Keppel new developments in Singapore and are preferred. Group companies, including Keppel Land, overseas, to encapsulate Keppel Land’s are required to include the acknowledgment conscious effort to deliver the best For all project sites covered under the scope and signing of the Code as part of their standards in liveability, quality, aesthetics of Keppel Land’s environmental management supplier selection procedure. and sustainability. These design values, system, contractors are required to conduct which include Design for Quality as well as an impact assessment based on activities Through such efforts, Keppel Land aims Design for Safety, ensure that quality and at the project site prior to construction. to influence and encourage its suppliers to safety principles are incorporated into the The assessment covers potential negative operate responsibly, improve energy efficiency designs right from the start of the project. environmental impacts, including depletion and reduce overall carbon emissions. of resources, biodiversity disturbance, In addition, Keppel Land also adopts as well as air, water and noise pollution. In 2019, all of Keppel Land’s qualified suppliers, Universal Design principles for its new with the exception of one, endorsed the developments, wherever possible, to ensure Contractors are required to establish and Code or have their own codes which met that all its occupants and users, regardless implement appropriate measures to mitigate Keppel’s requirements. For the exception, of their abilities or age, can live, work and and/or prevent significant environmental Keppel Land’s compliance team conducted play safely in a friendly and barrier-free impacts that have been identified. further due diligence and assessed that the environment. The Company aims to create supplier was fit to be appointed. an environment that addresses the physical, Keppel Land adheres to the Keppel Supplier social and psychological needs of as many Code of Conduct, which was developed PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY people as possible. to integrate Keppel’s sustainability GRI 416-1 | 416-2 principles across its supply chain and Keppel Land exercises due care and In 2019, there were no known incidents positively influence the ESG performance diligence in the design, construction and of non-compliance concerning customers’ of its suppliers. operation of its products to ensure that health and safety. All of Keppel Land’s suppliers and contractors are required to adhere to the Keppel Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the standards of conduct in various areas, including health and safety performance. 38 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY KEPPEL LAND BELIEVES THAT PEOPLE ARE THE CORNERSTONE OF ITS BUSINESS AND SEEKS TO CREATE POSITIVE IMPACT IN THE COMMUNITIES WHERE IT OPERATES. Keppel Land is committed to investing in people development to grow the capabilities of its workforce and drive growth for the Company. PEOPLE MATTER PROFILE OF EMPLOYEES GRI 103-2 GRI 401-1 Keppel Land is committed to nurturing a As at end-2019, Keppel Land employs diverse, nimble and dedicated talent pool 3,148 staff across its operations in that will drive further growth and create Singapore and overseas. 324 staff are value for the Company. The Company based at Keppel Land’s corporate office recognises that people are its greatest in Singapore, while 2,824 staff are based asset and that every staff represents the overseas. In terms of educational profile, Keppel Land brand. Talent management, 78% of its Singapore-based employees succession planning and staff engagement have tertiary qualifications and above. rank highly on Keppel Land’s priority list. The overall turnover rate for Keppel Land Keppel Land continues to bolster its bench in 2019 was about 18% or 578 employees, strength in its key markets of Singapore, compared to 20% or 613 employees in 2018. China and Vietnam, as well as in other Of the 578 employees, about 39.5% or markets such as Indonesia, through staff 228 staff were below 30 years old, while promotion, redeployment, job rotation, another 53% or 307 staff were aged between job enlargement and selective new hires. 30 and 50 years. The remaining 7.5% or 43 staff The Company also continues to actively were over 50 years old. Turnover by gender engage its staff through various initiatives was 282 or 49% male and 296 or 51% female. such as post-results communication sessions, sharing over tea sessions and The turnover rate for the Company’s through the enterprise social network, headquarters in Singapore in 2019 stood Yammer, as well as employee perception at approximately 10% or 32 staff, which and engagement surveys. is below the national average of 21.3%. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY POLICY OF NON-DISCRIMINATION WORKFORCE DISTRIBUTION GRI 406-1 4,500 Keppel Land upholds human rights principles and adheres to fair employment 3,600 practices. The Company provides equal opportunities with regard to the recruitment 2,700 and career development of its employees. 1,800 Keppel Land is a signatory of the Employers’ Pledge of Fair Employment Practices and 900 abides by the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 The Keppel Group adheres to the principles Singapore 402 350 351 324 of non-discriminatory and merit-based Overseas* 3,324 3,019 2,867 2,824 employment practices. It is committed to the Total 3,726 3,369 3,218 3,148 five guiding principles of fair employment. * Including Keppel Land and Sedona Hotel’s operations. They are: a. Recruit and select employees on the basis of merit (such as skills, experience REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION (%) or ability to perform the job), regardless of age, race, gender, religion, family responsibilities or disability; Singapore 10.0 China 37.0 b. Treat employees fairly and with respect, as well as implement Vietnam 19.0 progressive human resource Indonesia 10.0 management systems; India 0.5 Myanmar 17.5 c. Provide employees with fair opportunity The Philippines 1.0 to be considered for training and development based on their strengths Malaysia 5.0 and needs to help them achieve their Total 100.0 full potential; d. Reward employees fairly based on their ability, performance, contribution PROFESSIONAL PROFILE (%) and experience; and e. Comply with labour laws and adopt Executive (Singapore) 8.0 the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices. Non-Executive (Singapore) 2.0 Executive (Overseas) 43.0 There were no reported incidences of Non-Executive (Overseas) 47.0 discrimination by employees in 2019. Total 100.0 PROVISION OF BENEFITS GRI 201-3 | 401-2 Keppel Land adheres to the respective social security contribution or pension plan obligations of the countries in which it operates. GENDER PROFILE (%) Central Provident Fund (CPF) In Singapore, the CPF is a comprehensive Male (Singapore) 5.1 social security savings plan that enables Female (Singapore) 5.1 salaried Singapore citizens and permanent residents to set aside funds to work towards Male (Overseas) 48.0 a secure retirement. Under the CPF scheme, Female (Overseas) 41.8 Keppel Land and its employees make monthly contributions to the employees’ CPF accounts Total 100.0 in accordance with the prevailing regulations. Staff Benefits Besides the mandatory CPF contributions by employer and employees, Keppel Land offers all full-time employees a comprehensive 40 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited benefits package including paid annual leave, EDUCATIONAL PROFILE (%) maternity and paternity leave entitlements, as well as coverage under the Company’s health insurance plan. Master’s Degree/Post Graduate (Singapore) 2.0 Keppel Land values the knowledge, Bachelor’s Degree/Professional experience and expertise of exemplary Certification/Graduate Diploma (Singapore) 6.0 staff who are beyond the retirement age Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels (Singapore) 1.0 of 62. The Company retains and extends GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial Certification (Singapore) 1.0 their employment annually on a contract basis, taking into account the employee’s Others (Singapore) 0.0 health, productivity and performance. Master’s Degree/Post Graduate (Overseas) 4.0 These employees enjoy the same benefits Bachelor’s Degree/Professional as those working full-time. As at end-2019, Certification/Graduate Diploma (Overseas) 42.0 one of Keppel Land’s Singapore-based employees was above the retirement age. Diploma/GCE ‘A’ Levels (Overseas) 13.0 GCE ‘O’ Levels/Industrial Certification (Overseas) 11.0 Remuneration Others (Overseas) 20.0 In Singapore, the ratio of basic salary of male to female in the executive category, Total 100.0 including members of senior management who were recruited in Singapore and based overseas, is 1.51, while that for the non-executive category is 0.84. The ratios AGE PROFILE (%) of the entry-level salary of male to female in the executive category in China and Vietnam are 1.09 and 1.29 respectively. Less than 30 years (Singapore) 1.00 For non-executives in China and Vietnam, the ratios are 0.98 and 0.94 respectively. From 31 years to 40 years (Singapore) 3.00 From 41 years to 50 years (Singapore) 3.00 At Keppel Land, basic salary refers to From 51 years to 62 years (Singapore) 3.00 the fixed amount actually paid to an employee for performing his or her duties, More than 62 years (Singapore) 0.05 excluding variable pay such as payment Less than 30 years (Overseas) 26.00 for overtime work or bonus. Entry-level From 31 years to 40 years (Overseas) 35.70 salary, on the other hand, refers to the From 41 years to 50 years (Overseas) 21.00 fixed amount paid to an employee of the most junior grade of each respective From 51 years to 62 years (Overseas) 7.00 employee category, for performing his More than 62 years (Overseas) 0.25 or her duties. This excludes variable pay. Total 100.0 CAREER PLANNING AND RECOGNITION GRI 404-3 Performance Management System The Corporate Scorecard is used to Keppel Land has in place a structured staff holistically assess Keppel Land’s appraisal and performance management corporate performance. Apart from system which allows all staff to receive financial performance, performance regular performance feedback and career in areas such as people development, development reviews. The Keppel Competency process management and stakeholder Model allows for greater consistency across engagement are also evaluated. Staff Keppel’s business units in areas such as performance appraisals are conducted succession planning and talent management, on a unified Human Resource Information while the Keppel Leadership Potential Model System adopted by the Keppel Group. ensures that a consistent leadership potential Some of the key sub-targets within assessment model is applied for all executives each of the scorecard areas include across Keppel’s business units. key financial indicators, safety goals, risk management, compliance and control Keppel Land fosters a performance-based measures, sustainability efforts, employee reward culture. Compensation includes engagement, talent development a base salary that commensurates with and succession planning. skills and experience, along with an incentive bonus programme based on the This system will be extended to Company’s performance via the Corporate overseas employees next year as Scorecard, as well as the individual employee’s part of the Company’s ongoing efforts performance via the Balanced Scorecard to automate work processes and or the performance appraisal form. drive productivity. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY An integral part of the performance Management Associate Programme (MAP) Training hours appraisal is the employee’s exemplification The two-year MAP comprises job rotation 43.7 hours of the Keppel Group’s core values which opportunities, core training and mentoring are agility, people-focus, accountability, for fresh graduates. Candidates benefit can do and safety. Alignment with these from the exposure, knowledge and networks In Singapore, employees core values is assessed based on observed necessary to embark on a fulfilling and at the executive level clocked behaviour during daily interactions with the rewarding career with Keppel Land. an average of 43.7 training employee’s supervisor, peers, subordinates hours in 2019, as compared and other stakeholders to achieve Localisation Strategy to 29.9 hours in 2018. work goals. GRI 202-2 In view of Keppel Land’s presence overseas, Leadership Development (LEAD) a number of mid-career locals have been Localisation Programme hired to helm key positions, as well as to 47% The LEAD programme, which comprises LEAD 1 for Emerging Leaders and LEAD 2 for Operational Leaders, aims enhance the capability of the Company’s overseas management teams. Keppel Land also participates in university career fairs Locals accounted for 47% to accelerate the development of strong and talks to attract fresh graduates to join of all department head positions performing employees regardless of the Company upon graduation. Selected at Keppel Land’s key overseas nationality. LEAD 1 seeks to develop candidates are rotated to different offices of China, Vietnam and high-potential executives to become departments for on-the-job training. Indonesia in 2019. effective managers, while LEAD 2 aims to nurture promising managers To better manage and monitor the career to become effective functional and development of its local talents in its key operational leaders. overseas markets, local Career Review Committees (CRCs) have been set up In 2019, a total of 26 staff were selected in China, Vietnam and Indonesia to provide for the LEAD programme. The LEAD leadership training for the local managers. development roadmap for senior staff In 2019, locals accounted for 47% of all includes a coaching component with department head positions at its key a 360° assessment, as well as enrolment overseas offices of China, Vietnam and in structured courses and programmes. Indonesia. To facilitate staff deployment In 2019, a total of four Singapore and across cities, a uniform global grading overseas-based leaders went through structure has been established for 360° assessments followed by employees based overseas. executive coaching. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT In addition, 17 participants attended GRI 404-1 | 404-2 the Advanced Leaders Programme (ALP). Keppel Land utilises the Keppel Group’s Organised by the Keppel Leadership leadership potential assessment framework. Institute, the ALP focuses on developing All of Keppel’s business units use this selected senior leaders across the framework to assess potential leadership Keppel Group who exemplify the Keppel core and facilitate deployment of talent across values and operating principles, as well as the Keppel Group. display strong leadership skills. It also focuses on creating a unique learning The CRCs identify and groom promising experience which involves learning employees for future leadership positions. through a wide range of methods including Helmed by senior management, the mini lectures, case studies, a film case, CRCs focus on specific developmental simulations, as well as other experiential interventions for high-potential employees exercises such as executive coaching and based on the Company’s shortand engagement with senior management. long-term business needs. Career plans for 47 high-potential staff were reviewed Succession Planning in 2019. There were also 26 staff rotations In Keppel, staff are assessed biannually to various functions within Keppel Land using the Keppel Group Leadership and other Keppel business units to familiarise potential assessment framework. Inputs staff with different aspects of the business. from these assessments were used to refresh the succession plans for At the same time, the New Hires Milestone leadership positions. Programme was implemented to help new employees assimilate into the organisation. These plans were subsequently submitted to the Keppel Group Management Recognising the importance of continuous Development Committee for endorsement. training and development, staff are encouraged 42 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited to fulfil at least 20 training hours. An online 12 weeks of maternity leave, depending agreement signed between the Singapore learning platform was introduced in 2018 on whether the child is a Singapore citizen Industrial and Services Employees’ Union to enable staff to embark on a self-directed and other criteria in accordance to the (SISEU) and the Company. To-date, a total learning journey. Employment Act and Child Development of 7 employees are members of the SISEU. Co-Savings Act. In 2019, Keppel Land In Singapore, employees at the executive was granted a total amount of about In 2019, Keppel Land engaged SISEU through level clocked an average of 43.7 training $57,000 for eligible female employees dialogues and other communication modes. hours in 2019, as compared to 29.9 hours with Singapore citizen births who were A new collective agreement has been renewed in 2018, while non-executive staff achieved entitled to government-paid maternity leave. for a three-year term, from 2019 to 2021. an average of 28.1 hours of training in 2019, In 2019, there were 125 eligible male Under the new agreement, key changes as compared to 14.9 hours in 2018. Overseas, employees under the paternity leave include harmonisation of employee benefits, executive and non-executive staff clocked scheme. Keppel Land also grants one day including the roll-out of a Flexible Benefits an average of 31.4 and 11.4 training hours of paternity leave to its male employees Programme, which comprises a Medical respectively in 2019, as compared to 30.0 with non-Singapore citizen births. Spending Account, a Health Screening and 26.4 training hours respectively in 2018. Account and a Flexible Spending Account, In addition, employees with children as well as other changes in areas including WORKFORCE WELFARE who are Singapore citizens aged annual leave and meal allowances. GRI 201-4 | 401-3 below seven years are entitled to six days In 2019, Keppel Land continued to of paid childcare leave per year, borne As specified in the collective agreement, implement initiatives that promote family jointly by the Company and the government. reasonable notice periods are given to cohesiveness and workforce welfare. In 2019, Keppel Land was granted a total affected staff in the event of significant Keppel Land has been supporting the of about $42,000 for 40 eligible employees operational changes. The Union will be nationwide initiative ‘Eat with Your Family under the government-paid childcare leave advised before changes in the general Day’ organised by the Centre of Fathering scheme. Employees with children who are conditions of employment, such as rates since its inception in 2003. The initiative, Singapore citizens aged between seven of pay, hours of work and other general held quarterly, promotes family bonding and 12 are entitled to two days of extended terms and conditions of employment, and enables employees to spend quality childcare leave annually. In 2019, Keppel Land are put into effect. Besides forging closer time with their loved ones through the was granted a total amount of about $18,000 relations with the Union, the agreement simple act of having a meal with the family. for 26 eligible employees under the extended reinforces the Company’s commitment to childcare leave scheme. fair remuneration and employee retention. In line with the government’s pro-family There were no grievances reported by legislations and the Child Development LABOUR RELATIONS employees in 2019. Co-Savings Act, employees who have been GRI 102-41 I 403-4 with the Company for more than three months Keppel Land places great emphasis on EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT are eligible for parental and childcare leave maintaining a harmonious and collaborative GRI 102-21 | 102-33 | 102-34 | 102-43 | 102-44 benefits. Working mothers with Singapore relationship with unions. Non-executive Staff Engagement Platforms citizen births are entitled to either 16 weeks employees at Keppel Land’s Singapore Employees are regularly updated on the of government-paid maternity leave or headquarters are covered under the collective Company’s performance and achievements The Company’s annual Dinner and Dance event provides an occasion for staff to bond over a night of fun and camaraderie. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Various platforms, such as the Annual Staff Conference, help to foster better communication and engagement among management and staff. on a quarterly basis at the departmental overall engagement score of 91%, partnered the Singapore Association level. Annually, the Company’s strategic an increase of 5% from 2017, which of the Visually Handicapped to bring directions are shared at the Staff was when the last full survey was done. short massage sessions to staff on a Communication Session. The survey responses were used to biweekly basis. Massage chairs were formulate intervention programmes also placed around working areas, Apart from the various communication to build a more engaged workforce. encouraging staff to take short breaks platforms that are already in place, the from time to time. Company has also implemented cross-level Annual Staff Conference (ASC) and team interaction activities, such as The ASC 2019 held in May was attended A Healthy Living Pledge was rolled out regular management interaction sessions by about 400 staff and key executives at the beginning of the year to encourage with small groups of staff, as well as monthly from Keppel Land’s overseas operations. staff to set attainable and sustainable breakfast sessions to encourage staff bonding. The ASC facilitates strategic collaboration goals for healthy living. The self-evaluation and exchange of best practices and programme gives out token rewards to The Company seeks to foster an agile ideas, as well as provides cross-learning push staff towards adopting a healthier working environment and has identified opportunities among staff. It also serves lifestyle. MindFit@Work, an employee key agile behaviours. These include as a key platform for Management to share assistance programme, was launched ‘Make People Awesome’, ‘Deliver Value the Keppel Group’s strategic directions in June 2019 to help staff cope with stress Continuously’, ‘Experiment and Learn Rapidly’, and provide updates on the various and anxiety. The programme provides as well as ‘Build Trusting Relationships’. business units. a 24/7 hotline as well as face-to-face Specific statements in line with the counselling sessions for staff who behaviours were crafted with inputs HEALTH AND WELLNESS require assistance, fully subsidised from management and staff, with the In 2019, Keppel Land continued to by the Company. objective to define, align and reinforce collaborate with the Health Promotion agile behaviours in Keppel Land. Board to run a series of health and fitness Keppel Land’s employees also participated Various initiatives were also rolled out programmes for staff. These included actively in Keppel Games, which is a to encourage the key agile behaviours. Zumba, pilates and yoga sessions which series of sports competitions organised were organised throughout the year at by the Keppelite Recreation Club. Employee Engagement Survey (EES) Keppel Bay Tower. Employees across the Keppel Group 99% of employees across Keppel Land compete in a range of sports including participated in the EES which was launched As part of staff’s well-being, Keppel Land’s badminton, dragon boating, golf, track and in August 2019. Keppel Land achieved an Workplace Engagement Committee field, table-tennis, swimming and bowling. 44 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH • Safety forum for all safety practitioners GRI 103-2 from across Keppel Land’s business units; Sterling Safety Record Zero Safety is one of Keppel’s core values. Keppel Land’s safety approach is guided • Quality, Environmental, Health and by the Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy which Safety (QEHS) leadership engagement outlines actionable items to prevent workplace fatality through five strategic thrusts. This sessions for new projects; and fatalities includes building a high-performance safety • Reinforcement of the five key Keppel Land continued its culture, adopting a proactive approach to safety principles through videos strong track record in safety safety management, leveraging technology and campaigns. with zero fatalities in 2019. to mitigate safety risks, harmonising global safety practices and competency, and The key safety principles were developed streamlining learning from incidents. in 2008 to encourage and drive safe Trained Workers Several key initiatives have been implemented in line with the Zero Fatality Strategy. behaviour among all employees across the Keppel Group to guide them in their daily operations. To ensure that 78,000 As at end-2019, a total of They include: the safety framework and strategies over 78,000 workers have remain relevant in an ever-changing been trained at Keppel Land’s • Establishment of a Group-wide business environment, and as part Safety Awareness Centres global standard for managing High of the regular review of the Group’s in China, Vietnam, Indonesia Impact Risk Activities; safety practices and measures, these and Malaysia. principles were relaunched in 2017. • Implementation of a standardised The five principles are: incident investigation and root cause analysis technique; 1. Every incident is preventable; • Setting individual safety Key Performance 2. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Indicators (KPIs) as well as including is an integral part of our business; safety as an important KPI within the Corporate Scorecard; 3. HSE is a line responsibility; • Cascading top management’s safety 4. Everyone is empowered to stop any KPIs to all frontline managers; unsafe work; and • Initiation of Global Safety Time-Out 5. A strong safety culture is achieved across all of Keppel Land’s operations; through teamwork. Build a high-performance safety culture Streamline Adopt a proactive learning from approach to safety incidents management Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy Harmonise Leverage global safety practices technology to mitigate & competency safety risks Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY A comprehensive design checklist is also Keppel Land also believes in partnering implemented for every project. Rigorous contractors and suppliers who share its assessments are incorporated to identify commitment to quality, as well as high and analyse potential hazards and risks. environmental and H&S standards. Controls are also in place to eradicate or minimise exposure to hazards. A set of stringent criteria is applied and adhered to when selecting contractors All worksites in Singapore and overseas for each of the Company’s projects. have a site H&S committee helmed All potential contractors are put through by the main contractor’s project manager a pre-qualifying evaluation to assess and supported by Keppel Land’s project their competencies. team. An average of about 5% of the workforce is represented on the committee Compliance for projects in Singapore, China and Vietnam. GRI 408-1 The committee monitors safety performance In keeping with the Company’s commitment and submits monthly reports. Members in ensuring that its operations and major meet at least once a month to discuss suppliers are not involved in unethical labour safety inspection findings, incidents and practices such as child or forced labour, injuries, work and activities, as well as a human rights clause on the prohibition organise onsite H&S events. of child labour has been incorporated in all H&S specifications to contractors since 2012. All accidents and near misses are investigated and findings are discussed The H&S specification is a comprehensive during BSC meetings. Any incident of document for contractors, which includes non-compliance with safety standards a safety policy and its objectives, as well as and accidents involving employees information about the Company and its 1 and/or subcontractors are also reported responsibilities. Planning and implementation to management in a timely manner. guidelines, including hazard identification Lessons learnt from incidents and near and risk assessment; information, training misses are shared with other business and supervision; safe work systems; All new employees are required to undergo initiatives, as well as monitors safety units to prevent recurrence. hazard controls; permits to work; a safety induction course as part of their performance and engages stakeholders orientation programme. Staff are also on all safety-related matters. regularly updated through advisories on incidents, safety legislation updates and As part of the Keppel Group Inter-Strategic Regular visits to worksites training programmes via different channels. Business Unit Safety Committee, Keppel Land 1 allow Keppel Corporation and participates in regular dialogue sessions Keppel Land's Board Safety Committees to have oversight BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE (BSC) with other business units to promote of safety practices on the ground. Keppel Land’s BSC reviews and develops the exchange of safety knowledge and safety policies and management systems. experiences. This includes site visits where The BSC currently comprises four members business units take turns to host safety The Company conducts Quality, 2 Environmental, Health and Safety including two independent Directors. personnel from across the Keppel Group leadership engagement sessions Formed in 2007, the BSC has oversight and share their respective safety systems. for new projects to ensure aligned expectations among the Keppel Land of the safety programmes and budget. project team, main contractor SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM and external consultants. The BSC regularly monitors and evaluates GRI 403-1 the Company’s compliance and effectiveness A safety management system is incorporated of its health and safety (H&S) policies at the development stage of all of Keppel Land’s as well as safety management system projects and continues through the design, to ensure alignment with industry best development and management stages. practices. Safety reports on the Company’s This inculcates a strong safety mindset operations in Singapore and overseas in all employees and stakeholders, including are submitted to the BSC every quarter. its consultants, suppliers and contractors, The BSC convenes quarterly to discuss for all its projects in Singapore and overseas. safety standards, practices and any related matters that may have strategic, Workers, contractors and Keppel Land operational and reputational implications project staff are encouraged to collaborate on Keppel Land. and come up with innovative ideas to improve safety. In 2019, a total of five projects The BSC is supported by the Operational were conferred Safety Innovation Awards Excellence (OE) department. OE develops which were presented at the Keppel Group and implements H&S systems and Safety Convention in November 2019. 2 46 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY equipment inspection, testing and Safety KPIs maintenance; personal protection Remuneration of management is linked equipment; first-aid facilities and to sustainability-related KPIs, which emergency plans are also included includes safety. Safety is also a KPI in in the specification. the performance appraisal of all frontline managers. Any fatality at the end of the In addition, the document details the supply chain can affect the bonuses of monitoring and measuring mechanisms key executives and staff. KPIs include such as workplace inspections, accident the Company’s safety performance which recording and reporting, accident encompasses accident frequency and investigation, internal and external severity rates, as well as the occurrence audits, as well as safety improvements. of fatal accidents. The KPIs also include Legislations and standards, as well as the individual manager’s participation performance measurement indicators, in safety-related activities and training are also incorporated. programmes, such as attendance and certification for courses conducted by To ensure that all its contractors are training providers approved by vigilant and comply with the H&S specification, Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower. as well as relevant regulatory requirements and safe work practices, Keppel Land’s WSH OHSAS 18001 unit conducts weekly safety walkabouts GRI CRE6 at its Singapore worksites and inspects In 2012, Keppel Land received the certification overseas worksites at least once for the successful implementation of the every quarter. Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS) 18001 system at all of In 2019, safety walkabouts were conducted its development projects and properties at over 30 project sites and completed under its management in Singapore, buildings in Singapore and overseas. China and Vietnam. PROACTIVE ACTIONS The OHSAS 18001 guides the Company Over the years, Keppel Land has implemented in the management, control and improvement numerous initiatives to inculcate a strong of its occupational H&S performance. safety culture. Projects in Singapore, China and Vietnam currently account for about 80% of Business Unit HSE Improvement Plan Keppel Land’s total ongoing developments. The Company has in place a Business Unit HSE Improvement Plan with set targets In 2019, independent third-party audits and benchmark indicators that address were carried out at project sites the areas of safety leadership, structure in Singapore, China and Vietnam to and work processes. ensure compliance with OHSAS 18001. ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE (AFR) 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 AFR (per million man-hours) 0.31 0.55 0.27 0.43 0.09 0.27 0.28 48 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited An internal audit was conducted for about 1,700 workers in China, 500 in Vietnam, the Company’s projects to ensure that 7,400 in Indonesia and 600 in Malaysia Safety Training for Employees 10,700 hours the various parameters pertaining to in 2019. The SACs were set up to increase OHSAS 18001 were met. safety awareness among contractors’ employees on pertinent topics such as As part of continuous improvement efforts, working at height, lifting procedures, In 2019, staff clocked about Keppel Land is working to meet the working within confined spaces, proper 10,700 hours for safety training requirements under the new ISO 45001 use of equipment and scaffold erection. courses and seminars in Occupational Health & Safety Management All workers have to attend mandatory Singapore and overseas. System, which provides a robust and safety training before they are allowed to effective set of processes for improving work at any of Keppel Land’s project sites. safety in global supply chains. Safety Training for Employees Completed Buildings Audit Employees undergo training courses and Keppel Land conducted audits for all its seminars to enhance their knowledge and skills completed buildings for the seventh in managing HSE risks. Staff at Keppel Land’s consecutive year. A total of 10 commercial corporate headquarters in Singapore properties, hospitality units and retail malls underwent a total of about 500 hours of in Singapore, China, Vietnam, Indonesia, safety training in 2019. Overseas, employees Myanmar and Malaysia were audited in China, Vietnam, Indonesia and Malaysia by the WSH unit in 2019. committed a total of about 4,800, 3,300, 300 and 1,800 hours of safety training COMMUNICATION respectively. Training topics included first GRI 102-43 | 102-44 aid, safety induction, site regulation, HSE Safety Talks and Engagement risks, safety awareness, construction safety, Keppel Land actively engages its risk management implementation, as well consultants and contractors through as specialised subjects such as safe use of various communication modes to instil electrical equipment. the importance of safety at the workplace. REWARDS AND RECOGNITION Prior to the commencement of each project, Keppel Land collaborates with its main a QEHS Leadership Engagement Session contractors to ensure that all stakeholders involving the project team, consultants and and workers are committed to maintaining contractors is held. This session seeks to incident-free project sites. Programmes that clearly lay out Keppel Land’s expectations of reward and encourage safe work practices the consultants and contractors. During the are organised regularly. session, consultants and contractors also demonstrate their competency at meeting Safety Awards those expectations. The meeting is normally Testament to the Company’s continual efforts presided by a member of senior management. to ensure safe environments, Keppel Land China’s Seasons Residences Phase 2 in Wuxi All workers undergo safety orientation was recognised as a ‘Model Construction courses onsite. Weekly talks on different Site’ by the local construction authorities. safety topics are also conducted by the main contractors for their workers. Sharing Best Practices In 2019, Keppel Land organised a safety TRAINING forum which saw all safety champions GRI 404-2 across its various business units Safety Awareness Centre (SAC) congregating to share the successes Keppel Land has a total of five SACs in and challenges faced in their respective Tianjin, Wuxi, Ho Chi Minh City, Jakarta countries of operations. Good practices and Johor Bahru. The SAC in Wuxi is a were also shared across business units mobile unit which can be moved around to elevate safety standards and compliance. the city for new projects. In China, a sharing session by IBM on Training programmes to improve the safety digitisation technology in safety management performance of contractors’ employees was held for 210 employees in 2019. are held in the SACs. As at end-2019, a total Separately, in Vietnam, a safety convention of over 78,000 workers have been trained cum Design for Safety workshop was at the SACs. This includes the training of conducted for 103 employees in 2019. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT sustainable manner. The Company also about 35,000 students and members of the GRI 103-2 | 413-1 | 413-2 supports efforts in tackling climate change public through a total of about 140 events. Keppel Land is committed to engage and conserving biodiversity. and contribute to communities wherever In 2016, the Keppel Group committed it operates. The Company adopts a Raising Eco-Consciousness $2.08 million to the Garden City Fund to multi-faceted approach towards corporate In 2016, Keppel Land partnered the Building support the restoration of a freshwater forest social responsibility (CSR) with a focus and Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA) wetland ecosystem within the Learning Forest on environmental stewardship and to launch GreenSeeds, a public outreach extension of the Singapore Botanic Gardens. social responsibility. This aligns with the campaign to promote greater awareness In recognition of Keppel’s contribution, the Keppel Group’s CSR focus of protecting of sustainability innovations and practices, restored freshwater forest wetland was the environment, supporting education as well as reinforce the importance of named the Keppel Discovery Wetlands. and caring for the underprivileged. a green built environment in Singapore. Over the three-year programme, which was About 1.1 million people have visited the In 2019, Keppel Land committed a total carried out in partnership with environmental Learning Forest since its launch in March 2017. of about 8,050 hours of various community social enterprise, Terra Singapore, GreenSeeds In 2019, Keppel’s Green Ambassadors, outreach activities in Singapore and overseas. provided funding support to nine schools including those from Keppel Land, continued Keppel Land supports and implements local to build ‘zero corridors’ using upcycled to promote conservation by leading community engagement programmes in all materials. The project helped schools biweekly public tours at the Learning of its countries of operations. set up green spaces within their compounds Forest. Staff volunteers also facilitate craft to educate students and the community workshops for children on wetland habitats. CARING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT in upcycling, conservation and resource Through such activities, the Company hopes Keppel Land carries out its businesses efficiency. At the end of its run in 2019, the to inspire the younger generation to protect in an environmentally friendly and GreenSeeds programme had reached out to and care for the environment. 2 Conserving Biodiversity biodiversity and maintain high standards the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City organised In November 2019, led by Dr Lee Boon Yang, of environmental protection to ensure the 2019 Youth ‘Eco-Innovation: Green Action’ Chairman of Keppel Corporation, Mr Loh a balanced ecosystem. competition in May 2019, which saw Chin Hua, CEO of Keppel Corporation and participants develop innovative and Chairman of Keppel Land, and Mr Tan Swee Mr Desmond Lee, Singapore’s Minister practical green solutions. Since its launch Yiow, CEO of Keppel Land, staff volunteers, for Social and Family Development and eight years ago, the competition has received joined by senior management and staff Second Minister for National Development, 750 innovative and implementable project from the National Parks Board (NParks), together with senior management from proposals from over 200 universities, planted 150 coastal forest trees at Labrador Keppel Land and NParks, toured Keppel Bay institutions, and organisations across Nature Reserve. in March 2019 as part of the ‘Celebrating 70 Chinese cities. Singapore Shores’ event at Berlayer Creek. This Keppel initiative supports NParks’ EMPOWERING THROUGH EDUCATION Forest Restoration Action Plan, which seeks Raising Environmental Awareness Keppel Land firmly believes that knowledge to strengthen the resilience of Singapore’s Overseas is fundamental in equipping communities forests to climate change and enhance In Vietnam, to raise awareness on the impact with skills for a sustainable livelihood. In line biodiversity through the sustained planting of plastic waste on the environment and to with this, the Company collaborates with of native forest species. The planted trees encourage the public to reduce consumption strategic partners on various initiatives and are expected to sequester 21.3 tonnes of of single-use plastics, Keppel Land partnered programmes in Singapore and overseas. carbon dioxide over 10 years. non-profit organisation, Zero Waste Saigon, and Starbucks Vietnam, to showcase an art Fostering Creativity in Children Besides developing world-class residential installation, ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’, Through supporting arts education, properties at Keppel Bay, extensive efforts at the Estella Place retail mall. The installation Keppel Land aims to foster creativity and have been undertaken by Keppel Land was made from 168,000 plastic straws expression, which, in turn, contributes to to sustain the thriving coral reefs and and plastic packaging recovered off the the vibrancy of society. 1 marine biodiversity underneath its waters. streets of Vietnam. In 2019, ‘The Parting For example, Marina at Keppel Bay was of the Plastic Sea’ achieved the Guinness Established with a $12 million commitment specially designed and constructed to allow World Record for ‘Largest drinking straw from Keppel, the Keppel Centre for Art Keppel Land seeks to do its part in raising Mr Tan Swee Yiow (centre), CEO of Keppel Land, 1 environmental awareness among its stakeholders. 2 with Keppel volunteers at a tree planting event water to flow freely through the entire marina, sculpture (supported)’. Education at the National Gallery Singapore Pictured is the Zero-Waste Learning Hub at to support NParks’ Forest Restoration Action Plan. especially during the changing of tides. is the first art education facility of its kind Fern Green Primary School, one of the schools The programme seeks to strengthen the resilience which participated in the Keppel Land-sponsored of Singapore’s forests to climate change and Keppel Land also works with research In China, the Sino-Singapore Tianjin in the region. The Centre has hosted over GreenSeeds public outreach campaign. enhance biodiversity. institutions and industry experts to preserve Eco-City Administrative Committee and 1.8 million visitors since its launch in 2015. 50 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Season of Giving ‘2019 CSR Model Award’. In November 2019, Separately, Keppelites also donated water During the Christmas festive season, volunteers in Northern China continued heaters to the Sri Divya Drishti Janahitha Keppel Land sponsored and distributed to deepen friendships with special needs Corporation, a home for blind women. Christmas gifts such as household items students from Sunshine Welfare Home and appliances to underprivileged in Tianjin at an event which saw In Myanmar, staff from Sedona Hotel households under Metropolitan YMCA 140 volunteers participate in a 3.5-km Yangon conducted a blood donation drive Singapore's MY Blessings programme. 'Keppel Run' with the students. in February 2019, where 37 bags of blood were donated. Separately, the hotel Granting Wishes In Vietnam, during a company trip in supported the Soap for Hope project, In 2019, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT October 2019, about 300 Keppelites where soaps that were minimally used Management rallied tenants of Keppel’s engaged underprivileged children from were collected from guest rooms and commercial buildings, namely Ocean the Phuc Lam Shelter Home and taught repurposed as detergents and recycled Financial Centre, Keppel Bay Tower and them ways to care for the environment. soaps, which were subsequently donated Keppel Towers, to fulfil the wishes of 225 During the trip, they set up a library with to Badana Aid Myanmar. children from adopted charities, including reading materials and toys so that the Care Corner and the Muscular Dystrophy children were able to study and play. In the Philippines, 27 volunteers conducted Association Singapore. The children also During the trip, Keppelites also helped an outreach program in April 2019, where enjoyed Christmas carolling and games to clean up Long Hai Beach. they visited orphans at Bukid Kabataan organised by Keppel volunteers. Centre. Keppelites donated daily necessities, In Indonesia, in August 2019, over 100 including laundry detergent, as well as Enriching Overseas Communities volunteers participated in a blood donation powdered milk and juice. 1 In China, led by Mr Ben Lee, President drive in support of the Indonesian Red of Keppel Land China, 20 Keppel volunteers Cross Society. In Malaysia, to raise public awareness from Keppel Land China’s Shanghai on recycling and eco-friendly habits, office participated in a blood donation In India, in support of the orphans at a collection point was set up at Sutera Mall Keppel volunteers also serve as Art Jing’an District Education Association, drive in June 2019. In July 2019, the Sri Sai Sneha Samsthe Foundation, for residents of Taman Sutera and Taman Volunteerism Ambassadors and participate regularly to provide teaching resources to schools Keppel Land China was recognised donation drives were held in June and Sutera Utama, as well as members of the 8,050 hours in the Centre’s ‘Book in a Nook’ reading in the impoverished areas of Yunnan for its corporate social responsibility September 2019, which saw Keppelites public, to contribute their pre-loved items. programme and guided school tours. Province. About 1,900 teachers and student efforts at the 8th China Finance Summit contributing mattresses, bath towels, A series of workshops was also rolled representatives participated in symposiums 2019 in Beijing, where it received the toiletries and groceries. out as part of the campaign. In 2019, staff clocked a total Words on Wheels and training, which equipped participants of about 8,050 hours for Following the success of the Words on with the skills to utilise the training resources community outreach activities Wheels (WoW) mobile library project in provided. To further support the students’ in Singapore and overseas. Hanoi, Vietnam, Keppel Land partnered learning, Keppel Land donated computers the Singapore International Foundation and books to schools in Guangnan County. (SIF) to extend the project to Ho Chi Minh Outreach Programmes City in May 2014. In 2018, Keppel committed RMB 5 million 20,000 WoW (Ho Chi Minh) is an initiative led to the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation. The collaboration began with a three-year people by the SIF in partnership with the General programme focused on needy students Sciences Library and is sponsored by from 10 schools in Mabian County, Sichuan Keppel Land. Phase One of WoW (Ho Chi Minh), Province. In conceiving its community outreach Made a positive impact which spanned 2014 to 2017, reached out programme in Mabian, Keppel had consulted on 20,000 people through to over 3,000 primary and secondary school the local education bureau to ensure that the community outreach activities children in the suburban Binh Chanh District. aid provided would be suitable and impactful. and sponsored programmes Since the launch of Phase Two of WoW in 2019. in 2018, 10 volunteer trips involving over Through Keppel’s contribution, close to 90 employees across the Keppel Group 2,000 needy students are provided with have been held to-date. Volunteers from milk every school day. Over 1,300 students Keppel Land were involved in the development have also benefitted from e-book readers of sustainability-themed English lessons sponsored by Keppel, which are made on green living and financial literacy as part available at school libraries, as well as of the programme. About 7,000 students the upgrade of school kitchens. In 2019, from seven primary and secondary schools Keppel volunteers from Singapore and have benefitted from the programme. China engaged 600 students from four In addition, the programme also saw the schools through interactive story-telling refurbishment of libraries in three schools sessions and educational games. 2 in Districts 2 and 8 of Ho Chi Minh City. Phase Two of WoW (Ho Chi Minh) spans CARING FOR THE COMMUNITY from 2018 to 2021. Community Partner Keppel regularly uplifts the lives of residents Keppel Land aims to nurture communities 1 in Singapore's North West district through events 2 wherever it operates, including in its overseas Keppel collaborates with strategic partners such as the distribution of festive packs. Leading markets such as Vietnam. The Company is the Building a Brighter Future such as the North West Community Keppel volunteers in the distribution in January sponsor of Phase Two of the Words on Wheels In support of the Chinese government’s Development Council (CDC) to spread 2020 were Mr Ong Ye Kung (first from left), (Ho Chi Minh) programme, which has positively Singapore's Minister for Education and impacted about 7,000 Vietnamese students in poverty alleviation efforts, Keppel Land cheer in the community through events. Member of Parliament for Sembawang GRC Districts 2 and 8 of Ho Chi Minh City. China collaborated with the Shanghai This includes the packing and distribution (Gambas), Mr Loh Chin Hua (third from right), CEO of Keppel Corporation and Chairman of Charity Foundation, the Shanghai Jing’an of festive packs containing food and Keppel Land, and Mr Tan Swee Yiow District Education Bureau and the Shanghai household items to low-income households. (second from right), CEO of Keppel Land. 52 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 53 OTHER INFORMATION GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Standard Number Title Disclosure and/or Direct Answers Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Organisational Profile GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation 3 General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3 Disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters 3 102-4 Location of operations 59-60 www.keppelland.com 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3 102-6 Markets served 3 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 39-41 102-9 Supply Chain 35, 37 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 35, 38 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 18-19, 25-26, 35-37 102-12 External initiatives 10-11, 24 102-13 Memberships of associations 24 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15, 18-19, 35-37 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 34 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 34 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 31 102-19 Delegating authority 13 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental 13 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental 20-21, 43-44 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 32 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 32 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 32 102-25 Conflicts of interest 31-35 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 31-35 values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 31-35 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance 31-35 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental 13, 15, 35-37 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 15, 35-37 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 15, 35-37 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 20-21, 43-44 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 20-21, 32, 43-44 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 20-21, 43-44 102-35 Remuneration policies 32 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 32 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 32 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio — — Information is confidential. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio — — Information is confidential. Legend Full reported Partially reported 54 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Standard Number Title Disclosure and/or Direct Answers Omissions Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12 General 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 43 Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20, 43, 49 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20, 43, 49 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2, 13 102-47 List of the material topics 2, 13 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2, 13 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 102-55 GRI Content Index 54-58 102-56 External assurance This report is not externally assured. Management Approach* GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary* 13 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components* 13, 14, 31, 35, 39 Approach 2016 45, 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach* 4, 18, 20-21, 28-29, 43, 49 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC STANDARDS Economic Performance GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4 Economic 15, 17 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due Performance to climate change 2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 40-41 201-4 Significant financial assistance received from government 22-23, 43 Market Presence GRI 202: 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared — Information is confidential. Market to local minimum wage Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the 42 local community Legend Full reported Partially reported * Management Approach for Topic-specific Standards: GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016, GRI 202 Market Presence 2016, GRI 301 Materials 2016, GRI 302 Energy 2016, GRI 303 Water 2016, GRI 305 Emissions 2016, GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016, GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 2016, GRI 401 Employment 2016, GRI 402 Labor Management Relations 2016, GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016, GRI 404 Training and Education 2016, GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016, GRI 408 Child Labor 2016, GRI 413 Local Communities 2016, GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 2016, GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 2016, GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 2016. Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 55 OTHER INFORMATION GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Standard Number Title Disclosure and/or Direct Answers Omissions CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS Materials GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 30 Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 30 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packing materials ­— Disclosure is not applicable as input building materials including packaging are purchased directly by the main contractors. Energy GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 28 Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 28 2016 302-3 Energy Intensity 28 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption 28 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 28 CRE1 Building energy intensity 28 Water GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 28 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 28 303-3 Water recycled and reused — Amount of water recycled mainly for irrigation use is insignificant. CRE2 Building water intensity 28 Emissions GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 29 Emissions 305-2 Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 29 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 29 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 29 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 29 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ­— Disclosure is not applicable as the Company does not have ozone-depleting substances. 305-7 NO, SO, and other significant emissions — Disclosure is not applicable as the Company is not regulated by national laws, regulations or environmental permits to report significant air emissions for its operations. CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings 29 CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new 29 construction and redevelopment activity Legend Full reported Partially reported 56 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Standard Number Title Disclosure and/or Direct Answers Omissions Effluents and Waste GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 28-29 Effluents Partial disclosure and Waste as wastewater is 2016 discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 28-29 Partial disclosure as wastewater is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. 306-3 Significant spills ­­— ­­— Disclosure is not applicable as Keppel Land does not have significant spills. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste ­­— ­­­­— Disclosure is not applicable as waste on-site is managed by the main contractors and the Company does not transport, import, export or treat hazardous waste. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and runoff ­­— ­­— Disclosure is not applicable as waste water is discharged into the public sewerage system or sewage treatment plant. Environmental Compliance GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 16 Environmental Compliance 2016 CATEGORY: SOCIAL STANDARDS Employment GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 39 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 41 2016 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 43 Labor/Management Relations GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 48 Labor/ Partial disclosure as Management duration of minimum Relations 2016 notice period is confidential. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management46-47 Occupational worker health and safety committees Health and 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 48 Safety 2016 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 49 related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 43 with trade unions CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating in verified 48 compliance with an internationally recognised health and safety management system Legend Full reported Partially reported Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 57 OTHER INFORMATION GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Standard Number Title Disclosure and/or Direct Answers Omissions Training and Education GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 42 Training and 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition 24, 42, 49 Education assistance programmes 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 41, 42 and career development reviews Non-discrimination GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 40 Nondiscrimination 2016 Child Labor GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 47 Child Labor of child labor 2016 Local Communities GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with implemented local community engagement, 50-53 Local impact assessments, and development programmes Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 50-53 2016 impacts on local communities CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced — Disclosure is not and/or resettled by development, broken down by project applicable as impacts on local communities in the countries that Keppel Land operates in are guided by the respective authorities’ land planning regulations. Customer Health and Safety GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 38 Customer and service categories Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and 38 and Safety safety impacts of products and services 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 16 Socioeconomic and economic area Compliance 2016 Legend Full reported Partially reported 58 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited OTHER INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL NETWORK SINGAPORE CHINA Shanghai Chengdu Keppel Land Limited 1 HarbourFront Avenue Keppel Land China Limited (Head Office) Chengdu Hillstreet Development Co., Ltd. Level 2 Keppel Bay Tower 39th Floor Wheelock Square Unit 1608, Tower B, Singapore 098632 1717 Nanjing West Road China Overseas International Center Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Shanghai, China 200040 No. 177 Jiaozi Avenue, High-tech District South Tel: (86) 21 6171 2121 Chengdu, Sichuan Province China 610041 Keppel Land (Shanghai) Management Co., Ltd Tel: (86) 28 8702 6688 Room 4706 Park Place 1601 Nanjing West Road Shanghai, China 200040 Wuxi Tel: (86) 21 6288 3066 Keppel Lakefront (Wuxi) Property Development Co., Ltd Beijing Keppel Waterfront Residence Sales Gallery Northeast of West Gaolang Road & Jinshi Road Beijing Honghui Management Co. Ltd. Binhu District, Wuxi Unit 706 Jiangsu Province China World Office 2 China 214121 No. 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Tel: (86) 510 8562 3083 Chaoyang District Beijing, China 100004 Tel: (86) 10 6505 0866 Kunming Spring City Golf & Lake Resort Tianjin Tangchi, Yiliang, Kunming, Yunnan Province Keppel Hong Da (Tianjin Eco-City) China 652103 Property Development Co., Ltd Tel: (86) 871 6767 1188 No. 2018 Zhong Tian Da Dao RBO Block 13, Level 1 Unit 101, Eco-Business Park, Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, Tianjin 300467, China Tel: (86) 22 6633 1088 Keppel Land Limited Sustainability Report 2019 59 OTHER INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL NETWORK VIETNAM INDONESIA INDIA Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) Bintan Bangalore Keppel Land Vietnam Company Ltd PT Ria Bintan Keppel Puravankara Development Pvt Ltd (Head Office) Jl. Perigi Raja Keppel Land India Pvt Ltd Unit 3, 26th Floor, Saigon Centre Tower 2 Lagoi Bintan Resorts Bintan Utara, #21/30, Prestige Craig House 67 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 Kepulauan Riau 21955, Indonesia 3rd Floor, Craig Park Layout HCMC, Vietnam Tel: (65) 6546 7555/ M.G. Road, Bengaluru 560 001, India Tel: (84-28) 3821 8000 (62) 770 692 842 Tel: (91) 08 4150 5000 Keppel Land Watco Co. Ltd Level 3M Saigon Centre Tower 1 Jakarta 65 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 MYANMAR HCMC, Vietnam PT Keppel Land Yangon Tel: (84-28) 3823 2500 PT Kepland Investama PT Harapan Global Niaga Sedona Suites Ho Chi Minh City PT Sukses Manis Tangguh Straits Greenfield Limited Saigon Centre Tower 2 PT Sukses Manis Indonesia No. 1 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road 67 Le Loi Boulevard, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1 PT Sukses Manis Abadi Sedona Hotel Yangon HCMC, Vietnam PT Puri Land Development Yankin Township Tel: (84-28) 3822 9888 PT Keppel-Metland Menteng Joint Operation Yangon, Myanmar International Financial Centre Tel: (95) 1 860 5377 Tower 2, 20th Floor Jln. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 22-23 Jakarta 12920, Indonesia THE PHILIPPINES Tel: (62-21) 571 2238 Ortigas, Manila Keppel Philippines Properties, Inc. Unit 1802B-1803 The Podium West Tower 12 ADB Avenue Ortigas Center, Brgy. Wack-Wack-Greenhills East, 1550 Mandaluyong City, Metro Manila, the Philippines Tel: (63) 2 584 6170/71 MALAYSIA Johor Bahru Tanah Sutera Development Sdn Bhd No. 2 Jalan Sutera Merah 2 Taman Sutera 81200 Johor Bahru, Malaysia Tel: (60) 7 289 9009 60 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Land Limited Keppel Land Limited (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 1 Harbourfront Avenue Level 2 Keppel Bay Tower Singapore 098632 Tel: (65) 6338 8111 Fax: (65) 6337 7168 www.keppelland.com Co Reg No: 189000001G
