I MP R R OU IN T s o A r es u nd od n of go UR MPRINT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) REPORT 2020 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Contents MANAGEMENT APPROACH 04 Welcome to our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) RESPONSIBLY REFRESHING 07 report 2020. This report details our performance data for – SUSTAINABLY BREWING 09 and our approach to – our most material ESG issues. It sits COLLECTIVELY CRAFTED 16 alongside Our Imprint Report, which details progress against our 2025 strategy. BOUT The scope of our 2019 reporting covers Molson We report annually on our sustainability Coors Beverage Company’s (Molson Coors) progress. Our sustainability reporting, which direct operations. Following the initiation of also includes the separate Our Imprint Report a revitalization plan in the fourth quarter of 2020, has been prepared in reference to the 2019, in January 2020 the newly named Molson Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Coors Beverage Company restructured to This report also serves as our Communication comprise two operating business units: North on Progress (COP) for our commitment to America and Europe. The Africa and Asia the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Pacific businesses report into the European CEO Water Mandate. The GRI Index, the UNGC business unit, and the remaining International COP Index, the Sustainability Accounting HIS business reporting is rolling into the North Standards Board (SASB) index and the America business unit. Going forward, our Task Force on Climate-related Financial reporting will be updated to reflect our new, Disclosures (TCFD) table can all be found at streamlined organizational structure, centered the back of this report. Our contribution to around these two business units. Data and the United Nations Sustainable Development metrics included in this report cover global Goals (SDGs) can be found in our SDGs activities and performance in the fiscal year Impact Report 2020. Corporate Citizenship from January 1 to December 31, 2019. Unless has assured data related to our absolute otherwise noted, the 2025 goals covered in this water, energy and carbon, waste, health report have been set against a 2016 baseline and safety, and environmental compliance that incorporates the performance of our metrics in accordance with ISAE 3000. EPORT global business. Please see the Assurance Statement for details. For full details of our strategy and goals to 2025, key stories and highlights, please see Our Imprint Report 2020. 2 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Our Imprint 2025: INTRODUCTION For a Better Tomorrow Every time a beverage is picked up there is an imprint left behind. At “As we enter this chapter as the Molson Coors, we’re making sure it’s a positive one. As we progress Molson Coors Beverage Company, I look forward to toward Our Imprint 2025 goals, we’re working to ensure that every glass building on our new values to can be enjoyed responsibly and protect our environment for tomorrow’s strengthen our culture, uniting generations. To learn more about Our Imprint 2025 strategy and goals, and our people – and all people – our progress in the previous year, please visit Our Imprint Report 2020. around our shared commitment to celebrate together and leave a positive imprint on our IDENTIFYING KEY ISSUES SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE communities where we live, For every business, environmental, social and The Molson Coors Board of Directors has oversight brew and sell our products.” governance (ESG) issues are key considerations as responsibility for our sustainability governance, including potential operational impacts. At Molson Coors, we Our Imprint. Specifically, the Audit Committee of the Gavin Hattersley, CEO engaged stakeholders globally in 2017 to help identify Board reviews performance against Our Imprint 2025 the issues most important to our business through a goals, sustainability trends and stakeholder views on a comprehensive materiality assessment. This assessment quarterly basis. The Audit Committee of the Board is also informed the development of Our Imprint strategy responsible for risk oversight and identification, including (previously called Our Beer Print). The strategy focuses risks associated with climate change, and the operations on a number of strategic goals across three pillars, of the global risk management framework. which guide the efforts of our organization toward 2025. The SLC is accountable for driving performance against Our Global Senior Director of Sustainability & Enterprise As we progress on our goals, we also continue to identify Risk Management is responsible for overseeing Our Imprint 2025 goals and aligning our business units key emerging trends through ongoing engagement with sustainability issues that impact our business and for and functional teams to meet emerging ESG issues our external stakeholders, including investors, suppliers driving day-to-day progress against our 2025 strategy facing our industry. The group meets at least twice per and retail partners. Through regular discussions with and goals. Our sustainability performance is regularly year, with SLC subcommittees, such as the Packaging our customer-facing teams and through our direct reported to our Chief Legal & Government Affairs Officer, Risk Council, meeting more frequently to address distributor engagement, we believe our continuous Global Chief Supply Chain Officer, Chief People & trending topics and challenges. listening approach allows us to keep a pulse on Diversity Officer and Chief Communications & Corporate Matters related to climate change, including extreme emerging issues and what is expected of us as a Affairs Officer, and at least annually to the Executive and changing weather conditions and other events that corporate citizen. To attempt to ensure our focus areas Leadership Team (ELT) and the Board of Directors. could be caused or exacerbated by climate change, are remain relevant, we aim to reassess our material risks an important component of our sustainability strategy. In 2018, we launched a Sustainability Leadership Council and opportunities every three to five years. Details of Climate-related risks and opportunities are considered (SLC), composed of executive leaders from across our 2017 materiality assessment can be found on our in the comprehensive risk mitigation efforts that our key functions, to provide comprehensive oversight of corporate website. Board of Directors oversees, led by the Sustainability & sustainability topics across our global organization. Enterprise Risk Management team and managed by several other parts of our organization. 3 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D How We Work MANAGEMENT For Molson Coors, it is not just what we do that matters; it is also how we do things. We are committed to producing extraordinary beverages and running a business that puts our people first. Our people-first approach is reflected in our company values. We want everyone at Molson Coors to take accountability for their actions, to be bold and decisive in their work and to celebrate accomplishments together. ENTERPRISE RISK Molson Coors utilizes the following scales for rating TAX STRATEGY APPROACH MANAGEMENT enterprise risks in terms of impact, likelihood and The taxes we pay as a responsible business can be velocity: Molson Coors’ enterprise risk management (ERM) a significant part of our economic contribution to the program is designed to enable us to appropriately Impact: the extent to which a risk event might affect •  countries, cities and jurisdictions in which we operate. identify, monitor, manage, prioritize and mitigate these the enterprise. The management of our tax affairs is governed risks, and to foster a culture of integrity, risk awareness • Likelihood: the prospect that a given risk will occur. on principles aligned with our global commercial, and compliance within Molson Coors. sustainability and corporate governance practices, Velocity: the speed at which the risk event will •  including compliance with local tax laws and regulations. manifest itself. Integrated Approach We consider tax efficiencies when undertaking We manage enterprise risk within Molson Coors through Risks are plotted on a heat map to depict prioritization commercial activity, with the aim of enhancing a structured framework which guides assessments of our and can be categorized as Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3 and Watch shareholder value. We proactively manage tax risk and exposure to risks. The assessment process is overseen by List. Those in the ‘Very High’ risk level, designated as strive to engage transparently with local tax authorities the Global Senior Director of Sustainability & Enterprise red, are Tier 1 risks, meaning that they will be reported and consult them on a regular basis. Beyond taxation, Risk Management, who consolidates evaluations of and monitored by the Leadership Team and Board we support governments and communities across ERM issues from individuals who are responsible for risk of Directors. Risks on the Watch List are either new, the globe through the employment of our people in management oversight at executive and regional levels. trending higher than previous reporting periods or have our operations and across our wider value chains. An analysis using the ERM process is performed every increased in uncertainty. These risks are also reported In addition, we invest in skills and the advancement of six months to identify emerging risks for which we can to and monitored by the Leadership Team and Board new technologies to manufacture and promote our develop mitigation plans, with the results reported to of Directors. Each risk has one principal Leadership products. Read more about Our Global Tax Principles. our ELT and our Board of Directors. Team Owner, who coordinates the mitigation efforts and reports on progress. Assessing and Analyzing Risk Molson Coors uses a combination of interviews, Disclosures benchmarking and external analysis to conduct initial Molson Coors discloses the risks that we believe are qualitative assessments. Risk interactions are evaluated most likely to have a material adverse effect on us in for the highest risks and assessments are refined with our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Chief Legal Officer. Our ERM system, which is based Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. These risks form the on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of foundation of our ERM framework and include ESGthe Treadway Commission (COSO) Enterprise Risk related risks, such as operational disruption of a major Management Framework – Integrating with Strategy facility, cybersecurity and availability of quality water, as and Performance supplement, drives a collaborative well as a new risk, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. and holistic approach with ERM, strategy, business continuity and internal audit. To read more about our risks, visit our SEC Filings here. 4 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Anti-Bribery and Corruption Molson Coors has zero tolerance toward bribery and We believe we have a duty to our employees, communities, corruption by employees or anyone acting on the company’s suppliers, customers and consumers to do the right thing. At the behalf. We require all our employees and business partners heart of this ethical culture sits our Code of Business Conduct. to adhere to ethical, transparent business practices. Through Guided by this Code, and led by our Vice President of Global our anti-bribery and corruption program, employees receive Ethics and Compliance and our Executive Ethics and Compliance training in our policy and its operation. This is supported by an Committee, we work with our regional partners to promote a intranet suite that offers tools and resources to help employees consistent approach to doing things “the right way.” receive and recognize bribery and corruption. Gifts and The Code underpins our ethics and compliance program. This entertainments can be recorded and receive pre-approval via program includes policies, training, communication, monitoring an online Gifts and Entertainment Register, in accordance with and auditing procedures on a range of topics, such as: local policies. We help our business partners understand our approach to doing business the right way through compliance • Accurate books and records due diligence procedures and standard contract clauses. REMUNERATION ALIGNED • Alcohol responsibility We also conduct audits – both internally and externally – to WITH SUSTAINABILITY • Anti-bribery and corruption monitor compliance. Every quarter, our ELT and the Board’s • Anti-discrimination and harassment Audit Committee receive a report updating them on our ethics Our Imprint is embedded in Molson Coors’ culture and the and compliance program, as well as activities through our values we set forth as a company. Our people come first, and • Competition anti-bribery and corruption program. we believe that by valuing differences and driving accountability • Conflicts of interest from the start, we can build a team culture that will help us Ethics and Compliance Helpline achieve our sustainability goals. • Data privacy All Molson Coors employees have access to our Ethics • Gifts and entertainment A group of functional heads are responsible for the achievement and Compliance helpline, 24 hours a day. The helpline is of Our Imprint 2025 goals, including our Global Chief Supply • Insider trading administered by a third-party provider, EthicsPoint, and Chain Officer, Chief Legal & Government Affairs Officer, Chief • Social media enables employees and any other stakeholder to ask a question Communications & Corporate Affairs Officer and Chief People or raise a concern in complete confidence and/or anonymity. • Speaking up & Diversity Officer, together with their functional teams. Users can contact the helpline by phone or internet in their We expect each and every one of our employees to uphold the native language. All questions and issues raised are addressed Our Imprint performance is further reinforced by World Class Code, which is available in many different languages.1 Training by the Molson Coors Ethics and Compliance Office, and both Supply Chain 2.0 (WCSC 2.0) initiative, which helps further drive in the Code, either face to face or online, is mandatory and all the law and company policy prohibit any retaliation against efficiencies and reduce losses in areas such as health and safety new employees are required to complete this as part of their anyone who raises a concern in good faith. In 2019, the helpline and environmental sustainability. onboarding. Refresher training is planned for every two years received approximately 108 such reports. Of those followed up Each brewery that is involved in the WCSC 2.0 program is thereafter. We also require employees to affirm that they have with investigative action, approximately 15% were substantiated accountable for delivering improvements against the read and will comply with the Code, and will act ethically, and resulted in disciplinary or corrective action. following metrics: responsibly and in compliance with the law. Employees are further required to disclose any potential conflicts of interest • Energy usage ratio (MJ/hl) where their personal interests may be in conflict with those of • Water usage ratio (hl/hl) the company. In such cases, employees must submit an online conflict of interest disclosure form to their manager and to our • Total incident rate (TIR) Ethics and Compliance department for approval and to ensure a record of each disclosure. We also expect employees who have any concerns about possible violations of the Code to raise such concerns through the appropriate channels. 1 The Code is published in the following languages: Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, English, French, Hindi, Hungarian, Japanese, Montenegrin, Romanian, Serbian and Spanish. 5 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Political Contributions Our US business follows rigorous internal protocols, legal policies Molson Coors actively engages in the political environment to and external controls to ensure that all political contributions are inform public policymakers on issues and practices that relate made and reported in strict compliance with appropriate state to our company and industry. We also promote the responsible or federal laws and regulations. The amounts of contributions promotion and consumption of our products. made to candidates or parties at state level are generally publicly available on the respective state’s campaign finance Our business rules state that only designated company report website as may be required by that jurisdiction. Any employees may engage in public policy work on behalf of employee contributions of over $200 to the Molson Coors PAC, Molson Coors, and they must adhere to specific registration, as well as expenditures by the PAC, are publicly available on the ethics and disclosure requirements in their jurisdiction. Our Code PAC’s reports filed with the Federal Election Commission at of Business Conduct provides guidance on political contributions www.fec.gov. HUMAN RIGHTS for employees. Our business units outside of North America do not make We are committed to fostering open, inclusive workplaces, based Our total political donation in Canada was approximately political contributions. on recognized workplace human rights, where employees CAD24,900 in 2019. For further details, please see the relevant are valued, engaged and inspired to be the best they can be. provincial websites: Alberta, British Columbia, New Brunswick, We have a clear set of Employment Principles that operate Newfoundland and Labrador, Ontario, Prince Edward Island and across all our operations and all entities in which we hold a Saskatchewan. majority interest. These are informed and guided by recognized international standards on human rights, including the In the US, our political contributions support candidates, political Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour parties and committees at both federal and state levels. In 2019, Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and our contributions to candidates for state office, state political Rights at Work and the UNGC. We also expect our suppliers to entities and ballot initiatives totaled approximately $423,500. meet certain human rights expectations. These are set out in our Molson Coors also operates the Molson Coors Political Action Standards for Suppliers and are included in supplier contracts. Committee (PAC), which made contributions to candidates See the Sustainable Procurement Strategy section on page 20 totaling approximately $52,000 in 2019, through voluntary for more details. contributions from a restricted class of eligible employees. Putting People First is critical to delivering on our purpose of uniting people to celebrate all life’s moment. We want to create a workplace where people are engaged, free to respectfully challenge the expected, and perform at their very best every day. It goes without saying that we are also committed to designing safe and comfortable workplaces in which everyone is treated with respect, differences are valued and employees’ actions are consistent with our standards and values. We aim, at all times, to provide workplaces that are free from discrimination or physical or verbal harassment based on race, sex, color, national or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other status protected by applicable law. All Molson Coors employees have access to our Ethics and Compliance helpline, where any concerns over human rights can be reported. Our Code of Business Conduct and our global “Speaking Up” policy detail employees’ responsibility to report any potential misconduct or violations they witness. 6 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Enjoying One of Life’s Simple Pleasures ESPONSIBLY We want our consumers to make great memories and enjoy every moment. That’s why we encourage them to drink our beverages responsibly. We provide the information and options our consumers need to make refreshing and smart choices. This includes creating public campaigns to prevent underage drinking and drunk driving, as well as providing information to reduce harmful consumption. We’re also expanding our portfolio to offer drinkers more lowand no-alcohol options. FOR A BETTER OUR APPROACH TOMORROW: EFRESHING We are committed to the responsible OUR 2025 GOALS consumption of alcohol. We collaborate Our priorities 2025 goals2 with other private and public partners to develop education and safety programs Inspire Implement impactful programs to which inspire responsible drinking among all responsible prevent alcohol-related harm drinking our consumers. We also work with partners Partner with other global alcohol to reduce harmful alcohol use. We strive to producers to achieve a 10% reduction globally in harmful continually expand our offering of lowand alcohol use3 no-alcohol products to provide consumers with alternative options. Our advertising Ensure Make certain 100% of our responsible advertising and marketing aims to comply with the relevant laws and marketing programs are in compliance regulations in every country where we and consumer with company, industry and operate, and is targeted at people who are information applicable governmental 18 years of age or the legal drinking age, standards whichever is higher. Our longer-term goal is Deliver nutritional information, to provide nutritional information, ingredients alcohol serving facts and and alcohol serving facts for all our products. ingredients to consumers for 100% of our products3 Drive Offer consumers exceptional Find out more about our strategy and innovation quality no-alcohol and lowour goals in Our Imprint Report 2020. alcohol choices3 2 Set against a 2016 baseline incorporating 100% Molson Coors and MillerCoors data. 3 In countries where we operate a large brewery. 7 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Responsible Marketing Partnering to Reduce Harmful Drinking Members of this alliance are currently collaborating to develop and Employee Training We are a charter member of the International Alliance for the next set of global commitments toward a 10% reduction in All of our employees are required to review and comply with Responsible Drinking (IARD), a nonprofit organization that harmful use of alcohol by 2025. the Molson Coors Alcohol Responsibility Policy at the start aims to reduce harmful drinking and promote understanding We’ve also been working with the IARD to implement the of their employment. To ensure our people understand the of responsible drinking. The IARD is supported by leading Digital Guiding Principles in our marketing and commercial important role they play in modeling responsible behavior global beer, wine and spirits producers, and partners with placements. The Principles were developed as part of the within their communities, we also provide refresher training on the public sector, civil society and private stakeholders. The Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to reduce our policies every two years thereafter. In early 2018, we rolled organization works in support of internal goals to reduce harmful drinking. The IARD and the World Federation of out Molson Coors Alcohol Responsibility training across our harmful drinking, including the World Health Organization’s Advertisers support member companies to achieve 80% entire business. (WHO) Noncommunicable Diseases (NCD) Global Monitoring full compliance with the Principles. Digital platforms are Framework and the UN SDGs target 3.5. Our commercial employees must also familiarize themselves introducing changes that help to further minimize exposure of with our Commercial Responsibility Policy, which provides In 2020, the WHO passed a motion to accelerate action to minors to alcohol advertising. In June 2019, the IARD held an detailed guidance on how to develop, package, market and reduce the harmful use of alcohol worldwide. They also called event at the Cannes Lions festival to increase awareness and sell our products in a responsible manner. We conduct these for the development of a 2022–2030 action plan through which encourage digital platforms to do more in this area. To learn trainings regularly to ensure our commercial and agency to implement their global strategy. Molson Coors expects to more about the Digital Guiding Principles safeguards, please partners understand the Policy. play an active role in supporting the acceleration of action visit Our Imprint Report 2020. against harmful alcohol use, including complying with new We are committed to responsible advertising and marketing commitments outlined by the IARD. These commitments include directed at adults who are at least the legal drinking age or 18 adding clear age restriction labels to alcoholic drink packaging. years of age, whichever is higher. We believe every marketing message that we put into the marketplace, regardless of its The new commitments launched by the IARD in 2020, form, must enhance our reputation as a lawful and responsible introduces five new commitments that will accelerate work to corporate citizen. reduce global underage drinking. These include introducing clear age-restriction symbols and wording to alcohol brand We self-regulate our marketing and advertising to ensure products and ensuring that alcohol-free extensions of alcohol they meet our rigorous internal standards and primarily reach brands aren’t advertised to minors. Together, we’re working to legal-drinking-age audiences. The Marketing Compliance strengthen efforts to reduce harmful drinking around the Committee process established by our US business has now world in five key areas: been rolled out across all our business units. It includes a cross-functional group of employees who are responsible • Reducing underage drinking for reviewing communication materials against our internal • Strengthening and expanding marketing standards, relevant local laws and industry standards, such codes of practice as the voluntary, self-regulatory Beer Institute Advertising & • Providing consumer information Marketing Code (BI Code) in the US, before they are released and responsible product innovation to the public. We invite our consumers to inform us when • Reducing drinking and driving they believe we have not fulfilled our duty to self-regulate our advertising. In the US, a third-party complaint resolution • Enlisting the support of retailers process is available to the public. to reduce harmful drinking 8 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D From Grain to Glass From resource scarcity to climate change, we believe there are many environmental challenges that pose potential issues for our future operations. We are actively addressing these challenges, USTAINABLY minimizing our environmental impact and encouraging our employees to be stewards for the environment. We push ourselves to be efficient users of resources in our own operations, but we don’t stop at the walls of our facilities. We are working with our suppliers and partners as well, helping them identify ways to reduce their own environmental footprints so we can build a more sustainable value chain together. FOR A BETTER OUR APPROACH Water Stewardship TOMORROW: As one of the world’s largest brewers, we Within our large breweries, our World Class OUR 2025 GOALS believe we have the duty to make a significant Supply Chain 2.0 (WCSC 2.0) program supports our aim to build more sustainable Our priorities 2025 goals4 impact on sustainable brewing – by operations. WCSC 2.0 helps to improve protecting precious water resources, reducing Make the Improve water-use efficiency efficiency by stabilizing processes and packaging, eliminating waste and cutting most out of by 22% in our large breweries5 standards, improving alignment between our every drop to achieve a 2.8 hl/hl water-toemissions. We aim to sustainably source operations and minimizing production losses. REWING beer ratio the resources we use, and manage them Protect local water resources in effectively. We partner with our agricultural Our FEWER (Fuel Energy Water Emissions partnership with others suppliers to identify areas where they can Reduction) team members help build improve their own operations, to help build a capacity across the brewery network to help Reduce Reduce carbon emissions across our carbon our operations by 50%, and more resilient agricultural supply chain. reduce waste, water and energy use in dayfootprint throughout our value chain to-day activities. Our FEWER team members Central to our sustainability strategy is our aim by 20% connect frequently to share proven best to achieve a circular economy in our operations Promote Achieve and sustain zero waste practices, and are responsible for bringing and throughout our supply chain. We work to a circular to landfill at all our brewing and those initiatives back to their respective consistently reduce the waste that we send philosophy major manufacturing facilities6 breweries to drive improvements. to landfill, and evaluate alternative materials Grow best Improve water-use efficiency that are more sustainable for our planet. We practice in in our agricultural supply chain are also identifying ways to recapture, recycle agriculture and malting operations by 10% and reuse water in our breweries, reducing our 100% of barley and hops sourced impact on local watersheds, especially in our from sustainable suppliers in key growing regions at-risk brewing sites. We collaborate with key stakeholders, including governments, industry groups, Find out more about our strategy and academia and nongovernmental our goals in Our Imprint Report 2020. organizations, and share best practices as we aim to improve our operations, our industry and our communities. 4 Set against a 2016 baseline incorporating 100% Molson Coors and MillerCoors data. 5 There are 24 large breweries within the scope of our 2025 water goal. 6 Those with 75 or more employees. 9 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Our Performance in Our Direct Operations We measure our water performance by the • Optimizing Clean in Place (CIP) circuits in intensity of water used per unit of beer produced. our Golden Brewery and Toronto Brewery, By 2025, we aim to improve water-use efficiency which enabled us to find more ways to use at our large breweries7 to reach a 2.8 hl/hl clean reclaimed water in our regular water-to-beer ratio. cleaning processes. In 2019, we reached a water-use ratio of 3.41 hl/ • FEWER teams continued to make hl, achieving a 5% decrease in our water use improvements at the brewery level. from 2016. Our performance was driven by: Global standardization of processes like CIP optimization and control philosophy • Invested in the reverse osmosis (RO) plants in allows us to make incremental changes our Burton Brewery and Tadcaster Brewery across the breweries, which ultimately helps in the UK, which allowed us to reduce losses minimize losses and maximize improvements associated with water treatment. Burton’s in water savings. enhancement of RO performance has led to a 9% reduction in water treatment losses, which has significantly contributed to an absolute on-site water reduction of 7%. Respectively, Tadcaster’s RO improvement has saved approximately 11% in site water demand. Large Brewery7 Water Intensity (hl/hl) hl of water used per hl of beer produced 2018 3.52 2019 3.41 Water Usage Breakdown by Region in 2019 (khl) MillerCoors Europe Canada MCI Municipal 124,009 14,049 30,426 65 Ground 96,539 63,397 159 2,424 Brackish Surface 32,527 9,688 Total water usage 217,338 86,415 30,585 2,499 Rainwater harvested Water restored to source 719 7 L arge breweries are: Albany, Ft. Worth, Golden, Irwindale, Milwaukee, Shenandoah, Trenton, Moncton, St. John’s, Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver, Apatin, Bocs, Burton, Haskovo, Ostravar, Ploiesti, Smichov, Tadcaster, Trebjesa, Zagreb, Saha and Bhankarpur. 10 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D ENERGY AND CARBON As a global organization we recognize the role Molson Coors can play in leading action against climate change. We’ve set a 2025 goal to reduce absolute carbon emissions across our operations by 50% and throughout our value chain by 20%. Our goal to lower absolute emissions by 50% within our direct operations has been verified against the 1.5°C pathway, as recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Through our strategy, we continually focus on reducing our Renewable Electricity Generated by Business Unit (MJ) Scope 2 Emissions (tonnes CO2e): overall operational energy consumption through improved Market Based process control and execution. We focus on areas such as CO2 2018 329,962,725 2018 683,850 self-sufficiency and switching to cleaner fuel options to help 2019 Total 28,734,232 us further reduce carbon emissions. Lastly, we are looking to 2019 Total 654,938 increase the share of renewable sources in our energy mix, MillerCoors 25,630,254 where possible. Europe 3,103,978 MillerCoors (US) 560,214 Canada 0 Europe 87,519 MCI 0 Canada 2,907 MCI 4,298 Energy Use (MJ) Scope 1 Emissions (tonnes CO2e) Scope 3 Emissions (tonnes CO2e) 2018 13,345,365,687 2018 436,457 2018 4,935,894 2019 Total 12,490,484,706 2019 Total 406,377 2019 Total 4,572,093 MillerCoors 9,336,436,985 MillerCoors 275,059 MillerCoors (US) 3,463,869 Europe 1,963,684,278 Europe 71,665 Europe 802,729 Canada 1,098,149,301 Canada 58,507 Canada 280,217 MCI 92,214,142 MCI 1,146 MCI 25,278 Electricity Purchased (MJ) Scope 2 Emissions (tonnes CO2e): Location Based 2018 3,890,001,654 2018 667,174 2019 Total 3,716,916,542 2019 Total 634,136 MillerCoors 2,758,174,227 Europe 600,840,763 MillerCoors 557,157 Canada 336,497,840 Europe 69,774 MCI 21,403,712 Canada 2,907 MCI 4,298 11 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Detailed reporting of our carbon footprint across the value chain (including operations, packaging, transportation, Our Performance agriculture and refrigeration), our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, We measure our performance based on absolute carbon and our carbon intensity is available in our Climate submission emissions. In 2019, we implemented multiple processon the CDP website. We are developing an analysis of various improvement projects to optimize our brewery operation climate scenarios and how they will impact our business. and reduce emissions. Further details can be found in the TCFD table at the back of this report. Examples include: • Our large breweries focusing on turndown strategies to minimize consumption during low production periods 2019 GHG Emissions – Breakdown by Segment • Reduction in energy usage due to utilities system 7.6% Agriculture optimization at our breweries in Shenandoah, Golden, 9.5% Brewing packaging materials Irwindale, Moncton and Toronto 14.8% Manufacturing • Changes in the brewing process, such as shifting 37.5% Packaging materials to more energy-efficient brewhouse operations 12.2% Logistics and implementing simmer boil to reduce steam 17.9% Product cooling consumption, resulted in a reduction of energy and 0.5% Other water at our breweries in Ostrava, Golden, Milwaukee, Moncton and Montreal 2019 GHG Emissions – Breakdown by Scope Energy In 2019, we used 8.85 billion MJ total energy across 7.2% Scope 1 all our operational sites, versus an internal target of 11.6% Scope 2 8.86 billion MJ. This is a decrease in total energy 81.2% Scope 3 of 5.8% from 2018. Emissions In 2019, we achieved a 4.5% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from 2018. As we work toward our 2025 goal of reducing our emissions in our direct operations by 50% and in our value chain by 20%, we will continue to reduce our energy usage and aim to expand the use of on-site renewable energy, where possible. We are currently working on developing a robust portfolio for off-site purchased renewable electricity to help us reach our 2025 goals. 12 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D WASTE REDUCTION A major factor in our overall environmental footprint is the Our Performance creation and disposal of waste throughout the lifecycle of our A key focus for our work is on increasing recycling rates products. Our 2025 goal is to achieve zero waste to landfill at and reducing the total waste we generate. By the end all our major brewing and manufacturing facilities.8 At the end of 2019: of 2019, 18 such sites, including every large brewery in the US, • We disposed of only 1,144 tonnes (0.11%) of the solid had achieved and sustained this goal. The newest facilities to waste we generated in our major brewing and achieve this milestone include our Ploiesti Brewery in Romania manufacturing facilities in landfill and Aspall Brewery in the UK, while the Vancouver Brewery in Canada, which previously achieved zero waste, was closed • We reduced the amount of waste disposed in landfill this past year. by 39% compared with 2018 Our target of zero waste to landfill at our facilities is part of • 18 major brewing and manufacturing facilities our ambition to achieve a circular economy in our operations, achieved or are sustaining zero waste to landfill – nine eliminate waste and rethink how we can use resources more in the US, eight in Europe and one in Canada efficiently. Our Environmental, Health and Safety Management Our waste data comprises solid waste disposed of from System (EHSMS), part of our WCSC 2.0 program, supports the our major brewing and manufacturing sites as follows: work we do to eliminate waste throughout our operations. landfill, incineration (without energy recovery), waste Before we can reduce waste streams, we need to understand to energy, compost and soil amendment, recycled and how our waste streams are designed and generated. To reused (including co-products like animal feed). facilitate this, we have characterized and quantified waste streams at all our facilities. Using this data, we can then work with suppliers and customers to identify opportunities to eliminate these waste streams or, where that is not possible, reduce, reuse or recycle them. Glidepaths for each facility have been established by our EHS teams, and progress toward zero waste to landfill is overseen globally. Resource Efficiency (tonnes) by Region 2019 Find out more about circular philosophy in Our Imprint Report 2020. MillerCoors Europe Canada MCI Landfill 139 509 495 Solid waste to incineration Solid waste to energy 1,452 771 1,853 Compost and soil amendment 64,714 4,254 1,180 1,186 Waste recycled 35,841 17,613 21,969 1,150 Reused total 511,841 319,707 68,778 5,557 Total solid waste 613,987 342,854 94,275 7,893 Percentage (landfill/total solid waste) 0.02% 0.15% 0.53% 0.00% 8 Those with 75 or more employees. 13 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Environmental Compliance We have robust protocols to manage compliance. Should an environmental release occur, we take immediate steps to restore compliance and prevent any future occurrence. This includes holding investigations with senior leadership and environmental experts, and implementing corrective actions. For 2019, we updated our environmental KPI to include both releases to the environment and administrative breaches of regulations, as a more stringent measure of compliance. These incidents will together be referred to as Serious Environmental Incidents. Where either type of incident has the potential for a fine in excess of $10,000, or where there is adverse media reporting that is likely to cause reputational damage to Molson Coors Brewing Company, these will be tracked as Critical Environmental Incidents. Environmental Violations Environmental Violations of Legal Obligations/Regulations9 (number) 2017 1 2018 2 2019 1 There was one environmental violation with a fine exceeding $10,000 in Molson Coors India business in 2019. This was for a technical breach of the India Water Act, however there were no off-site negative impacts to the environment. 2019 Serious Environmental Incidents (number) Total 19 Serious Environmental Incidents10 (number) MCE 3 2017 25 MCC 2 2018 16 MCI 3 2019 19 MillerCoors (US) 11 9 We use the Dow Jones Sustainability Index definition of a violation, i.e., a violation occurs when an authorized body (e.g., a governmental body, independent commercial or non-commercial regulator) determines that a law, regulation, code, etc. related to environmental or ecological issues has been breached and the fine or penalty is over $10,000. 10 We use an internal definition of Serious Environmental Incidents, which matches the legal reporting requirements in our areas of operation and includes both pollution events and administrative breaches. 14 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D HEALTH AND SAFETY We believe the health and wellness of our people is Our Performance Safety is a central commitment within Our fundamental to their performance and engagement. Health Imprint 2025 strategy with an ambitious and safety is part of our global commitment to doing business target to reduce our internal Lost Time the right way, and we work to achieve a workplace culture in Accident (LTA) rate by 40% by 2025. which health and safety are embraced by all. This approach LTA measures the Lost Time Rate (LTR) is formalized by our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) per 200,000 hours for employees and pillar within WCSC 2.0, and provides the framework for our contractors’ workplace injuries, as well as EHSMS. any employee occupational illnesses that Underpinning our commitment is our Environmental, Health result in lost time. Based upon a baseline and Safety (EHS) Policy, which guides our approach to LTR of 0.46 in 2016, Molson Coors is managing health and safety. Through our EHS Policy, we aim currently achieving a 13% reduction. to instill employee ownership at all levels of our organization. We are dedicated to maintaining safe and healthy workplaces. We take a proactive approach to the identification and control of EHS risks, and expect all employees to take responsibility for EHS through the opportunities for involvement we provide. We are committed to continuously improving our EHS performance through methodologies that aim to prevent workplace injuries and illnesses and to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations and products throughout their lifecycles. Lost Time Rate (Lost Time Rate/200,000 hours worked) 2017 0.39 2018 0.38 2019 0.40 2017 2018 2019 Fatalities (including 0 0 0 contractors) 15 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D For Our People and Communities OLLECTIVELY For us, it’s the people behind our beverages that really makes Molson Coors what we are. The transition of our name to Molson Coors Beverage Company offered an opportunity for us to redefine our key values. Putting people first is at the heart of everything we do, and that’s why it’s our top value. Putting people first means encouraging them to bring their whole selves to work and support the communities where we live and work. We’re proud of how our beverages bring together passionate people and vibrant neighborhoods to celebrate life’s great moments. FOR A BETTER OUR APPROACH This means giving everyone an opportunity TOMORROW: The year 2019 was one of transformation for to Connect with our people, to Grow their skills and careers, to Live with the support OUR 2025 GOALS Molson Coors. As we rebranded ourselves and benefits fit for them, and to Thrive in Our priorities 2025 goals11 as the Molson Coors Beverage Company, our culture. These principles are built on our we took the opportunity to rediscover what RAFTED Provide Provide a great employee proud family heritage and growth ambition was most important for our company. a great experience through living our which is focused on a brighter future for both employee People First culture and values12 We developed a set of five new values: our business and people. experience 1. Put people first We want our employees to have a say in 2. Be bold and decisive our activities, and use their feedback to Be a good $100 million investment, aiming 3. Take accountability drive continuous improvements in how we global citizen to improve livelihoods, foster empowerment and build 4. Learn every day work and operate. In 2020, we launched resilient communities our new Employee Experience Survey in the 5. Celebrate together US, a quick and anonymous survey which is Strengthen Ethical and sustainable supply our supply chain practices Putting our people first is at the heart of circulated quarterly to gather feedback on chain everything we do. Our commitment to this our culture and how our employees feel at is evident in how we celebrate our successes work. We will use the survey feedback as an Promote Actively engage with womensupplier owned and minority-owned and support one another through challenges. engagement measure through which we will diversity small businesses as suppliers We aim to provide our people – our beverage drive our People First value. By focusing on champions – with an environment that is a the things that are truly important for both great place to work and one that provides candidates and employees, our framework Find out more about our strategy and them with meaningful experiences. To achieve aims to ensure that we all win together, with our goals in Our Imprint Report 2020. this, we have adopted four principles: engaged, motivated teams delivering on our Connect, Grow, Live and Thrive. growth ambition. 11 Set against a 2016 baseline incorporating 100% Molson Coors and MillerCoors data. 12 We migrated from the Great Places to Work Index ambition after the company restructured at the end of 2019. This new goal to create a great employee experience will be measured through quarterly employee engagement surveys. 16 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D CONNECT GROW Diversity and inclusion are part of our People First value and Development are key to ensuring we are first choice for our people, our Engaging and developing our people is a top priority at consumers and our customers. The Molson Coors Leadership Molson Coors. We see career growth and developmental Team, together with Human Resources, works to ensure we opportunities as cornerstones of employee engagement. are attracting, retaining, developing and promoting diverse We encourage our employees to continue to learn and talent and has specific initiatives in place to help us further develop their career at Molson Coors, through quality advance in these areas. one-on-one meetings with their manager, creating and In 2019, we produced our third report on the gender pay gap following their Personal Development Plan and committing People Training in the UK and Ireland. The 2019 Gender Pay Report shows that to continuous learning. Resources such as our First Choice 18.4 hours of training and development per full-time we are moving in the right direction, having reduced our overall Learning Center and in-person and online training programs, employee (FTE) on average in 2019 – 327,906 hours of mean gender pay gap from 3.84% to 0.79%. It also highlights along with experiential learning, enable our employees to training and development were logged in 2019: that our pure pay gap is a little over 0.5%, while the proportion build competencies, share best practices and advance their leadership capabilities. • 64% was spent on supply chain and commercial topics of female employees receiving bonuses is very slightly higher than the proportion of male employees (not accounting for • 12.56% was spent on onboarding In 2020, one of our top priorities is to help our leaders and elements such as car cash allowances and shift pay). We • 6% was spent on leadership development programs, managers advance their leadership skills. This will be achieved continue to work to maintain a strong reward philosophy with including Living Leadership with Inclusion through two focused leadership development programs that fair, transparent and consistent processes. aim to build a more inclusive and focused culture around 6,621 live sessions were delivered globally, an increase of people development: Living Leadership with Inclusion and the 17% from 2018. The number of attendees for these training Molson Coors Leadership Development Program. sessions was 65,572. Performance Employee performance is assessed at year-end, with performance evaluated against goals (the “What”) and Molson Coors’ cultural values (the “How”). In 2020 we changed the weight from 60% goals and 40% values to 50% goals and 50% 2019 Employment Profile by Region13 values. Employee self-evaluations and manager assessments Approx. No. % Under are calibrated across functions, supporting a consistent, global of FTE (2019) Union method to support our pay-for-performance culture and for Agreement (2019)14 getting the right people, with the right skills, in the right roles at the right time. Denver HQ 200 0% Global Business 600 n/a Our Talent Management Planning process will also review Services (GBS) the current performance and future potential of all management employees. MCC 2,600 49.95% MCE 6,600 3.14% MCI 400 0% MillerCoors (US) 7,300 30.29% Total 17,700 20.71% 13 As of December 2019. 14 While we still have unionized employees within our Central Europe business, our new employee data system does not allow us to identify union employees within this region. 17 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D 2019 Global Employee Demographic Data 2017 2018 2019 Total male employees 12,600 12,900 13,100 Total female employees 4,700 4,800 4,600 Female share of total workforce 27.27% 25.94% 26% Females in management positions (% of total management workforce) 32.83% 33.15% 34.00% Females in junior management positions (% of total management workforce) 34.41% 34.60% 35.00% Females in top management positions15 (% of total management workforce) 17.86% 17.54% 13% Females in management positions in revenue-generating functions 30.24% 26.08% 29.68% (% of all such managers) LIVE Most employees can also participate in various aspects of our wellness program, which seeks to inform and, when possible, Wellness and Rewards incentivize healthy habits and lifestyles. Our global employee The health and safety of our employees is of paramount assistance program, which is available 24 hours a day, seven importance for Molson Coors. We want to support their days a week, provides free and confidential assistance in well‑being as well as continuing to work toward our company areas such as family and personal relationships, personal goals. In addition to keeping our people physically safe and crises, depression, anxiety, family care, and financial and legal healthy, our efforts are focused on protecting employees’ concerns, as well as health and well-being issues. This program mental health, every day and through trying times. Across our is available for most of our employees and their families company, we apply health and safety standards that are based depending on their region. We also offer counseling services on industry best practices, as well as applicable regulatory and access to information on trauma and recovery resources to requirements. We promote healthy lifestyles across our global support employees who are going through difficult times. enterprise by offering our employees numerous health benefits, and wellness and work/life balance programs that are tailored We stress the importance of workplace and personal safety, to employees’ needs and culture by work location. Full-time and make concerted efforts to raise awareness that the employees have access to benefits such as medical plans, responsible consumption of alcohol is consistent with sociability dental and vision coverage, and in many locations, on-site and an active, healthy lifestyle. Accordingly, we ask every medical care and confidential assistance for personal matters. employee to complete alcohol responsibility training to better All of Molson Coors’ business units comply with minimum understand the impact of alcohol on the human body, as required parental leave laws, and in many countries we go well as how best to recognize and intervene, as necessary, further to provide flexible work schedules and extended leave when excessive drinking is observed. Employees not only for new parents. learn about the company’s Alcohol Responsibility Policy and the consequences of non-compliance, but they are also encouraged to be champions for alcohol responsibility on the job, with their families and in their communities. 15 Includes executives and senior management. 18 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Employee Engagement16 2013 2015 2017 201917 Annual survey participation rate 83% 84% 80% N/A Employee engagement 57% 65% 81% N/A Believe company is socially and environmentally responsible 77% 80% 89% N/A The company’s actions in support of Our Imprint make me proud to work here 18 – 72% 91% N/A Data coverage 100% 100% 100% N/A THRIVE 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employee Engagement Employee turnover rate (total) 12% 10.4% 14.9% 19.8% We feel that one of the most important challenges facing any employer is attracting, developing and retaining the best talent. We believe employee engagement directly impacts business reflects our renewed commitment to our employees and will performance, safety, turnover and absenteeism. be measured through quarterly surveys. Our Performance Safety is a central focus of Our Imprint 2025 strategy, Global People Survey Health and Safety with an ambitious target to reduce our internal Lost Time At Molson Coors, we use a continuous listening model to ensure We believe the health and wellness of our people is we understand our employee sentiment throughout the year. Accident (LTA) rate by 40% by 2025. LTA measures the Lost fundamental to their performance and engagement. Health This approach has evolved over time, previously consisting of a Time Rate (LTR) per 200,000 hours for employees and and safety is part of our global commitment to doing business biennial Global People Survey, regular pulse surveys, rolling exit contractors’ workplace injuries, as well as any employee the right way, and we work to achieve a workplace culture in surveys and onboarding surveys. occupational illnesses that result in lost time. Based upon which health and safety are embraced by all. This approach a baseline LTR of 0.46 in 2016, Molson Coors achieved a Following our business transition based on our revitalization is formalized by our Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) 13% reduction in 2019. plan at the end of 2019, we announced the closure of our office pillar within WCSC 2.0, and provides the framework for our EHS in Denver and the consolidation of our global workforce. As a Management System. result of this restructuring, a 2019 survey was not performed. Underpinning our commitment is our Environment, Health and Lost Time Rate (Lost Time Rate/200,000 hours worked) However, we are now focusing on refreshing our approach to Safety (EHS) Policy, which guides our approach to managing gathering employee feedback, touching base with our people health and safety. Through our EHS Policy, we aim to instill 2017 0.39 more frequently to understand how they’re feeling and what employee EHS ownership at all levels of our organization. We 2018 0.38 we can do to improve. are dedicated to maintaining safe and healthy workplaces. We take a proactive approach to the identification and control of 2019 0.40 For the North America business unit, we refreshed our listening approach in 2020 to center around quarterly employeeEHS risks, and expect all employees to take responsibility for experience-based surveys, which will be tracked through EHS through the opportunities for involvement we provide. We 2017 2018 2019 the people goal held by all senior leaders. We will review our are committed to continuously improving our EHS performance listening strategy in 2021 once we have the results from four through methodologies that aim to prevent workplace injuries Fatalities (including 0 0 0 and illnesses and reduce the environmental impacts of our contractors) quarterly surveys. operations and products throughout their lifecycles. This continuous listening approach allows us to be consistently connected to employees, and agile in addressing opportunities In February 2020, we were shaken by the loss of several members of our Milwaukee Brewery team. We continue to 16 Not a direct comparison as 2017 was the first year in which both Molson that can positively impact our business. Following the Coors and MillerCoors organizations participated in the survey. revitalization of Molson Coors, we developed our employee grieve for those we lost, and are supporting our employees 17 The 2019 employee survey was postponed due to the company goal, migrating away from the Great Places to Work Index through this time. Over $1 million has been raised through the revitalization plan. ambition. Our new goal, to create a great employee Miller Valley Survivors Fund, while several support services and 18 New question added in 2015. experience through living our People First culture and values, resources have been made available to our employees. 19 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Procurement Practices Sustainable Procurement Strategy Molson Coors has a long, proud history of giving back to We believe an integral part of doing business the right way is our neighbors. This commitment is behind our 2025 goal of adopting best practice standards and techniques to achieve providing $100 million in cumulative cash and in-kind donations sustainable procurement. To maintain these standards, we to these communities. To achieve this, we are concentrating aim to balance economic development, social development on the areas of most importance to our neighbors and our and environmental protection with our commercial needs business – fostering empowerment, improving livelihoods and for quality, reliability, innovation and value. We focus our building resilient communities to make the places where we procurement strategy on several key areas, including work better places to live. environmental sustainability, social and economic sustainability Employee Volunteering (including employment standards and human rights), ethical To truly support our communities, we must be active members business practices, community responsibilities, environmental of them. Throughout our company, we encourage our people to impact and data security. make an difference to their communities and the environment We actively monitor regulations regarding genetically modified through volunteering. Our Global Volunteer Policy helps us to organism ingredients in our markets and are committed to maintain a consistent approach while allowing for regionally complying with applicable health, food, safety, labeling and specific conditions. As a result, volunteering has become a part ingredients regulations. Additionally, we aim to work with of many of our employees’ lives. suppliers who have the same ambitions for following best practices. This allows us to jointly: 2019 Community Contributions (Total US$) • Meet and exceed our customers’ growing expectations to procure ethically and responsibly 2019 Total approx. $8,460,000 • Implement better risk management by protecting our interests throughout the supply chain Cash $8,300,000 In kind $160,000 • Drive efficiency and continuous innovation through our supply chains In 2019, we updated our Standards for Suppliers document, which sets out our minimum compliance requirements for suppliers. We expect all Molson Coors suppliers to adopt these standards and have processes in place to verify and demonstrate applicable compliance in their own operations. Where the use of subcontractors or other thirdparty organizations is permitted, we expect our suppliers to implement the Molson Coors Standards for Suppliers throughout their own supply chains. Our standards are communicated as an ongoing requirement to our global supply base through our standard terms and conditions. 20 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Our Four-Step Supplier Monitoring Process Stage 1 Supplier Monitoring Supplier Diversity Screening As one of the world’s largest brewers, with an extensive global We are committed to promoting diversity and inclusion in our We conduct an annual pre-screening of our suppliers supply chain, we aim to ensure that every supplier we work supply chain, fostering mutual benefits for us and our suppliers to help identify key suppliers in our supply chain. This with commits to an ethical and sustainable supply chain. and supporting economic growth in our local communities. screening focuses on several factors, including product That’s why we have developed a four-stage process to screen, Our total spend with women-owned and minority-owned category, production location, criticality to our supply identify and monitor potential issues, such as workers’ rights small businesses is formally incorporated into our quarterly chain and annual spend. (including modern slavery), the environment, health and safety procurement scorecards, with oversight from leadership. We and business ethics. believe we’ve made significant progress in our supplier diversity Stage 2 program in the US, and plan to expand the scope of our work Identification Through the supply chain monitoring service platform Supplier to encompass Canada in the coming years as we continue to Key suppliers, identified during the screening process, Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), we are able to track supplier drive progress toward our 2025 goals to promote a diverse and will be asked to complete a Sedex Self-Assessment performance in these areas. As part of our due diligence ethical supply chain across our North America business unit. Questionnaire (SAQ) to gather further information on any process, we screen our direct supply base annually to identify potential risks in the areas of employment standards and key suppliers, who are then asked to complete a Sedex SelfPercentage of Minorityand Women-Owned Business human rights, ethical business practices and regulatory Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) to assess their potential Enterprises Spend in North America compliance, business continuity preparedness and risks. If any risks or issues of concern emerge, we work with key environmental indicators. Additionally, during the the supplier to address them and develop remediation plans. 2017 2018 2019 tendering process, suppliers will be requested to provide With the relaunch of Sedex’s SAQ questionnaire in early 2020, Percent of spend 6.52% 6.87% 6.04% data and comments to questionnaires on areas of we are working with our key suppliers to complete their profiles concern within each category. on the system and ensure their practices are up to date. Currently, 33% of key suppliers have completed the Sedex SAQ Stage 3 questionaire and assessment screening. From there, we expect Supplier development to be able to better address the audit process, re-establish We will work with our suppliers to address any concerns baselines and report improvements made on any nonand provide guidance to enable continuous improvement conformance issues that are identified. against our standards. We do this by having active discussions with our suppliers, creating and managing remediation plans, when necessary, and by conducting regular business reviews with key suppliers. Stage 4 Audit Suppliers identified as representing the highest potential risk during the SAQ process are required to undergo a third-party audit. After an audit is conducted and all findings are recorded, a corrective action plan is established. These plans attempt to help ensure that minimum expectations are being applied to their business operations and supply chains, and that risks are being addressed. If an agreement cannot be reached, we will consider terminating the contract. 21 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D GRI Content Index This report has been prepared in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. For a detailed explanation of the indicators, visit the GRI website https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/. GENERAL DISCLOSURES I N D I C ATO R D E S C R I P T I O N LO C AT I O N A N D N OT E S O R G A N I Z AT I O N A L P R O F I L E 102-1 Name of the organization Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report (pg. 2) 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Our Imprint Report (pg. 4–5); 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and countries Our Imprint Report (pg. 5); 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K with major operations or relevant to sustainability issues 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-6 Markets served 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-7 Scale of the reporting organization 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-8 Employees by employment contract and gender Breakdown by gender in ESG Report (pg. 18) 102-9 Description of supply chain Our supply chain starts in the barley and hops fields where our farmers supply our agricultural brewing ingredients. Our packaging, such as bottles and cans, also makes up a large portion of our carbon footprint, which is why we work closely with our packaging suppliers to reduce their carbon emissions. We also work with transportation suppliers to drive efficiencies in our transportation and logistics network. 102-10 Significant changes to size, structure, or ownership 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is ESG Report (pg. 9–15) addressed 102-12 External initiatives Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-13 Membership of associations Our Imprint Report (pg. 10-12, 21, 27); ESG Report (pg. 2, 8); SDG Impact Report (pg. 11) ST R AT EGY 102-14 CEO statement Our Imprint Report (pg. 3) E T H I C S A N D I N T EG R I T Y 102-16 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior ESG Report (pg. 5); Code of Business Conduct such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G OV E R N A N C E 102-18 Governance structure ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social ESG Report (pg. 3, 9); Molson Coors corporate website topics G4 – 37 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ESG Report (pg. 6) ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines 22 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D GENERAL DISCLOSURES I N D I C ATO R D E S C R I P T I O N LO C AT I O N A N D N OT E S STA K E H O L D E R E N G AG E M E N T 102-40 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining ESG Report (pg. 17) agreements 102-42 How stakeholders are identified and selected ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website 102-43 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website engagement by type and by stakeholder group 102-44 Key concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Molson Coors corporate website organization responded R E P O RT I N G P R AC T I C E 102-45 Entities included in consolidated financial statements and if any are Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2); 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K not in report 102-47 Material aspects identified Molson Coors corporate website 102-48 Effect of restatements N/A 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting period Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) R E P O RT P R O F I L E 102-50 Reporting period Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-51 Most recent report Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-52 Reporting cycle Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-53 Contact for sustainability report For questions and comments, please email corporate.responsibility@molsoncoors.com 102-54 Claims for reporting in accordance with the GRI standards Our Imprint Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-55 GRI Content Index ESG Report (pg. 22); Molson Coors corporate website 102-56 External assurance Independent assurance of environmental, health and safety performance data MATERIAL TOPICS I N D I C ATO R D E S C R I P T I O N LO C AT I O N A N D N OT E S EC O N O M I C Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 2018 CDP submission organization’s activities due to climate change ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and ESG Report (pg. 5) procedures 23 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D MATERIAL TOPICS I N D I C ATO R D E S C R I P T I O N LO C AT I O N A N D N OT E S E N V I R O N M E N TA L Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization ESG Report (pg. 11) 302-3 Energy intensity ESG Report (pg. 11) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption ESG Report (pg. 11) Water 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source ESG Report (pg. 10) Emissions 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) ESG Report (pg. 12) 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) ESG Report (pg. 12) 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) ESG Report (pg. 12) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity ESG Report (pg. 12) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions ESG Report (pg. 12) Effluents and Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ESG Report (pg. 14) Environmental Compliance 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonESG Report (pg. 14) monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL Employment 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee Total turnover in ESG Report (pg. 19) turnover by age group, gender and region Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Lost Time Rate (LTR) reported in ESG Report (pg. 19) and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Average training hours in ESG Report (pg. 17) employee category 404-2 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support ESG Report (pg. 17) the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Breakdown of employees by gender can be found in ESG Report (pg. 18) employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 24 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D MATERIAL TOPICS I N D I C ATO R D E S C R I P T I O N LO C AT I O N A N D N OT E S Local Communities 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 100 percent of our large breweries and offices implemented local community engagement. engagement, impact assessments, and development programs More information can be found in Our Imprint Report (pg. 32–39) and ESG Report (pg. 20). Public Policy 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country ESG Report (pg. 6) Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which All of our products address alcohol responsibility and drunk driving issues with audiences above health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement the legal drinking age. More information can be found in Our Imprint Report (pg. 10–17) and ESG Report (pg. 7 and 8). Product and Service Labeling 417-1 Type of product and service information required by the Our Imprint Report (pg. 15) organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements 25 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D Communication on Progress UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact (UNGC) and CEO Water Mandate are consistent with our global commitment to sustainability. We continue to support the Ten Principles of the UNGC and the six core elements of the CEO Water Mandate, and are committed to making them part of our corporate strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. The table below indicates where descriptions of the practical actions we have taken to implement the UNGC and CEO Water Mandate can be found in our public reporting. U N G LO B A L C O M PAC T Issue Area Principle Further Information Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ESG Report (pg. 6); Employment Principles; UK Modern Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Slavery Act Statement Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor ESG Report (pg. 6); Employment Principles; UK Modern Labor Slavery Act Statement Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ESG Report (pg. 9–15); Our Imprint Report (pg. 18–29); Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environment, Health and Safety Policy; Agricultural Brewing Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Ingredients Policy; Packaging Policy AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ESG Report (pg. 5); Code of Business Conduct Corruption C EO WAT E R M A N DAT E Commitments Further Information Direct Operations ESG Report (pg. 9–10); Our Imprint Report (pg. 20–21); SDG Impact Report (pg. 6) Supply Chain and Watershed Management ESG Report (pg. 9–10); Our Imprint Report (pg. 20–21); SDG Impact Report (pg. 6) Collective Action ESG Report (pg. 9–10); Our Imprint Report (pg. 20–21); SDG Impact Report (pg. 6) Community Engagement Our Imprint Report (pg. 21); SDG Impact Report (pg. 6) Public Policy ESG Report (pg. 9–10); SDG Impact Report (pg. 6) Transparency Our Imprint Report discusses our water stewardship targets, practices and current performance. Our water data is assured according to ISAE 3000 by a third party, Corporate Citizenship. We report on water and climate risk in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 26 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D SASB Disclosures 2020 AC C O U N T I N G M E T R I C UNIT OF MEASURE LO C AT I O N E N E R GY M A N AG E M E N T Total energy consumed, percentage grid electricity, percentage renewable Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) ESG Report (pg. 11) WAT E R M A N AG E M E N T (1) Total water withdrawn and (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in Cubic meters (m3), Percentage (%) ESG Report (pg. 10) regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Discussion of water management risks and description of management strategies n/a ESG Report (pg. 9–10); Our Imprint Report (pg. 22-23) and practices to mitigate those risks RESPONSIBLE DRINKING & MARKETING Number of advertising impressions, percentage made on individuals above Number, Percentage (%) Our Imprint Report (pg. 15) the legal drinking age Notices of violations received for non-conformance with industry and Number Our Imprint Report (pg. 15) regulatory marketing and/or labeling codes Amount of legal and regulatory fines and settlements associated with U.S. Dollars ($) Our Imprint Report (pg. 15) labeling and/or marketing practices Description of efforts to promote responsible consumption of alcohol n/a Our Imprint Report (pg. 10-19) PAC K AG I N G L I F ECYC L E M A N AG E M E N T (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled or Metric tons (t), Percentage (%) ESG Report (pg. 14); Our Imprint Report (pg. 28-29) renewable materials, and (3) percentage that is recyclable or compostable Description of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging n/a ESG Report (pg. 13-14); Our Imprint Report (pg. 28-29) throughout its lifecycle E N V I R O N M E N TA L & S O C I A L I M PAC T S O F I N G R E D I E N T S U P P LY C H A I N S Percentage of beverage ingredients sourced from regions with High or Extremely Percentage (%) by spend ESG Report (pg. 10) High Baseline Water Stress Suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility audit conformance: Rate ESG Report (pg. 20-21); Our Imprint Report (pg. 40) (1) major non-conformance rate and associated corrective action rate and (2) minor non-conformance rate and associated corrective action rate List of priority beverage ingredients and discussion of sourcing risks due n/a ESG Report (pg. 20) to environmental and social considerations 27 E N V I R O N M E N TA L , S O C I A L A N D G OV E R N A N C E ( E S G) R E P O RT 2 020 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OA C H R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U STA I N A B LY B R E W I N G CO L L EC T I V E LY C R A F T E D TCFD Disclosures 2020 TO P I C A N D D I S C LO S U R E LO C AT I O N G OV E R N A N C E : A. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. ESG Report – Sustainability Governance (pg. 3) B. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing risks and opportunities. ESG Report – Sustainability Governance (pg. 3) ST R AT EGY: A. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, CDP Report – Risks and Opportunities and long term. B. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, CDP Report – Risks and Opportunities and financial planning. C. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related CDP Report – Risks and Opportunities scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. R I S K M A N AG E M E N T A. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. ESG Report – Enterprise Risk Management section (pg. 4) B. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. ESG Report – Enterprise Risk Management section (pg. 4); CDP Report C. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the ESG Report – Enterprise Risk Management section (pg. 4); organization’s overall risk management. CDP Report M E T R I C S A N D TA R G E T S A. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy ESG Report – Sustainably Brewing (pg. 9–15) and risk management process. B. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. ESG Report – Sustainably Brewing (pg. 9–15) C. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance Our Imprint Report (pg. 20–31); ESG Report – Sustainably against targets. Brewing (pg. 9–15) 28 I MP R R OU IN T s o A r es u nd od n of go This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the US federal securities laws. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,”, “intend,” “anticipate,” “project,” “working,” “striving,” “will,” “aim” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historic in nature. Forward-looking statements include those relating to the company’s investments in socioeconomic programs; water management and other environmental efforts; reuse and recycling measures; and sourcing of raw materials. Although the company believes that the assumptions upon which its forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company’s present projections and expectations are disclosed in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These factors include, among others, the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the health of the beer industry and our brands in our markets; economic conditions in our markets; stock market and commodities performance; crop yields; consumer demand; global economic conditions; changes in laws and regulations; development of new technology; cost and availability of resources, raw materials, commodities and packaging materials; force majeure events; or the loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility; changes in our supply chain system; our ability to implement our strategic initiatives; success of our joint ventures; risks relating to operations in developing and emerging markets; the impact of climate change and the availability and quality of water; the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel; future financial and operating performance within and related to the industry; our ability to maintain brand image, reputation and product quality; and other risks discussed in our filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements in this report are expressly qualified by such cautionary statements and by reference to the underlying assumptions. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
