MUFG Report 2020 Integrated Report Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Editorial Overview Who We Are We, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, or MUFG, have compiled our integrated report, MUFG Report 2020, in order to explain our efforts to create sustained value to our investors and other stakeholders. Referencing the framework provided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)* as well as the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation issued by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Corporate Vision this report introduces our business model through the opening section (“Who We Are”), and explains the methods we have used to create sustainable value through “Value Creation Initiatives,” “Sustainability Initiatives” and “Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation.” Further details on our financial status and sustainability initiatives are available on our website. In addition, our plans call for issuing a Sustainability Report in autumn 2020 to deliver another publication detailing our response to sustainability issues. Our * A private-sector foundation established in 2010 by companies, investors, accounting organizations and The corporate vision serves as the basic policy in administrative agencies to develop an international framework for corporate reporting. mission Corporate Vision conducting our business activities, and provides guidelines for all group activities. Who We Are P. 1 Sustainability Initiatives P. 54 The corporate vision also is the foundation for Our vision P. 1 Corporate Vision Initiatives for Addressing Environmental and Social P. 55 Issues toward Sustainable Growth management decisions, including the formulation of P. 2 Trajectory of MUFG’s Pursuit of Value Creation—Our History P. 56 Our Approach to Environmental and Social Issues management strategies and management plans, and P. 4 Trajectory of MUFG’s Pursuit of Value Creation—Our Strengths P. 58 Responding to Business Opportunities serves as the core value for all employees. P. 6 Trajectory of MUFG’s Pursuit of Value Creation—Value Creation Process Response to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Our values P. 63 P. 8 Financial Highlights Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations P. 10 Non-Financial Highlights Our Strengths Supporting Our Code of Conduct serves as the standard for Value Creation P. 66 Management Message P. 12 all group employees to make decisions and act Code of Customer Responsibility Attitudes as a Corporate in the Conduct Focus on a daily basis, and is essential to realizing our Citizen Workplace P. 67 Improving Employee Engagement P. 12 Message from the CEO Corporate Vision. P. 68 Human Resources Strategy Acting to achieve the Corporate Vision P. 22 Our Responses to the COVID-19 Pandemic P. 72 Corporate Governance P. 24 Message from the CFO P. 82 Communicating with Stakeholders P. 30 Dialogue with Outside Directors P. 84 Risk Management Value Creation Initiatives P. 34 P. 88 Compliance P. 90 Internal Audit P. 35 Special Feature: Growth Strategies in ASEAN P. 38 Special Feature: Support Society’s Digital Shift Financial Data / Corporate Data P. 91 To be a foundation of strength, committed to meeting the needs P. 40 Business Group Performance of our customers, serving society, and fostering shared and P. 92 Ten-Year Summary of Major Financial Data P. 42 Business Overview sustainable growth for a better world. P. 94 Financial Review for Fiscal 2019 P. 42 Retail & Commercial Banking Business Group P. 44 Japanese Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group P. 98 Consolidated Financial Statements Our mission P. 102 Company Overview P. 46 Global Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group P. 48 Global Commercial Banking Business Group P. 50 Asset Management & Investor Services Business Group Be the world’s most trusted financial group P. 52 Global Markets Business Group 1. Work together to exceed the expectations of our customers Definitions of Specific Terms Used in This Report 2. Provide reliable and constant support to our customers MUFG: Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. R&C: Retail & Commercial Banking Business Group the Bank: MUFG Bank, Ltd. JCIB: Japanese Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence the Trust Bank: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation the Securities Business: Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. GCIB: Global Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group GCB: Global Commercial Banking Business Group Our vision and its subsidiaries AM/IS: Asset Management & Investor Services Business Group MUMSS: Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. Global Markets: Global Markets Business Group MUAH: MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation Krungsri: Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited Bank Danamon: PT Bank Danamon Indonesia, Tbk. FSI: First Sentier Investors 1. Integrity and Responsibility 2. Professionalism and Teamwork Disclaimer This report contains forward-looking statements with regard to the expectations, forecasts, targets and plans of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”) and its 3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, “the Group”). These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to the Group and are stated in this document on the basis of the outlook at the time that this document was produced. In producing these forward-looking statements certain assumptions (premises) have been utilized that are subjective and may prove to be incorrect. Should any underlying assumption provide to be incorrect, actual results in the future may vary materially Our values from some of the forward-looking statements in this document. The Group has no obligation or intent to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document. In addition, information on companies and other entities outside the Group that is included in this document has been obtained from publicly available Details on our corporate vision are available on our website. https://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/philosophy information and other sources. The accuracy and appropriateness of that information has not been verified by the Group and cannot be guaranteed. All figures contained in this report are calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in Japan, unless otherwise noted. MUFG Report 2020 1 Who We Are Origin ▶ Today ▶ Future Trajectory of MUFG’s Pursuit of Value Creation—Our History Regardless of the passage of time, we strive to remain sincere in our engagement with customers and to achieve sustainable growth hand in hand with them. In addition, we hope to make an ongoing contribution to the sustainable development of society in Japan and the rest of the world by fulfilling an essential role in the social infrastructure. These aspirations support our unwavering commitment to our mission. 1656〜 2005〜 2008〜 2012〜 2017〜 MUFG’s Strengths Strengthened global investment Accumulated over the MUFG was inaugurated as a Enhanced our presence in the Began offering an array Hard-earned trust backed by a banking operations and initiated Course of Its History financial group equipped with ASEAN region, a key market of solutions supported by history spanning more than 360 the provision of services comprehensive functions and the region in terms of our growth a groupwide integrated years and a robust customer base employing collaboration between largest customer base in Japan strategies management approach Group companies Supported Japan’s modernization and Started to take on the challenge of The merger of Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Invested US$9 billion in Morgan Stanley Invested in commercial banks in Thailand, periods of high growth, expanding Group and UFJ Holdings (U.S.) during the global financial crisis Vietnam and the Philippines achieving business model reforms via the Trust and alongside the country’s economy MUFG Re-Imagining Strategy Reliability 1656 2005 2008 2012 2018 Konoike Exchange Bureau opened in Osaka MUFG inaugurated Strategic alliance with Morgan Stanley MUFG Corporate Vision renewed Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ rebranded to MUFG Bank (Precursor of Sanwa Bank founded in 1933) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi Reorganized business groups based on client UFJ Securities inaugurated 2013 segmentation and transitioned to a structure Human 1880 Conversion of Bank of Ayudhya (Krungsri), comprising six business groups Mitsubishi Exchange House established by Resources 2006 a major commercial bank in Thailand, into a Integrated corporate loan-related business of the Bank Yataro Iwasaki subsidiary Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG and the Trust Bank (Precursor of Mitsubishi Bank founded in 1919) Bank) inaugurated Yokohama Specie Bank established 2019 (Precursor of The Bank of Tokyo founded 2007 in 1946) Conversion of Bank Danamon, Indonesia, into a subsidiary Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS inaugurated UnionBanCal Corporation became a wholly owned subsidiary of MUFG 1927 Customer Mitsubishi Trust established Base Kawasaki Trust established Capital and operational alliance with 1941 Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Tokai Bank established Industry and Trade (VietinBank), a national bank in Vietnam Conversion of Australia-based asset manager First 1948 Sentier Investors into a subsidiary Yachiyo Securities established ACOM became a subsidiary of MUFG (JGAAP only) 2014 Network Integration of Union Bank operations and MUFG Bank Americas business 2020 1959 2010 Capital and operational alliance with Grab, Singapore Toyo Trust and Banking established Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities inaugurated 2015 Moved to a “company with three committees” structure 2016 Financial Capital and business alliance with Security Base Source: Konoike Limited Bank Corporation in the Philippines Partnership Company Economic and social trends at home and abroad Source: The Mitsubishi Archives 2005 Transition to limited deposit guarantee 2008 Financial crisis triggered by Lehman Brothers 2012 The Abenomics stimulus package initiated 2017 Basel III regulations finalized “payoff” scheme in Japan 2010 The debt crisis emerges in Europe 2013 The BOJ introduces quantitative and 2018 U.S.-China trade friction 2006 The Bank of Japan (BOJ) terminated zero qualitative monetary easing policies interest rate policy 2011 The Great East Japan Earthquake 2020 The COVID-19 pandemic emerges 2015 Japan’s Corporate Governance Code enforced Source: Kanagawa Quantitative easing measures introduced Prefectural Museum of Cultural History by the European Central Bank 2016 The BOJ introduces a negative interest rate policy 2 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 3 Who We Are Origin ▶ Today ▶ Future Trajectory of MUFG’s Pursuit of Value Creation—Our Strengths We have long nurtured “trust and reliability” along with our “human resources,” “customer base,” Well-Balanced Revenue Portfolio “network” and “financial base.” Financial MUFG’s sources of revenue consist of six business groups (R&C serving individual customers and SMEs Base domestically, JCIB serving major Japanese corporate clients, GCB serving individual customers and We will help our customers achieve growth by employing our strengths in diverse aspects. SMEs overseas, GCIB serving global large corporate clients, AM/IS and Global Markets operations). Together, these operations constitute a well-balanced portfolio, one of our distinctive strengths. Global Markets R&C 26% 23% Through our steadfast adherence to our mission Fiscal 2019 Composition of net of providing safe and secure services despite operating profits by Trust and AM/IS business group JCIB the passage of time, we have been able to earn Reliability 5% 18% the trust of customers. This hard-earned trust is an invaluable asset. GCB 18% GCIB 10% MUFG’s pursuit of value creation is supported Domestic: 49% Overview of Business Groups and Their Main Operating Companies by approximately 180,000 employees at home Approx. Human and abroad. We are striving to create an Retail & Commercial Banking (R&C) Global Commercial Banking (GCB) Resources environment that helps diverse workers realize 180,000 employees Having positioned domestic individual customers and SMEs as This business group boasts robust networks in both the United States their full potential and grow hand in hand with targeted customer segments, this business group employs a and Southeast Asia and provides financial services to local SMEs and groupwide, integrated approach as it strives to meet diverse individuals overseas through its partner banks,* such as MUFG Union customers. Overseas: 51% customer needs via the provision of a range of financial services and solutions. Its lineup includes such financial services as housing loans, Bank, Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya) and Bank Danamon, etc. * This business group is in charge of MUFG Union Bank, Krungsri (Bank of consumer finance, corporate lending and settlement as well as those Ayudhya), Bank Danamon, VietinBank and Security Bank, etc. associated with asset management, inheritance and real estate in addition to business and asset succession solutions. MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation, Krungsri and Bank Danamon Number of domestic individual customers MUFG Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Customer Employing diverse channels, we provide a range of services through Group companies to Approx. 34million Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM Base individual customers and corporate clients in Number of domestic corporate clients Japanese Corporate & Investment Banking (JCIB) Asset Management & Investor Services (AM/IS) 1.2 million Japan and overseas. Approx. Serving major Japanese corporations seeking to expand globally, this Employing its sophisticated specialist know-how in the areas of asset business group provides loan, settlement, forex and other services management (AM), investor services (IS) and pensions, this business while offering comprehensive solutions backed by Group companies’ group provides such services as consulting while constantly striving specialist expertise related to M&A and real estate to help customers to further enhance its asset management capabilities and develop achieve growth in their corporate value. products capable of better meeting the diverse needs of customers We maintain a number of Group companies at home and abroad. MUFG Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, 600 bases boasting top-notch capabilities in a variety of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, The Mitsubishi UFJ Factors, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management, business fields, including banking, trust banking, Domestic: Approx. Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting and Mitsubishi UFJ Capital First Sentier Investors and MUFG Investor Services Holdings Network securities and credit cards. Taking full advantage of their robust networks at home and Overseas: Approx. 2,100 bases in Global Corporate & Investment Banking (GCIB) Global Markets abroad, we help customers achieve growth more than 50 countries while contributing to sound social development. This business group is charged with corporate & investment banking This business group primarily handles customer-segment sales & operations aimed at providing large global corporate clients with trading (S&T) operations*1 associated with interest rates, bonds, forex high-value-added solutions employing a groupwide, integrated and equities while comprehensively managing assets, liabilities and approach, with the Bank and the Securities furnishing core functions. various risks via treasury operations.*2 *1 Collective term for sales operations (involving the provision of financial MUFG Bank and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities products and solutions, including forex and derivatives, to customers) and Our capital adequacy ratio remains robust at a trading operations (involving the trading of marketable products between banks or through an exchange). A1 level well above the international regulatory *2 Including ALM (which is the integrated management of liquidity risk and Financial Moody's* interest rate risk inherent in assets (loans, etc.) and liabilities (deposits, etc.)), requirement. Furthermore, we have earned high Base global investment and other related operations. ratings from domestic and overseas rating * Long-term rating for the holding company MUFG Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and agencies. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities 4 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 5 Who We Are Origin ▶ Today ▶ Future Trajectory of MUFG’s Pursuit of Value Creation—Value Creation Process We will help resolve issues confronting customers and society and deliver unique value that only MUFG is capable of creating as we move ahead toward our vision of becoming the world’s most trusted financial group. MUFG’s Business Activities Value delivered to stakeholders Provide solutions that accurately meet needs of customers and society Our Strengths Commercial Banking R&C Help resolve issues society is now Retail & Commercial Banking Trust and Business Group Pages 42 – 43 confronting through our business activities Lending, deposits, Reliability settlement, etc. (domestic individual customers and SMEs) Global warming & climate change Shareholders JCIB Page 58, pages 63 – 65 Further enhancing shareholder returns Japanese Corporate & Investment Page 44 – 45 Banking Business Group Cross-sectoral environment and Investment Banking (Japanese large corporate clients) social issues Digital Transformation Human Pages 58 – 59 GCIB Resources M&A, capital marketrelated operations, etc. Global Corporate & Investment Business incubation & job creation Pages 46 – 47 Banking Business Group Page 60 (global large corporate clients) Our Vision GCB Social infrastructure Customers Asset Management/ & town planning Global Commercial Banking Services that go beyond Customer Investor Services Business Group Pages 48 – 49 Page 61 expectations Be the World’s (overseas individual customers and SMEs) Base Management and Aging population & low birth rate Most Trusted administration of assets entrusted by customers AM/IS Page 62 Financial Group Asset Management & Investor Pages 50 – 51 Services Business Group Financial innovation Pages 38 – 39 Network Global Markets Global Markets Pages 52 – 53 Workstyle reforms Environment and society Global Markets Business Group Sales & trading, etc. Page 71 Initiatives to help realize environmental and social sustainability Financial Base Foundations supporting our business activities Employees Risk management Pages 84 – 87 Compliance Pages 88 – 89 HR systems to assist employees in the Corporate governance Pages 72 – 81 Group Code of Conduct & our corporate culture pursuit of professional success 6 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 7 Who We Are Financial Highlights ROE EPS Financial Results under the Medium-Term Business Plan (%) MUFG definition* (Yen) Earnings per share (EPS) (left axis) (Trillions of yen) Mediumto FY2017 results FY2018 results FY2019 results FY2020 targets 10.00 JPX definition 100 Profits attributable to owners of parent (right axis) 1.2 long-term targets ROE (MUFG definition) 7.53% 6.45% 3.85% Approx. 7% to 8% 9% to 10% 1.0 8.00 80 Below FY2017 result Expense ratio 68.0% 71.0% 70.2% (68.0%) Approx. 60% 0.8 Common Equity Tier 1 6.00 60 ¥40.95 capital ratio (finalized Basel 11.7% 11.4% 11.7% Approx. 11% III reforms basis)* 0.6 3.85% * Estimated Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio reflecting the risk-weighted assets increase, as calculated on the finalized Basel III reforms basis. 4.00 40 0.4 3.28% Financial Position Compared with Global Peers (G-SIBs)*1 2.00 20 0.2 Market Capitalization 0 0 0 (Trillions of yen) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 30.0 Profits attributable to owners of parent * ×100 [(Total shareholders’ equity at the beginning of the period 20.0 + Foreign currency translation adjustments at the beginning of the period) + (Total shareholders’ equity at the end of the period + Foreign currency translation adjustments at the end of the period)] ÷ 2 10.0 Net operating profits increased thanks to growing revenues reflecting the consolidation of Bank Danamon and First Sentier Investors as well as an increase in net trading profits. However, the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic caused the Group to incur the one0 time amortization of goodwill due to plunges in its subsidiaries’ stock prices. Because of this, profits attributable to owners of the JP Morgan Bank of Wells Fargo HSBC Citigroup Goldman MUFG BNP Barclays Deutsche America Sachs Paribas Bank parent fell significantly, resulting in lower ROE and EPS. (As of March 31, 2020; source: Bloomberg) Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio Expense Ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (%) 15.0 14.7% 13.8% 13.6% (%) Expense ratio (left axis) (Trillions of yen) (%) Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 13.3% 12.4% 12.1% General and administrative expenses (right axis) Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (finalized Basel III reforms basis)* 11.9% 11.8% 75 5.0 13.0 11.2% 11.1% Gross profits (before credit costs for trust accounts; right axis) 10.0 70.2% 70 4.0 12.5 5.0 65 3.0 12.0 11.9% HSBC Barclays Deutsche Goldman JP Morgan BNP MUFG Citigroup Bank of Wells Fargo Bank Sachs Paribas America (Rates as of December 31, 2019, excluding the rate for MUFG as of March 31, 2020; based on data disclosed by each firm) Credit Ratings*2 60 2.0 11.5 11.7% Moody s Holding U.S. Firms European Firms Company Ratings 55 1.0 11.0 A1 MUFG A2 JP Morgan Bank of America Wells Fargo HSBC 50 0 10.5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) A3 Citigroup Goldman Sachs * Estimated Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio reflecting the risk-weighted assets increase, as calculated on the finalized Basel III reforms basis. Baa1 BNP Paribas Although the Group maintained a tight grip on general and The volume of CET1 capital, the numerator for CET1 capital Baa2 Barclays administrative (G&A) expenses attributable to domestic ratio, decreased. However, ongoing efforts to control RWAs operations, overall G&A expenses grew due to the expansion resulted in reduction in RWA volume (the denominator), Baa3 Deutsche Bank of overseas operations and higher expenses for regulatory enabling the Group to maintain a robust CET1 capital ratio. compliance purpose. However, an increase in gross profits (Ratings as of May 31, 2020; based on data disclosed by each firm) surpassed the increase in G&A expenses, resulting in the *1 Comparisons with European and American G-SIBs to which a G-SIB buffer (announced in 2019) of 1.5% or greater is applied improvement in expense ratio. *2 BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank: Non-preferred senior ratings Others: Issuer ratings or long-term foreign currency denominated debt ratings 8 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 9 Who We Are Non-Financial Highlights MUFG’s Track Record and Ranking as a Finance Result of Sustainable Financing Arranger in the Renewable Energy Sector Number of Members of the Board of Directors Total Independent outside directors Environment Social Others Fiscal 2030 goals (Millions of US$) Company with a Board 20 (Trillions of yen) 3,453 of Corporate Auditors Company with Three Committees 20 5,000 20 No. 1 18 17 17 No. 1 16 16 (Trillions of yen) 4,000 15 15 15 Social 15 No. 2 15 4.0 3.7 and Others No. 1 3,000 12 No. 2 3.0 10 10 9 9 8 8 2,000 7 2.0 6 Environment 5 1,000 5 4 1.0 8 2 0 0 0 0 2019 2030 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Source: Bloomberg New Energy Finance ASSET FINANCE/Lead arrangers LEAGUE TABLE Through the provision of financial services to our customers, we intend to help create a sustainable society and contribute to the In conjunction with our transition to a “company with three committees” governance structure in 2015, we increased the number of realization of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To this end, we have set our goal for sustainable financing at independent outside directors. We ensure that independent outside directors always constitute a majority of the Board of Director membership. a cumulative total of ¥20 trillion. In fiscal 2019, the first year following the formulation of this goal, we extended a total of ¥3.7 trillion, making steady progress. Moreover, we are acting as project finance arranger and lender for solar, hydroelectric, wind and geothermal power generation and maintaining a world-leading presence among private global financiers in the renewable energy financing field. External Recognition Ratio of Female Managers Number of Business Matches Made* in All Managerial Positions* Inclusion in ESG-Related Indices MUFG is included in a number of prominent ESG-related stock indices at home and abroad (as of May 31, 2020). (Number of cases) Cumulative total Year s result (%) Ratio of female employees Ratio of female managers in all managerial position 140,000 Approx. 121,000 50 49.6% 120,000 40 100,000 30 80,000 25.0% 60,000 20 MUFG has received a sliver MUFG Union Bank has received full marks for 40,000 rating on the PRIDE Index seven consecutive years in the Corporate 10 which evaluates Equality Index, which measures LGBTQ equality 20,000 companies’ inclusivity in organizations according to the Human Rights efforts toward LGBTQ in Campaign, the largest LGBTQ advocacy group in 0 0 Japan. the United States. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (CY) *The sum of business matching cases conducted by branches and those established at * Total for the Bank, the Trust Bank and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities in Japan In 2019, WIN, one of our seven Enterprise business matching events held in Japan and overseas MUFG Union Bank was Resource Groups in North America, was awarded awarded as a Noteworthy the Spotlight Impact Award by the Association of As we aim to help our corporate clients create new business As we aim to create an organization and culture that Company by DiversityInc. ERGs & Councils* for its excellent achievements opportunities and achieve corporate development via the encourages diverse staff to achieve personal growth and for diversity. in promoting diversity. expansion of sales channels etc., we offer business partner career success, we set a target of raising the ratio of female *A premier organization dedicated to increasing the impact, effectiveness and recognition of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). referral services while hosting large business negotiation staff in all managerial positions at the three major Group meetings for clients from a range of differing industries. In companies to 24% by the end of March 2021. As of March 31, fiscal 2019, the number of successful business matching cases 2020, our efforts had successfully raised this ratio to 25%. Note: The inclusion of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a amounted to approximately 9,000. sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSIC index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. 10 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 11 Management Message Message from the CEO Earning Enduring Trust Hironori Kamezawa President & Group CEO The worldwide MUFG community extends our deep Changes in behavior will accelerate in countless Obviously, this tectonic shift has huge implications condolences to those who have suffered and lost Learning from the Pandemic sectors, and banking is no exception. Our customers across society, financial services included. Recently loved ones due to COVID-19, and to all afflicted or Society is operating in circumstances unthinkable have recognized they have access to a variety of in Japan, flaws in special cash-payment programs affected by the coronavirus. Also our profound just months ago. Like literally millions of others, I now financial services without leaving home. In fact, the exposed problems in IT infrastructure and respect and gratitude go out to the devoted often work from home and conduct most meetings volume of internet and other non-face-to-face administrative processes. I believe financial healthcare professionals and others fighting this via web or teleconference. Although this can seem transactions has exploded as this convenient style of institutions as a group – MUFG among them – share disease at personal peril. inconvenient, my productivity has actually improved banking becomes common. the responsibility for addressing them. One – thanks in part to more direct communication with commendable motive is to address social issues. And These concerns are not just situational for MUFG and an unprecedented number of people both inside and Technology as a weapon against disease. Humans so is seizing the rare chance to fundamentally they won’t subside with a vaccine, a cure, or herd outside the MUFG Group, including stakeholders have battled viruses throughout history, but this change ourselves as a company. immunity. They go to the heart of our company. With overseas. particular battle is new. However, what’s also new is fallout from the pandemic affecting real economies our potential arsenal of weapons. Our customers are clearly embracing change. We at home and abroad, we’re more acutely aware than Adapting to this new way of work has also produced should lead the way. Massive organizations like ours ever of our financial obligations – but also our insights, prompting me to think even more deeply We all know vaccines and other medical treatments must shoulder – and should welcome – the challenge mission and duty to support the social infrastructure. than before about what’s best for my community and are key to suppressing the pandemic. But a new to reconsider how society should function, and how my country. In fact, instead of being cumbersome, dawn of digitalization, I am convinced, can emerge we should function within it. We’re confronted with Specifically, we’re determined to meet customer the work-from-home process has given me time and as a potent weapon not just to suppress but help the question of what MUFG’s raison d’être could and needs through our skills and services while opportunity to reconsider how the power of our defeat it. should be in a new-normal, post-pandemic society. maintaining a sound financial base. We’ll also step organization can help society. How do we create a safe, secure, and inclusive forward to contribute solutions addressing social Web and teleconferencing, remote learning and society? issues, including dramatic changes in customer These trends aren’t limited to MUFG, of course. remote diagnosis, digital technologies – all these can behavior accelerated by digital shift and pandemic Remote working will be embraced, quickly and free us from physical contact. Data from mobile and As a financial institution, we’re morally bound to forces. possibly permanently, by a wide variety of other smart devices can track behavior of those support society’s digital shift and contribute to institutions. This will lead to real changes in working infected, and pinpoint hotspots as they break out. solving social issues. These duties predate the Put simply, to prevail through this crisis, we will rally styles and values, and may possibly herald novel pandemic, but are magnified by its forces. the strength of the MUFG Group to earn and deserve ideas about how society should function. These technologies are on the brink of becoming the trust of customers and society, regardless of fully deployed, thanks to the blazing pace of environment forces and factors. innovation over the past ten years in smartphone apps, AI, other data analyses, and ICT technologies driven by high-speed communications. It seems sure that society will embrace a massive shift to digital channels in the post-pandemic period, as people protect themselves from resurging disease. 12 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 13 Management Message Message from the CEO We have survived and thrived through various crises First, we made progress in upgrading our groupwide, We have continued to upgrade our corporate MUFG’s Social Mission in the recent and distant past, including the collapse integrated management apparatus. Specifically, we governance system as well. In fiscal 2019, the Board & Organizational Strength of bubble economies and the worldwide recession enhanced our business structure to help meet of Directors held robust discussions on how to Two main points come to mind as we contemplate triggered by the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. In diverse customer needs, with better collaboration strengthen governance for the entire Group. At the the power of the pandemic. each case, our steady commitment to safeguard among the Bank, the Trust Bank, and the Securities, a same time, the Board is making strenuous efforts to customer and social wellbeing with quality financial groupwide business strategy formulated by the crystalize issues they identified through their annual First, it reminds us of the profound social services – a commitment passed down through holding company. For corporate clients, we’re now evaluation – and which must be addressed – and to responsibility that financial institutions uniquely bear. generations – has prevailed. We’re determined to ranked first in the DCM League Table and have seen improve the effectiveness of the Board’s operations. Prolonged measures to prevent the spread of the weather this crisis with the grace and strength that an approximate 10% increase in profits from the virus – like restrictions on local and global movement has earned the confidence of our customers and the real-estate business. For individual customers, we Strengthening corporate governance is an abiding – have stagnated social activities essential to daily trust of society for more than 360 years. offer solutions in asset and business succession, challenge, and it will continue to be a major emphasis life. This leads to deterioration in the real economy, Please see pages 22 & 23 for details on our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. capturing a growing volume of transactions related for us, particularly as we embrace a sustainabilityand the duty falls on financial institutions to help to asset management, inheritance, and real-estate oriented management practice – the practice of restore and defend it. This, put simply, is our social purchasing and sales. managing our firm’s impact on people, the planet, mission. and profit. Fiscal Performance Second, we developed and completed a commercial Specifically, we have to keep funds flowing smoothly & Business-Plan Progress banking business platform to serve key ASEAN CEO Management Policies to support customer livelihoods and business Fiscal 2019 was the second year of our current nations. By consolidating Indonesia-based Bank activities. We also have to maintain stable operations, Medium-Term Business Plan (MTBP). Here are some Danamon into our MUFG Group, our platform is now & Strategic Emphases such as settlement services, while ensuring the thoughts on the outcomes of our initiatives under supported by four commercial banks with a Now, a word on my management policies as CEO safety of customers, colleagues, and other the MTBP, starting with operating results for fiscal formidable presence in the region. We’re pursuing and areas of strategic emphasis. stakeholders. It seems the pandemic has served at 2019. growth opportunities through ASEAN economic least one positive purpose: to snap back into sharp expansion and devising a unique business model MUFG has been asserting systemic changes to focus this social mission we’re obliged to fulfill. Reflections on Fiscal 2019 Performance distinct from our competitors in Europe and the support sustainable growth in a harsh business Fiscal 2019 profits attributable to owners of the United States. environment – changes such as our Eleven It will likely take several years to fully contain the parent amounted to ¥528.1 billion, down ¥344.5 Transformation Initiatives, including digitalization, coronavirus and calm lingering anxiety over billion year-on-year – severe annual financial results Third, we have initiatives underway to enhance under the Re-Imagining Strategy. subsequent waves. We can hardly expect society to due mainly to one-time amortization of goodwill operational efficiency. Our businesses that target one day crush the disease, once and for all, and related to partner banks in the ASEAN region. large global corporations overseas have adopted Looking back over the three years since launching simply return to our “normal” lives. Instead, we all stricter transactional profitability criteria and reduced the strategy, we see real progress in some areas, but face the future with a sense of caution, and MUFG Despite this, we reversed the downward trend in net the volume of low-profitability assets, replacing them also a need to adjust our strategy in others. Fallout will be called on to help reshape society in a operating profits for the first time in the past five with high-profitability assets. In the global markets from the COVID-19 pandemic will no doubt manageable post-pandemic scenario. fiscal years. This was due to our efforts to improve business, we’ve focused on selection-andturbocharge some changes previously in progress, capital efficiency through a firm grip on risk-weighted concentration, consolidating our management like digitalization and the wide-ranging workstyle Second, this pandemic has revealed the distinct assets (RWAs), successfully reducing RWAs by resources in the types of business where our Group reforms mentioned earlier. It will also trigger urgent strengths of the MUFG enterprise. Any organization’s approximately ¥9 trillion on a finalized Basel III basis. can best exert our unique strengths. Also, we’re calls for solutions to social issues specified in the resilience is tested during crisis, and MUFG has Moreover, we’ve maintained an ongoing upward prompting a channel-shift by reviewing our domestic United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We proven itself by responding admirably to this one. trend in net operating profits from customer branch networks and expanding our non-face-toneed to revisit our current strategic initiatives and segments since fiscal 2018. Our efforts to secure face channels. We expect this to upgrade customer formulate growth strategies for a post-pandemic When spearheading our Crisis Management future growth have produced solid results in many convenience and propel cost-structure reforms. world. Headquarters as the pandemic took hold, I ways. supervised the implementation of measures to We have also made steady progress in digitalization. Three management policies to support MUFG growth counter its threats. My colleagues rose to the We have also worked on expense control – an Each business group has incorporated digitally based strategies in light of these factors can be described challenge – spontaneously, creatively, and ongoing issue we’ve addressed and are improving strategic measures to improve customer as emphases on “Digitalization,” “Resilience,” and collaboratively – to serve our customers and society, upon. There’s more to be done, but our performance convenience and reform operational processes, and “Engagement.” and I have never been more proud of our team and metrics show headway in reversing the upward trend the Group is collaborating with outside partners that more confident in the strength of the MUFG Group. in costs of domestic operations. have strengths in multiple fields, to help us build a Digitalization strong portfolio of unconventional financial services. To align with society’s digital shift, we will innovate Reflections on the MTBP For example, our plans call for launching a paymentour transactional channels for customers not only Moving on now to accomplishments through network service using a new blockchain technology through digitalization, but by digitizing our processes initiatives under the Medium-Term Business Plan: jointly developed by the MUFG Group and U.S.-based and workstyles; in other words, “digitalize the way we Akamai Technologies by the end of fiscal 2020. We are in our entirety” – toward a thoroughly will continue to collaborate with others to develop transformed mode of business management. new sources of profit over the medium-to-long-term. 14 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 15 Management Message Message from the CEO Second, “reshaping our global strategy” is related to resilience, my second management emphasis, and Helping Resolve Social Issues means optimizing our management-resource The pandemic has suddenly amplified the general allocation to capitalize on region-specific public’s growing call for businesses to help solve opportunities, such as market growth potential and social issues – in some cases raising this duty almost fields where we can take utmost advantage of our to the status of raison d’être. Accordingly, MUFG has strengths. To date, such allocations have mainly reinvigorated our resolve as a financial institution to taken the form of strategic investments in ASEAN support the health of society. We’re keenly aware of commercial banks as we seek new growth growing stakeholder expectations for us to deliver opportunities to counterbalance domestic corporate growth and contribute to society’s health stagnation. in a sustainable manner – namely, by integrating efforts to both resolve social issues and execute our We have completed our ASEAN commercial banking business strategies. business platform by welcoming Bank Danamon as our subsidiary. A capital and business alliance in In this light, as a financial institution we must step up February 2020 with Grab Holdings, a leading superour response to climate change, given its concerns app company in Southeast Asia, demonstrates our among environmental, social, and governance (ESG) optimization strategy – to strengthen our ASEAN advocates. Among the three ESG acronyms, platform’s digitalization aspect. This alliance aims to businesses are now hearing louder voices calling for take advantage of Grab’s ability to provide local even stronger emphasis on “S” – the Social issues customers with ride-hailing, food delivery, payment, discussed above. and other digitally-based services. In particular, we want the ability to deliver financial services in a So far, we’ve addressed ESG concerns primarily flexible manner aligned with customers’ desires and through finance, our main business. In 2019, we consumption behavior. This can be done by became the first financial institution in Japan to set a combining Grab’s dynamic data capabilities and numerical target for sustainable financing. In the area MUFG’s wealth of customer and financial information, of “E” – the Environment – we have been financing brought to bear through a super-app platform. renewable energy projects while underwriting and marketing “Green Bonds.” In the area of “S” – Social Resilience A personal priority has always been to keep business We also made progress in the global asset – we have pursued finance projects to nurture The current crisis pulls into sharp focus what kind of as down-to-earth as possible. So I’m committed to management field in fiscal 2019 by acquiring startups, create employment, battle poverty, and company MUFG wants to be: a financial institution applying the three emphases described above to Australia-based asset manager First Sentier Investors. support other social causes. Having set a cumulative that deserves trust regardless of circumstance or three concrete business strategies described below: target of ¥20 trillion over the course of the fiscal 2019 environment. To earn that status, we must be secure, Digitalization of our Domestic Retail Business, Third, through “innovating our business infrastructure – 2030 period, we have made steady progress in the safe, and sound as a financial institution, and deploy Reshaping our Global Strategy, and Innovating our and processes,” we aim to improve operational first year with a current total of ¥3.7 trillion. our resources to areas where we have a competitive Infrastructure and Processes. efficiency, for example by going paperless, retiring edge. obsolete protocols that require a personal seal, and We’ve also established our Environmental and Social First, “digitalization of our domestic retail business” developing bespoke systems as well. These reforms Policy Framework, which helps ensure due Engagement means forging ahead with my first management are relevant to the third emphasis – engagement consideration to environmental and social issues in Finally, our management approach is built on emphasis – digitalization – through a review of all – through changes in our organizational culture. We the course of financing. In fiscal 2019, we explicitly engagement. Relentless, swirling change can be channels, including those at our branches as well as will step up the development of a workplace declared we will refrain from financing new coal-fired disorienting. Colleagues must understand and feel UI/UX, administrative processes, and system environment and platform to foster relevant, power generation projects; we have updated this connected with their company’s reforms and architecture. Although we were already shifting to contemporary workstyles that help colleagues find framework by expanding the scope of sectors we comfortable with its direction. I want MUFG to non-face-to-face transactions, customer access has their jobs more stimulating and rewarding. carefully scrutinize prior to financing, and we will become more attractive, a company where now suddenly accelerated due to the pandemic. continue to periodically review and refine our colleagues feel empathy among themselves, toward policies. the entire organization, and with customers and the We’re responding by actively promoting digitalization community, too. so customers can enjoy more convenient, safe, and secure service; we’re also using digitalization to accelerate our cost-structure reform. 16 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 17 Management Message Message from the CEO As mentioned earlier, the COVID-19 pandemic I aspire to increase the number of colleagues who unmasked some poor IT infrastructure and Management Focus on Engagement: understand such values wholeheartedly, through In Closing administrative processes when executing special Toward a More Attractive, Attentive practice of relentless trials and errors as a team. Such The world community today is engaged in an cash-payment programs. Some municipalities even Company experiences should, and will, lead to heartfelt unprecedented battle against the coronavirus, and had to resort to manual operations. As a financial realization, not only of what works and what doesn’t, my appointment to CEO coincided with its institution, we must contribute to the digitalization of To me, there’s no doubt the success of reforms but also what the team roles they are asked to play emergence, so my tenure began with overseeing Japan’s social infrastructure to help resolve lingering underway at MUFG hinges on talent. Today, corporate really mean. responses to the pandemic. The situation has been, issues that have long hindered progress. reforms are no longer straightforward endeavors and will be, a challenge, as we all know. But I’m sustainable by a single voice from the top. Rather, Practice and realization combined will elevate our confident we’ll emerge wiser and kinder and stronger. To that point, given the aging Japanese leaders and their teams must focus on nurturing real team performance, inspire personal challenges, and demographic, our physical branch network can talent that deeply desires to make a meaningful lead to tangible business results. I’m devoted to the ideal that MUFG remain a reassert its popular value as a warmer, face-to-face contribution. A foremost senior management company deserving of trust from customers and venue for customer interaction. Our strategy is based responsibility is to ensure that all colleagues play And in this context, I would like to emphasize the society, in any environment and circumstance. Along on optimizing channels and services so all customers their part in pursuit of successful reforms. importance of synchronization. Sophisticated ideas, with our own colleagues, they merit the best of us, feel assured that high quality is available both virtually understanding, and methodologies are indispensable not only through the lifeblood of financial services and in person – their choice. My ideal MUFG is an attractive, attentive company to superior team performance– true enough. But the but as warp and weft of the social fabric. where colleagues can work, day in and day out, at strongest organizations also depend on members’ In fiscal 2020, we appointed a Chief Sustainability rewarding jobs in a vibrant setting. I also envision a ability to excel in the roles they play – and how well Another ideal is achieving the right social and fiscal Officer to upgrade our in-house structure and push growing community of colleagues genuinely fond of they mesh – within the team. The capabilities of balance – an artful science. It demands a vibrant ahead with the initiatives described above. We intend the MUFG community and willing to do their utmost MUFG can best be unleashed through workplace that attracts the right talent, fosters the to step up sustainability-oriented management by for the sakes of their teams and each other. If these synchronization of hearts, minds, and actions. right attitude, inculcates the right values, sets the reorganizing our business priorities through the lens ideals come true, MUFG’s organizational strength will right standards, and defines the right goals, so all of environmental and social concerns. We believe increase in an inspiring fashion. I believe it’s critical I pledge to spearhead such an engagement-oriented colleagues find their jobs rewarding. The results then this will help us contribute to a virtuous cycle of for everyone involved to feel they are taking part in management approach to maximize our potential. accrue to other stakeholders. resolving social issues through business activities, guiding the company and for MUFG’s raison d’être to thereby improving corporate value. win their hearts and minds, their support and With these ideals in mind as CEO, I am determined to sympathies. Shareholder Returns spearhead the initiatives discussed above so our But we don’t believe these initiatives are enough. To I hope it’s clear we believe corporate value can, and customers can see tangible changes underway at broadly and effectively address social issues, These are the thoughts I put into deciding on the must, be expressed in more dimensions than one in MUFG. I expect that, ultimately, all these efforts and corporate philanthropy is simply irreplaceable. MUFG word “engagement” as a key element of my order to be deeply meaningful. But in the end, of factors will accelerate the momentum of a great has established a ¥10.0 billion investment fund to management policy. To my mind, a management course, value must ultimately be expressed in company as it delivers greater value to all support new pharmaceuticals, regenerative style that engages the heart and mind is the best profitable returns to the investor, and clearly this stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, medicine, and other life-science endeavors in the path – not only to sustainable growth and reforms, remains an important management issue for MUFG. colleagues, communities, and society as a whole. wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. We’ve also but also to meaningful contributions, both corporate Although our fiscal 2019 operating results were committed to donate ¥2.5 billion to help medical and individual. harsh, we’ve effected a turnaround in net operating I gratefully ask your continued support. institutions, students struggling to make ends meet profits for the first time in five years, while while pursuing higher education, and artists following Throughout my daily work, I try to honor three maintaining an upward trend in net operating profits their calling. commitments. One, act on a modest motto: “Think from customer segments. As such, we’ve made simple.” Two, confidently delegate authority to my steady progress toward sustainable growth. July 2020 To fortify our approach to philanthropy, we’ve also team members. And three, create and protect an developed a framework to stipulate and allocate a environment where everyone feels liberated to speak To improve ROE, a challenge we’ve been confronting portion of our profits to the greater social good. We their minds. for some time, we will exert efficiency as measured expect the MUFG Group’s involvement in these by our expense ratio, and will raise capital efficiency initiatives not only to help society at large, but to raise We live in a world of radical changes that demand through firm control of RWAs. The results will support our colleagues’ social awareness, engagement, and courage and resolve. I will advocate an open-minded our determination for returns that correspond to our Hironori Kamezawa contribution. environment where my colleagues can exercise shareholders’ expectations. President & Group CEO those qualities. I want them to share their thoughts We believe our business activities must exist in with others and incorporate forward-looking, tandem, and in harmony, with the pursuit of solutions unconventional ideas. I want them to take on with for social issues. passion the challenges entrusted to them. I hope to see a workplace of this kind flourish in every corner of our MUFG Group. 18 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 19 Management Message Message from the CEO CEO Profile Practice, Realization & Synchronization Throughout my career, I’ve been assigned positions synchronized in mind and spirit with colleagues who what to do, just be confident and go ahead.” This two. Indulging in static, abstract theories can hold us that didn’t exist before I assumed them. For instance, share the assignment. The success of these three calls to mind the aphorism to never let a good crisis back, but incremental lessons from trial-and-error as soon as I joined the company, I was dispatched to stages is due partly to the individual, and partly to the go to waste. My supervisor was right. Looking back, keep us moving forward. We shouldn’t fear small the United States to study bond-option related team. each one of those trying experiences helped me failures. This leads us to realize – through slow or operations in the markets division there. I relocated grow, not only professionally but personally. Each sudden revelation – the direct connection between alone and spent six months closely studying how Despite mishaps along the way, I very much enjoyed one was an opportunity. our practical efforts and tangible outcomes in the local U.S. financial institutions handled such working shoulder-to-shoulder with my teammates real world. This “aha” moment then synchronizes the operations. Returning to Japan, I built the bondthroughout these episodes. I’m also grateful to my In 2014, I was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in team through mutual understanding of individual option business from the ground up. supervisors for choosing to trust me with a variety of charge of MUFG Americas operations. This transfer roles and shared goals – which excites the heart as duties. I’ve learned a lot about the importance of came with a new challenge, too. The CRO*3 soon much as the mind. Then, I was involved in the launch of ALM*1 building a good team, including the truth that the resigned, and I was asked to fill that position as well. I operations and developing new residential-mortgage strongest team isn’t usually homogeneous. It’s became an expatriate for the first time at the age of Active dynamic, progressive teamwork should be loan and term-deposit products in the midst of fortified with diverse qualities, from sharp logical 53, and found myself supervising 2,000 U.S. exciting – it is for me, and I believe others thrive in it, interest-rate liberalization. minds to executional muscle. nationals. too. I also believe that to create a company attractive to customers and society as a whole, first we have to Next was a transfer to the Securities subsidiary, to As my career path progressed into senior positions, This felt awkward at first, but I resolved to visit the enjoy what we do. We have to create a vibrant launch equity-related operations amid the major like a lot of others during this volatile stretch of front lines as often as possible and engage with my organization attractive to colleagues by offering turmoil of Yamaichi Securities’ bankruptcy, which history I’ve been tested by struggles far larger than new colleagues face-to-face. Fortunately, I earned fulfilling work that we ourselves know is worthy. affected Japan’s entire securities industry. For a my function. Soon after my appointment as General their support. I believe that in part, this was because I while, I engaged in securities-dealing operations by Manager of the CPM Division in 2008, the Lehman encouraged meaningful discussions on real issues *1 Asset Liability Management *2 Credit Portfolio Management day and interviewed potential team members by Brothers bankruptcy triggered the financial crisis. – conversations based on case studies and factual *3 Chief Risk Officer night, but even though the pace and pressure kept When I was serving as General Manager of the Credit figures – with a practical, realistic perspective. *4 Chief Digital Transformation Officer me busy, I found the work stimulating and fulfilling. Policy & Planning Division in 2011, the Great East Japan Earthquake struck. In 2012, I witnessed the After the Americas assignment, I returned to Japan Eventually, I was transferred back to the Bank to repercussions of LIBOR scandals as a General and was appointed CDTO*4 in 2017, a newly created launch CPM*2. Banks worldwide had just begun to Manager of the Global Markets Planning Division. position in charge of digital transformation. I formed incorporate this novel management framework to a team of diverse talent from inside and outside the control credit risk from lending and other core It seemed that each assignment came with another Group, spearheaded the digitalization of a variety of banking operations. crisis potent enough to seriously damage the operations, and oversaw the signing of an alliance Company’s business operations in the precise area with Akamai and an investment in Grab to fuel I’ve always felt a sense of fulfilment watching a tiny under my supervision. My response was to focus on disruptive innovation. project – launched either by myself or in tandem with giving top management accurate facts and figures a handful of colleagues – grow into a robust business on the status of operations within my purview, even One thing I learned is that complexity can be the that needs to be passed on to a larger team or if it meant delivering bad news. Having executive enemy of endurance, so my motto when facing department, or even greater division. management responsibilities myself, I knew that difficulties became, “Think simple.” There’s no avoiding bad news is inviting bad business. substitute for a concise, focused message when An important lesson I learned from these experiences reaching out to people across various cultures, involves three key concepts. A successful project One of my supervisors in these tough periods used nationalities, and languages. needs teammates who practice trial-and error to to encourage me by saying, “A crisis gives us an accumulate knowledge, who awaken to realize opportunity to prove our true organizational strength. Bringing the three key concepts together. Repetitive results when the knowledge “clicks,” and are Once you’ve spent enough time thinking through practice is important, even if we make a mistake or 20 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 21 Our Responses to the COVID-19 Pandemic Amid the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic, which is expected to have significant economic and social Fundraising Assistance executed fresh loans totaling approximately ¥4.0 impacts at home and abroad, MUFG has placed the utmost priority on swiftly extending appropriate and We extend a range of support to corporate clients trillion*2 as of June 2020. flexible fundraising assistance and maintaining stable financial infrastructure while ensuring the safety of affected by the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic, all stakeholders. Rallying its overall strengths, MUFG is striving to fulfill its mission as a financial institution helping them smoothly raise funds in the face of Furthermore, we strive to meet needs among drops in sales, the disruption of procurement and individual customers for funds for maintaining their supporting social infrastructure. other challenges arising from the crisis. livelihood by, for example, offering card loan services, while flexibly accommodating their requests with ● Set up help desks for those in need of emergency regard to the modification of lending conditions via funds due to the crisis dedicated desks. ● Launched a special fund ● Began extending interest-free, no-collateral loans Overseas, our partner banks accommodate ● Temporarily lowered interest rates for some online fundraising requests mainly from local SMEs by, for Initiatives for Customers loan services instance, offering modified lending conditions. *1 The number of applications for fresh lending and the modification of lending Today, the total number of consulting cases involving conditions during the period from March 10 to June 22, 2020; based on reports from the Bank’s domestic branches and its online transactional data Measures Undertaken by Our Branches To ensure the safety of branch visitors and staff, corporate clients affected by the pandemic’s fallout *2 The value of loans executed during the period from March 10 to June 22, 2020 (including loans executed within the limit under commitment lines); based on reports To date, every consideration has been given to acrylic partitions have been installed on bank amounts to approximately 16,000.*1 Swiftly from the Bank’s domestic branches ensuring customer and employee safety as our counters and at reception rooms in order to prevent responding to requests from these clients, we have branches and back-office centers strive to ensure the spread of infection through respiratory droplets. steady and reliable essential financial services and to Also, we regularly remind customers to maintain support stable settlement functions. During the social distancing within branch facilities and ask period in which a state of emergency was declared, them to refrain from non-essential, non-urgent Initiatives for Employees none of domestic branches run by the Bank and the transactions. In addition, we are carrying out a Trust Bank suspended even a part of their operations. proactive campaign aimed at encouraging customers to shift to non face-to-face transactions In Japan, we introduced a “split team” system* while at branches and back-office centers, both of which via ATMs and online banking. acting quickly to develop a structure for remote constitute key components supporting MUFG’s working. As a result, around half of our domestic operations. In addition, around 1,000 staff members employees, the majority of whom work at have been dispatched from headquarters to these headquarters, were able to stay working via our facilities to ensure stable operations are maintained. remote infrastructure (as of April 2020). * An operational system in which a conventional business unit is divided into two or more Provision of Online Banking Services For individual customers number of teams We offer various online banking services for Other measures to prevent the spread of the virus ● Mitsubishi UFJ Direct individual customers and corporate clients. also include the introduction of staggered work shifts ● A “smart” procedure for opening bank accounts In Japan, the volume of online transactions, including ● App designed to assist hasslebank transfers, and the number of online applications free procedures associated with administrative procedures both grew Contribution to Society significantly due to the enforcement of “Stay-athome” protocols. For example, monthly increase of users of Mitsubishi UFJ Direct, online banking Amid the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, we made In addition, we have donated a total of ¥500 million service targeting individual customers in March 2020 For corporate clients donations and otherwise strove to fulfill our to the Japanese Red Cross Society and the All Japan has grown to approximately three times compared to responsibilities as a corporate citizen. Hospital Association. The donated funds were ● BizSTATION the one in March 2019. accumulated via a scheme run by the Bank and the ● MUFG Biz ● Extended a total of ¥2.5 billion in financial Trust Bank that sets aside a certain amount of money We also provide SME customers holding MUFG Bank assistance to medical institutions, students for donations upon every occurrence of an online accounts for a certain period of time with the “Biz struggling to pursue higher education and transaction (via Mitsubishi UFJ Direct, etc.). We hope LENDING” online financing service that enables them maintain their livelihood and artists intending to that doing so helps communicate our gratitude to to complete all necessary procedures online. The continue their activities medical practitioners along with the customers who number of loan applications filed via this service in ● Launched “MUFG Medical Fund” boasting a total wanted to thank these people. March 2020 was approximately three times its size in asset value of ¥10.0 billion, with the aim of November 2019. assisting venture startups in their R&D efforts to develop and manufacture a cure for such diseases as COVID-19 22 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 23 Management Message Message from the CFO Practicing Solid Review of the Outcomes of Initiatives under the Medium-Term Business Plan: Second Year Financial Management and Business Plan We have contained the expense ratio, one of three Business Portfolio Strategy Financial & Capital financial targets defined under the medium-term business plan (MTBP), at 70.2% for fiscal 2019. This To date, MUFG has taken a “portfolio approach” to business management. This allows us to optimally Management to Improve figure represents a year-on-year improvement and is combine operations with different profiles in terms of lower than the level estimated in the MTBP. Assessing risk and return. In doing so, we strive to secure a our financial soundness, our Common Equity Tier 1 stable profit stream, maintain financial soundness Our Corporate Value (CET1) capital ratio (on a finalized Basel III reforms basis) remained robust at 11.7%, surpassing the target and enhance ROE and our other profitability indices. level of around 11%. The diagram below provides an overview of MUFG’s business portfolio strategy. The vertical and On the other hand, ROE, an indicator for capital horizontal axes represent capital efficiency (market profitability, fell significantly to 3.85% from 6.45% in average for ROE) and market growth potential fiscal 2018, reflecting a substantial decrease in profits (market average for gross profit growth ratio), attributable to owners of the parent. However, the respectively. Each MUFG business is plotted in the turnaround in consolidated net operating profits and diagram, with the size of the circle reflecting its a steady increase in customer segment net operating relative scale of operations in terms of revenue. Tetsuya Yonehana profits suggest that we were able to make some Group CFO progress toward future growth. In recent years, MUFG has increasingly focused on expanding businesses found in the upper right MUFG’s Social Mission as a Financial Institution portion of the diagram. These businesses are and Efforts to Maintain Soundness expected to have higher ROE and achieve gross In the face of the fallout from the COVID-19 profit growth. In this way, we have been shifting the pandemic and its effects on real economies, MUFG center of our entire business portfolio to highbelieve that meeting customer needs for fundraising profitability, high-growth fields. We have also steadfast efforts to reverse an ongoing downward and other financial solutions is its social mission. diversified our business portfolio by developing asset Greetings from the Newly Appointed trend. Accordingly, we will do our utmost to accommodate management & investor services (AM/IS), securities, Group CFO customer requests for support. By doing so, we help consumer finance and other businesses. My name is Tetsuya Yonehana. Having been However, profits attributable to owners of the parent customers address issues they confront while appointed as Group CFO in April 2020, I am pleased fell ¥344.5 billion to ¥528.1 billion, due to higher contributing to economic recovery. We expect these We believe that the turnaround in consolidated net to have this opportunity to address our stakeholders. credit costs resulting from the absence of the initiatives will eventually help MUFG secure future operating profits in fiscal 2019 is indicative of the Despite the unclear outlook for the business reversal of allowances for fiscal 2018 credit losses growth. environment due to the unprecedented COVID-19 and the additional allowance in response to the MUFG’s Business Portfolio Shift （各事業の円の大きさは MUFGにおける2018年度の事業規模） pandemic, I am determined to ensure the Group’s fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the In order to fulfill our social mission, securing continued soundness through good financial and recording of extraordinary losses from the one-time soundness as a financial institution is essential. To High capital management aimed at securing sustainable amortization of goodwill related to overseas this end, the maintenance of solid equity capital and AM (Asia and Oceania) growth while addressing issues society is now subsidiaries. a robust volume of non-JPY funds with sufficient Commercial banking confronting. liquidity is a matter of great importance. Commercial banking (East Asia) (the Americas) Analysis of the Current Operating From the perspective of maintaining capital Securities Consolidated Income Statement Summary Market average ROE (the Americas) Environment soundness, we will continue to exercise stringent CF (Japan) IS (global) Commercial (Billions of Yen) FY2018 FY2019 Change banking Overview of Fiscal 2019 Operating Results 1 Gross profits 3,725.7 3,986.3 260.5 control of risk-weighted assets (RWAs). Commercial banking Lease (Japan) (Asia and Oceania) (Europe) In fiscal 2019, consolidated net operating profits, 2 G&A expenses 2,647.1 2,801.8 154.7 which represent our earnings power in its mainstay As for non-JPY liquidity, although the balance of Securities (Japan) 3 Net operating profits 1,078.5 1,184.4 105.8 operations, totaled ¥1,184.4 billion, up ¥105.8 billion non-JPY lending is in excess of non-JPY deposits, we 4 Expense ratio 71.0% 70.2% (0.7%) year on year. This was primarily due to an increase in have been able to secure a stable volume of Commercial banking (Japan) net trading profits and growth in revenue reflecting 5 Ordinary profits 1,348.0 1,235.7 (112.2) customer deposits and mediumto long-term Securities (Europe) the consolidation of Bank Danamon in Indonesia and 6 Profits attributable to owners of parent 872.6 528.1 (344.5) funding from the market to cover funds for lending. the Australia-based asset manager First Sentier 7 Dividends per share (yen) 22.00 25.00 3.00 Therefore, we have no specific concerns in terms of Investors (FSI). This marks the first time in the last five liquidity. Low 8 CET1 capital ratio* 11.4% 11.7% 0.3% fiscal years that we have succeeded in recording Low Market average gross profit growth ratio High * Finalized Basel III reforms basis. Estimated ratio reflecting the RWA increase calculated growth in net operating profits, thanks to our on the finalized Basel III reforms basis CF: Consumer Finance, IS: Investor Services, AM: Asset Management 24 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 25 Management Message Message from the CFO success of our efforts to improve profitability and was lower than the target ratio under the MTBP. To date, MUFG has sought to secure greater profits to owners of the parent at ¥550.0 billion based on diversify sources of stable profits through the by expanding the volume of RWAs, such as loans. certain assumptions. practice of this business portfolio strategy. Nevertheless, maintaining a tight grip on expenses is However, since the launch of the current MTBP, we more important than ever. In addition to accelerating have switched to an approach that is more conscious Despite a lingering sense of uncertainty regarding Also, the consolidation of Bank Danamon and FSI in ongoing cost structure reforms, we will strive to of the profitability of capital. For example, we are the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we fiscal 2019, further boosted our expansion into highachieve further cost reductions by thoroughly now focused on maximizing profits via asset portfolio will strive to achieve our fiscal 2020 financial targets growth fields and the diversification of our business reviewing our modes of operations and business recycling to avoid the expansion of RWA volume. and, to this end, accelerate our initiatives focused on portfolio. Moreover, as part of our digitalization processes in light of the digital shift and other both profitability and costs. Furthermore, we will also strategies, we invested in and signed a strategic changes in society. Thanks to these initiatives, in fiscal 2019 we have push ahead with efforts to achieve future growth alliance with Grab, a major Southeast Asian super maintained a steady increase in net operating profits with an eye to securing opportunities in the app company, to initiate our efforts to take on the from customer segments despite a significant aftermath of the pandemic. new challenge of creating next-generation financial Trend in the Expense Ratio reduction in RWAs totaling approximately ¥9 trillion services. (on a finalized Basel III reforms basis). In sum, our Capital Management A trajectory envisioned initiatives to improve the profitability of capital have Basic Policy by the MTBP We have thus completed a string of growth yielded steady outcomes. MUFG maintains a focus on capital management that investments as envisioned in the MTBP. We have now achieves an appropriate balance among “capital entered a phase in which we are looking ahead to 71.0% Looking ahead, we will strive to improve ROE and, to triangle” objectives, as stated below. 70.2% securing returns from such investments. With this in this end, maintain controls on RWAs from the 68.0% the current MTBP mind, we will help investees develop their target for FY2020: perspective of effective utilization of capital while Trust and reliability, which are the indispensable traits 64.6% governance structures while pursuing synergies Below the FY2017 stepping up efforts aimed at enhancing profitability. of a financial institution, are largely dependent on its 62.3% within the MUFG Group. At the same time, we will level (68.0%) financial soundness. Accordingly, we focus on optimally allocate our management resources in light Fiscal 2020 Financial Targets maintaining soundness while improving profitability of growth potential of each region and business. In For fiscal 2020, we had previously aimed to achieve and pursuing corporate growth in addition to these ways, we will maximize returns from our three financial targets under the MTBP, namely, ROE maximizing shareholder value via such means as the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) investments. of approximately 7% to 8%; an expense ratio of below enhancement of shareholder returns. This, we 68%; and CET1 capital ratio of approximately 11% (on believe, is a matter of the utmost importance in Cost Control a finalized Basel III reforms basis). However, the capital management. Controlling expenses has long been an important RWA Control fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic necessitated challenge for MUFG. Addressing this challenge, we In terms of controlling our management resources, revisions in these targets. have strategically allocated expenses for RWA control is as important as cost control. In the Capital Triangle digitalization and other future growth initiatives while face of growing calls to maintain soundness in Currently, it is difficult to determine the pandemic’s (Figures represent the sum of profits earned over the course of curbing personnel expenses, system expenses and conformity with regulations, MUFG recognizes that future impact on the Group’s operating results. the last two years under the current MTBP) branch and other facility costs. As a result, fiscal maintaining controls on RWAs, in a way that However, referring in part to the baseline scenario in (3) Enhance further shareholder returns 2019’s overall expenses fell short of the amount maximizes profits is an important management issue the world economic outlook released by IMF in April Spending on envisioned in the MTBP. Similarly, the expense ratio for a financial institution. 2020, we have set our target for profits attributable shareholder returns: Approx. ¥0.8 trillion (approx. 40% of profits) MUFG s RWA volume (on a finalized Basel III reforms basis*1) Fiscal 2020 Targets Corporate Examples of factors leading to changes in RWAs Estimated Value Consolidated performance FY2019 FY2020 impact of the (Billions of yen) results targets Consolidation of Bank Danamon COVID-19*1 (Trillions of yen) Inorganic growth Acquisition of aviation finance business Maintain solid equity Strategic investments Net operating profits (1) (2) 125 capital for sustainable growth (Before credit costs for trust accounts and provision for general 1,184.4 1,050.0 (300.0) Cumulative total of profits*: Investments undertaken to Reduction of equity holdings ▶ Sold ¥733.0 billion*2 allowance for credit losses) Approx. ¥1.9 trillion secure growth: ¥1.1 trillion Business groups Reduction in low profitable assets ▶ Reduced ¥2.5 trillion* 3 (approx. 60% of profits) 120 * Profits attributable to owners of the parent Financial supports in response to the COVID-19 Total credit costs (222.9) (450.0) (200.0) before deducting impairment and other losses 115 Upgrade Risk measurement Decrease of RWA by ¥7 trillion*4 Ordinary profits 1,235.7 850.0 (600.0) method Maintaining Solid Equity Capital 110 Profits attributable to Although global financial regulations require MUFG 528.1 550.0 (420.0)*2 *1 Estimated RWA on the finalized Basel III reforms basis *2 Cumulative amount since FY2015; on an acquisition-cost basis owners of parent to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of at least 8.5%, we 0 *3 Cumulative amount since FY2017 aim to achieve a ratio of around 11% (on a finalized *4 Reduction amount of estimated RWA on finalized Basel III reforms basis through upgrading risk *1 Comparison with targets assuming no COVID-19 pandemic March 31, 2018 2019 2020 measurement method *2 Calculated by using tax rate of 30% Basel III reforms basis) to ensure that external credit 26 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 27 Management Message Message from the CFO ratings for the Company remain at “single-A” or In line with our Basic Policies for Shareholder Returns, ways, we will aim for the further enhancement of engagement with ESG issues and SDGs from the higher. MUFG (1) has positioned share dividends as the shareholder returns. aspect of financial strategy (please also see pages 58 primary means for shareholder returns while aiming to 59 for details). Credit ratings are important indices affecting MUFG’s for stable and sustainable increases in dividends per Divestment of Equity Holdings ability to secure stable and long-term funding in share through profit growth; (2) has taken a flexible Our goal is to reduce our equity holdings by an Value of Green/Social/Sustainability Bonds Issued by MUFG non-JPY currencies, which, in turn, supports the stance toward executing share repurchases in a way amount equivalent to ¥800.0 billion (on an (From FY2019 onward) Group’s operations. We therefore believe that the that gives due consideration to performance acquisition-cost basis) over the six years from fiscal Value Type Issuance date Currency Company must keep its credit ratings at “single-A” or progress / forecast and capital situation, strategic 2015 to fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2019, we divested such (millions) higher to ensure stable and low-cost non-JPY funding investment opportunities and market environment holdings worth ¥139.0 billion, thereby achieving a July 2019 Euro 500 via the issuance of foreign bonds in European and including share prices; (3) will cancel treasury shares ¥733.0 billion reduction in cumulative total since Green Bonds U.S. bond markets and mediumto long-term in excess of approximately 5% of the total number of fiscal 2015. Considering that, as of March 31, 2020, October 2019 Australian dollar 500 currency swap transactions. issued shares. we have also reached agreement with our corporate clients with regard to the future divestment of equity Social Bonds December 2019 U.S. dollar 90 In addition, the issuance of foreign bonds is also Based on these policies, MUFG paid a full-year holdings worth ¥163.0 billion, we are certain to have considered an important funding method from the dividend of ¥25 per share for fiscal 2019, an increase achieved a reduction totaling ¥896.0 billion in near Sustainability Bonds June 2020 Euro 500 perspective of satisfying Total Loss Absorbing of ¥3 per share from the previous fiscal year in future. Capacity (TLAC) regulations applied to G-SIBs. In addition to expending ¥50.0 billion in share fiscal 2019, MUFG raised regulatory capital totaling repurchases. For fiscal 2020, the Company plans to Equity holdings divestment is a key capital approximately ¥1.8 trillion, including a portion raised pay ¥25 per share, an amount on par with the fullmanagement measure, as it frees up capital Dialogue with Shareholders and Other by foreign bonds and subordinated debt issuance, to year dividend for fiscal 2019, from the viewpoint of resources and helps reduce financial risk arising from Stakeholders satisfy external TLAC requirements. As of March 31, maintaining the stable stream of dividends in line share price fluctuations. Going forward, we aim to Today, MUFG’s operations are becoming increasingly 2020, the Company’s external TLAC ratio was with the basic policies despite the unclear outlook for further divest equity holdings while engaging in diverse, both by region and by business type. 18.62%, above the 16% minimum regulatory the profit environment. dialogue with our corporate clients to secure their Accordingly, we believe that providing our requirement (18% from March 31, 2022 onward). understanding. stakeholders with accurate and timely explanations of our operations and strategies is important, and Strategic Investments for Sustainable Growth Results and Forecasts of Dividends per Common Stock Compliance with Tax Regulations and Tax helps them to gain a good overview of what MUFG is Having positioned capital utilization aimed at Year-end dividends Interim dividends 61.0%* 1 Planning doing. Dividend payout ratio enhancing profitability as one of essential methods 32.9% Dividends MUFG recognizes that as a corporate citizen, putting 23.4% 24.6% 26.3% 26.4% 25.5% ¥25 ¥25 per for achieving sustainable corporate growth and common its best efforts into making appropriate tax payments In line with this belief, senior management visited ¥22 stock improving corporate value, we also pursue such 22.0% is an important duty. domestic and overseas investors during fiscal 2019 ¥19 endeavors as the expansion of strategic investments ¥18 ¥18 ¥18 ¥12.5 ¥12.5 (please also see page 83 for examples of dialogues ¥16 ¥11 and RWAs. ¥13 ¥10 With this in mind, MUFG strives to enhance corporate held), while the heads of six business groups ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 governance with regard to tax compliance and to participated in an Investors Day event. ¥7 Of these, we have been engaged in strategic maintain and enhance tax compliance awareness via investments, as stated earlier, in operations that are ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 ¥9 ¥11 ¥12.5 ¥12.5 employee education and training, among other Dialogue with our stakeholders, including ¥7 expected to have higher ROE and a robust potential ¥6 means. Through these initiatives, we aim to ensure shareholders, investors and ratings agency for market-driven growth. In fiscal 2019, we invested 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) compliance with the letter and spirit of tax legislation, representatives often provides valuable opportunities (Forecast) in Bank Danamon, FSI and Grab. From the the BEPS Action Plan, OECD Transfer Pricing and insights. Going forward, we will focus on * Dividend payout ratio amounts to 37% when the impact of the one-time amortization perspective of capital efficiency, these strategic of goodwill is excluded Guidelines, and other international rules on taxation. maintaining such dialogue, stepping up both investor investments are greenlighted only when the relations (IR) and shareholder relations (SR) expected return on investment is expected to We prioritize compliance with tax laws in the course engagement with those charged with exercising exceed the cost of capital within an allotted time Based on the approach discussed above, we have of tax planning, ensuring appropriate payment. To voting rights. frame. Looking ahead, we will maintain disciplined prioritized strategic investments and shareholder this end, we have made digital-related investments capital management and, to this end, closely monitor returns in determining capital allocation for the first using the IoT tax system (IT Investment Incentive for Stakeholder opinions are shared among Board the profitability of each project, taking a stringent two fiscal years of the current MTBP. In fiscal 2020, “Connected Industries”) in fiscal 2019 as well as fiscal members and given due consideration in the course approach to investment. Moreover, we will continue we expect the volume of RWAs to grow due to 2018. of business operations and capital management. We to review existing investments to optimize the overall lending to customers affected by the fallout from the always welcome frank opinions about MUFG. portfolio of strategic investments. COVID-19 pandemic and therefore in need of Initiatives to Address Environmental and fundraising assistance. Going forward, we will Social Issues Looking ahead, we are committed to practicing Further Enhancement of Shareholder Returns continue to implement our ongoing initiatives to In fiscal 2019, we became the first domestic financial financial and capital management aimed at securing Further enhancing shareholder returns and control RWAs as part of capital management while institution to issue Green Bonds and social bonds our sustainable growth and improving our corporate shareholder value remains an important paying close attention to the impact of the COVID-19 denominated in Australian dollars. In fiscal 2020, we value. We ask for your continuous support in this management issue for MUFG. pandemic on our businesses and capital. In these also issued sustainability bonds as part of ongoing endeavor. 28 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 29 Management Message Dialogue with Outside Directors Appointing a Leader Equipped with myself, I was convinced that possessing knowledge enterprises, are beset by fundraising-related issues— about necessary technologies is not enough, given the most critical problem triggered by the pandemic. the breathtaking pace of technological Moreover, the effectiveness of government-led Strong Execution Skills to Foster a advancements. Rather, the leader must be capable of conceptualizing and clearly communicating his/ assistance measures is limited. Once their fundraising needs are met, however, customers must Culture That Encourages Those Who her vision with regard to how to utilize technologies be able to figure out how to restore their finances to realize desired outcomes. The leader also has to and businesses as economic activity normalizes. be decisive in executing necessary action plans to Accordingly, financial institutions are being called on Take on Challenging Endeavors this end. Results of reforms largely depend on a highly spirited leader who has these competencies. to focus even more strongly on fulfilling their social mission, namely, helping resolve this problem by acting as a “partner” to customers and by Matsuyama: Breaking with precedent, we have empathetically providing consultation to those appointed Mr. Kamezawa, who has no experience as seeking to maintain their livelihoods and keep their The Committee Focused on Selection of aimed at determining the best candidates for leading Bank CEO, as Group CEO. Traditionally, the candidate businesses going. the Group and the Bank going forward. pool for MUFG Group CEO has comprised former the Optimal Candidate for New Group Bank CEOs, with due consideration given to seniority. Matsuyama: I agree. A major crisis of this kind CEO with an Emphasis on Competencies Matsuyama: Mr. Mike had two positions to However, we have been concerned that holding with reminds us that banks especially are expected to Q. Please tell us about what led to the recent concurrently fill, on the one hand, he was expected to tradition would mean that the majority of candidates function as part of the social infrastructure. change in Group CEO. take the lead in swiftly pushing ahead with the would prove too old to handle reforms that, in medium-term business plan (MTBP) and, on the other, today’s business environment, should be executed at Nomoto: In response to the state of emergency Nomoto: When I took the office of outside director, he needed to meet customer expectations by taking an ever more rapid pace. My own career declared by the government, MUFG branches acted Mr. Mike was concurrently serving as Group CEO and on the duties of Bank CEO. However, we knew that development was in corporations where Japan’s quickly to implement such measures as installing President & CEO of MUFG Bank. However, the this situation could not hold for too long. His one-year traditional seniority-based principles were largely acrylic partitions and helping branch visitors avoid Nominating and Governance Committee was aware leadership resulted in solid outcomes in many irrelevant. Perhaps because of this, I believe that close contact with each other. This attests to the of the need to shift the burden of one of these two respects, most notably regarding initiatives taken leaders should be selected based solely on their utmost priority they have placed on ensuring key positions off him at the earliest possible date as under the MTBP. It was with these achievements in possession of the competencies required and ability customer safety. Moreover, MUFG began the situation was an exceptional. Accordingly, mind that we appointed Mr. Kamezawa as his to create a strong organization functioning as “one teleconferencing meetings with corporate clients to throughout fiscal 2019 we engaged in discussions successor as Group CEO; we believe Mr. Mike to be team.” This standard can be applied equally to minimize infection risks. Employee health has also the best individual for spearheading reforms at the candidates for Group CEO and heads of subsidiaries, Bank. In sum, this change in Group CEO exemplifies and it cannot be said that a leading position at one our constant focus on selecting optimal candidates in entity is superior to any other similar position. Lead Independent Outside Director Chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee and light of their competencies. Member of the Nominating and Governance Committee and member of the Compensation Committee Nomoto: We also conducted good, long interviews Chair of the Compensation Committee Hirofumi Nomoto Nomoto: A year ago, we had a sense of crisis, with candidates. Haven’t we? Haruka Matsuyama Chairman & Representative Director, Tokyu Corporation believing that the selection of the best Group CEO Lawyer, Partner of Hibiya Park Law Offices candidate for leading MUFG into the future was of Matsuyama: Although I have experienced outside crucial importance. We were aware of the gravity of director positions at multiple corporations, I have this appointment and our choice was in no way a never seen a nominating committee that allocates merely nominal appointment of a successor. such significant resources to the identification of successor candidates. We actually held a number of Matsuyama: That is true. The MUFG Group needs a interviews and spent a length of time on each round leader capable of indicating the direction reforms of the process. Also, we benefited greatly from the should take and spearheading their implementation. input of the interviewees’ colleagues and staff. In These traits will prove essential as it strives to addition to supervisors’ evaluations, these inputs maintain its global presence amid a financial industry helped us make unbiased judgments. environment that is seeing rapid change, including the advance of digitalization. Fulfilling MUFG’s Social Mission in the Nomoto: When it came to choosing a candidate for Aftermath of the COVID-19 Pandemic spearheading reforms, committee members placed Q. The spread of the COVID-19 is currently affecting particular emphasis on identifying an individual who society in a major way. Against this backdrop, could could utilize digital technologies to transform you share your thoughts on roles MUFG must fulfill? business models. Digital technologies will be an integral part of financial services going forward. Nomoto: Currently, a number of customers, Having experienced business reforms of this kind including individuals, SMEs and even major 30 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 31 Management Message Dialogue with Outside Directors been a priority, with thoroughgoing measures put in This means a lot to all of us. Moreover, my trust amid ongoing economic growth. Moreover, as The Importance of Balancing Proactive place. Furthermore, MUFG employees are highly expectations are high for Mr. Kamezawa as he is the business and the number of employees was motivated despite the crisis, and their immediate Risk-Taking and the Maintenance of Trust equipped with strong execution skills. Going forward, ever-expanding, the “demerit system” was necessary responses to the pandemic have been impressive. I Q. What challenges should MUFG take on in MUFG must compete against fintech companies and to ensure the fair and efficient treatment of am grateful to their dedication and hope to directly connection with business model reforms? other players from different industries while creating employees. Today, however, financial institutions are communicate my words of appreciation to them. new services via the use of digital technologies. In called to create new value through change. Nomoto: I have participated in brisk discussions to this light, I am happy to see that MUFG’s Accordingly, MUFG must foster a culture that Matsuyama: Looking ahead, MUFG should continue determine MUFG’s future business model over the management is increasingly leaning toward an encourages employees to courageously take on new to meet essential fundraising needs among its course of the year since joining the ranks of Board aggressive approach that strategically aims to seize endeavors and tolerates their mistakes. customers while keeping an eye on risk control. This members. However, as MUFG constitutes a new growth opportunities even in the face of risk. is important to helping restore economy. In the corporate group encompassing a broad range of Matsuyama: MUFG needs a structure that facilitates post-pandemic period, MUFG is also expected to business fields, the Board of Directors is asked to Nomoto: From early in his career, Mr. Kamezawa has change. help businesses identify new growth opportunities make decisions about a wide breadth of items. Also, been involved in breaking into business areas and amidst circumstances where people go about their Board members must study and discuss a large fields new to MUFG. Bringing this experience to the Nomoto: That’s right. To this end, top management daily lives aware of the risk of disease resurgence. volume of information prior to deciding on each job of Group CEO, he will be in a good position to must engage in frank communications with agenda item. We are given well-structured meeting foster a corporate culture supporting a sound employees and send them a convincing message Nomoto: In the course of economic recovery, materials designed to provide detailed information. approach to risk-taking among all MUFG Group about the need for transition to a new corporate financial institutions will face growing calls to partner Honestly, however, it takes time to go through and companies. I personally believe that businesspeople culture. This is a matter of the utmost importance. with their corporate clients to restore their businesses. understand the content of these materials. Our who hope to one day become leaders should be Although it may take some time, the success of Thus, the true value of the services will become primary role as outside directors is to act on behalf of courageous enough to get involved in something business model reforms, I believe, hinges on the increasingly dependent on how well they meet shareholders, investors and customers and to risky when they are younger. In reality, no enterprise creation of a corporate culture that nurtures customer needs. It is important for banks to put their provide our opinions on matters being discussed in will be wrecked by a wrong decision made by one of employees who have a wealth of experience in terms heads together with corporate clients struggling to get the context of how to help resolve issues its young employees. For their part, employees who of both achieving successes and suffering setbacks. over difficult circumstances and provide them with stakeholders are now confronting, how to enhance are willing to take risks will be in position to learn optimal counsel. To this end, financial institutions convenience for them and how to ensure valuable lessons and are more likely to sense Matsuyama: The fallout from the COVID-19 should not only be well-versed in financial data but up sustainability based on the accurate assessment of potential risks in similar circumstances. In contrast, pandemic is expected to remain ongoing for the to date on changes in the business environment opportunities and risks. Given this, I personally hope those who have never experienced risks are usually time being, but I would like to help MUFG to find surrounding their clients and must closely assess their to shift our focus away from a conventional approach not so sensitive and, therefore, cannot be entrusted good opportunities to effect change amid the crisis potential sources of strength to help them get on a focusing on “what we do” and allocate more time to with important decision making. and support a sound approach to risk-taking. To recovery track by adjusting the products and services in-depth discussion with regard to “why we do this.” avoid misunderstanding, I empathize with MUFG’s they offer or even the fields their businesses cover. Matsuyama: It is important for MUFG to strike a traditional culture placing utmost emphasis on Matsuyama: Although the Board of Directors was balance between a proactive business approach maintaining trust, which is essential for financial Matsuyama: Exactly. I assume that, as the discussing digitalization even before the emergence involving that kind of risk-taking and the institutions. This valuable legacy must be passed on implementation of pandemic countermeasures of COVID-19, the pace of relevant decision making maintenance of trust as a financial institution to future generations. At the same time, of course, I becomes the new social norm, there will be accelerated greatly due to the pandemic. I also providing social infrastructure. This is where we are hope that MUFG acquires a new trait—being an irreversible changes in the movement of people and expect this trend to help MUFG accelerate its called on to play our part. innovation-oriented corporate group. goods. Such changes, of course, affect businesses ongoing efforts to reduce costs—one of lingering and society as a whole. With this in mind, MUFG must issues it has been confronting—via revisiting Fostering a Culture That Encourages Nomoto: In the real world, we have to deal with a assist its customers’ proactive efforts to transition to operational modes. mixture of what needs to be preserved and what Those Who Take on Challenging new types of business and adapt to resulting needs to be changed. As outside directors, however, changes in the business environment. Nomoto: The incorporation of IT and other digital Endeavors we would like to intentionally focus on matters that technologies is one of promising solutions that will Q. What is your evaluation of the corporate culture need to change and help MUFG address them by Nomoto: Acting as a partner to each of our help enhance management efficiency. However, my reforms currently under way at MUFG? proactively offering our opinions. customers, all employees must exercise empathy impression is that we have yet to conceive a clear and look at the issues customers are confronting vision of the future financial services to deliver, how Matsuyama: I assume that it must be extremely from the customers’ perspective. This approach will MUFG will realize such services via the use of these difficult to change the prevailing corporate culture in naturally result in the type of service described by technologies and to whom it will seek to offer such such a large organization. Moreover, financial groups Ms. Matsuyama. MUFG boasts an extensive customer services. typically evaluate their employees based on a base and also maintains a number of Group “demerit system” as they consider risk management companies capable of offering a variety of financial Matsuyama: Over the course of the selection to be one of their most important duties. solutions. Accordingly, MUFG is well-positioned to process that resulted in the appointment of Mr. help its customers find opportunities in difficult Kamezawa as Group CEO, Board members were at Nomoto: Decades ago, a mistake-intolerant culture situations and create new businesses via the the very least able to share a sense of crisis arising worked very well for financial institutions. A strong combination of its expertise in business matching, from the realization that MUFG cannot remain in sense of responsibility with regard to the accurate M&A, business succession and other methodologies. existence without a successful digital transformation. implementation of procedures helped them gain 32 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 33 Value Creation Initiatives Special Feature: Growth Strategies in ASEAN Capturing Opportunities Arising from Asia’s Economic Growth to Secure Sustainable Growth MUFG engages in the commercial banking business through its partner banks—which are its investees— based in the United States and ASEAN nations. This partnership allows us to offer a variety of services Value Creation aimed at providing solutions to issues confronting individual customers, SMEs, large corporate clients and the communities in which we operate. Initiatives banks located in Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam and Our History of Expansion into Asia the Philippines, successfully building an extensive P. 35 Special Feature: Growth Strategies in ASEAN MUFG has positioned Asia our second “home market” commercial banking platform to serve key ASEAN and is proactively pushing ahead with investments in nations in April 2019. By utilizing this platform, we will P. 38 Special Feature: Support Society’s Digital Shift the ASEAN region with the aim of capturing deliver solutions that will leverage on MUFG’s unique P. 40 Business Group Performance opportunities arising from the region’s burgeoning strength to full advantage while helping these P. 42 Retail & Commercial Banking Business Group economic growth. To date, MUFG has invested a partner banks improve their corporate value. total of more than US$14.0 billion in four commercial P. 44 Japanese Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group MUFG’s Partner Bank Networks P. 46 Global Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group P. 48 Global Commercial Banking Business Group Vietnam: VietinBank U.S.A.: MUFG Union Bank P. 50 Asset Management & Investor Services Business Group Ranking among domestic banks*1 ： 2nd Ranking among domestic banks*1 ： 18th Number of bases*2 ： 1,117 Number of bases*4 ： 348 P. 52 Global Markets Business Group MUFG’s equity stake*3 ： 19.7% MUFG’s equity stake*3 ： 100.0% Thailand: Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya) Indonesia: Bank Danamon The Philippines: Security Bank Ranking among domestic banks*1 ： 5th Ranking among domestic banks*1 ： 5th Ranking among domestic banks*1 ： 6th Number of bases*2 ： 693 Number of bases*2 ： 920 Number of bases*2 ： 308 MUFG’s equity stake*3 ： 76.8% MUFG’s equity stake*3 ： 92.5% MUFG’s equity stake*3 ： 20.0% (Sources: SNL Financial, Philippine Central Bank, Bloomberg, and data disclosed by each partner bank) *1 Calculated based on the value of total assets. The ranking of Bank Danamon is determined by incorporating assets held by MUFG Bank’s Jakarta Branch. The rankings for Thailand and the Philippines exclude government-funded financial institutions. (As of December 2019) *2 Based on information disclosed by each partner bank and data compiled for internal managerial purposes. (As of December 2019) *3 As of June 2020 *4 As of March 2020 34 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 35 Value Creation Initiatives Special Feature: Growth Strategies in ASEAN In Vietnam, MUFG partners with VietinBank, a stateIn May 2020, Krungsri initiated a partnership with Achieving Synergies through owned bank, which has strong ties with the Strategic Partnership with Grab Grab in Thailand to extend emergency financing for Collaboration Vietnamese government. One example of the In February 2020, we entered into a capital and Grab franchisees affected by the fallout from the Since becoming MUFG’s subsidiary in 2013, Thailandinfluence VietinBank has with the Vietnamese business alliance with Grab Holdings, the leading COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, VietinBank launched based Krungsri has achieved remarkable profit goverment was, when Vietnam’s prime minister super app in Southeast Asia. This alliance is intended lending services for Grab’s contract drivers. As such, growth at a pace that outstrips the growth recorded visited Japan, we hosted a conference to which we to further enhance MUFG’s commercial banking the alliance is yielding steady results. by any of the top four local banks in terms of total invited the top management of major Japanese platform encompassing the ASEAN region through assets. In fiscal 2019, Krungsri marked record-high corporations and Vietnamese government officials to digitalization. The fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic is performance in both net operating profits and net help foster new business opportunities. contributing to a growing shift toward digital income. Furthermore, Krungsri has been designated In addition, we expect this alliance to serve as a services. With this in mind, we will utilize the alliance as a D-SIB in light of its significance presence in To support Japanese corporate clients seeking to bridge for our partner banks in reaching out to new with Grab to proactively assist each partner bank in Thailand’s financial system, becoming one of the expand business in Vietnam, we leverage on customers. Going forward, we aim to create bespoke their pursuit of digitalization strategies. country’s top-tier banks. These results accomplished VietinBank’s business network, offering unique financial services by combining Grab’s extensive by Krungsri attest the success of collaborative efforts products and services such as QR code based customer contact points and advanced AI involving MUFG to leverage the latter’s functions in settlement which help customers penetrate the local technologies with MUFG’s financial product creating synergies. market. development capabilities. Comparisons of profits Financial Products Development Capabilities Advanced AI Technologies Krungsri Average of top 4 banks* (THB 1 billion) TOP5 50 (D-SIBs) 30 Conference attended by Japanese business leaders and Vietnamese government officials Credit strength Super App One of the Largest Financial One of the Largest Enhancing Our Framework for Footprints in Southeast Asia Unicorns in Southeast Asia 10 Collaboration 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) We are working to further promote collaboration Strategic Alliance Deal in February 2020 Prior to After After the integration investment investment of Bangkok Branch between partner banks. For example, we host the * Bangkok Bank, Krung Thai Bank, Siam Commercial Bank and Kasikorn Bank annual MUFG Global Partnership Conference attended by top management from each partner Risk Management Capabilities Various Unique Data In ASEAN countries, MUFG’s traditional business has bank to discuss how to resolve the universal issues mainly involved end product manufacturers. these banks are confronting. Discussion at the However, collaboration with partner banks has conference resulted in, for example, the enabled us to cover a wider range of business establishment of a Philippines-based consumer channels, from SMEs such as suppliers and finance joint venture by Krungsri and Security Bank, Toward Securing Sustainable Growth in the ASEAN Region distributors, to purchasers and employees. as well as the enhancement of risk management systems in place at each partner bank. My role is to promote greater collaboration amongst MUFG and its PBs. In February 2020, MUFG made a MUFG and its partner banks (PBs) in the ASEAN strategic investment in Grab Holdings. I am excited Through sharing best practices of collaboration and region and greater oversight and alignment of our about this new opportunity to create new business knowledge sharing, we will strive to enhance the In addition, partner banks have been actively engaged PBs’ risk management framework and practices. models that go beyond existing financial services for corporate value of each partner bank. in the exchange of human resources and MUFG has Prior to joining MUFG, I was the CFO and Director of sustainable growth. been hiring a growing number of human resources Micro Business at Bank Danamon. In my earlier tenure with Bank Danamon, I was its CRO. During the from partner banks as well. In fiscal 2019, previous strategic partnership discussion between the two Satinder P.S. Ahluwalia Conventional model MUFG-Partner Bank Collaboration CFO/CRO of Bank Danamon was hired by MUFG. Also, banks, I was able to engage and work with MUFG’s Managing Director, the former CSO* of Krungsri has joined MUFG Union senior management and was impressed by their Global Commercial Banking Comprehensively meet Suppliers Suppliers Bank to tackle the formulation of regional bank steadfastness and commitment to working with their Planning Division partners in Asia for growth. Having worked in ASEAN strategies and the upgrade of deposit systems. As we Employees End product MUFG End product for many years, I believe my experience and insights MUFG manufacturers manufacturers aim to work hand in hand with partner banks to will serve as a bridge for greater cooperation as we customer's transactional needs Partner achieve mutual improvement in business strengths, we strive to derive greater synergies from our Distributors bank Distributors will strive to help a greater number of highly partnerships. Being part of MUFG will enable me to contribute more effectively to the joint success of Purchasers Purchasers professional staff in partner banks acquire successful careers in MUFG. * Chief Strategy Officer 36 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 37 Value Creation Initiatives Special Feature: Support Society’s Digital Shift Addressing Social Issues conventional norms dependent on paper documents example, Robot Fund Co., Ltd., a participant in the Financial innovation and introduce digital-driven, highly efficient trade second round of the program, worked in tandem procedures while realizing more secure transactions with the Bank, introducing a fund analytics model via Digitalization via data encryption. GO-NET Initiatives that automatically assesses fluctuating factors affecting the standard prices of investment trusts, in November 2019. This model also enables the Bank to Stably delivering financial services powered by technology, we strive to help customers enjoy affluent In anticipation of the coming of an IoT-driven society carry out the accurate analysis of customers’ living and achieve business growth while contributing to the resolution of social issues in a variety of fields. and the expansion of sharing economies, there are investment status and provide them with follow-up predictions that rapid growth in cashless payment services in a more meticulous manner. Leveraging could exceed capacities of the existing payment this model, the Bank is striving to enhance its infrastructure. capabilities to make proposals aimed at assisting customers in their mediumto long-term asset Addressing this potential social issue, MUFG formation. established Global Open Network (GO-NET) jointly Enhancing Non Face-to-Face Channels Operational Process Reforms with Akamai Technologies, the largest digital content In December 2019, we opened MUFG SPARK, a MUFG aims to improve customer convenience by We promote operational process reforms and delivery network service provider in the United facility for promoting open innovation via enhancing its services delivered via non face-to-face improve productivity by utilizing AI, blockchain, States, with the aim of creating an open payment collaboration between Group companies and channels. As a result, in fiscal 2019, the ratio of robotics and other digital technologies. network. Thanks to the use of new blockchain startups and other external partners. Spark was address change applications submitted by individual technology, which will enable the processing of more chosen to suggest our aspiration to foster the type of customers via bank counters declined by half. For example, plans call for digitizing paper than 1 million transactions per second, GO-NET is collaboration that sparks inspiration and fresh Meanwhile, the applications completed solely documents used at the Bank in connection with the expected to not only become an innovative payment chemistry between different ideas in the pursuit of through online banking and smartphone apps rose registration of seals, which have been essential to platform but also support network services in an breakthroughs in the creation of financial services for to approximately 30%. opening transactional accounts under conventional even broader range of fields. future generations. Japanese banking practices, from 2021. This initiative We also offer various online services for corporate will employ an external service provided by Ripcord, Efforts are currently under way to launch the service Looking ahead, we will accelerate open innovation, customers through the “MUFG Biz” portal site, which Inc., a U.S.-based startup specializing in roboticsand in fiscal 2020 in Japan to help develop the thereby contributing to the enhancement of provides them with solutions to management issues AI-related technologies. Once completed, staff will foundations of an IoT-driven society. customer convenience and the resolution of issues they are confronting via a combination of innovative be able to use terminals to quickly check seal-related society is confronting. ideas and technologies developed by startups. For documents. This will shorten the time branch visitors Accelerating Open Innovation SMEs, we provide the Biz LENDING online lending are asked to wait and improve customer In 2015, we initiated the MUFG Digital Accelerator Supporting Startups in Thailand service employing a platform licensed by Credit convenience while streamlining operations. Program, becoming the first banking group among Krungsri is engaged in business incubation through Engine, Inc. and an AI-driven underwriting model our domestic peers to host a startup-assistance subsidiary Krungsri Finnovate in the digital field. developed by Japan Digital Design (JDD). This novel The Global Markets Business Group is taking on the program of this kind. We are currently rallying all the underwriting model analyzes past transactional data development of an AI-based trading model through MUFG Group’s strengths to support the launch of To assist local startups facing fundraising and other possessed by the Bank from multifaceted collaboration with startups as well as industrynew businesses. business challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic, perspectives and is not dependent on the academia collaboration. The project aims to use AI to the company began hosting the online business conventional underwriting process. The replace human operations that until now have been To date, a total of 26 startups participated in the matching event “Meet the Angels by Krungsri incorporation of this model has drastically cut the a necessary part of engaging in trade, such as market program and we have been working on various Finnovate” in April 2020. This event is currently held hours necessary for credit underwriting, enabling us making and position-related operations, by collaborations to get their ideas on track. For twice a month with the aim of providing startups with to furnish online loans in a swifter manner. leveraging machine learning and deep learning in a venue for letting investors know about their addition to creating a sophisticated model capable business ideas, receiving real-time feedback and of providing customers with useful investment finding potential partners who will help them achieve Partner companies supporting MUFG Biz information. business expansion. Also, the Bank is striving to digitize its services Going forward, Krungsri will continue to support associated with international trade finance via the promising startups seeking business growth and use of blockchain technology. Specifically, the Bank thereby help them realize their future potential. co-founded KomGo SA in tandem with other 14 companies, including prominent overseas banks, oil majors and commodity trading companies, and is taking part in collective efforts aimed at updating international trade practices. The utilization of the KomGo platform is expected to help abolish Participants in the final presentation meeting as part of the fourth round of the program 38 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 39 Value Creation Initiatives Business Group Performance Retail & Commercial Banking Business Group (R&C)*1 Global Commercial Banking Business Group (GCB)*1 ■ Loans 13% FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 ■ Deposits 10% Net operating profits Net operating profits (billion yen) 307.8 307.9 (billion yen) 198.8 217.9 ■ Domestic and foreign settlement / forex 10% ■ Derivatives, solutions 4% ■ MUAH* 3 44% FY2019 Expense ratio 80% 80% FY2019 Expense ratio 70% 72% Gross Profit Real estate, corporate agency Gross Profit ■ Krungsri* 4 41% ■ 4% and inheritance Breakdown*2 Breakdown*2 ■ Bank Danamon* 5 15% ■ Investment product sales 14% ROE*3 1%*4 9%*5 ROE*6 6% (17%)*7 ■ Card settlement 22% ■ Consumer finance 20% *1 Figures for MUAH and Krungsri include those belonging to GCB only *1 Including profits from overseas transactions with Japanese corporate and exclude those belonging to other business groups ■ Overseas 3% customers and profits from business owner transactions, which *2 Excluding profits or losses from others belong to JCIB *3 MUAH’s figures as reported in MUAH’s 10-Q and 10-K exclude figures Overview of FY2019 Results *2 Excluding profits or losses from others Overview of FY2019 Results belonging to Trust/Securities subsidiaries, JCIB, GCIB and Global *3 Calculated based on net profits and excluding non-JPY mediumto Markets Although the investment product sales struggled due to deterioration in market long-term funding costs Although MUAH struggled due to lower U.S. interest rates, Krungsri secured *4 After GAAP adjustment. Excluding figures that belong to Global conditions, net operating profits were up year on year. This was thanks to the *4 ROE excluding the impact of impairment losses on fixed assets of a robust loan balance, while the consolidation of Bank Danamon served as a Markets expansion of the card settlement and consumer finance businesses and the NICOS is 6% positive factor. Consequently, net operating profits were up year on year. *5 April to December 2020 results after consolidation. success of cost control efforts, in addition to growing profits from business and *5 ROE excluding the impact of one-time effects of corporate tax refund *6 Based on net profits asset succession solutions that employ a groupwide integrated approach. is 6% *7 ROE excluding the impact of one-time amortization of goodwill and impairment loss is 5% Japanese Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group (JCIB)*1 Asset Management & Investor Services Business Group (AM/IS) FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 ■ Loans 19% Net operating profits Net operating profits (billion yen) 244.3 249.6 (billion yen) 78.1 70.9 ■ Deposits 23% FY2019 ■ Domestic and foreign settlement / forex * 3 14% FY2019 ■ Asset Management 33% Expense ratio 57% 57% Expense ratio 61% 71% Gross Profit ■ Derivatives, solutions* 3 13% Gross Profit ■ Investor Services 42% Breakdown*2 ■ Real estate, corporate agency 8% Breakdown ■ Pension 25% ROE*5 15% 12% ROE*1 8%*2 19% ■ M&A, DCM, ECM* 9% 4 ■ Non-interest income (overseas business) 14% *1 Including profits from business owner transactions, which belong to R&C, and profits from Japanese corporate customers served by Overview of FY2019 Results Krungsri, which belong to GCB Overview of FY2019 Results *2 Excluding profits or losses from others Reflecting an improvement in lending spread, net interest income from loans *3 Figures are domestic business only Net operating profits fell year on year due to a temporary increase in expenses increased, while M&A-related event finance transactions and real estate-related *4 Including real estate securitization, etc. in connection with the acquisition of an overseas asset manager (FSI), despite *1 Based on net profits transactions resulted in a robust volume of profits. Consequently, net operating *5 Calculated based on net profits and excluding non-JPY mediumto the expansion of the investor services business at home and abroad and robust *2 ROE excluding the impact of losses on sales of Standard Life profits were up year on year. long-term funding costs sales of investment products for domestic institutional investors. Aberdeen shares is 18% Global Corporate & Investment Banking Business Group (GCIB)*1 Global Markets Business Group*1 FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 ■ Loans 36% Net operating profits Net operating profits (billion yen) 156.0 163.7 (billion yen) 298.8 352.0 ■ Deposits 10% ■ Commission, forex and derivatives 40% FY2019 Expense ratio 63% 63% FY2019 ■ Customer segments 53% Expense ratio 48% 45% Gross Profit ■ DCM and ECM 4% Gross Profit ■ Treasury 47% Breakdown*2 Profits from large global corporates Breakdown*2 ■ 4% located in Japan, etc. ROE*4 10% 8% ROE*3 5% 6% Joint venture profits with Global ■ 6% Markets*3 *1 Including profits from large global corporates of Krungsri, which belongs to GCB, profits from large global corporates located in Japan, Overview of FY2019 Results which belong to R&C and JCIB, and joint venture profits with Global Overview of FY2019 Results Markets Net operating profits grew year on year due to an increase in net interest income *2 Excluding profits or losses from others Net operating profits rose year on year thanks to the successful execution from loans and the accumulation of profits deriving from major event finance *3 Including O&D profits through collaboration with Global Markets of a selection and concentration approach aimed at increasing gross profits transactions in the Americas and transactions in Asia and Oceania. *4 Calculated based on net profits and excluding non-JPY mediumto from and reducing costs associated with customer segments as well as *1 Including joint venture profits with GCIB long-term funding costs the accumulation of profits from treasury operations via flexible portfolio *2 Excluding profits or losses from others management that took timely advantage of interest rate declines. *3 Based on net profits 40 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 41 Value Creation Initiatives Business Overview Retail & Commercial Banking Initiatives to Realize Our Vision Business Group (R&C) ● SME Business We employ various functions offered by Group companies to help SMEs Balance of Investment Assets* resolve the issues confronting them, offering lending, real estate, M&A, Individual Corporate IPO and other solutions while making proposals that start with addressing (Trillions of yen) 60 their business succession needs. 47.6 49.8 Our Mediumto Long-Term Vision ［39.1］ 44.9 ［37.1］ ［41.4］ Having launched the Growing Industries Support Office, we are stepping up investment in and financing for venture startups as well as the 40 24.5 23.4 We aim to be a retail & commercial banking group with unparalleled provision of IPO assistance, with the aim of nurturing new industries. 22.4 strengths in Japan and capable of achieving sustainable growth in tandem with customers and society as a whole. In the face of society’s digital shift, we are working to expand 20 transactional opportunities via non face-to-face channels. Furthermore, 24.2 22.5 25.3 To this end, we are providing a range of services employing an extensive the “MUFG Biz” portal site launched a new online service that provides value chain backed by a groupwide integrated approach while pushing corporate clients with an easy-to-understand summary analysis of their 0 ahead with profit and cost structure reforms. financial status and transactional data and helps them identify promising 2018 2019 2020 (FY) business partner candidates and M&A counterparts. * Including customer assets belonging to JCIB; figures in parentheses represent the balance of assets belonging to R&C In pursuing the former, we take full advantage of both our robust customer base, one of our sources of strength, and the comprehensive capabilities We have also set up dedicated help desks for clients affected by the afforded by our value chain to deliver diverse solutions for our corporate fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic to extend fundraising assistance in A sample of materials used for the proposal of clients and retail customers. With regard to the latter, we aim to develop a a flexible and swift manner via, for instance, an emergency special loan asset and business succession solutions more stable profit structure by expanding base revenues and by scheme and “Biz LENDING,” an online lending service. Furthermore, we accelerating cost structure reforms via, for example, digitalization, sales launched the “MUFG Medical Fund” aimed at assisting venture startups channel optimization and Business Process Re-engineering (BPR). in their efforts to develop and manufacture a cure for COVID-19. In addition, we are determined to ensure the ongoing stability of the financial ● Retail Business infrastructure amid the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic via our In the asset management business, we are promoting an advisory settlement functions, which are essential to the maintenance of daily business model to proactively meet customer needs for stable, mediumactivities, as well as our financing functions, which supports the economy. to long-term asset building solutions. This approach is expected to lead Every employee is acutely aware of this profound mission and engages in to an increase in the balance of assets entrusted to us by customers and daily operations aimed at ensuring we live up to the expectations of society. help us transition to a more stable business model that is resilient against market environment fluctuations. Naoki Hori Looking ahead, we will strive to meet diverse customer needs and help Group Head, Retail & Commercial Banking resolve issues society is confronting, with all Group members working as As part of key initiatives described earlier, we also focus on delivering Business Group one. In this way, we will achieve growth hand in hand with customers and high-value-added services via the wealth management business in a way Number of Mitsubishi UFJ Direct Users*1 and society as a whole. that takes full advantage of MUFG’s strengths. To this end, our specialist Utilization Rate*2 are engaged in the proposal of asset management, inheritance, real Number of users (left axis) Utilization rate (right axis) estate and other solutions designed to meet evolving needs of (Millions) 15.0 (%) 15 100 customers in light of their life stages. ● The most extensive customer base and the largest network in Japan Strengths of ● Strong capabilities to deliver solutions employing functions offered by Group companies 80 the Business With the aim of innovating contact points with retail customers and ● Robust lineup of face-to-face and non face-to-face services, enabling customers to choose the optimal 10 Group improving productivity, we have updated the design of our internet 8.0 74 60 transactional channel for their needs banking interface to make it even easier to navigate while initiating the acceptance of applications for private-pension plans. At the same time, 5.9 4.7 44 40 we enhanced the lineup of smartphone app-based services to include 5 the re-issuance of cash cards and other procedures that had previously 31 Operating Environment Analysis and Key Initiatives 25 20 required a branch visit. In addition, the Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation began allowing each other’s account holders to use 0 0 their off-branch ATMs. 2018 2019 2020 2023 (FY) In addition to facing the prolongation of the negative Along with our recent efforts, we will implement the *1 Users who logged in Direct at least once in 6 months out of all interest rate policy as well as social issues arising from a following key initiatives to realize our mediumto long-term active accounts (excluding accounts used for direct debit only) vision. Going forward, we will strive to enhance both customer convenience and *2 Number of Direct service users / number of active accounts rapidly aging population and a low birth rate, the domestic operational efficiency, thereby achieving improvement in productivity. (excluding accounts used for direct debit only) business environment has seen major changes due to factors such as the digital shift. Looking ahead, these changes are expected to remain ongoing. ● Promote the wealth management business while rebuilding the asset management business ● Offer diverse services backed by the MUFG Group’s extensive Furthermore, the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic has value chain in the course of accommodating business and prompted a growing need for financial transactions via non asset succession needs Sustainability Initiatives face-to-face channels. With this in mind, we need to step up ● Expand base revenues by strengthening our capabilities to the shift to digital channels. Amid this crisis, we are also make proposals in the settlement and forex fields R&C is extending financing for growth industries and venture startups while developing products specifically being called upon to help our customers maintain their ● Push ahead with digitalization and otherwise enhance customer convenience to expand our customer base tailored to meet the needs of the elderly in addition to offering solutions supporting smooth business succession. livelihoods and keep their businesses going as part of our ● Pursue cost structure reforms via sales channel reforms, BPR social mission. To this end, we will steadily extend and other endeavors For more details, please refer to pages 38 to 39 and pages 58 to 62. fundraising assistance and other services to meet diverse customer needs. 42 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 43 Value Creation Initiatives Business Overview Japanese Corporate & Investment Initiatives to Realize Our Vision Banking Business Group (JCIB) ● Strengthen Our Solutions Capabilities With the recent upgrade of our RM/PO structure, we have steadily enhanced Securities Business League Table* our approach to management issue resolution for corporate clients. This Results Targets approach helped us expand our trust business such as corporate agency and pension and real estate, secure major event finance transactions and FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Our Mediumto Long-Term Vision large M&A advisory deals and otherwise achieve solid results. M&A 2nd or (Deals involving Japanese 1st 2nd To enhance our solution capabilities even further, we will upgrade our corporations) higher Employing our functions at home and abroad, we are striving to be the sector-based approach while strengthening our ability to make proposals “First Call Business Partner” trusted by customers. At the same time, our regarding digitalization and other advisory functions. DCM organizational goals are to contribute to the enhancement of Japan’s (Value of bonds 2nd 1st 1st underwritten) industrial competitiveness and the realization of a sustainable environment In July 2019, the Research & Advisory Unit was established through the and society. consolidation of relevant functions from across our organization. ECM 2nd1 2 Currently, this unit is striving to deliver various solutions finely tuned to (Value of equities 5th 3rd ranked To this end, we upgraded our RM* /PO* structure via the integration of the underwritten) group sales functions of the Bank and the Trust Bank, the establishment of a new meeting diverse client needs in light of the management issues they are dual-hat organization of the Bank and the Securities, and a shift to a crossconfronting. * Based on data provided by Refinitiv, etc; DCM includes domestic and foreign bonds regional management approach. These measures are expected to strengthen our ability to provide one-stop services and deliver optimal Moreover, we have seen growing public interest in the status of solutions to corporate clients.As a result, we were able to expand non-asset businesses’ compliance with the Corporate Governance Code and their Average Non-JPY Deposit Balance* businesses, such as those associated with major event finance response to climate change issues as well the United Nations Sustainable arrangements, while securing greater asset efficiency thanks mainly to (Trillions of yen) Development Goals (SDGs) and other ESG issues. Taking these factors 16 improvement in lending spread and growth in non-JPY deposits. into account, we are also focused on helping businesses implement 15.3 Looking ahead, we will continue to promote a shift to the origination & measures to secure sustainable growth and are otherwise supporting distribution (O&D) business as well as a transition to more solid P/L and their shareholder and investor relations activities in ways that take full 14 13.8 efficient B/S structures. Moreover, we will strengthen our research & advantage of MUFG’s unique strengths. advisory functions to establish a sustainable business model as well as a sophisticated business approach helping resolve the management issues ● Enhancement of Capital Efficiency of our corporate clients. 12 We have made steady progress in the enhancement of capital efficiency by, for instance, narrowing the gaps between non-JPY deposits and loans, Lastly, we believe that the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will promoting the O&D business and reducing our equity holdings. increase in severity going forward. However, MUFG is always there for those Kenji Yabuta seeking help. We will continue to swiftly and carefully accommodate In particular, we promote the O&D business in the course of reaching out 0 requests from clients in need of fundraising and other solutions to keep 2018 2019 (FY) Group Head, Japanese Corporate & their businesses going. to domestic and overseas institutional investors as a means of reducing * Sum of domestic and overseas loans Investment Banking Business Group low-profitability assets. As a result of this and the success of our efforts to *1 Abbreviation for Relationship Managers in charge of sales. secure “sticky” non-JPY deposits, the gaps between non-JPY deposits and *2 Abbreviation for Product Office, namely, business units and staff in charge of the planning, development and the provision of products and services. loans decreased. Going forward, we will continue to take a flexible Non-JPY Lending Spreads* approach to non-JPY balance sheet management, with the aim of (%) 0.65 stepping up the accumulation of negotiable assets. 0.65 Strengths of ● Comprehensive lineup of financial functions 0.64 the Business ● Solid customer base at home and abroad In addition, we made steady progress in the reduction of our equity Group ● Extensive global network, the largest of its kind among domestic banks holdings and expect that our target amount for the end of fiscal 2020 will 0.63 be met. We will continue to push ahead with reduction while sincerely engaging in ongoing dialogue with our corporate clients. ● Upgrading of Pricing Management in Lending Operations The non-JPY lending spread is on an ongoing improvement track thanks to Operating Environment Analysis and Key Initiatives the upgrading of our pricing management approach at home and abroad. To transition to a more solid P/L structure, we will continue this policy. 0.6 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Currently, there is a growing sense of uncertainty regarding Shift to a more solid P/L structure We will also review our pricing criteria with regard to yen loans to improve * Sum of domestic and overseas lending, excluding non-JPY the global economic outlook due to lower U.S. interest rates, ● mediumto long-term funding costs ● Pursue more efficient B/S management and improved ROE risk return. the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors. ● Strengthen our solutions capabilities In addition, the ongoing trend toward digitalization is ● Continue upgrading our RM/PO model prompting a shift in the industrial structure and changes in the competitive environment. Furthermore, businesses are facing the growing call from the general public to promote corporate governance reforms and make greater Sustainability Initiatives contributions to environmental and social sustainability. JCIB is financing renewable energy and social infrastructure projects while providing such products as Due to the lingering fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic, Sustainability Linked Loans. the current economic stagnation will only get worse and deprive businesses of their vitality. With this in mind, we For more details, please refer to pages 58 to 61. place the utmost priority on extending fundraising support for our clients while pursuing the following key initiatives. 44 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 45 Value Creation Initiatives Business Overview Global Corporate & Investment Initiatives to Realize Our Vision Banking Business Group (GCIB) ● Promotion of the O&D Business on an MUFG group basis We have enhanced O&D platform connecting institutional investors and Distribution Amount* corporate clients with financing needs through strengthening our talents (Trillions of yen) and organizations on an integrated business model involving the Bank 25 and the Securities. Our Mediumto Long-Term Vision 22.8 23.0 In fiscal 2019, the distribution amount fell year on year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, we were able to engage in large M&A 21.4 Our vision is to provide our global clients with a comprehensive set of financing transactions through collaboration with Morgan Stanley and solutions that meets their financing needs by leveraging our extensive efforts to enhance our sector-based approach. 20 network, robust customer base and product capabilities that we have established over time. In addition, we welcomed on board an aviation finance-related business and a team of aviation finance professionals from the DVB Bank in To support our vision, we are on a journey to transform our business model November 2019. Leveraging the product offering and risk management 0 from “quantity” to “quality” through continued focus on promoting capabilities backed by their strong expertise, we are developing an even 2018 2019 2020 (FY) origination & distribution (O&D) on an MUFG group basis and accelerating more sophisticated business model to enhance asset velocity. * Based on the value of syndicated loans, project finance, securitization, aviation finance and other financial arrangements, portfolio recycling to improve returns. In addition, we are working to excluding underwritten value + the value of DCM, ABS and other enhance non-JPY liquidity management and cost control to ensure stable ● Portfolio Recycling on a Global Basis securities arrangements business foundation. We continue to replace our portfolio with higher-return assets in growth areas through our client relationship review and classification framework, Right now, it is also essential to address business impacts as the world based on the profitability and profit amount metrics of each relationship. Portfolio Recycling shifts to “new normal” as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We will focus In fiscal 2019, we raised the profitability threshold from the year before, High B A on resolving environmental and social issues by supporting sustainable thereby expanding the scope of clients under monitoring. With this, we financing, developing financial innovation with digitalization as well as exited from transactions with 119 clients and improved profitability for 171 promoting workstyle reforms of our employees. Through the continuous low-profitability clients. As a result, we have made steady progress in our Profitability business model transformation, we strive to contribute to sound social ongoing transformation from “quantity” to “quality.” 171 development and realize sustainable growth of our business. customers Improving asset quality via portfolio recycling is also essential to offer attractive products backed by high-profitability assets to institutional investors in light of the O&D business. We will further enhance reduction of low-return assets and improvement of portfolio returns. 119 customers D Approx. 600 customers C Masato Miyachi Group Head, Global Corporate & ● Upgrading Our Balance Sheet Management Approach Low Amount of profits High Investment Banking Business Group Having established the GCIB Asset & Liability Committee (GALCO) in fiscal 2019, we are currently striving to enhance our non-JPY balance Monitoring areas sheet management from both assets and liabilities perspective to manage liquidity constraints. With the more disciplined approach Gaps between Deposits and Loans through GALCO, we were able to reduce the loan-to-depo gap on the Loans (year-end balance) Deposits (year-end balance) Strengths of ● Strong client relationships backed by a robust global network end of fiscal 2019 despite facing a radical increase in financing demand. (Trillions of yen) the Business ● Talents with extensive backgrounds delivering a rich variety of solutions We will continue to enhance the framework and optimize the capital 25 Group ● Partnership with Morgan Stanley, a world-leading financial group allocation with reviewing portfolio returns and non-JPY liquidity capacity. 20 11.1 11.8 15 10 Operating Environment Analysis and Key Initiatives 5 The spread of COVID-19 brought significant economic and Given the above business environment, we are engaged in 0 social impact worldwide; a tougher business environment the key initiatives listed below. 2018 2019 (FY) as the global economy has now adopted ultra-low interest rates more widely than ever. To tackle this, we need to be more cognizant of non-JPY funding costs and regulatory ● Promotion of the O&D business on an MUFG group basis ● Portfolio recycling on a global basis costs. ● Reduction of non-JPY loan-to-deposit gaps ● Financial innovation utilizing digital technologies We also note the growing importance of Sustainable ● Offering Sustainable financing Sustainability Initiatives Development Goals (SDGs). Addressing environmental and social issues through our business is among the top on our GCIB is offering financing solution for renewable energy and social infrastructure projects and contributing to the agenda: responding to global warming and climate change; expansion of the market for Green Bonds. helping developing nations achieve sustainable development; and innovating financial solutions to enhance For more details, please refer to pages 58 to 61. financial inclusion. 46 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 47 Value Creation Initiatives Business Overview Global Commercial Banking Initiatives to Realize Our Vision Business Group (GCB) ● Asia In Thailand, Krungsri has achieved record-high performances in both net GDP Trend in Four ASEAN Countries* operating profits and net income, thanks to the stable increase of retail Indonesia Thailand Philippines Vietnam loans such as auto loans, and growth in non-interest income. Average GDP growth ratio (right axis) 7.9 (%) (Billions of U.S. dollars) 7.3 8.0 Our Mediumto Long-Term Vision In Indonesia, Bank Danamon has been engaged in collaborations with 8,000 6.0 6.3 6.7 MUFG in a variety of fields, including large corporate, SME, and retail 6.0 transactions. Notably, introducing Bank Danamon’s services to the local 6,000 We create “new trust” by providing new value to customers through commercial distribution of MUFG customers has yielded positive results, 4.0 collaboration with partner banks. including the creation of a highly convenient loan scheme which 4,000 connects local auto dealers and major European automakers. We have long regarded Asia our second “home market”, and have been 2,000 2.0 especially focused on developing a commercial banking platform to serve The Vietnam-based VietinBank and the Philippines-based Security Bank key ASEAN nations. In 2019, we completed this endeavor through have also been engaged in collaborations with MUFG, such as providing 0 0 subsidiarization of Bank Danamon Indonesia. Moving forward, we have now local settlement services to MUFG customers. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) entered into a partnership with Grab─the leading super app in Southeast * Source: World Economic Outlook Database, April 2020 compiled by IMF Asia, handling ride-hailing and food delivery services─with aims to We will continue to provide our customers with services of high value accelerate our digital shift and secure our ability to provide novel financial through collaboration between partner banks and sharing best practices. services. Number of Japanese Corporations Expanding ● United States into ASEAN Region Although factors such as sluggish stock market conditions necessitated a MUAH is aiming for sustainable growth in pace with the economic growth one-time amortization of goodwill in fiscal 2019, the overall performance of of the United States, and to this end, is striving to expand its balance of Country Number of corporations* our partner banks has been solid. We will strive to enhance each partner low-cost deposits, optimize its lending portfolio, and promote Thailand 4,198 bank’s corporate value by rolling out best practices achieved by Krungsri to digitalization. Taking on the challenge of improving its relatively high other partner banks, and sharing expertise such as risk management expense ratio, MUAH also initiated across-the-board cost structure Indonesia 1,994 between partner banks and MUFG. reforms in fiscal 2019. Through these initiatives, we have achieved certain results. Furthermore, we are updating MUAH’s system platforms by Vietnam 1,920 As for MUAH, we will place the utmost priority on optimizing its lending introducing a next-generation mainframe deposit management system, portfolio to improve profitability, which is one of the issues confronting this and through data governance enhancement, we aim to establish a more Philippines 1,356 partner bank, and reducing the expense ratio through cost reduction sustainable and stable business foundation. measures. Takayoshi Futae In March 2020, MUFG Union Bank appointed the new head of its regional Total 9,468 Group Head, Global Commercial Banking We will continue to work together with partner banks to deliver new solutions, banking division. Having strengthened the management structure with * Source: The 2019 edition of Annual Report of Statistics on Japanese Nationals Overseas, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Business Group while paying close attention to the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic and this move, MUFG Union Bank will strive to accelerate business model other economic trends in the countries in which they operate. reformations while continuously delivering client-centric solutions to our valued customers, including local retail customers and SMEs. Growth in Net Operating Profits (Billions of yen) 250 ● Superior service capabilities backed by a combination of customer bases and products developed by MUFG and partner banks 217.9 Strengths of ● Extensive branch network and an overwhelming number of customer contact points supported by a commercial bank the Business 200 Group platform encompassing the ASEAN region ● Access to external partners such as Grab, which will help in promoting financial inclusion, innovation, and employment creation 150 121.1 100 Operating Environment Analysis and Key Initiatives 50 0 Burgeoning economic growth is expected in the ASEAN Also, due to the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic, each 2015* 2019 (FY) region over the medium to long term. Moreover, partner bank is expected to have some negative impact, * As GCB was inaugurated in fiscal 2018, the figure for fiscal 2015 is retrospectively calculated using the basis used to compile approximately 9,500 Japanese corporations have expanded such as higher credit costs. fiscal 2019 operating results. into the four ASEAN countries in which our partner banks operate, cultivating strong ties between Japan and these With this in mind, we are engaged in the key initiatives listed nations. Taking these factors into account, we are below. convinced that MUFG is well positioned to take advantage of its strengths backed by an extensive regional network Sustainability Initiatives consisting of more than 3,000 branches. ● Effectively utilize partner banks’ customer bases and functions ● Strengthen transactional banking operations by utilizing local settlement functions GCB is acting in collaboration with partner banks to promote financial inclusion and digitalization initiatives. In addition, there is a rapidly growing trend toward ● Pursue digitalization strategies, including collaborations with digitalization in the ASEAN region, with an increasing Grab For more details, please refer to pages 39 and 60. number of new players entering the financial field. Because ● Enhance risk management systems of this, we need to promote digitalization at an ever-faster pace to capture opportunities arising from the region’s economic growth. 48 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 49 Value Creation Initiatives Business Overview Asset Management & Investor Initiatives to Realize Our Vision Services Business Group (AM/IS) ● Asset Management Business Even as we focus on the development of a robust business platform that Balance of Alternative Products* will allow us to secure global competitiveness, efforts are under way to (Billions of yen) strengthen governance by, for example, dispatching directors to the 800 Australia-based First Sentier Investors (FSI),*1 a global asset manager we 660.0 Our Mediumto Long-Term Vision acquired in August 2019. Moreover, we are stepping up collaboration 600 with FSI to jointly address ESG and other issues. In June 2020, we acquired an equity stake in Mitsubishi Corporation Asset Management 445.0 We aim to become a player boasting unparalleled strength in Japan and Ltd. and renamed it Mitsubishi UFJ Alternative Investments Co., Ltd. We 400 379.0 significant global presence. To this end, we strive to enhance our products will also work together with this new Group member specializing in the 261.1 and services while remaining acutely conscious of our fiduciary duties in an alternative investment field*2 to develop its organizational structure in 200 effort to win customers’ support. order to create synergies at the earliest possible date. In the asset management field, we will secure greater capabilities to meet In September 2019, we launched MUFG Private REIT, Inc., which handles 0 diverse needs on a global basis by strengthening our functions via the private placement REITs, to further enhance our products and services 2018 2019 2020 2023 (FY) acquisition of domestic and overseas asset managers and by creating and meet diverse customer needs by taking full advantage of Group * Balance of real-estate and other low-liquidity investment products developed in-house synergies with existing businesses. companies’ functions, expertise and know-how. *1 Rebranded from Colonial First State Global Asset Management in September 2019 In the field of investor services, we will further expand our operations by *2 Investment in real estate, infrastructure and vehicles other than traditional assets (equities and bonds, etc.) Balance of Global IS proactively delivering new services and greater value to customers at home (Billions of U.S. dollars) and abroad in a way that accurately meet their needs. ● Investor Services Business 800 738 Under the MUFG Investor Services brand, we strive to increase the 686 With regard to the pension business, in which we provide solutions ranging balance of assets under our management via fund administration while 617 from HR systems to retirement benefit schemes, we will continue to help providing a broad range of MUFG customers with ancillary banking 600 customers resolve the issues confronting them as we aim to garner an even services (e.g., financing for funds, forex and repo transactions*1). more solid reputation and expand our customer base. 400 In the alternative fund field, which boasts growth potential, we are Although the business environment is radically evolving due to the fallout currently ranked sixth among our global peers in terms of the value of from the COVID-19 pandemic, we strive to live up to customers’ trust and alternative funds under administration and are achieving steady business 200 remain their best partner. To this end, we will do our utmost to fulfill our expansion. fiduciary duties while taking full advantage of our expertise to meet diverse Sunao Yokokawa customer needs. In October 2019, we completed the acquisition of Point Nine Limited,*2 a 0 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Group Head, Asset Management & company boasting strengths in digital-driven solutions for operational Investor Services Business Group streamlining and business process updating. To meet the increasingly diverse asset administration needs of customers, we will continuously Balance of DB*1 Pension Trusts/ New strive to deliver even better services while improving productivity. Enrollment in DC*2 *1 A type of transaction involving an agreement to exchange funds and bonds for a certain period of time Balance of DB (left axis) New enrollment in DC (right axis)*3 *2 Renamed MUFG Investor Services FinTech Limited after acquisition (Trillions of yen) (Thousands) 20 800 Strengths of ● Superior consulting capabilities backed by sophisticated specialist expertise and know-how the Business ● Strong product development capabilities in the asset management and investor services fields ● Pension Business Group ● A robust human resource base supporting the fulfillment of fiduciary duties While providing a range of MUFG customers with pension-related 15 13.6 600 services, we offer consulting services to help them comprehensively 11.3 12.3 11.0 review their HR and retirement benefit systems. Simultaneously, we 10 400 endeavor to strengthen our asset management and sales capabilities 372 while taking a groupwide, integrated service approach. By doing so, we 308 aim to increase both the balance of pension trusts under defined benefit 5 200 Operating Environment Analysis and Key Initiatives pension plans and enrollment in defined contribution pension plans. 195 0 0 2018 2019 2020 2023 (FY) Due to such factors as the fallout from the COVID-19 social security systems due to an aging population and a *1 Defined benefit pension plans pandemic, the outlook for the market environment is low birth rate. *2 Defined contribution pension plans expected to remain unclear for a long time. *3 Cumulative growth since April 2017 Taking these factors into account, we are taking on the Overseas, we have seen the popularization of an asset following key initiatives to achieve our mediumto longmanagement approach that pays attention to investee term vision. initiative addressing ESG issues. Because of this, businesses’ responses to climate change and their contribution to the Sustainability Initiatives resolution of social issues, such as the need to ensure ● Provide institutional investors with diverse asset management employee safety, are attracting investor attention. vehicles ● Popularize a responsible investment approach by setting AM/IS strives to promote responsible investment while providing financial and economic education. Moreover, it precedents and engaging in dialogue with businesses engages in surveys and research on asset building in addition to publicizing its insights in this field. In Japan, financial institutions are being called on to help ● Deliver asset management solutions to support long-term, facilitate a shift from savings to stable asset building via the stable asset building for households as well as an extensive For more details, please refer to pages 59 and 62. provision of investment products and investment education lineup of asset administration services in the face of looming public concerns associated with 50 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 51 Value Creation Initiatives Business Overview Global Markets Business Group Initiatives to Realize Our Vision ● Customer Segments Focusing our management resources on priority business fields, we deliver Client Value* high-quality products and solutions to meet customer needs. 150 Institutional investors: Currently, close collaboration is under way between 130 Our Mediumto Long-Term Vision GCIB, AM/IS and Global Markets business groups to provide products and services. Having established an organizational structure for smoothing 106 110 101 such collaboration in the United States, we will move on to develop similar 100 Employing the Group’s comprehensive capabilities, we aim to steadily deliver structures in Europe and Asia to meet diverse customer needs. high-value-added services to customers and, to this end, proactively take on 90 89 new challenges to enhance our corporate value. Also, we are enhancing our capabilities to deliver such solutions as secured finance.*1 In fiscal 2019, the Global Markets Business Group contributed to 70 In customer segments, we are allocating our resources to fields in which the expansion of the MUFG Group’s institutional investors business MUFG has proven strength and good growth potential, accelerating the through improvements in profitability. Going forward, we will step up 50 selection and concentration approach. We are also working to transition to a in-house collaboration transcending the boundaries of business groups 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) new business model via the promotion of the origination & distribution (O&D) while gearing up our O&D-related initiatives. In this way, we will achieve * Quasi sales & trading profits in institutional investors business (FY2017 level = 100; based on annual average) business and the cross-selling. further business expansion in this field. In treasury operations, we are supporting the stable management of non-JPY Corporate customers: We engaged in ongoing investment to introduce Digitalization ratio of FX rate contracts* funding by diversifying sources of funding. At the same time, we are flexibly electronic procedures for forex transactions, an area in which MUFG (%) carrying out hedging operations in a way that conforms to prevailing interest boasts strengths, with the aim of achieving further improvement in 80 71 72 75 rate trends while considering the execution of long-term, diversified customer convenience and the Group’s price competitiveness. Having investment. thus updated our business platform, we will strive to maintain a stable 57 volume of transactions, improve profitability and ensure our ability to 60 Amid turmoil in the financial market, which has been severely affected by the secure a steady supply of funds with liquidity at times of emergency. By fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been stably providing financial doing so, we will further enhance our strengths. 40 services. As a professional team in global markets, we strive to continue to live up to customer expectations and thereby contribute to stable business Moreover, we will continue to accommodate customer needs by engaging management for the Group. in the proposal of diverse solutions that conform with the market 20 environment. We will also provide customers with products designed to Business environment is radically evolving due to such factors as ever help them address sustainability issues. In addition, we will work to secure Masamichi Yasuda advancing digitalization, a growing number of new players making entries into our preparedness with regard to changes in the business environment, 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Group Head, Global Markets Business the industry, and the pressing need for solutions aimed at addressing such as those arising from the introduction of CVA*2 regulations, as we *Internal transactions Group sustainability issues. However, we will consider these changes to be new accelerate transition to a new business model for corporate customers. opportunities and endeavor to solidify trust customers and society have in us. *1 A type of financing that supplements the borrower’s credit risk with collateral assets *2 Capital regulations aimed at addressing risks associated with fluctuations in credit valuation adjustment (CVA) Remaining Balance of non-JPY Denominated Bonds Issued ● Treasury MUFG The Trust Bank The Bank Strengths of ● The capability needed to deliver products and solutions that meet diverse customer needs In our market operations we maintain a flexible approach responsive to (Billions of U.S. dollars) 60 the Business ● Strong presence as a financial market leader changes in the market environment in order to secure robust profit. Group ● Sophisticated and leading-edge methodologies available to control market risk Simultaneously, we have maintained the stable management of non-JPY funding even during times of radical market fluctuations to support the MUFG Group's business. 40 Looking ahead, we will take a groupwide, integrated approach to increase the volume, stability and efficiency of non-JPY funding by, for example, 20 Operating Environment Analysis and Key Initiatives diversifying funding sources, with the aim of supporting the MUFG Group’s non-JPY businesses as a whole. We will also secure profit opportunities via, for instance, flexible hedging operations that conform with interest rate 0 In response to the spread of COVID-19, we have Furthermore, we have seen steadily growing customer trends. We will thus engage in market risk management in a way that takes 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) implemented such measures as the introduction of a “splitneeds for solutions aimed at helping realize SDGs and full advantage of the strengths of the Bank and the Trust Bank in their areas team” operational system and a remote working scheme in addressing ESG and other sustainability issues. of specialty. order to maintain financial market functions and ability to meet customer needs as financial professionals. Looking With this in mind, we will stably push ahead with the key ahead, we will optimize our operational structure to adapt initiatives listed below while striving to achieve our mediumto new circumstances during and in the aftermath of the to long-term vision. COVID-19 pandemic. In this way, we will fulfill our Sustainability Initiatives responsibilities as a market leader. ● Further promote the O&D business ● Enhance our operations in customer segments by expanding The Global Markets Business Group developed a non-JPY deposit product featuring earthquake protection while Our business environment is expected to be affected by the areas in which we engage in cross-selling engaging in cutting-edge, AI-driven trading transactions. prolongation of a trend toward low interest rates and even ● Strengthen sales & trading operations at home harsher regulatory requirements. We also anticipate the ● Take on the challenge of deploying new investment For more details, please refer to pages 38 and 61. intensification of competition due to the advancement of management methodologies technologies. 52 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 53 Sustainability Initiatives Initiatives for Addressing Environmental and Social Issues toward Sustainable Growth MUFG considers the pursuit of sustainability to be our main business. Accordingly, we established a one of its most important management issues. With framework that appropriates 0.5% of the Group’s net the conviction that environmental and social operating profits in the previous fiscal year to an sustainability are essential to achieving sustainable additional budget for social contribution activities. growth for MUFG, we are engaged in value creation employing an integrated approach in which the The total of annual spending associated with social execution of management strategies goes in tandem contribution activities undertaken by Group with the pursuit of solutions for social issues. companies in fiscal 2019 and spending based on the new framework amounts to approximately 1% of the Specifically, each business group has incorporated Group’s net operating profits in fiscal 2019. initiatives aimed at helping resolve environmental and social issues into their respective strategies and In addition, the Sustainability Committee discusses is extending financing for renewable energy projects initiatives undertaken by MUFG to address and otherwise assisting customers in their efforts to environmental and social issues, while the Board of step up sustainability initiatives. From the perspective Directors and the Executive Committee receive of risk management, we have the MUFG reports from and make decisions based on Environmental and Social Policy Framework in place conclusions reached by the former committee. Also, Sustainability to ensure that due consideration is given to environmental and social concerns in the course of we engaged two experts representing the fields of the environment and social to give their specialist Initiatives financing, including the extension of credit and opinions and recommendations to members of the underwriting of stocks and bonds. We also Board of Directors and the Sustainability Committee. continually update our in-house rules to secure through compliance with this framework. Also, in May 2020 we appointed a Chief Sustainability Officer (CSuO) to gear up our approach and clarify P. 55 Initiatives for Addressing Environmental and Social Issues Furthermore, although we have extended support responsibilities with regard to sustainability initiatives. toward Sustainable Growth for medical institutions and struggling students amid With an officer in charge of corporate planning and the spread of the COVID-19, we have concluded that strategy appointed to concurrently serve as CSuO, P. 56 Our Approach to Environmental and we must also step up initiatives outside of fields in we aim to integrate our efforts to help resolve social Social Issues which we seek to help resolve social issues through issues and our business management strategies. P. 58 Responding to Business Opportunities P. 63 Response to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations Sustainability Promotion Structure Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Board of Directors External advisors Our sustainability initiatives will be disclosed in the upcoming Sustainability Report in autumn 2020. Executive Committee Advise Sustainability Committee Sustainability Office Chairperson: Chief Sustainability Officer (CSuO) Members: Group CEO, CSO, CFO, CRO, Heads of Business Group , Officers in Plan sustainability-related initiatives charge at Group companies, etc. Objective: To discuss initiatives for resolving environmental and social issues in Sustainable Business Office order to realize environmental and social sustainability and to ensure MUFG’s sustainable growth Promote cross-Group initiatives for sustainable business Group Companies Sustainability Committees, etc. Departments in Charge of Sustainability 54 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 55 Sustainability Initiatives Our Approach to Environmental and Social Issues As a world-leading financial group providing Furthermore, we have incorporated input from Business Opportunities Priority Environmental and Social Issues financing for renewable energy projects, we will external specialists. The determination of these MUFG Must Address MUFG aims to contribute to environmental and social proactively support our clients’ “transition” to more issues has thus been made with an eye to better sustainability and help realize United Nations sustainable business and energy structures via the As we aim to help resolve environmental and social fulfilling society’s expectations in areas where Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through enhancement of energy efficiency etc., while issues while securing sustainable growth, we have MUFG’s capabilities can be brought to bear. financial services. We have committed to extending facilitating “innovation” that employs alternative determined seven priority issues that must be a total of ¥20 trillion for sustainable financing over a energy and IT technologies. addressed through our business activities. Each business group has incorporated these priority period spanning fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2030 (of issues into its strategies and is currently engaged in this, ¥8 trillion will be used for environmental finance). Also, we will focus on supporting efforts to resolve This determination involved selecting issues relevant concrete initiatives addressing such issues. Also, we In fiscal 2019, we made great progress, extending a issues society is now confronting by, for example, to MUFG’s operations at home and abroad from periodically review these priority issues in light of total of ¥3.7 trillion. extending financial solutions to the medical industry among the environmental and social issues identified changes in the operating environment. to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and create a by SDGs as well as prevailing industry standards. cure for the virus. Goals and Results of Sustainable Financing Process for Selecting Priority Issues FY2019 results FY2030 goals Assessing a Environmental and social issues on a global basis 17 SDGs broad range of Arrangement of loans and project finance for renewable energy projects, etc. ¥0.9 trillion environmental and SDG Implementation Guiding Principles (cabinet office) social issues Environmental and social issues unique to Japan Keidanren’s policies regarding ESG issues Environmental Underwriting and sales of Green Bonds ¥0.5 trillion ¥8 trillion Others ¥0.8 trillion Social Finance for social infrastructure development and regional vitalization, etc. ¥0.9 trillion Relevance to the Dialogue with external ¥12 trillion Society’s expectations Global mega trends financial industry specialists Others Finance for solutions of various environmental and social issues ¥0.6 trillion Integration and Total ¥3.7 trillion ¥20 trillion selection Areas where MUFG’s capabilities can be brought to bear Global warming & climate change (P. 58, P. 63 65) In addition, the Bank is a signatory to the Equator Business Risks Principles (EP),*2 which is an international framework Cross-sectoral issues (P. 58 59) MUFG has an Environmental and Social Policy for addressing environmental and social concerns Framework*1 in place to ensure due consideration is when financing projects including infrastructure and Business incubation & job creation (P. 60) given to environmental and social concerns in the natural resources development. Social infrastructure & town planning (P. 61) course of financing. In fiscal 2019, MUFG announced that it will not provide financing for new coal-fired In July 2020, the Bank commenced application of the Aging population & low birth rate (P. 62) power generation projects in principle. Furthermore, fourth version of the EP which includes assessment MUFG revised the framework in May 2020 to include of climate change related risks (transition risks and Financial innovation (P. 38 39) Oil sand, Arctic development etc., as “Restricted physical risks) associated with each project and Transactions.” Looking ahead, we will periodically enhanced engagement with project-affected Workstyle reforms (P. 71) review and upgrade this framework in light of indigenous peoples. changes in the Group’s business activities and *1 https://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/policy/ operating environment. *2 https://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/environment/equator/ Endorsement of International Sustainability Initiatives* Sectors Added by the May 2020 Revision of the MUFG Environmental and Social Policy Framework Oil sand, Assessing the state of implementation of environmental and social considerations by our clients, including the Development of the Arctic impact on the ecosystems and indigenous communities in the region Assessing the state of implementation of environmental and social considerations by our clients, such as the Large Hydropower impact of dam construction on the ecosystem, local communities, and the living environment and livelihoods of residents Inhumane Weapons Prohibiting the provision of financing for the production of inhumane weapon *Including initiatives endorsed by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. and those endorsed by Group subsidiaries 56 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 57 Sustainability Initiatives Responding to Business Opportunities 2020 to finance such initiatives as countermeasures related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and are Global Warming & Climate Change Cross-sectoral Issues against COVID-19. The net proceeds from these addressing climate change-related issues through MUFG is addressing issues arising from global MUFG is helping clients resolve a number of the bonds have been allocated via the Bank to financing asset management. They also engage in the analysis warming and climate change by rallying the Group’s environmental and social issues they are confronting. for eligible green and social projects. of investees’ climate change-related data and comprehensive strengths. As stated on page 10, we * https://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/fixed_income/greenbond/ confirmed that the sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2 are ranked among the world’s top finance arrangers Extending Loans to Assist in Efforts to Address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from all investees of renewable energy projects while contributing to Environmental and Social Concerns through Social Impact of Social Bonds Issued in December 2019 of MUFG AM*4 and First Sentier Investors (FSI), the the expansion of the Green Bond market. Business Activities Indices Results latter of which was acquired by the Group in August R&C JCIB GCIB 2019, amounts to 23.3 million tCO2e (as of March 31, Contributing to the Expansion of the Green Bond We offer corporate loans and private placement The number of patients 3,578 2020) based on data obtained from external receiving the medical services (the Bank's proportion) Market bonds specially designed to evaluate and support assessment organizations.*5 Going forward, we will Healthcare R&C JCIB GCIB clients’ ESG initiatives. Specifically, Mitsubishi UFJ 240 engage in ongoing dialogue with investees to The number of hospital beds Aiming to contribute to environmental and social Research and Consulting evaluates clients’ initiatives (the Bank’s proportion) encourage them to properly respond to sustainability via participation in the capital market, and scores them in tandem with Japan Credit Rating opportunities and risks arising from climate change. MUFG steadily issues Green Bonds. As of the end of Agency, Ltd., thereby providing clients with feedback The number of loans provided 27 *1 https://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/policy/ fiscal 2019, MUFG had issued Green Bonds at home on the challenges they must address. In fiscal 2019, Employment *2 Methods for calculation were revised in fiscal 2019. Furthermore, the figure includes and abroad six times for a total worth of five clients utilized these products, with the total generation investments undertaken by FSI, which was included in the scope of consolidation in The number of employment the same year. 130 approximately ¥290 billion. This amount is the largest value of loans and bonds amounting to ¥8.7 billion. created *3 The Trust Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management, MU Investments and FSI. The Trust Bank intends to disclose information in accordance with the TCFD of its kind in the domestic industry as a total value of recommendations through its Responsible Investment Report to be issued in August 2020. Green Bonds issued by a single issuer. The net Furthermore, we became the first financial institution *4 MUFG AM was jointly formed by the Trust Bank and its subsidiaries (Mitsubishi UFJ proceeds from Green Bonds have been allocated via in Japan to develop a “Sustainability Linked Loan” Kokusai Asset Management, MU Investments and Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK)) the Bank to financing for projects aimed at resolving that places no restrictions on the usage of funds and *5 Data for MUFG AM is compiled by Institutional Shareholder Services, Inc. and data for FSI is compiled by MSCI Inc. environmental issues. is equipped with variable interest rates reflecting the status of ESG-related targets achieved by clients. In In addition, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities fiscal 2019, we have acted as an arranger for three Promoting a Sustainable Investment Strategy has been acting as a leading underwriter in the Green syndicated loans for clients committed to pursuing R&C JCIB GCIB Bond market since the inception of such bonds. specific targets in terms of the enhancement of The Bank aims to maximize the positive impact of its Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities boasts the ESG-oriented corporate management and the financing activities on the environment and society top position in Japan in terms of both the total value reduction of environmental burdens. while striving to identify business opportunities for of public placement yen-denominated Green Bonds MUFG in the field of sustainability. To this end, the underwritten (since fiscal 2016) and the number of Looking ahead, we will continue to help clients shift Bank adopted a new fund investment strategy that issuance cases in which it acted as a Green Bond their business focus to and promote structural Hospital facilities constructed in Turkey employing net proceeds from bonds utilizes the environmental and social impacts of structuring agent.* Looking ahead, Mitsubishi UFJ transition toward achieving sustainability. investees’ activities as indices for investment Morgan Stanley Securities will continue to take a lead Practicing Responsible Investment via Asset judgement in addition to achieving economic in the expansion of the Green Bond market. Issuance of Social Bonds and Sustainability Bonds Management performance. As part of this strategy, the Bank * An agent who support the issuance of Green Bonds through the formulation of Green R&C JCIB GCIB AM/IS introduced an internal carbon pricing system, a Bond frameworks and advice on obtaining a second party opinion, etc. In October 2019, MUFG formulated its Green, Social We believe that investment and engagement method used to measure environmental impact in and Sustainability Bond Framework* by expanding its activities based on ESG opportunities and risks will the course of making investment judgments by Allocation of Funds and Environmental Impact existing Green Bond framework. In addition to the encourage the sustainable growth of portfolio multiplying the expected reduction in CO2 emissions Balance of Eligible Green Projects funded through “green” category comprising environmental projects, companies and improve investment performance. by future carbon prices. Applying this system for the the issuance of MUFG Green Bonds the new framework includes projects related to such Based on this belief and in line with the MUFG AM first time, in March 31, 2020 we invested in Global US$3,133 million fields as healthcare, education, employment Responsible Investment Policy,*1 we have Renewable Power Fund III, which engages in asset generation and preservation and affordable housing incorporated the evaluation of investees’ ESG management in the field of renewable energy. We Total annual energy generation aimed at addressing social issues as eligible for initiatives into our asset management process while expect this fund, via the investment by the Bank, to 37,410 million kWh financing. In May 2020, we also included projects engaging in dialogue to encourage their efforts to help reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 20,000 associated with countermeasures against the improve corporate value. As of March 31, 2020, the tons per year. Total annual CO2 emissions avoided COVID-19 into the scope of eligible categories. balance of responsible investment, which represents (via financing by the Bank) the balance of ESG-oriented investment, accounts 3.8 million t-CO2 In line with this framework, we became the first for 45.4%*2 of the overall balance of assets under among domestic private financial institutions to issue MUFG’s management. Social Bonds in December 2019, with the total value amounting to US$90 million. We also issued In addition, the Group’s subsidiary asset managers*3 Sustainability Bonds worth 500 million euro in June declared their support of the Task Force on Climate58 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 59 Sustainability Initiatives Responding to Business Opportunities Large-Scale Business Matching Events become the country’s largest facility. In addition to Business Incubation & Job Creation Social Infrastructure helping raise the volume of domestic fertilizer & Town Planning R&C MUFG engages in financing for growth industries MUFG hosts periodic large-scale business matching production and reducing dependence on imported and venture startups while, in developing countries, events aimed at helping corporate clients find growth MUFG develops project finance, etc., aimed at fertilizers, the construction of the new plant is providing micro financing solutions. By doing so, opportunities by facilitating exchange between those meeting funding needs for the construction of social expected to contribute to Bangladesh’s economic MUFG helps a broad range of sectors grow and in different sectors. The 16th round of such events, infrastructure in developing countries as well as the growth. Also, the Japanese CO2 capture technology contribute to the creation of new industries and held in December 2019, resulted in approximately renewal of aged infrastructure at home and abroad which will be introduced in the new plant is likely to employment. 9,700 cases of business negotiations. Attendees while also creating new financial products equipped contribute to reducing its environmental impact. included representatives from Krungsri as well as a with coverage for natural disaster damage. Supporting Corporate Growth number from overseas corporations. Taking R&C advantage of the Group’s network at home and Investment in rolling stock leasing to a rail MUFG offers services tailored to individual needs of abroad, we are thus supporting the business operator in the UK corporate clients appropriate to their stage of expansion of our clients. JCIB GCIB development. Japan Infrastructure Initiative* (JII) signed an investment agreement in relation to the procurement and leasing of new rolling stock for Abellio East Supporting up-and-coming businesses with growth potential Midlands Railway, a rail franchise operator in the UK. “Rise Up Festa” This project will introduce a new state-of-the-art Startup Stage A total of 138 applicants for the intercity high-speed fleet to East Midlands main lines seventh round of the event in England. The trains’ bimodal functionality will enable operations powered by overhead electricity Through this program, MUFG acts as a business partner for SMEs and growing corporations over the medium to long lines or by diesel engine on routes where selfA signing ceremony attended by BCIC representatives term by taking advantage of its network and know-how on powering is required, and will replace existing dieselmanagement support only trains. The new fleets will help improve train Releasing a Non-JPY Deposit Product with services and offer environmental benefits. Earthquake Protection Global Markets * Founded in January 2017 by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc., Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Inclusion Lease & Finance Company Limited, MUFG Bank, Ltd., Hitachi, Ltd. and Hitachi Capital Targeting corporate clients, the Bank has developed Offering smooth financing while creating new business opportunities GCB Corporation to establish an open financial platform a non-JPY term deposit product equipped with Growth Stage The Thailand-based Krungsri (Bank of Ayudhya) earthquake protection. Although the product’s Approximately 9,000 offers micro finance through its subsidiary Hattha interest rates are relatively lower than conventional Number of business matching cases in fiscal 2019 Kaksekar Limited (HKL), making financial services non-JPY term deposit products, the depositors are (The sum of business matching cases conducted by available to customers in ASEAN countries which eligible to receive a certain amount of coverage branches and those established at business matching events held in Japan and overseas) constitute promising markets with the continuous when conditions associated with seismic intensity economic growth. are met and confirmed at designated observation points. In contrast to earthquake insurance, the Overview of Micro Finance Offered by HKL (2019) product does not require evidence of damage and Maturation Stage Supporting smooth business succession Number of account places no restrictions on the usage of funds, enabling 168,892 (+17% year on year) openings the depositors to utilize funds for such purposes as Approximately 3,800 the payment of compensation for temporary Outstanding loan The number of corporate clients that received visits by US$1,051 million (+39% year on year) disability or the restoration of indirect damage. balance specialist teams during fiscal 2019 Furthermore, coverage under this product is Number of branches 177 (±0% year on year) delivered to the depositors in a relatively short period Financing for a Fertilizer Plant in Bangladesh of time. As the looming possibility of a Nankai megathrust earthquake prompts growing corporate Revitalization Stage JCIB GCIB Assisting corporate rehabilitation in collaboration with external expert organizations Furthermore, through the Krungsri Financial Literacy Bangladesh, an agricultural country, has seen a rise in interest in taking protective measures against program, we offer financial economics education to demand for foods and fertilizers due to high earthquake damage, we will meet the contingency Approximately 80 elementary students, with aims to improving their economic growth and population increase. In funding needs of our clients while offering diverse The number of in-house specialists in corporate understanding of ways to save and use money. In November 2019, MUFG has co-financed with Japan vehicles for risk hedging. In these ways, we will help rehabilitation fiscal 2019, a total of 3,853 students from 72 schools Bank for International Cooperation and others a them step up their focus on ESG-oriented utilized this program. project, providing a total of ¥140 billion to management aimed at securing sustainable Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), operational continuity by bringing agile to customer a state-owned entity. This project is to support BCIC support when disaster occurs. to construct a new fertilizer plant, which is set to 60 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 61 Sustainability Initiatives Response to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Responding to Business Opportunities Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations Tsukaete Anshin, a Trust Product with Proxy MUFG considers responding to climate changechange. Aging Population & Low Birth Rate Withdrawal Functions related and other environmental concerns to be an Strategy Providing solutions for issues arising from Japan’s R&C important management issue and is stepping up rapidly aging population and low birth rate, MUFG is The Trust Bank released Tsukaete Anshin, a trust measures to address such concerns. As part of these Opportunities offering financial and economic education in addition product with proxy withdrawal functions to address efforts, we are striving to enhance the content of MUFG has committed to extending a total of ¥20 to developing products specially designed for elderly needs among elderly customers anxious about information disclosure in accordance with the TCFD’s trillion for sustainable finance over the course of the customers and assisting smooth business becoming incapable of the administration and recommendations. period spanning fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2030. succession. withdrawal of funds due to a decline in cognitive Governance functions. This product enables a designated proxy Of this, ¥8 trillion will be used for environmental Financial and Economic Education to withdraw funds via a dedicated app, which also At MUFG, the Sustainability Committee operating finance aimed at helping counter climate change R&C AM/IS makes it easier for the customers’ families to check under the Executive Committee regularly engages in and otherwise addressing environmental concerns. MUFG is providing various educational programs and the status of their bank accounts. The product will the deliberation of the Company’s policies on and the Specifically, we will help popularize renewable seminars tailored to meet the interests of different thus allow the customers rest assured about the status of initiatives to manage opportunities and risks energy via project finance while issuing Green Bonds age groups, helping them better understand what it custody of their assets over the long term even if arising from environmental and social issues, including whose net proceeds are allocated to Eligible Green takes to begin investment and asset building for the their cognitive ability deteriorates due to dementia or climate change. Furthermore, the Risk Management, Projects. We will also deliver other products and future. For example, we provide on-demand lectures other factors. In fiscal 2019, we secured a total of Credit & Investment Management and Credit services designed to help reduce the environmental at schools while inviting students to participate in approximately 3,000 contracts for this product while Committees also discuss specific themes associated burden, with the aim of supporting the transition to a workplace experience programs. During fiscal 2019, being chosen to receive the Nikkei Veritas Award for with climate change. Conclusions reached by these decarbonized society. (Please also refer to page 58 we held these lectures and programs on a total of Excellence under the 2019 Nikkei Superior Products committees are reported to the Executive Committee. for details.) 424 occasions, and the cumulative total number of and Services Awards. Eventually, these matters are reported to and these events held since 2012 reached 3,282. For discussed by the Board of Directors to ensure its Risks businesspeople, we host seminars dealing with such Supporting Smooth Business Succession oversight of the Group’s initiatives to address climate In terms of addressing climate change-related risks topics as life planning and asset management. In R&C (transition risks and physical risks), financial addition, our website offers a broad range of articles, Due to the rapid aging of society, a number of Matters Reported to and Discussed by the Board of institutions need to address the direct impacts these cartoons and other materials aimed at encouraging domestic SME owners are facing a pressing Directors (fiscal 2019) risks will have on their business activities as well as viewers to develop their interest in asset building. challenge in the form of a lack of successors. As part the indirect impacts on the corporate clients to ● Issues MUFG must tackle in the course of sustainability of its initiatives to help resolve such challenges, the initiatives and direction it must take in addressing such which they extend credit. Taking heed of the TCFD Research on Asset Management & Asset Building Bank is engaged in ongoing investment in the “Dream issues recommendations, we have analyzed such impacts and Publicizing Our Insights Succession III Limited Partnership,” which extends ・Strengthening and upgrading MUFG’s governance systems to based on specific climate change scenarios in order enhance its ability to promote sustainability initiatives R&C AM/IS hands-on assistance to business succession. This ・Integration of efforts aimed at addressing ESG issues and SDGs with to assess how our credit portfolio will be affected by business strategies The Trust Bank has established the MUFG Financial fund was the first in Japan, following the 2019 ・Initiatives being undertaken via financing etc. and those undertaken this phenomenon (see the next page). Education Institute, which engages in surveys and enforcement of revised tax measures associated with by MUFG itself ・Enhancement of information disclosure in accordance with the TCFD research on investment education and publicizes business succession funds, to be certified by the recommendations, for instance, by publicizing results of climate practical insights from an unbiased standpoint, as Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry as a fund change scenario analysis well as the MUFG Inheritance Research Institute, a defined by the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises ● Identification of climate change-related risks as part of body charged with surveys and research associated Business Enhancement Act, etc. As a result, clients enterprise risk management (Top Risk management) with needs for asset management and smooth asset who are funded by this fund are eligible to receive succession in an aging society. In fiscal 2019, the tax breaks. former institute conducted such surveys as those Climate Change-Related Risks in Financial Institutions targeting businesspeople who are near or have In addition to offering solutions associated with Major Contents reached retirement age to assess their awareness business strategy and succession, we provide Risk of the credit portfolio being impacted due to stricter regulations or policy changes exerting negative impacts on the regarding preparation for post-retirement life. Its individual business owners wishing to pass on wealth ● business and financial condition of clients fiscal 2019 activities also included surveys aimed at with high-value-added services backed by MUFG’s Indirect ● Risk of the credit portfolio being impacted due to reduced demand arising from changing consumer preferences and measures in response to adoption of technologies for a decarbonized society exerting negative impacts on the business and financial assessing public awareness about savings-type unique strengths. Thanks to these initiatives, we were Transition condition of clients investments amid widespread media coverage of a able to support the succession of businesses and risks government-sponsored paper concluding that assets worth more than ¥1 trillion in total, continuing ● Risk of increased cost and burden in response to stricter regulations or policy changes Direct Risk of reputation deteriorating due to having an inferior response to SDGs/ESG compared to rivals, and risk of poorer people will need at least ¥20 million in savings to be the robust track record established a year earlier. ● reputation leading to a fall in stock price or rating prepared for post-retirement life, in addition to Looking ahead, we will provide solutions aimed at surveys targeting 10,000 individuals to assess the supporting sustainable growth for customers and ● Risk of the credit portfolio being impacted by suspension of clients’ business activities due to storm and flood damage, etc. Indirect degree of their financial literacy. Going forward, we society as a whole. or impairment of collateral value of real estate due to disaster Physical will strive to publicize our insights by publishing risks various papers and books as well as by holding Direct ● Risk of business continuity being impacted due to storm and flood damage, etc. incurred by company employees and held assets seminars and symposia. 62 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 63 Response to the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Recommendations Risk Management Metrics and Targets Climate Change-Related Scenario Analysis Enterprise Risk Management Sustainable Finance Goals and Achievements MUFG has positioned climate change-related risk as Please refer to page 56 for our fiscal 2019 Since 2019, MUFG has been a participant in a pilot project aimed at discussing and one of the Top Risks that it must pay close attention achievements. developing methodologies for the disclosure of climate change-related financial information to for the year going forward (please also refer to under the auspices of United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). page 85). Reducing CO2 Emissions Attributable to Our Business Activities Based on conclusions reached by the project, we have analyzed the probable impact of Environmental and Social Risk Management in Well ahead of schedule, the Bank has met its fiscal transition and physical risks on our credit portfolio based on climate change scenarios Finance 2030 target of reducing the energy intensity index* encompassing a period spanning 2020 through 2050. We implemented MUFG Environmental and Social by 19.0% from the fiscal 2009 level. In fiscal 2019, the Policy Framework to manage environmental and Bank’s Head Office building switched all of its energy social risks associated with our financing. Concerning sources to hydroelectric power generation. global average temperature to well below 2°C above Analysis Results coal-fired power generation, mining (coal), oil and Currently, we have started discussion to transition to pre-industrial levels,” via investment in renewable Based on scenarios and assumptions used, the analysis energy projects and those arising from carbon taxation. gas, and other specific sectors in which concerns are an energy procurement structure solely dependent concluded that, the annual financial impact on the raised over environmental and social impacts, on renewable energy by the end of fiscal 2030. targeted portfolio of transition risks (sum of energy and Going forward, we will strive to update our analytical including climate change, we have established our utility sectors) and physical risks (risk arising from methods while expanding the scope of targeted finance policy and a due diligence process to identify For details of the reduction in greenhouse gas and flooding) will be limited to several billions of yen in each sectors. and assess the environmental and social risks or other results accomplished by MUFG in the course of fiscal year. impacts associated with transactions has been its business activities, please also refer to the CSR Physical risks Analytical Methods introduced. Data section of our corporate website. In recent years, flooding risk has become one of most Transition risks profound physical risks arising from climate change URL: https://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/data/csrdata/ * Energy intensity index = Energy consumption / Total floor space Targeting the energy and utility sectors, which are both due to its growing frequency and increasing magnitude defined as carbon-related assets under the TCFD of damage and is affecting various regions around the recommendations, we adopted an integrated analytical globe, including Japan. With this in mind, we have Due Diligence Process for Financing Status of CO2 Emissions Intensity Index approach aimed at measuring climate change-related adopted an analytical approach that measures the Standard due diligence Associated with Project Finance in the Power impacts in accordance with conclusions reached by overall impact of flooding on MUFG’s credit portfolio by Generation Business* the pilot project under the auspices of UNEP FI. This using changes in default ratios resulting from such a The decision regarding categorization of the transaction approach combines a bottom-up method that assesses disaster. as a “Prohibited Transaction” or “Restricted Transaction” is Figures presented below are calculated to determine the status of individual corporations and a top-down made by the department in the relevant business division the environmental impact of project finance in the responsible for communications with the client. method that assess the overall status of the sector We also used Representative Concentration Pathway Power Generation Business in the form of CO2 involved. (RCP) 2.6 and 8.5 scenarios compiled via the 5th round emissions intensity index (CO2 emissions divided by of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP5) Enhanced due diligence electricity output in proportion to funds extended by In addition, our analysis employed a pair of climate conducted under the auspices of the MUFG). change scenarios that assume a less than 2°C rise and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Transactions categorized as “Restricted Transactions” are (Unit: t-CO2/MWh) a 4°C rise in global temperatures, respectively. These Specifically, we mainly used the RCP 8.5 scenario to subject to enhanced due diligence which is implemented scenarios have been published by the International estimate flooding damage based on hazard map and by the department responsible for management of FY2019 FY2017 FY2018 environmental and social risks. (Apr. – Dec. 2019) Energy Agency (IEA) and are widely used in a variety of other data* obtained from various external analyses, with the former being referred to as the organizations in the course of analysis. 0.410 0.368 0.394 sustainable development scenario, and the latter being Executive management discussion addressing reputational risk * Including thermal power generation using fossil fuel (coal, oil and gas) and renewable known as the new policies scenario. We placed To measure the financial impact, we have estimated a energy power generation businesses particular emphasis on analyzing the climate changeperiod of operational suspension and assessed possible Transactions assessed as having the potential to have related impact on customer’s credit ratings under damage to our assets in a way that conforms to significant negative impacts on the corporate value of MUFG Status of Carbon-Related Assets* various circumstances based on the former scenario. conclusions reached by UNEP FI’s pilot project. are evaluated with the involvement of executive management. In accordance with the TCFD recommendations, we At the same time, we analyzed the overall financial impact on our credit portfolio in each sector. In addition, although the method used in this analysis assess the proportion of carbon-related assets in the employs CMIP5 scenarios only to calculate the overall lending portfolio value. With regard to the measurement of the climate changepossibility of flooding, discussion is currently under way related financial impact, universal methods have yet to at MUFG to introduce a simulation method designed to Mar. 31, 2019 Mar. 31, 2020 be determined, while UNEP FI’s pilot project is engaged reflect these scenarios in the calculation of disaster Energy 3.0% 2.8% in ongoing discussion to develop such methods. Aware damage. As such, we are determined to continuously of this problem, our analysis carefully took MUFG’s improve our analytical methods. Utility 3.6% 3.4% decarbonizing initiatives into account and incorporated essential future costs for helping achieve the Paris * Sources: Hirabayashi Y, Mahendran R, Koirala S, Konoshima L, Yamazaki D, Total 6.6% 6.2% Watanabe S, Kim H and Kanae S (2013) Global flood risk under climate change. Agreement’s objective of “holding the increase in the Nat Clim Chang., 3(9), 816-821. doi:10.1038/nclimate1911. Note: The total value of lending is ¥96.5 trillion as of March 31, 2019 and ¥99.1 trillion as of March 31, 2020. * Based on the TCFD recommendations, MUFG has categorized the value of lending to the energy and utility sectors other than lending for renewable energy projects as constituting carbon-related assets. 64 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 65 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Improving Employee Engagement Our Strengths Supporting MUFG encourages every employee to embrace new The outcome of such initiatives is revealed by the Value Creation mindsets and modes of behavior, supporting their efforts by, for example, annually reviewing its Code of annual Group Awareness and Engagement Survey and other feedback and reported to the Board of Conduct, regularly distributing messages from top Directors. The fiscal 2019 survey targeted management and providing e-learning and other approximately 114,000 employees and collected P. 67 Improving Employee Engagement training programs. Moreover, in line with initiatives to feedback from 88% of them. If an issue that needs to improve employee engagement, we regularly offer be addressed is identified via the survey, etc., top P. 68 Human Resources Strategy opportunities for employees to interact with management will respond, putting out a statement P. 72 Corporate Governance executives from each Group company. and updating the Code of Conduct if necessary. P. 82 Communicating with stakeholders P. 84 Risk Management P. 88 Compliance Initiatives at the Bank P. 90 Internal Audit In fiscal 2019, the Bank hosted a round-table talk Other round-table talk events held at the Bank and event that invited employees to interact with the attended by executives and employees include President and encouraged them to discuss the discussions focused on forward-looking subjects, challenges they are currently facing in their duties or such as determining MUFG’s raison d’être amid the private life. The Bank also held a Real Freshman’s evolving business environment and reconfirming the Talk, a round-table talk event centered on interaction true value of their duties. Attendees engaged in between new recruits and executives, including vigorous exchanges about what they personally can President. With the aim of facilitating corporate do to make the Bank even better. The Bank received culture reforms, this event is specifically designed to a number of positive responses from attendees, with Group Outside Director Meeting on December 2019 encourage new recruits to share what they really one employee saying “I want to proactively put into think of MUFG with executives and for the latter to practice what I can do.” acquire potentially valuable insights only these young people can contribute. In fact, opinions voiced by attendees are currently utilized to update in-house operational processes. The Round-Table Talk with Mr. Mike, President of the Bank Please see page 83 for initiatives at the Trust Bank and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan StanleySecurities. 66 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 67 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Human Resources Strategy Encouraging the Pursuit of Personal enhancement of the MUFG Group’s organizational job training along with e-learning courses, onstrength and corporate value hinges on cultivating demand video lectures, online training and other employees who boast a range of expertise, engage programs. In addition, human resources from Growth and Challenging Endeavors in open exchange with peers within and outside the Group and proactively share their insights with external sources are actively hired to push ahead with expansion into new businesses in response to others. the evolving operating environment. Also, in step The MUFG Human Resources Principles provide the basis on which the Group has built a human with progress in the adoption of a groupwide resources management platform that aligns with its Corporate Vision. These principles define “Integrity The Bank initiated the secondment of employees to integrated management approach, securing human and Responsibility,” “Professionalism and Teamwork” and “Challenge Ourselves to Grow” as values to be startups in August 2019. This was followed by the resources who have distinctive strengths in their shared by all employees, and each Group company formulates and executes human resources introduction of the Challenge Leave system in areas of specialty has become a matter of growing management policies aimed at ensuring the realization of these values. November 2019 to grant leave to those wishing to importance. With this in mind, in April 2019 MUFG become entrepreneurs, study abroad or pursue other launched a employment framework aimed at dreams. A number of employees have already signed securing candidates from a broader range of up under these systems to acquire experience in new sources. This move is aimed at helping highly skilled environment where employees are satisfied with their fields. Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, individuals pursue greater career success while Human Resources System Revisions daily work and able to continually challenge which boasts a number of employees with diverse providing them with salaries in line with labor market The Bank, the Trust Bank and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan themselves in pursuit of reform. career backgrounds, revised its rules of employment benchmarks unconnected to our conventional pay Stanley Securities carried out revisions of human in February 2020 to incorporate clauses clarifying systems. resources systems over the period from fiscal 2019 to Similarly, initiatives undertaken at the Trust Bank cases in which side jobs are permitted. In this way, Securing Future Top Management the beginning of fiscal 2020. These revisions were include those aimed at helping employees realize Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities is striving to aimed at ensuring the optimal evaluation of our their full potential in diverse fields as well as the help its employees fulfill their career goals in a way Candidates human resources in line with their contributions to incorporation of human resources management that transcends organizational boundaries. MUFG considers nurturing future top management business model reforms and appointing them based practices strongly focused on performance-based candidates to be an important management issue. In on the performance. appointment. In these ways, the Trust Bank aims to Through these initiatives, we are striving to support fiscal 2018, we established MUFG University for those become a company composed of a professional each employee’s pursuit of personal growth while in managerial positions or above to nurture such For example, in April 2019 the Bank adopted a team capable of supporting the creation of a safe enhancing our organizational strength. We also candidates. Thus far, a total of more than 400 people management policy allowing younger candidates in and prosperous society by delivering solutions to expect these initiatives to contribute to ongoing have completed programs provided at the university. their 30s to become branch managers and line issues confronting its customers and society as a corporate culture reforms and help develop a managers. In addition, a growing number of whole. structure that empowers employees to deliver MUFG University offers two different courses, namely, employees expressed their interest in acquiring an greater value to customers and society. the “Next-Generation Leader Course” and the even broader range of skills and/or specialist Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities completed “Management Course” in line with the needs of expertise in response to the revision of the its transition to a human resources evaluation system In addition, we conduct an annual Group Awareness attendees. The former instills practical viewpoints for conventional career course system and the resulting that puts greater focus on evaluating employees and Engagement Survey to monitor the effect of corporate management while nurturing conceptexpansion of career options offered to them. In sum, based on their professional ability to deliver highthese initiatives, utilizing survey results to plan and building capabilities for developing novel financial the positive effect of revised human resources value-added services. To this end, Mitsubishi UFJ implement various human resources-related businesses. The latter course provides a liberal arts systems is gradually emerging. Morgan Stanley Securities has introduced a measures. education aimed at enriching comprehensive ability compensation system that emphasizes rewarding and widening perspectives while implementing Hiring and Nurturing Human Resources With regard to human resources evaluation and employees based on how well they fulfill their global leadership training. Through the provision of development, we aim to support each employee's responsibilities. By doing so, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Supporting Value Creation these courses, we are striving to secure a robust pool 1) pursuit of professionalism, 2) will to overcome the Stanley Securities aims to ensure that each of its MUFG is focused on hiring and nurturing human of top management candidates. challenge of reform and 3) self-directed career employees finds their job rewarding and takes pride resources who always make their best efforts to go building. In particular, we have newly incorporated in it while encouraging them to overcome the beyond customer expectations, thereby inspiring In addition, MUFG has a special program targeting the second of these aims into evaluation items. challenge of reform to deliver new value. one another, and are clearly aware of their general and branch managers to enhance their Furthermore, we have adopted an even more professional responsibilities. We are also striving to coaching skills. This program is designed to help detailed set of indicators for assessing employees’ Initiatives to Encourage Employees to secure and nurture human resources capable of managers better understand how to encourage their strength and weakness to help them develop their Pursue Personal Growth and Challenging playing key professional roles in their areas of team members to employ their unique strengths, skills. We also support the realization of mediumto Endeavors specialty as reforms currently under way at MUFG to realize their full potential and take on the challenge long-term career plans via bidirectional MUFG is strongly focused on encouraging each update its business models and processes of venturing into new fields, with the expectation that communications between employees and their employee's self-directed career building and, to this particularly require such individuals. such initiatives will further improve employee supervisors. end, supports their growth and their ability to engagement. respond to challenges. Accordingly, we have in place Moreover, each Group company is proactively Through these initiatives, we will help each a number of frameworks designed to help them striving to nurture human resources by providing employee's self-development and create an acquire diverse experience, believing that the learning opportunities consisting mainly of on-the68 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 69 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Human Resources Strategy In recent years, the number of employees with employees acquire the proper mindset to gain origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, Nurturing Digital Specialists diverse backgrounds has grown larger than ever due success in and a more acute awareness of global age or health status. Based on this policy, we are We have launched various programs aimed at to the inclusion of ASEAN-based commercial banks business settings. promoting workforce diversity to create an facilitating digital transformation from the and global asset manager First Sentier Investors into organization and culture in which employees with perspective of human resources. For example, in the scope of consolidation. In response, we began We believe that these programs attract potential diverse value, backgrounds and perceptions of work light of the growing importance of digital utilization implementing job-level based training programs on a candidates from external sources while also helping can respect and inspire each other while freely in daily operations, we released an in-house global basis to ensure all Group members employees hired overseas remain highly motivated. pursuing personal growth and career success. e-learning program targeting all employees with the understand the Corporate Vision and embrace a Today, a growing number of individuals hired aim of helping them enhance digital literacy. We have shared culture. For example, we provide the Global overseas have been promoted to managerial posts. Each Group company has in place dedicated also hosted a workshop event in which top LEAD Program targeting managing director or similar For example, 15 of these individuals, including three organizations charged with promoting diversity & management discussed such themes as the positions at the Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley women, have assumed executive officer positions at inclusion while providing employees with training formulation of digital-driven management strategies Securities, Krungsri, MUFG Union Bank and other the Bank (as of March 31, 2020). programs to raise their diversity awareness. As we and AI-based operational process reforms. Group companies to help such employees acquire consider promoting gender diversity a priority issue, Furthermore, we upgraded the content of programs essential knowledge about and foundational skills Workstyle reforms in Japan, we had jointly aimed to raise the ratio of for newly appointed managers to meet the emerging associated with leadership as well as necessary female staff in managerial positions at the Bank, the needs for corporate culture reform initiatives and perspectives and in-depth expertise on global Trust Bank and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Promoting “Smart Work” leadership that aligns MUFG’s digital strategies. We operations. We also maintain the Three-month Securities to 24% by the end of March 2021, and our also initiated a selection program focused on Incentive Program, which places frontline employees MUFG aims to help employees realize their full progress has been periodically reported to top candidates’ practical skills to nurture human in different workplaces and provides them with onpotential and, to this end, is creating a workplace management. The ratio as of the end of March 2020 resources who will play core roles in digital the-job training in a way that transcends regional and environment that encourages them to autonomously amounted to 25%, surpassing the target. Looking transformation. In this way, we are enhancing our sectional boundaries. These programs are helping choose their working style so that they find their job ahead, we plan to update our target for the ratio of pool of digital specialists from both the quantitative rewarding. female managers to those in senior positions at these and qualitative aspects. Proportion of Overseas Employees*1 three Group companies and initiate the disclosure of (%) As we also aim to help employees allocate more time our targets for the number of female executive Nurturing Global Human Resources 60 52.9* 2 to engaging in direct communications with officers and the status of other female staff filling key 51.2 Today, the MUFG Group has expanded into more 50 customers and taking on new challenges, we have positions at each Group company. At the same time, 42.4 than 50 countries around the globe, with striven to streamline labor practices by revising we will continue to implement various training 38.5 40.5 approximately 51% of its entire workforce being 40 37.3 37.8 procedures and rules, going paperless and programs, including those aimed at nurturing future accounted for by overseas employees (as of May 31, 26.3 developing infrastructure for remote working. top management candidates as well as a mentoring 30 2020). As we aim to secure and nurture professionals 24.0 Currently, a rapidly growing number of employees program involving corporate executives, with the aim in a variety of fields at home and abroad, we are 20 choose to work from home or operate in staggered of promoting a great number of women as possible. employing a globally unified human resources work shifts due also to the spread of the COVID-19 platform supporting robust processes for title 10 virus. Looking ahead, we will accelerate the Also, MUFG has signed the HM Treasury Women in 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Year/month) management, employee evaluation, wage /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 development of our operating platforms for Finance Charter formulated by the United Kingdom’s determination and other human resources practices *1 Proportion of overseas employees to the total number of employees (consolidated accommodating employee needs for ever more Ministry of Treasury to improve gender diversity in that are consistent with market standards. basis), including part-time and temporary employees, presented in the financial reports. diverse working styles. the financial industry. In line with this signing, MUFG *2 Total headcount is as of May 31, 2019, reflecting the inclusion of Bank Danamon into the scope of consolidation. has publicized a target of achieving a 10% increase in In addition, the Bank introduced the “Workation”* the ratio of women in senior positions within its local Programs Aimed at Nurturing Digital Specialists (the Bank) program aimed at helping employees exercise workforce by 2022. Targets Main programs and their themes creativity and remain highly motivated. To create an inclusive workplace in which each Officers Workshop for top management The Bank also enhanced the content of paid leave employee can realize their potential and find their job General managers Future of the financial industry and the formulation of digital-driven management strategies granted to employees while encouraging them to rewarding, we also provide support to those New manager training proactively take leave, with the aim of helping them struggling to strike a balance between work and child Managers Corporate culture reforms that must go in tandem with MUFG’s digital strategies maintain their physical and emotional health. rearing, nursing care or infertility treatment. * A neologism that is a combination of the words work and vacation and refers to Moreover, we offer employment for people with Human Programs for human resources who will play core roles Mid-level resources who Training programs aimed at nurturing next-generation human resources who will spearhead employment while staying at a domestic or overseas resort or other setting that is traditionally considered a vacation destination. disabilities while striving to promote the employees play core roles digital transformation understanding of sexual minorities, including members of LGBTQ communities. In recent years, we New recruits and Programs for new recruits Promoting Diversity & Inclusion young employees Agile ways of thinking and working that align employee requirements in the digital era also introduced training programs designed to call MUFG has maintained a policy of eliminating any attention to and address issues arising from E-learning type of discrimination, including that based on race, unconscious biases. All employees Enhancement of digital literacy national origin, belief, religion, disabilities, family 70 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 71 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Toward Sustainable Growth in Independence and Diversity of Directors Non-executive directors Independent outside directors Corporate Value 11/16 9/16 Securing MUFG will aim to realize effective corporate governance through fair and highly transparent management Female directors 4/16 independence based on the guidance provided by MUFG Corporate Governance Policies. 68.7% 56.2% Foreign nationals 2/16 and diversity Director membership. In line with the succession plan Steps to Improve Our Governance Management Structure formulated by the Nominating and Governance Structure Committee, in April 2020, MUFG appointed a Group General Meeting of Shareholders Since its establishment, MUFG has aimed to build a CEO and, in June 2020, one outside director and two stable and effective corporate governance structure, directors. putting emphasis on ensuring external oversight. In Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group June 2015, MUFG transitioned to the “company with Due to these appointments, nine out of the current three committees” governance structure. The 16 members of the Board of Directors are Oversight functions of oversight and execution in the holding independent outside directors and include four Board of Directors Statutory Committees company are separated, thereby strengthening the women as well as two foreign nationals (from the Outside Directors Nominating and oversight function of the Board of Directors and United States and Thailand). With their backgrounds (Nine) Governance Committee having established more effective and efficient ranging from corporate managers, financial experts Directors (Seven) Compensation Committee governance. In June 2017, two foreign nationals were and lawyers to CPAs, the composition of outside appointed as directors. In June 2018, the total directors is well-balanced in terms of specialty, region Audit Committee number of directors was decreased, with outside and gender. directors accounting for the majority of the Board of Director Outside Director Risk Committee U.S. Risk Committee*1 Non-Executive Chairperson Director *1 Established based on the U.S. Prudential Regulations Corporate Governance Development October 2005〜 June 2015 June 2016 June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 June 2020 Execution Governance 2015 Executive Committee Global Advisory Board Company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Structure Company with three committees President & Group CEO 2014 Governance Committee 2015 Nominating and Governance Committee 2005 2008 (Statutory Nominating Committee) Nomination Committee Nomination and Compensation Committee Committees 2005 2015 C-Suite*2 Officers in Charge under the Compensation Committee Compensation Committee (Statutory) Board of 2005 2015 Planning and Administration Divisions Business Groups Directors Internal Audit and Compliance Committee Audit Committee (Statutory) 2013 2015 *2 Collective name for CFO, CRO and other chief positions Risk Committee Risk Committee 2016 U.S. Risk Committee 2013 Board of Evaluation of Board of Directors Directors 2015 Operations Independent Outside Directors Meeting/ Appointment of Lead Independent Outside Director MUFG Bank, Ltd. General Meeting of Shareholders 2015 Policy MUFG Corporate Governance Policies Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Cooperation Audit & Supervisory Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. Board of Directors Eight Eight Nine Nine Committee Outside Six Seven Directors (Two foreign (Constituting the majority) nationals) Membership includes outside directors and committee members (As of June 29, 2020) 72 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 73 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Roles Outside Directors Are Expected to Fulfill meeting, matters reported on were discussed Fiscal 2019 Initiatives At MUFG, outside directors are expected to fulfill the following six roles. intensively, with the fundamental revision of NICOS’s MUFG’s Board of Directors is charged with decision system integration plan coming under particular Exercise the oversight of conflicts of interest that may occur between ● Supervise executives’ duties from an independent and objective ● MUFG and top management executives or MUFG and controlling making regarding fundamental management policies scrutiny by the outside directors, who approached standpoint shareholders while exercising supervision over management. In the issue from multilateral perspectives. This ● Provide advice and other assistance to top management executives ● Contribute to sustainable corporate development and mediumto longgeneral, authority over matters other than legally eventually resulted in the formulation of a new based on their experience and expertise term growth in MUFG’s corporate value mandatory items that should be decided by the system integration plan. ● Engage in timely and appropriate decision making in the course of ● Sufficiently discuss matters reported or proposed by top management Board of Directors is delegated to corporate deliberating investment and other management judgments via the careful examination of the reasoning behind the proposals and other executives by requesting supplementary explanation where necessary executives to ensure highly flexible management. Length of Board of Directors Meetings (hours) and by contributing their opinions information presented to them Presentations on agenda items Deliberation (left axis) Since the transition to the “company with three (Hours) Average length of one regular meeting (right axis) (Hours) Current position at MUFG and committees” governance structure in June 2015, the 50：00 1:29 2:15 2:09 3:16 5:26 5:00 6:19 7:41 9 Name Specialty Reasons for appointment committee-related duties Board of Directors has conducted periodic reviews of 8 Member of the Board of Directors Having worked for the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Fujii has been its agenda items and operations as a whole. As a Chair of the Risk Committee serving as a professor at the University of Tokyo’s Research result, the average length of regularly scheduled 40：00 38:14 Center for Advanced Science and Technology and ambassador 7 Mariko Fujii Member of the Nominating and Finance extraordinary and plenipotentiary of Japan. She has thus Board of Directors meetings grew to seven hours 41 34:44 Governance Committee and the accumulated specialist expertise in finance and economics 33:18 Compensation Committee while boasting extensive experience in these fields. minutes in fiscal 2019. The Board of Directors has 6 28:32 maintained a vigorous level of debate with the aim of 30：00 26% 32% 26:26 54% Having worked at McKinsey & Company Inc. Japan, Ms. Honda strengthening its supervisory functions and thereby 20:27 24:29 25:16 5 Keiko served as CEO of Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency of the 6% Member of the Board of Directors Finance World Bank Group. She has thus accumulated specialist expertise improving MUFG’s corporate value. 74% 68% 36% 56% 4 Honda in finance and economics while boasting extensive experience in 20：00 39% 43% these fields. 94% 3 MUFG believes that insights offered by outside directors who are well-versed in its management 10：00 64% 2 Member of the Board of Directors 61% 57% Member of the Nominating and Mr. Kato has fulfilled a number of key management positions, strategies are essential to enhancing the content of 44% 46% Kaoru Kato Corporate including President & CEO of NTT DOCOMO, Inc. and is equipped 1 Governance Committee, the Compensation Committee management with extensive experience as a corporate manager and invaluable discussions at the Board of Directors meetings. expertise. and the Audit Committee MUFG is therefore striving to ensure that outside 0：00 0 directors are given sufficient information about 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Member of the Board of Directors agenda items by providing them with materials and Haruka Chair of the Compensation giving presentations before meetings. In addition, Legal Ms. Matsuyama boasts extensive experience as a lawyer and is Committee Matsuyama Member of the Nominating and affairs equipped with specialist expertise in a broad range of legal affairs. outside directors have opportunities outside the Agenda Items Discussed by the Board of Directors Governance Committee Board and committee meetings to intensively ● Fiscal 2020 business plan deliberate on the MUFG Group’s business strategies ● Financial targets and shareholder return measures Mr. Myerson boasts extensive experience as a lawyer and is and issues. Moreover, we strive to secure robust ● Internal audit plan Toby S. Member of the Board of Directors Legal Myerson Member of the Risk Committee affairs equipped with specialist expertise in corporate legal affairs and communication between outside directors and ● Report from CRO, CCO and other C-Suite personnel M&A. MUFG’s managerial positions by holding special ● Bank Danamon’s performance status meetings on multiple occasions. Our efforts to ● The status of post-merger integration at First Sentier Investors ● Initiatives for suitability Having fulfilled a number of key management positions, including increase opportunities for outside directors to Member of the Board of Directors ● Cost structure reforms Hirofumi Chair of the Nominating and Corporate that of President & Representative Director of Tokyu Corporation, understand MUFG’s business operations resulted in Governance Committee Inc., Mr. Nomoto is currently serving as Chairman & Representative Nomoto Member of the Compensation management Director of this firm and boasts extensive experience and the enhancement of the quality of discussions at Committee invaluable expertise as a corporate manager. Board of Directors meetings, leading to a number of Subjects Addressed at Board Educational Sessions improvements in actual corporate governance Mr. Shingai has fulfilled a number of key management positions, including ● Cyber security measures Corporate Senior Vice President & CFO of Japan Tobacco Inc., Executive Vice functions. Member of the Board of Directors ● Initiatives to address issues associated with the non-JPY Yasushi management/ President and Deputy CEO of JT International S.A., and Representative Member of the Audit Committee balance sheet Shingai Finance & Director and Executive Vice President of Japan Tobacco Inc., boasting and the Risk Committee accounting extensive experience as a corporate manager as well as specialist For example, at the four rounds of regularly ● Overseas business governance expertise in corporate finance and accounting systems and M&A. scheduled Board of Directors meetings in fiscal 2019, ● Strategic policy on the payment business there were periodic reports on the status of NICOS, a ● Reform of human resources system from the perspective of Having served as Governor of the Bank of Thailand, Ms. subsidiary whose assets were impaired in fiscal 2018 transforming a corporate culture Tarisa Member of the Board of Directors ● The status of fiscal 2020 business planning for business groups Watanagase Member of the Risk Committee Finance Watanagase boasts extensive experience as an economist and is in connection with system integration. At each equipped with specialist expertise in finance and economy. Akira Member of the Board of Directors Finance & Mr. Yamate boasts extensive experience as a CPA and is equipped Yamate Chair of the Audit Committee accounting with specialist expertise in accounting and auditing. 74 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 75 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Audit Committee Evaluation Framework of the Working completed questionnaires collected. The evaluation Outline of Committees With an outside director as Chairperson, the Practices of the Board of Directors’ confirmed improvement in the effectiveness of the Nominating and Governance Committee Committee examines the execution of business by Board of Directors’ operations, such as the selection Operation With an outside director as Chairperson, the directors and corporate executives and prepares of agenda items and the manner of handling Committee discusses matters related to the auditing reports. As part of its supervision over Since 2013, MUFG has employed external discussion thanks to the incorporation of a nomination of candidates for major management business execution, it also monitors and oversees the consultants to evaluate the working practices of its comprehensive list laying out material challenges to positions in the holding company or major content of financial reporting as well as the status of Board of Directors. Each director is asked to fill in a be discussed by the Board and the formulation of an subsidiaries, as well as corporate governance policies risk management, internal control, regulatory questionnaire and is interviewed on such subjects as annual schedule based on the list. and frameworks in place at these entities, and makes compliance, internal audits and external audits, the composition of key committees, the quality of recommendations to the Board of Directors. thereby supplementing supervisory functions of the the preparatory materials assembled prior to each On the other hand, it was reconfirmed that MUFG Board of Directors. meeting, the content of discussions, the operations must step up its efforts to upgrade the corporate Compensation Committee of the Board, the Board’s contributions, and the governance structure to enhance its resilience and With an outside director as Chairperson, the Risk Committee performance of executive members. The results of secure sustainable growth in the face of the Committee decides on matters associated with the With an outside director as Chairperson, the these questionnaires and interviews are reported to prolonged, ultra-low interest rate environment, the compensation of directors and corporate executives Committee mainly examines important risk factors and discussed at the Nominating and Governance deceleration of economic growth and the at the holding company and its major subsidiaries that may impact on business operations, such as Committee and the Board of Directors. advancement of digitalization as well as the radically and makes recommendations to the Board of foreign currency liquidity risk, cyber attacks and evolving business environment due to major changes Directors. other significant IT risks as well as risks arising from In the course of the fiscal 2019 evaluation, interviews affecting the economy and society following the the COVID-19 pandemic, and submits its were undertaken in February and March 2020 and COVID-19 pandemic. recommendations to the Board of Directors. Fiscal 2019 Status of the Board of Directors and Committee Meetings Fiscal 2019 Evaluation of the Working Practices of the Board of Directors Nominating and Fiscal 2018 evaluation Fiscal 2019 initiatives Fiscal 2019 evaluation Board of Directors Compensation Audit Risk Governance Number of meetings 10 14 8 16 4 Evaluation Attendance ratio Steady progress in the upgrading 100% 100% 100% 97.5% 95.0% of corporate governance (all members) structure Attendance ratio 100% 100% 100% 97.9% 100% (outside directors) Issues to be addressed Evaluation ● Incorporated a comprehensive list laying ● Confirmed improvement in the effectiveness of the Board of Directors’ out challenges and formulated an annual Nominating and Need to clearly rank agenda items by operations Committee Membership* Governance Compensation Audit Risk priority schedule ● Strengthened open issue management at ● The further enhancement of the quality of discussion with regard to mediumto long-term strategies and business portfolio can be expected the Independent Outside Directors Meeting Mariko Fujii Outside director ◯ ◯ ◎ ● Stepped up collaboration between the Kaoru Kato Outside director ◯ ◯ ◯ Need to strengthen corporate Audit Committee at the holding company and the similar committees at subsidiaries ● Progress in efforts to ensure information sharing between the Audit governance structure on a Haruka Matsuyama Outside director ◯ ◎ groupwide, cross-regional basis ● Held a meeting attended by outside Committee and the similar committees at subsidiaries directors from Group companies to facilitate the exchange of opinions Toby S. Myerson Outside director ◯ Newly included two corporate ◎ ◯ ● Hirofumi Nomoto Outside director management experts and one specialist in Need to incorporate specialist finance and economy into the rank of the ● Confirmed that outside directors, including newly appointed individuals, Yasushi Shingai Outside director ◯ ◯ expertise into Board of Directors’ discussions holding company’s outside directors have been contributing to brisk discussion ● Appointed one IT specialist as an outside Tarisa Watanagase Outside director ◯ expert of the Risk Committee Akira Yamate Outside director ◎ ● Held reporting sessions addressing progress in the reform of MUFG’s corporate Need to monitor initiatives to reform ● Refreshed the recognition of the importance of corporate culture reforms MUFG’s corporate culture on an culture and results of the Group Awareness Junichi Okamoto Non-executive director ◯ ongoing basis and Engagement Survey and confirmed that maintaining ongoing efforts is essential ● Decided to revise the Code of Conduct Ritsuo Ogura Non-executive director ◯ Hironori Kamezawa Director, President & Group CEO ◯ ◯ Issues to be addressed ● Need to maintain in-depth and meaningful discussion by the Board of Naomi Hayashi Managing corporate executive, Group CSO ◯ Directors contributing to the enhancement of corporate value Shinichi Koide Outside expert ◯ ● Need to more robustly monitor the status of groupwide, cross-regional business strategies with an eye on the risks inherent in such strategies Atsushi Miyanoya Outside expert ◯ ● Need to enhance the efficiency of the Board of Directors’ operations Kazuhiko Ohashi Outside expert ◯ ● Need to facilitate ongoing initiatives to reform MUFG’s corporate culture * ◎ represents Chair of each committee (As of June 29, 2020) 76 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 77 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance The content and level of compensation may be external experts in areas such as corporate Compensation System Global Advisory Board adjusted by the Compensation Committee—which is management, financial regulation, and government MUFG has adopted a performance-based stock chaired by an outside director—in light of prevailing MUFG has established the Global Advisory Board to policy. They provide advice and recommendations compensation plan to provide greater incentives for economic, social and industrial trends, the business function as an advisory body to the Executive a on groupwide management, global governance, management members and executives to maintain environment surrounding the MUFG Group, its Committee, and the Board holds regular meetings. business strategy and other management issues an awareness of the Group’s overall corporate consolidated business performance and the status of The Global Advisory Board is made up of members from an independent standpoint. performance, stock price and capital efficiency over employment markets in the place where hiring is from Japan, Europe, Asia, and the Americas who are the mediumto long-term when pursuing their taking place. In the course of determining duties. Compensation consists of basic compensation, MUFG also refers to data gleaned via compensation, stock compensation and bonuses, objective research undertaken by external specialists with the latter two components being determined with the intention of setting it at a level appropriate Ambassador John V. Roos Professor Merit E. Janow based on evaluation indices that include ROE and the to maintaining competitiveness. Former United States Ambassador to Japan Dean, School of International and Public Affairs, expense ratio. Columbia University Former Member of Appellate Body, World Trade Organization Composition of compensation (example: compensation paid to Group CEO) Stock compensation Officers’ bonuses Basic compensation (fixed) (Non-performance-based) (Mediumtolong-term (short-term performance-based) Ms. Anne Le Lorier Lord (James) Sassoon, Kt performance-based) 1 1 1 Former Deputy Governor of the Banque de Former Commercial Secretary to the Treasury, France (Central Bank of France) United Kingdom Targets assigned to recipients under the performance-based stock compensation plan and actual results (based on the current medium-term business plan) Results Time Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 span for Performance indices Weight Targets Achievement Achievement Dr. Victor K Fung Mr. George Yeo evaluation Total Total vis-à-vis one vis-à-vis one evaluation evaluation Group Chairman, Fung Group, Hong Kong Former Singapore Minister for Foreign Affairs index index Former Honorary Chairman, the International Consolidated net operating 25% Determined based 100% 0% Chamber of Commerce Single profits on comparisons with 120% 0% fiscal year Profits attributable to owners 25% competitors 140% 0% of parent Consolidated ROE Medium(based on MUFG’s standard) 25% Fiscal 2020: 7%–8% Ms. Emi Osono Mr. Akio Mimura to long― term Fiscal 2020: A level below the Consolidated expense ratio 25% fiscal 2017 result (68%) Professor, Hitotsubashi University Graduate Honorary Chairman, NIPPON STEEL School of Business Administration, Department CORPORATION Evaluation indices used to determine bonuses and actual results (example: compensation paid to Group CEO) of International Corporate Strategy Fiscal 2018 bonuses Fiscal 2019 bonuses Performance-based indices Weight Achievement Payment ratio Achievement Payment ratio Total evaluation 100% 89.1% 87.5% 77.4% 50.0% Quantitative evaluation (the combination of four indices, including ROE) 60% 98.5% ― 95.7% ― Qualitative evaluation 40% 75.0% ― 50.0% ― Global Advisory Board Annual Meeting *1 Quantitative evaluation of achievement in connection with each index is undertaken by placing equal weight on year-on-year changes and the ratio of actual results to annual targets. *2 Qualitative evaluation uses a six-grade rating system, while total evaluation, which combines quantitative and qualitative evaluation, uses a seven-grade rating system. *3 All evaluation results are determined solely by independent outside directors via discussion at the Compensation Committee. In November 2019, MUFG held its seventh annual Global Advisory Board meeting in Tokyo. In addition to Global Advisory Board members, attendees included MUFG officers, directors, outside directors and executives from overseas partner banks, namely, Holding the First Round of the Group Outside Director Meeting MUFG Union Bank (the United States), Krungsri (Thailand), Security Bank (the Philippines), VietinBank In fiscal 2019, MUFG convened the first round of a of opinion on how to strengthen Group governance (Vietnam) and Bank Danamon (Indonesia). meeting attended by outside directors from Group and update each other on the challenges each entity companies, believing that, as a global corporate is confronting. The meeting helped them achieve At the meeting, each member shared their insights group handling comprehensive financial services, it consensus regarding matters associated with into matters that may affect MUFG’s strategies, such must enhance the governance system on a collaboration between individuals bearing as the ongoing struggle between the United States groupwide, cross-regional basis. All outside directors supervisory functions and issues executives at the and China for global hegemony, ESG issues, and from the holding company, the Bank, the Trust Bank holding company and subsidiaries presently face, opportunities and challenges arising from the and the Securities met at one place along with those thereby further strengthening the governance emergence of tech giants handling digital platforms, entities’ chairs and CEOs to engage in an exchange framework. prompting brisk discussion. 78 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 79 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance As of July 1, 2020 ● Type and Number of MUFG Shares Owned as of March 31, 2020 Board of Directors (Dilutive Shares: The number of corresponding vested points in the stock compensation system using a trust structure.) ■ Attendance at Board of Directors Meetings (FY2019) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors Audit Committee Member Mariko Fujii Haruka Matsuyama Yasushi Shingai ● Ordinary Shares: 0 ■ 8/8*1 ● Ordinary Shares: 4,040 ■ 10/10 ● Ordinary Shares: 0 ■ 10/10 Junichi Okamoto Former Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Former Executive Deputy President and Representative ● Ordinary Shares: 182,892 ■ 10/10 Partner, Hibiya Park Law Offices of Japan to the Republic of Latvia Director of Japan Tobacco Inc. Emeritus Professor of The University of Tokyo 1977 Joined Ministry of Finance of Japan 1995 Assistant Judge, the Tokyo District Court 1980 Joined Japan Tobacco and Salt Public Corporation (current Japan 1997 Director, International Affairs and Research Division, Customs and Tariff 2000 Registered as an attorney at law, Member of the Daini Tokyo Bar Tobacco Inc.) Bureau, Ministry of Finance Association 2001 Vice President of Finance Planning Division of Japan Tobacco Inc. 1999 Associate Professor, Research Center for Advanced Science and Joined Hibiya Park Law Offices 2004 Senior Vice President, Head of Finance Group of Japan Tobacco Inc. Member of the Board of Directors Technology, the University of Tokyo 2002 Partner of Hibiya Park Law Offices (current) Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Japan Tobacco Inc. Audit Committee Member 2001 Professor, Research Center for Advanced Economic Engineering, the 2012 Outside Corporate Auditor of Vitec Co., Ltd. 2005 Member of the Board, Senior Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer Ritsuo Ogura University of Tokyo 2013 Outside Director of T&D Holdings, Inc. (current) of Japan Tobacco Inc. ● Ordinary Shares: 88,534 Dilutive Shares: 49,388 ■ − 2004 Professor, Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology, 2014 External Audit & Supervisory Board member of MITSUI & CO., LTD. 2006 Member of the Board of Japan Tobacco Inc. National University Corporation, the University of Tokyo (current) Executive Vice President and Deputy CEO of JT International S.A. 2014 Outside Director of Electric Power Development Co., Ltd. Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) 2011 Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Japan Tobacco 2015 Retired from the University of Tokyo 2015 Outside Director of Vitec Co., Ltd. (currently Restar Holdings Corporation) Inc. Retired from Outside Director of Electric Power Development Co., Ltd. (current) 2014 External Board Director of Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to the Republic 2018 Member of the Board of Japan Tobacco Inc. of Latvia 2018 Outside Director of Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. (current) 2016 Emeritus Professor of The University of Tokyo (current) 2018 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) Member of the Board of Directors 2019 Retired from Ambassador of Japan to the Republic of Latvia 2019 Outside Director of Dai-ichi Life Holdings, Inc. (current) Chairman (Corporate Executive) 2019 Outside Director of NTT DATA Corporation (current) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) Toby S. Myerson Nobuyuki Hirano ● Ordinary Shares: 82,141 Dilutive Shares: 647,933 ■ 10/10 ● Ordinary Shares: 368*2 ■ 10/10 Chairman & CEO, Longsight Strategic Advisors LLC Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Tarisa Watanagase ● Ordinary Shares: 0 ■ 10/10 Keiko Honda Former Governor, the Bank of Thailand ● Ordinary Shares: 0 ■ − 1977 Registered as an attorney at law, admitted in States of New York and Former Chief Executive Officer of Multilateral California in the United States Member of the Board of Directors Investment Guarantee Agency, World Bank Group 1981 Joined Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP Deputy Chairman (Representative Corporate Executive) 1983 Partner of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1989 Managing Director of Wesserstein Perella & Co. Inc 1975 Joined the Bank of Thailand Kanetsugu Mike 1990 Partner of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 1988 Economist, International Monetary Fund (On the Secondment) ● Ordinary Shares: 49,362 Dilutive Shares: 379,720 ■ 10/10 1984 Joined Bain & Company Japan, Inc. 2014 Outside Director of MUFG Union Bank, N.A. (current) 2002 Deputy Governor of the Bank of Thailand President & CEO, MUFG Bank, Ltd. 1986 Joined Shearson Lehman Brothers Securities Co., Ltd. 2016 Retired from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP 2006 Governor of the Bank of Thailand 1989 Joined McKinsey & Company Inc. Japan 2017 Chairman & CEO of Longsight Strategic Advisors LLC (current) 2010 Retired from the Bank of Thailand 1999 Partner of McKinsey & Company Inc. Japan 2017 Outside Director of MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation (current) 2013 Outside Director of the Siam Cement Public Company Limited (current) 2007 Director (Senior Partner) of McKinsey & Company Inc. Japan 2017 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) 2017 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) 2013 Chief Executive Officer of Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, 2019 Independent Director, TRU (UK) Asia Limited World Bank Group 2019 Retired from Chief Executive Officer of Multilateral Investment Guarantee Member of the Board of Directors Agency, World Bank Group Deputy Chairman (Representative Corporate Executive) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) 2020 Adjunct Professor and Adjunct Senior Research Scholar of School of Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Saburo Araki International and Public Affairs, Columbia University (current) Akira Yamate ● Ordinary Shares: 210,980 Dilutive Shares: 71,264 ■ 10/10 Outside Director of AGC Inc. (current) Hirofumi Nomoto ● Ordinary Shares: 0 ■ 10/10 President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) ● Ordinary Shares: 25,000 ■ 8/8*1 Certified Public Accountant President & CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Chairman & Representative Director, Tokyu Corporation Co., Ltd. Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) 1977 Joined Price Waterhouse Japan Kaoru Kato 1971 Joined Tokyu Corporation 1983 Registered as Certified Public Accountant in Japan Member of the Board of Directors ● Ordinary Shares: 0 ■ 8/8*1 2003 Executive General Manager of Media Business Headquarters of Tokyu 1991 Representative Partner of Aoyama Audit Corporation Deputy Chairman (Representative Corporate Executive) Corporate Advisor, NTT DOCOMO, INC. Corporation Partner of Price Waterhouse Iwao Nagashima 2004 President & Representative Director of its communications Inc. 2000 Representative Partner of Chuo Aoyama Audit Corporation 2007 Director of Tokyu Corporation Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers ● Ordinary Shares: 90,581 Dilutive Shares: 246,603 ■ − Executive Officer of Real Estate Development Business Unit of Tokyu 2006 Representative Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata President and CEO, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corporation 2013 Resigned from PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata Corporation 1977 Joined Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation (NTT) 2008 Managing Director of Tokyu Corporation External Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nomura Real Estate 1999 General Manager of Plant Department of NTT Kansai Mobile Senior Managing Director of Tokyu Corporation Holdings, Inc. Communications Network, Inc. 2010 Executive Officer & Senior Executive General Manager of Urban Life External Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nomura Real Estate 2000 General Manager of Plant Department of NTT DoCoMo Kansai, Inc. Produce Business Unit of Tokyu Corporation Development, Co., Ltd. 2002 General Manager of Corporate Strategy and Planning Department, 2010 Senior Managing Director & Representative Director of Tokyu Corporation 2015 Retired from External Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nomura Real Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors of NTT DoCoMo Kansai, Inc. 2011 President & Representative Director, Tokyu Corporation Estate Development, Co., Ltd. President & Group CEO (Representative Corporate 2005 Representative Director and Senior Corporate Executive Officer of 2018 Chairman & Representative Director, Tokyu Corporation (current) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) Executive) Sumitomo Mitsui Card Co., Ltd. 2019 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) External Director of Nomura Real Estate Holdings, Inc. 2007 Executive Vice President, General Manager of Corporate Strategy and External Member of Board of Statutory Auditors, Prudential Holdings of Hironori Kamezawa Planning Department, Member of the Board of Directors of NTT DoCoMo Japan, Inc. (current) ● Ordinary Shares: 25,539 Dilutive Shares: 277,194 ■ 8/8*1 Kansai, Inc. 2019 Retired from External Director of Nomura Real Estate Holdngs, Inc Member of the Board of Directors, MUFG Bank, Ltd. 2008 Executive Vice President, General Manager of Corporate Strategy and External Director of Nomura Real Estate Development, Co., Ltd. Planning Department, Member of the Board of Directors of NTT 2020 Retired from External Director of Nomura Real Estate Development, Co., Ltd. DOCOMO, Inc. 2012 President and Chief Executive Officer, Member of the Board of Directors of NTT DOCOMO, Inc. 2016 Corporate Advisor, Member of the Board of Directors of NTT DOCOMO, *1 Status of attendance to Board of Directors meetings by Ms. Mariko Fujii, Mr. Kaoru Inc. Kato, Mr. Hirofumi Nomoto and Mr. Hironori Kamezawa, represents the status of 2018 Corporate Advisor of NTT DOCOMO, Inc. (current) attendance to meetings held since they assumed office in June 2019. 2019 Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director), MUFG (current) *2 Ownership substantially in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) 80 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 81 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Communicating with Stakeholders To secure sustainable growth and enhance its corporate value, MUFG proactively engages in Doubling down on Our Customer Focus communications with customers, employees and other stakeholders throughout society and takes heed of their expectations and requests regarding improvements in its business management. In line with the MUFG Group Code of Conduct, customer-centric approach and endeavor to improve which addresses the importance of “Customer their products and services. Moreover, eight Focus” in Chapter 1, we are striving to ensure that a domestic Group companies disclose the status of customer-centric approach is thoroughly embraced their initiatives related to fiduciary duties and KPIs for by all employees. such initiatives. In addition, the holding company is engaged in the monitoring of initiatives undertaken To this end, MUFG announced the MUFG Basic by each Group company while periodically reviewing Policy for Fiduciary Duties to provide unified guiding the aforementioned policy. By doing so, we aim to principles for the Group. In line with this policy, all promote customer-centric business operations. ● Collection of customer feedback Group entities share a commitment to practicing a ● Dialogue via face-to-face and non face-to-face channels ● Website ● Participation in various initiatives Customers The environment ● Participation in community activities Dialogue with Employees ● Partnership agreements with local governments MUFG holds town hall meetings and round-table ● Purchasing activities ● Business alliance and collaboration ● Provision of financial and economic literacy education conferences aimed at enhancing mutual Business Communities understanding between top management and partners employees and ensuring that MUFG’s visions and policies are shared by all. Moreover, the revision of ● General Meeting of Shareholders human resources management systems is under ● MUFG Group Awareness and ● Presentation meetings for way, with a particular focus placed on rewarding Engagement Survey investors Saburo Araki, president of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities, and branch staff ● Town hall meetings ● IR seminars employees who take a proactive stance toward who engaged in a round-table talk with him as part of his branch visit in February 2020 Shareholders ● Whistle-blowing system Employees and investors ● Individual meetings taking on the challenge of driving innovation. In addition, the Bank invites employees to join in dialogue with officers to discuss forward-looking themes, as part of initiatives aimed at facilitating employee action toward corporate culture reforms.* We also use the periodic Group Awareness and Engagement Survey to draw on employee feedback to improve business management. A June 2020 town hall meeting attended by Iwao Nagashima, president of the Trust * Please refer to page 67 for details on these initiatives. Dialogue with Customers Bank, with all attendees taking thorough precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 MUFG aims to improve its products and services by collecting, analyzing and internally sharing opinions ● Seminars for shareholders: Seven occasions; Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors contributed by and requests voiced by customers. In approximately 1,400 attendees fiscal 2019, such customer feedback collected by the Having placed great emphasis on maintaining ● Seminars and presentation meetings (including five main Group companies* amounted to dialogue with shareholders and investors, MUFG is online presentation meetings) for individual approximately 190,000 inputs. Responding to this striving to ensure that its management strategies investors: Seven occasions; approximately 1,200 feedback, we have made a total of 445 and financial data are clearly understood by these participants improvements in our services. These improvements stakeholders via timely and appropriate information ● Seminars and presentation meetings for included the launch of an app-based procedure for disclosure. institutional investors: 11 occasions the suspension and reissuance of cash cards and ● Individual meetings with institutional investors: bank books, a procedure that had previously required In June 2020, the Annual General Meeting of 424 occasions (including 290 occasions of customers to visit branches or consult with bank Shareholders was held with due consideration given individual meetings with overseas investors) personnel by telephone. In addition, we also draw on to the safety of attendees, with a significant number the results of periodic customer satisfaction surveys of seats removed from the venue to prevent the In addition to the above, we periodically send out to improve our services, closely analyzing items in spread of the COVID-19 virus. Events held in fiscal questionnaires to shareholders and draw on which respondents gave us low ratings. 2019 to facilitate dialogue with shareholders and feedback contributed by respondents to improve the investors are as listed below. content of shareholder booklets and organize * The Bank, the Trust Bank, MUMSS, NICOS and ACOM shareholder events. 82 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 83 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Risk Management Risk Appetite Framework Basic Policy Risk Appetite Framework Management Management Plan MUFG aims to strengthen its Group risk management Process and the Formulation of a Risk through the diffusion of a risk culture that Appetite Statement Financial Plan Risk Appetite strengthens the structure of Group business In the formulation and execution of its business • Net operating profit Organic Correlation • Capital allocation plan and RWA plan • Net income Capital strategy and distribution based on management as well as enterprise risk management. strategy and financial plan, MUFG will set the • ROE risk Our goal is effective risk governance that is appropriate level of risk appetite and proceed to • RORA Business Strategy • Liquidity risk, etc. • Expenses ratio consistent across regions, subsidiaries and the monitor and analyze risk volume. • Common equity Tier 1 Ratio Risk appetite for difficult-to-quantify risk • Group business strategy holding company. In order to effectively implement the Risk Appetite Risk Culture Furthermore, the Risk Appetite Framework provides Framework, risk evaluation and verification guidelines for effective risk management that backs procedures, such as Top Risk management, stress our business strategy and financial plan while tests and the capital allocation system, will be applied Top Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management supporting efforts to avoid unexpected losses and at every stage of the management planning process. The potential losses that emerge from scenario enhance risk return management. MUFG makes every effort to recognize the risks that analysis are classified as risks and then their relative Furthermore, even after the plan is formulated, we emerge in the course of business execution, importance is weighed according to degree of Risk Appetite Framework are ready to take immediate action in emergency assessing them according to uniform criteria. impact and probability. The risks that need to be The Risk Appetite Framework aims to clarify MUFG’s situations through the monitoring of the set risk Enterprise risk management is then conducted while watched most closely over the next year are risk appetite (types and amount of risk that it is willing appetite. maintaining business stability and striving to classified as Top Risks and a risk map is created, to accept) as it works to achieve its business strategy maximize shareholder value. Enterprise risk thereby ensuring a forward-looking approach to risk and financial plan. The framework is designed to The Risk Appetite Statement elucidates the Risk management is a proactive approach, promoting management. Moreover, this approach also increase management transparency and generate Appetite Framework, which embodies MUFG’s stable profits commensurate with risk as well as the addresses mediumto long-term risks, including more profit opportunities in an environment where attempts to achieve an integrated group strategy appropriate allocation of resources. those associated with digitalization and ESG issues, risk is properly controlled. along with effective risk management. with robust measures being prepared to ensure our Enterprise risk management is composed of three responsiveness to emergencies. main strands: Top Risk management, stress tests and (Major Top Risks identified by MUFG are as listed the capital allocation system. below.) Major Top Risks Risk events Risk scenarios Risk Management System Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) ● Our overall profitability may be adversely affected by, among other things, a decline in our net interest A decline in profitability income due to further reductions in interest rates as a result of changes in the monetary policies of (including a decline in net interest income) central banks in various jurisdictions in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and deterioration in global economic conditions. Risk Committee Board of Directors ● Deterioration in market conditions may result in a depletion of foreign currency funding liquidity and an Foreign currency liquidity risk increase in our foreign currency funding costs. Risk Management Committee Management Planning U.S. Risk Committee Executive Committee (including crisis management) Committee (including ALM) ● Sudden deterioration in global economic activities may result in an increase in our credit costs. An increase in credit costs ● Deterioration in the credit quality of particular industries or counterparties, to which we have relatively Credit & Investment larger exposures, may result in an increase in our credit costs. Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, Management Committee Corporate Risk Management Operational Risk, ● Cyber-attacks may result in customer information leakage, financial service outage and reputational Div. (coordinates risk Operations Risk, IT risk damage. management) Credit Committee Reputation Risk, Model Risk ● System failures may result in our payment of financial compensation and damage to our reputation. Credit Policy & Planning Div. Credit Risk Risks relating to money laundering, ● If we are deemed not complaint with applicable regulations relating to money laundering, economic economic sanctions, bribery and sanctions, bribery and corruption, we may become subject to issuance of business suspension orders, corruption fines and reputational damage. Global Compliance Div. Information Risk Global Financial Crimes Noncompliance with Laws ● Failing to comply with laws and regulations, breaching a social norm, conducting improper business / Division and Regulations Risk Market conduct risk market practices or lacking perspective on customers' interests may result in administrative business suspension orders, payment of fines or damage to our reputation. Operations & Systems IT Risk IT Risk Planning Div. Risks relating to external circumstances or events (such as ● Health pandemics, natural disasters, conflicts and terrorist attacks may result in disruption to all or part Corporate Administration Div. Tangible Asset Risk health pandemics, earthquakes, of our operations or an increase in costs and expenses in addressing such circumstances or events. floods, terrorism, etc.) Human Resources Div Personnel Risk ● If our efforts to address climate change-related risks or to make appropriate disclosure are deemed Legal Div. Legal Risk insufficient, our corporate value may be impaired. Climate change-related risks ● Our credit portfolio may be adversely affected by the negative impact of climate change on our borrowers and transaction counterparties. * The aforementioned risk scenarios are examples of scenarios reported to MUFG’s Board of Directors after being discussed at a Risk Committee meeting held in March 2020. These scenarios include types of incidents that are not necessarily specific to MUFG and can happen to business corporations in general. 84 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 85 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Risk Management Stress Tests In 2018, we enacted the Cyber Security Management Incident Response Structure security specialists, all the constituents of our ● Stress tests for capital adequacy assessment Declaration with the intention of securing robust MUFG has been upgrading the ability of its incident organization, ranging from top management In formulating its business strategy, MUFG regularly responsiveness to cyber attacks and crimes that response teams to ensure that cyber security members to frontline employees, must be equipped assesses its internal capital adequacy through stress have become increasingly sophisticated and incidents are dealt with swiftly. With MUFG-CERT* in with accurate knowledge with regard to the varied tests based on Basel III capital adequacy regulations. complex and strengthening our IT security structure charge of overseeing the implementation of cyber risks they face in light of their job ranks and duties Stress tests analyze the prevailing economic under the direct supervision of top management. In security measures at each Group company, efforts and how to properly respond to such risks in the environment at home and abroad as well as the the same year, we also appointed a Chief Information are currently under way to secure close collaboration wake of increasingly sophisticated and complex future outlook while giving due consideration to Top Security Officer (CISO). with government agencies and robust partnerships cyber security threats. Risks and the MUFG Group’s business structure. The with other financial institutions for the periodic three-year-period scenarios are thus created and Under the CISO’s leadership, we have been execution of cyber security training and drills aimed With this in mind, all employees participate in utilized to calculate and assess the impact on our implementing measures to strengthen IT security at securing preparedness to incidents. educational programs focused on the importance of capital ratio of the materialization of risks. This also governance systems and efficiently promote effective * Computer Emergency Response Team cyber security as well as drills that teach the handling helps us verify the propriety of our business strategy. cyber security strategies. We have also developed a of suspicious e-mails. Meanwhile, top management structure for reporting to the Board of Directors and Our Response to Digital Transformation members attend training sessions designed to ● Liquidity stress tests the Executive Committee that facilitates top MUFG is proactively pushing ahead with digital enhance their understanding of cyber security issues. In liquidity stress tests, the impact of MUFG-specific management decision making, ensuring that the transformation initiatives, including the utilization of When the COVID-19 pandemic prompted an increase or overall market stress on the balance sheet is Group is responsive to changes in cyber security cloud services, big data, AI, robotics, open APIs and in the number of employees choosing to work assessed so as to implement MUFG’s business threats as well as in the status of MUFG’s cyber other new technologies to update mode of its remotely, we acted quickly to call their attention to strategy and financial plan. Various options for security management. operations. cyber security by, for example, distributing in-house responding to short-term fund outflows or long-term *Publicized by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), this newsletters. Furthermore, we utilize various channels structural changes in the balance sheet are examined framework provides general guidance for the systematic improvement of cyber From the viewpoint of ensuring cyber security, we to help our customers raise their cyber security security risk management practices. with a view to ensuring there is no funding shortage. carefully examine the characteristics of new awareness. technologies and appoint security specialists to Capital Allocation System Organizational Structure participate in relevant projects from upstream In this framework, latent losses associated with risk In April 2019, we launched the MUFG Cyber Security processes, such as planning and design. Moreover, are converted to a required capital amount, and Fusion Center (MUFG-CSFC) as part of the Cyber we also incorporate multilayered cyber security capital is then allocated across Group companies Security Office. The new center is tasked with measures to help ensure safe and secure transitions and between different risk categories according to intelligence analyses and other cyber security-related to new modes of operations supported by cuttingbusiness strategy and the profit plan. The framework operations. In addition, we have developed a edge technologies. is intended to allow the appropriate distribution of groupwide, cross-regional cyber security capital throughout the Group as MUFG monitors to management structure in which the MUFG-CSFC Providing Cyber Security Education to Foster a preserve financial soundness, evaluate capital plays a core role. Thus, we monitor the status of Proper Culture adequacy versus risk and judge impact on overall cyber security on an around-the-clock basis while We believe that, in addition to nurturing cyber MUFG Cyber Security Seminar capital strategy. ensuring that no incident is left unaddressed. Cyber Security Cyber Security Management Structure MUFG is well aware of its social responsibilities for Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) securing the assets entrusted by its customers and its obligation to provide secure and stable financial Board of Directors services. With this in mind, MUFG has positioned Government agencies and Bank of Japan Internal Audit threats posed by cyberattacks and other relevant Executive Committee Law enforcement Risk Management MUFG Group companies at home events as Top Risks. Accordingly, we are promoting agency and abroad Group CIO cyber security measures under management’s Business Unit Financial institutions leadership. Group CISO MUFG Bank Mitsubishi Group companies Cyber Security Governance Structure MUFG has established cyber security standards that IT security Group Deputy Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking associations CISO Corporation reference international guidelines, including the NIST Operations & Systems Planning Div. Cybersecurity Framework,* and is engaged in the IT vendors Cyber Security Office Group Deputy Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley development of relevant strategies and Global information CISO Securities organizational structures as well as the planning and sharing communities CSIRT* at each implementation of initiatives aimed at enhancing its Collaboration MUFG-CERT Group company Collaboration cyber security measures. * Computer Security Incident Response Team 86 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 87 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Compliance MUFG established policies that define the Basic Policy Compliance Framework Ensuring Thorough Compliance governance and oversight structure for financial We have clarified our Group mission, long-term vision Compliance management divisions have been We engage in ongoing efforts to ensure that each crimes risk management across MUFG and provide and shared values in the Corporate Vision and established at the holding company and the major employee embraces proper action principles in the foundation for the implementation of the financial expressed our commitment to meeting the subsidiaries, namely, the Bank, the Trust Bank and accordance with the Code of Conduct by, for crimes compliance program in a manner that is expectations of customers and society as a whole. Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (hereinafter, the example, providing various compliance training and commensurate with the strategies, business Furthermore, we have established the MUFG Group “three subsidiaries”). Each compliance management distributing messages from top management. Every activities, and risk profiles of each Group Company. Code of Conduct to guide how the Group’s directors division formulates compliance programs and year, we also update the content of the Code of Through these policies, MUFG promotes a consistent and employees should behave to realize the organizes training courses to promote compliance, Conduct with reference to the results of the annual and integrated approach across all of MUFG globally. Corporate Vision. The code expresses our and regularly reports to each company’s Board of Group Awareness and Engagement Survey as well as commitment to complying with laws and regulations Directors and Executive Committee on the status of changes in the business environment at home and MUFG Bank, one of the group companies in MUFG, is globally, to acting with honesty and integrity, and to compliance activities. abroad. establishing shared organizations (Centers of behaving in a manner that supports and strengthens Excellence) in the Americas, EMEA, Asia and Japan. the trust and confidence of society. The holding company has the Group Compliance The updated Code of Conduct released in fiscal Through those Centers of Excellence, MUFG Bank is Committee while the three subsidiaries have 2020 includes enhanced descriptions about conduct centralizing certain AML and sanctions compliance In addition, as we expand our business globally, we Compliance Committees operating under their risk and the importance of being aware of risk processes and expertise to assist in the fight against are committed to keeping abreast with executive committees with the aim of deliberating ownership at the sales frontline as well as an money laundering, terrorist financing and sanctions developments in the laws and regulations of the important compliance matters. Additionally, the additional message encouraging whistle blowing. violations. As processes move from local branches jurisdictions in which we operate, including those holding company has the Group Chief Compliance (For details of our whistle-blowing systems, please and offices and become integrated into the Centers targeting money laundering and bribery, as well as Officer (“CCO”) Committee composed of the CCO of also see a column featured on page 88.) Thanks to of Excellence, MUFG Bank will be better positioned to competition laws, while paying attention to trends in the holding company and the CCOs of the three these efforts, the latest results of the Group achieve globally consistent and effective operations. financial crimes. subsidiaries. This committee deliberates important Awareness and Engagement Survey included matters related to compliance and compliancesignificantly improved ratings on compliance-related In addition, MUFG Bank is enhancing its financial related issues for which the Group should share a questionnaire items, such as those asking whether crimes compliance systems and establishing a data common understanding. the respondents experienced a “double-bind” warehouse. These enhancements will support a situation between the call for adherence to the Code globally consistent, effective, and efficient financial of Conduct and the need to efficiently process tasks crimes compliance program and will help MUFG in the course of daily operations. As such, MUFG is Bank detect more complex and sophisticated types constantly striving to ensure thorough compliance. of financial crimes in a sustainable and flexible manner. Initiatives to Enhance Global Financial External Certification of the Whistle-Blowing Systems Crimes Compliance Framework Furthermore, MUFG Bank is investing in its people, Having positioned its whistle-blowing systems as an shortly after fiscal 2019 as conforming to Japan’s MUFG established the Global Financial Crimes with continued hiring of financial crimes compliance important governance tool, MUFG has helped each Consumer Affairs Agency’s Whistleblowing Division (“GFCD”), which is in charge of Anti-Money specialists, training, updated information-sharing, Group company develop such a system to ensure Compliance Management System (WCMS) their ability to promptly address and resolve any certification standards* based on self-declaration. Laundering (“AML”), Sanctions Compliance, and and accumulation and exchange of knowledge and issues associated with compliance. Moreover, the Anti-Bribery and Corruption (collectively, “Global skills through a global staff rotation program. MUFG Compliance Helpline operates year-round and In the course of registration, we upgraded such Financial Crimes Compliance”), against the backdrop is capable of handling a report from any Group aspects of these systems as whistleblower of heightened regulatory expectations in that area. We continue to work on the enhancement of global member no matter what their location on an aroundprotection measures. We also let all employees know the-clock basis. about the content of upgrades to assure them of the MUFG established GFCD’s headquarter in New York, financial crimes compliance in line with requirements reliability of the system. Looking ahead, we will where the excellence for financial crimes risk and expectations of international organizations, We aim to ensure that each employee is able to promote the utilization of our whistle-blowing management is centralized, and is implementing a including regulators in each country, FATF,* etc. to quickly access this helpline whenever he/she has systems to secure sustainable growth for the Group. number of initiatives to prevent, detect, and deter support and strengthen the trust and confidence of even the slightest suspicion regarding compliance. To this end, we let all employees know about this * A system that registers business operators if their whistle-blowing systems are financial crimes. society. deemed to conform to prescribed certification standards via self-evaluation helpline by providing e-learning programs and by as well as third-party confirmation by a registration body designated by the * FATF: Financial Action Task Force on money laundering. Inter-governmental body that distributing carrying cards designed to Consumer Affairs Agency advocates for taking a coordinated international response in AML and counter-terrorist communicate how to use it. At the same time, we are financing. striving to enhance the reliability of our whistleblowing systems. In addition, whistle-blowing systems in place at the holding company, the Bank, the Trust Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS and ACOM were registered during and 88 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 89 Our Strengths Supporting Value Creation Internal Audit audit division at the holding company administers, Role of the Internal Audit monitors and, as necessary, guides and advises the The internal audit aims to evaluate and assist in the internal audit divisions of subsidiaries and affiliated improvement of the effectiveness of governance, risk companies. The division also reports to the holding management and control processes with high company’s Audit Committee on important matters, proficiency and independence. Internal audit results including governing principles for internal audit plans are reported to senior management. Additionally, and the results of internal audits. internal audit makes suggest ways to improve or rectify any issues identified. In addition, internal auditors attend key meetings, collect important internal control documents and MUFG Internal Audit Activity Charter implement other necessary measures to facilitate In April 2019, we adopted the “MUFG Internal Audit efficient off-site monitoring. Activity Charter,” which defines our basic policies for For the full text of the charter, please also visit our corporate website. internal audits, including the mission, purposes, https://www.mufg.jp/english/profile/governance/audit/index.html responsibilities, and roles associated with such audits. Implementing Effective and Efficient Internal Auditing This charter is designed to encourage internal audit To ensure that internal audit processes use available staff to conduct internal audits in accordance with resources with optimal effectiveness and efficiency, the global standards set by the Institute of Internal the internal audit divisions implement risk-focused Financial Data / Corporate Data Auditors, an international organization established internal audits in which the nature and magnitude of for, among other purposes, formulating practical the associated risks are considered in determining internal audit standards. audit priorities and the frequency and depth of *An international association headquartered in the United States, the IIA formulates internal audit activities. practical standards for internal audits, issues accreditation for certified internal auditors (CIA) and engages in other activities aimed at providing leadership for the global profession of internal auditing. Internal Audit Framework P. 92 Ten-Year Summary of Major Financial Data Holding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.) P. 94 Financial Review for Fiscal 2019 Internal Audit Framework Board of Directors Audit Committee P. 98 Consolidated Financial Statements The MUFG Group maintains internal audit functions (Chairman: Outside Director) at the holding company level as well as at the P. 102 Company Overview Executive Committee Reporting Instructing subsidiary level that are designed to enable the Group to provide coverage for all operations and Internal Audit Division support the Board of Directors of the holding MUFG, Each Division Auditing company in the exercise of its supervisory functions Consulting and Guidance, advice via across-the-board collaboration with other Group reporting and management entities. In addition to leading the internal audit planning and proposal of the Group, the internal Group companies Enhancing the Effectiveness of Internal Audits In step with global business strategies, the scope of way to facilitate the sharing of case studies and other MUFG Group’s audit activities is growing to expertise with financial authorities and financial encompass cross-regional collaboration at home and industry peers while participating in external study abroad. We also focus on nurturing human resources sessions and exchange gatherings to communicate by implementing training programs designed for our know-how. newly appointed internal auditors and providing seminars aimed at helping secure preparedness to take the examinations necessary to acquire external certification. Furthermore, internal auditors are currently collaborating with relevant departments, such as those in charge of compliance, to nurture governance specialists. In addition, efforts are under A meeting attended by internal auditors from partner banks in Asia (August 2019) 90 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 91 Financial Data / Corporate Data Ten-Year Summary of Major Financial Data (Billions of Yen) (Billions of Yen) FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Currency exchange rate (USD/JPY) (yen) 83.15 82.19 94.05 102.92 120.17 Currency exchange rate (USD/JPY) (yen) 112.68 112.19 106.24 110.99 108.83 Income statement summary Income statement summary Gross profits before credit costs for trust accounts 3,522.5 3,502.0 3,634.2 3,753.4 4,229.0 Gross profits before credit costs for trust accounts 4,143.2 4,011.8 3,854.2 3,725.7 3,986.3 Net interest income 2,020.0 1,840.5 1,816.8 1,878.6 2,181.6 Net interest income 2,113.5 2,024.4 1,906.8 1,922.7 1,892.9 Trust fees excluding credit costs 100.4 96.9 95.1 108.4 111.4 Trust fees excluding credit costs 117.0 122.0 122.5 125.3 130.8 Net fees and commissions 979.4 964.2 1,042.2 1,160.3 1,308.6 Net fees and commissions 1,320.5 1,328.4 1,327.1 1,303.9 1,341.2 Net trading profits 103.7 225.5 288.2 362.0 352.9 Net trading profits 306.3 290.0 292.4 216.1 161.4 Net other operating profits 318.9 374.7 391.7 244.0 274.3 Net other operating profits 285.6 246.7 205.1 157.4 459.7 Net gains (losses) on debt securities 221.3 270.3 336.7 142.8 115.1 Net gains (losses) on debt securities 132.9 56.8 6.7 29.9 492.9 General and administrative expenses 2,020.8 1,994.5 2,095.0 2,289.3 2,584.1 General and administrative expenses 2,585.2 2,593.5 2,621.4 2,647.1 2,801.8 Expense ratio 57.3% 56.9% 57.6% 60.9% 61.1% Expense ratio 62.3% 64.6% 68.0% 71.0% 70.2% Net operating profits before credit costs for trust accounts Net operating profits before credit costs for trust accounts and provision for general allowance for credit losses 1,501.6 1,507.4 1,539.2 1,464.1 1,644.9 and provision for general allowance for credit losses 1,557.9 1,418.2 1,232.8 1,078.5 1,184.4 Total credit costs （354.1） （193.4） （115.6） 11.8 （161.6） Total credit costs （255.1） （155.3） （46.1） （5.8） （222.9） the Bank and the Trust Bank combined*1 （174.2） （134.5） （65.3） 35.1 （71.1） the Bank and the Trust Bank combined*1 （103.7） （47.9） 79.5 129.8 12.6 Net gains (losses) on equity securities （57.1） （88.6） （53.6） 144.5 93.1 Net gains (losses) on equity securities 88.3 124.9 133.1 112.6 31.3 Gains (losses) on sales of equity securities 13.7 （9.4） 33.6 157.5 97.9 Gains (losses) on sales of equity securities 113.6 127.4 140.1 125.9 92.1 Losses on write-down of equity securities （70.9） （79.2） （87.3） （12.9） （4.8） Losses on write-down of equity securities （25.3） （2.5） （7.0） （13.3） （60.8） Equity in earnings of equity method investees 11.3 377.5 52.0 112.4 159.6 Equity in earnings of equity method investees 230.4 244.4 242.8 284.3 277.2 Other non-recurring gains (losses) （385.1） （130.8） （77.7） （38.2） （23.0） Other non-recurring gains (losses) （82.0） （271.4） （100.3） （121.7） （34.2） Ordinary profits 646.4 1,471.9 1,344.1 1,694.8 1,713.0 Ordinary profits 1,539.4 1,360.7 1,462.4 1,348.0 1,235.7 Net extraordinary gains (losses) （6.8） （23.8） 9.6 （151.7） （98.2） Net extraordinary gains (losses) （40.7） （57.5） （53.0） （202.7） （406.3） Total taxes 175.4 376.4 395.7 439.9 467.7 Total taxes 460.2 342.1 313.4 195.5 220.8 Tax burden ratio 27.4% 26.0% 29.2% 28.5% 28.9% Tax burden ratio 30.7% 26.2% 22.2% 17.0% 26.6% Profits attributable to non-controlling interests （119.0） 90.2 105.3 118.1 113.2 Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 87.1 34.6 106.2 77.0 80.3 Profits attributable to owners of parent 583.0 981.3 852.6 984.8 1,033.7 Profits attributable to owners of parent 951.4 926.4 989.6 872.6 528.1 Balance sheet summary Balance sheet summary Total assets 206,227.0 218,861.6 234,498.7 258,131.9 286,149.7 Total assets 298,302.8 303,297.4 306,937.4 311,138.9 336,571.3 Loans and bills discounted 79,995.0 84,492.6 91,299.5 101,938.9 109,368.3 Loans and bills discounted 113,756.3 109,005.2 108,090.9 107,412.4 109,114.6 Securities 71,023.6 78,264.7 79,526.8 74,515.5 73,538.1 Securities 69,993.8 59,438.8 59,266.1 64,262.4 65,555.1 Total liabilities 195,412.6 207,185.8 220,979.0 243,019.0 268,862.2 Total liabilities 280,916.1 286,639.0 289,642.3 293,877.2 319,715.6 Deposits 124,144.3 124,789.2 131,697.0 144,760.2 153,357.4 Deposits 160,965.0 170,730.2 177,312.3 180,171.2 187,623.5 Negotiable certificates of deposit 10,961.0 12,980.6 14,855.0 15,548.1 16,073.8 Negotiable certificates of deposit 11,591.5 11,341.5 9,854.7 9,413.4 7,787.5 Total net assets 10,814.4 11,675.7 13,519.6 15,112.8 17,287.5 Total net assets 17,386.7 16,658.3 17,295.0 17,261.6 16,855.7 Total shareholders’ equity 9,104.9 9,909.5 10,578.3 11,346.2 11,328.6 Total shareholders’ equity 11,855.8 12,318.8 12,880.8 13,300.1 13,471.8 Retained earnings 4,799.6 5,602.3 6,267.9 7,033.1 7,860.4 Retained earnings 8,587.5 9,278.5 10,064.6 10,640.6 10,855.7 Total accumulated other comprehensive income （156.0） 83.4 1,158.2 1,709.7 3,989.2 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 3,602.1 2,961.3 3,143.8 2,879.1 2,518.9 Non-controlling interests 1,858.2 1,674.8 1,774.1 2,048.1 1,961.3 Non-controlling interests 1,920.5 1,377.7 1,270.1 1,082.1 864.8 Financial Ratios Financial Ratios Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio ー ー 11.60% 11.18% 11.09% Common Equity Tier 1 Capital ratio 11.63% 11.76% 12.58% 12.23% 11.90% Tier 1 Capital ratio*2 11.33% 12.15% 12.63% 12.37% 12.58% Tier 1 Capital ratio*2 13.24% 13.36% 14.32% 13.90% 13.56% Total Capital ratio 14.89% 14.72% 16.53% 15.43% 15.62% Total Capital ratio 16.01% 15.85% 16.56% 16.03% 15.87% Dividends per share (DPS) (yen) 12.0 12.0 13.0 16.0 18.0 Dividends per share (DPS) (yen) 18.0 18.0 19.0 22.0 25.0 Dividend payout ratio 30.0% 17.6% 22.0% 23.4% 24.6% Dividend payout ratio 26.3% 26.4% 25.5% 32.9% 61.0% Book-value per share (BPS) (yen) 604.58 678.25 800.95 893.77 1,092.75 Book-value per share (BPS) (yen) 1,121.07 1,137.78 1,217.41 1,252.03 1,245.33 Earnings per share (EPS) (yen) 39.95 68.09 58.99 68.29 73.22 Earnings per share (EPS) (yen) 68.51 68.28 74.55 66.91 40.95 ROE MUFG definition 6.89% 11.10% 8.77% 9.05% 8.74% ROE MUFG definition 7.63% 7.25% 7.53% 6.45% 3.85% ROE JPXTSE definition 6.55% 10.60% 7.96% 8.05% 7.38% ROE JPXTSE definition 6.18% 6.02% 6.32% 5.41% 3.28% Total number of ordinary shares (excluding own shares) (billion shares) 14.141 14.144 14.155 14.161 14.017 Total number of ordinary shares (excluding own shares) (billion shares) 13.788 13.429 13.162 12.922 12.840 Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 384 412 558 567 743.7 Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 521.5 699.7 697.0 550.0 403.0 Market capitalization*3 (trillions of yen) 5.4 5.8 7.8 8.0 10.4 Market capitalization*3 (trillions of yen) 7.1 9.3 9.1 7.1 5.1 PBR*3 (times) 0.63 0.60 0.69 0.63 0.68 PBR*3 (times) 0.46 0.61 0.57 0.43 0.32 PER*3 (times) 9.6 6.0 9.4 8.3 10.1 PER*3 (times) 7.6 10.2 9.3 8.2 9.8 *1 MUFG Bank, Ltd. (non-consolidated) + Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation (non-consolidated) (without any adjustments) *2 FY 2009 to FY 2011 are under Basel II standards *3 Figures based on fiscal year-end share price 92 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 93 Financial Data / Corporate Data Financial Review for Fiscal 2019 Equity in earnings of equity method investees were Performance by Business Groups Fiscal 2020 Financial Targets Consolidated Income Statement ¥277.2 billion, a decrease of ¥7.1 billion from the GCB achieved growth in net operating profits* due to At present, the timing of containment of the Summary previous fiscal year despite the contribution of the consolidation of Bank Danamon, while the other COVID-19 cannot be forecasted and the impact of Consolidated Net Operating Profits Morgan Stanley. four customer segments saw decreases in net the pandemic on the real economy is still uncertain. Consolidated gross profits for the fiscal year ended operating profits. However, overall net operating March 31, 2020 increased ¥260.5 billion from the As a result, ordinary profits decreased by ¥112.2 profits from customer segments increased by ¥2.6 Although it is therefore difficult to make forecasts, we previous fiscal year. This was due to an increase in billion from the previous fiscal year. billion, maintaining an upward trend since the have set our target for profits attributable to owners net fees and commissions, reflecting the previous fiscal year. Moreover, net operating profits of parent at ¥550.0 billion based on certain consolidation of Bank Danamon and FSI, as well as a Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent from Global Markets increased significantly mainly assumptions, referring in part to the baseline rise in net trading profits, despite a decline in net Net extraordinary losses amounted to ¥406.3 billion, due to higher profits in treasury business that scenario in world economic outlook, which IMF interest income from foreign currency-denominated up ¥203.6 billion from the previous fiscal year due to employed a flexible portfolio management, released in April 2020. loans and deposits. the posting of an extraordinary loss attributable to contributing to a higher consolidated total. MUFG the one-time amortization of goodwill associated has thus achieved growth in net operating profits for General and administrative expenses increased by with Bank Danamon and Krungsri. the first time in five years. ¥154.7 billion from the previous fiscal year. While a tight grip on expenses associated with domestic Tax expenses rose by ¥25.3 billion. Please also refer to pages 40 to 41 for a summary of operations has remained in place, expenses for operating results by business group. overseas operations increased due to business As a result, profits attributable to owners of parent * Net operating profits by business segment, calculated for internal managerial expansion and rising expenses for regulatory decreased by ¥344.5 billion to ¥528.1 billion. accounting purposes compliance purposes. Breakdown of Changes in Net Operating Profits by History of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent Business Group As a result, consolidated net operating profits rose (Billions of yen) by ¥105.8 billion from the previous fiscal year. 1,200 Bank Danamon/Krungsri One-time amortization (Billions of Yen) of goodwill 1,200 Global Others 1,033.7 Markets 13.3 1,175.0 989.6 (343.3) Total Credit Costs 984.8 951.4 926.4 86.7 Total credit costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 872.6 2020 increased by ¥217.1 billion from the previous 800 GCB fiscal year, mainly due to the absence of the major 1,072.3 25.7 reversal of allowance for credit loss recorded in fiscal R&C JCIB AM/IS 2018 and the additional posting of an allowance in 528.1 （2.0） （0.6）GCIB （7.1） （13.4） response to the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic. 400 800 Net Gains (Losses) on Equity Securities Net gains on equity securities decreased ¥81.2 billion Sum of customer segments 2.7 from the previous fiscal year. This was mainly due to a decline in gains on sales of exchange traded funds 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (ETF) and an increase in losses on write-down of 0 2018 2019 (FY) equity securities, despite the recording of gains on Breakdown of Profits Attributable to Owners of Parent*1 sales of equity holdings. (Billions of yen) The Securities HD Morgan MUFG 1,000 21.1 Stanley (Consolidated) Business Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic 225.6 528.1 The Bank Estimated impact on Consolidated Income Statement Summary (Excluding impairment Major impact that may arise or be anticipated Bank ACOM pre-tax profit* losses associated with Danamon 23.5 (Billions of yen) FY2018 FY2019 YoY MUFG s equities in 22.5 ● A decline in foreign currency interest income due to interest rate reductions in various Gross profits (before credit costs Bank Danamon and Krungsri)*2 NICOS 1 3,725.7 3,986.3 260.5 270.0 Krungsri 63.9 markets and decline in long-term interest rates for trust accounts) The 96.8 ● Decrease in assets under custody or management due to falling stock prices in various 2 G&A expenses 2,647.1 2,801.8 154.7 Trust Bank Others*2 markets 113.0 (32.2) Impact on net Down approx. ● Decline in new investments and business transactions by customers due to 3 Net operating profits 1,078.5 1,184.4 105.8 MUAH operating profits deteriorating economic activity ¥300.0 billion 66.8 ● Change in consumer spending and decreased investor appetite for investments in 4 Total credit costs (5.8) (222.9) (217.1) 500 Net gains (losses) on equity uncertain financial markets 5 112.6 31.3 (81.2) ● Restrictions on our business activities, etc. securities Equity in earnings of equity Bank Danamon/Krungsri 6 284.3 277.2 (7.1) method investees One-time amortization of goodwill 7 Other non-recurring gains (losses) (121.7) (34.2) 87.4 (343.3) Impacts on credit ● Increase in credit costs due to deterioration in the business performance of borrowers 8 Ordinary profits 1,348.0 1,235.7 (112.2) costs and net gains ● Decline in gains (or increase in losses) on sales of securities Down approx. (losses) on equity ● Decrease in equity earnings in equity method investees and deterioration in other non¥300.0 billion 9 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (202.7) (406.3) (203.6) recurring gains (losses) etc. 0 securities, etc. Total of income taxes-current and *1 The above figures take into consideration the percentage holding in each subsidiary and 10 (195.5) (220.8) (25.3) income taxes-deferred equity method investee (after-tax basis) *2 Impairment losses on shares of Bank Danamon and Krungsri are ¥923.0 billion. In the * The above figures illustrate some of the major items that we expect to affect pre-tax profit as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These effects as well as other COVID-19 pandemic 11 Profits attributable to owners of parent 872.6 528.1 (344.5) consolidated figures, the impairment losses are eliminated. related issues currently considered by us have been taken into account in our earnings target for our fiscal 2020 94 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 95 Financial Data / Corporate Data Financial Review for Fiscal 2019 Loans (Period-end balance)*1 Capital Adequacy Consolidated Balance Sheet Summary Housing loans Domestic corporate*2 Capital (Billions of Yen) Government Overseas*3 Others Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Changes from Loans / Deposits (Trillions of yen) Total Capital 2019 2020 Mar. 31, 2019 Loans totaled ¥109.4 trillion, a slight increase from 109.0 108.3 109.0 107.7 106.5 109.4 Common Equity Tier 1 capital decreased by ¥614.0 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 12.23% 11.90% （0.32%） March 31, 2019. Domestic individual deposits, 120 1.6 2.2 2.1 2.5 2.4 2.5 billion from March 31, 2019, with the accumulation of Tier 1 capital ratio 13.90% 13.56% (0.33%) domestic corporate deposits and overseas deposits profit, more than offset by the payment of cash Total capital ratio 16.03% 15.87% (0.15%) 44.2 42.9 44.1 42.8 42.4 44.4 increased by ¥2.3 trillion, ¥3.5 trillion and ¥1.6 trillion, 80 dividends, repurchases of own shares and a decrease Leverage ratio 4.94% 4.42% (0.52%) respectively, with the overall deposit balance 3.8 3.7 3.3 3.2 3.1 3.0 in total accumulated other comprehensive income. amounting to ¥187.6 trillion. 40 43.7 43.9 44.0 43.9 43.4 44.6 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 14,322.4 13,708.3 (614.0) While Tier 2 capital increased by ¥162.7 billion from Retained earnings 10,640.6 10,855.7 215.1 15.5 15.4 15.2 15.1 14.9 14.8 Excluding the impact of foreign exchange 0 the previous fiscal year-end, total capital decreased Other comprehensive income 2,879.1 2,518.9 (360.1) Sep. 30, Mar. 31, Sep. 30, Mar. 31, Sep. 30, Mar. 31, fluctuations, the balance of overseas loans increased 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 by ¥490.2 billion to ¥18,279.5 billion. Regulatory adjustments (1,897.3) (2,329.7) (432.4) ¥1.6 trillion, while overseas deposits increased ¥1.5 *1 Sum of banking and trust accounts *2 Excluding loans to government and governmental institutions and including foreign Additional Tier 1 capital 1,953.8 1,914.9 (38.9) trillion from the previous fiscal year-end. The gap currency-denominated loans *3 Loans booked in overseas branches, MUAH, Krungsri, Bank Danamon, the Bank Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) Preferred securities and 1,800.1 1,764.1 (36.0) between overseas deposits and lending balances (China), the Bank (Malaysia) and the Bank (Europe) RWA decreased by ¥1,955.5 billion from March 31, subordinated debt remained virtually flat. 2019, reflecting decreases in credit-related RWA and Tier 1 capital 16,276.3 15,623.3 (652.9) Deposits (Period-end balance) floor adjustments. Tier 2 capital 2,493.4 2,656.2 162.7 Domestic individual Domestic corporate, etc. Overseas and Others The volume of risk-monitored loans increased from Subordinated debt 2,195.6 2,303.6 108.0 (Trillions of yen) the previous fiscal year mainly due to factors arising 200 171.8 177.3 175.9 180.1 180.6 187.6 Capital Adequacy Total capital (Tier 1+Tier 2) 18,769.7 18,279.5 (490.2) from the consolidation of Bank Danamon. However, 41.7 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, the most 37.6 38.8 38.5 40.1 40.4 the non-performing loan (NPL) ratio—the ratio of 150 important indicator representing the capital Risk weighted assets 117,091.1 115,135.6 (1,955.5) risk-monitored loans to total loans—remained low at 100 59.8 63.1 61.3 63.0 62.4 66.5 adequacy of financial institutions, stood at 11.7% on Credit risk 90,843.0 88,791.7 (2,051.3) less than 1%. an estimated basis, reflecting the RWA increase Market risk 2,920.5 3,150.7 230.1 50 74.2 75.3 76.0 77.0 77.7 79.3 calculated on the finalized Basel III reforms basis, Operational risk 8,107.2 8,269.2 162.0 Investment Securities suggesting that MTBP has achieved sufficient capital Floor adjustments* 15,220.2 14,923.8 (296.3) 0 The balance of available-for-sale securities increased Sep. 30, Mar. 31, Sep. 30, Mar. 31, Sep. 30, Mar. 31, adequacy vis-à-vis the MTBP target of around 11%. 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 by ¥1.5 trillion due to such factors as a ¥2.9 trillion Total exposure 329,048.6 353,117.5 24,068.8 increase to reflect growing emphasis placed on In addition, the leverage ratio amounts to 4.42%, well * Adjustments made for the difference between RWA under Basel I and Base III foreign bond positions. Available-for-sale Securities with Fair Value (Billions of Yen) above the regulatory requirement of 3%. Balance Unrealized gains (losses) Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Changes Changes TLAC Ratio MUFG’s RWA-based External TLAC Ratio remained robust at a little under ¥3 trillion. Although Mar. 31, from Mar. 31, from MUFG is subject to the TLAC regulations introduced External TLAC ratio 18.62% External TLAC ratio 16% 2020 Mar. 31, 2020 Mar. 31, net unrealized gains on domestic equity securities 2019 2019 on March 31, 2019. Total capital ratio 15.87% Total capital ratio12% decreased by ¥624.3 billion due to progress in the As of end-Mar. 2020 Total 62,151.1 1,572.5 2,888.6 (447.0) sales of equity holdings and a decline in stock prices, These regulations require G-SIBs to retain sufficient Minimum requirement Domestic equity 4.2% net unrealized gains on foreign bonds increased by securities 4,141.3 (812.0) 2,139.9 (624.3) loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity available Other TLAC ¥564.4 billion, a significant improvement, thanks to a Domestic bonds 27,473.1 211.9 171.3 (186.1) in resolution (TLAC-eligible senior debt). 2.5% Eligible Debt*1 fall in overseas interest rates. 2.3% Contribution of DIFR*2（2.5%） Japanese 1.6% government 20,643.0 (899.2) 123.9 (155.0) MUFG aims to enhance its external TLAC capital by Tier2（2.0%） bonds A significant improvement was also seen in net issuing TLAC-eligible senior debt in overseas markets AT1（1.5%） 30,536.7 2,172.6 577.2 363.4 7.8% unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities Others and by issuing subordinated debt in the domestic CET1（4.5%） managed by Global Markets in treasury business*. As Foreign equity 79.5 (35.3) 12.6 (39.9) market. securities of March 31, 2020, we were able to secure net 4.0% Regulatory Capital Buffers*3 （4.0%） unrealized gains on domestic bonds and foreign Foreign bonds 24,502.4 2,969.5 738.1 564.4 In fiscal 2019, MUFG raised approximately ¥1.6 trillion bonds totaling approximately ¥170.0 billion and Others 5,954.7 (761.5) (173.5) (161.1) in external TLAC capital by issuing TLAC-eligible *1 Including adjustment of the difference between the calculation method of the total capital ratio and the external TLAC ratio, and adjustment of the amount of other TLAC¥740.0 billion, respectively. senior bonds worth approximately ¥1.1 trillion, as well eligible liabilities owned by the issuer’s group, etc. *2 Contribution of Deposit Insurance Fund Reserves: Japanese Deposit Insurance Fund as perpetual subordinated debt and dated Reserves fulfill the requirements for making ex-ante commitments to recapitalize as * Mainly consisting of net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, excluding a G-SIB as per a resolution set out in the FSB’s TLAC termsheet (can include 2.5% of domestic equity securities and foreign equity securities subordinated debt totaling approximately ¥0.5 RWAs during a period from end-March 2019 to end-March 2022 and 3.5% of RWAs trillion. thereafter, respectively, in the external TLAC ratio) *3 CET1 Buffer applicable to MUFG: G-SIB Surcharge: 1.5%, Capital Conservation Buffer: 2.5%, and Counter-cyclical Buffer: 0.01% As a result, the external TLAC ratio as of March 31, 2020 (see the graph on the right) was 18.62%, well above the regulatory requirement of 16%. 96 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 97 Financial Data / Corporate Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Financial Results Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Mar 31, 2020 Mar 31, 2019 Mar 31, 2020 Mar 31, 2019 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2018 Assets: Liabilities: Gross profits 3,986,304 3,725,720 Profits 608,543 949,758 Gross profits before credit costs for Cash and due from banks 78,335,634 74,206,895 Deposits 187,623,551 180,171,279 trust accounts 3,986,304 3,725,720 Other comprehensive income Call loans and bills bought 727,598 451,668 Negotiable certificates of deposit 7,787,524 9,413,420 Net interest income 1,892,967 1,922,776 Net unrealized gains (losses) on （221,966） （125,622） available-for-sale securities Receivables under resale agreements 24,104,564 10,868,179 Call money and bills sold 3,671,100 2,465,093 Trust fees 130,829 125,385 Net deferred gains (losses) on hedging Receivables under securities Payables under repurchase instruments 71,314 63,366 3,464,533 2,739,363 31,692,711 25,112,121 Credit costs for trust accounts 0 − borrowing transactions agreements Net fees and commissions 1,341,266 1,303,954 Land revaluation excess 36 − Monetary claims bought 6,583,403 7,254,708 Payables under securities lending 1,058,042 903,219 transactions Net trading profits 161,457 216,165 Foreign currency translation Trading assets 20,250,172 16,126,188 adjustments （2,681） （82,475） Commercial papers 2,162,329 2,316,338 Net other operating profits 459,783 157,438 Money held in trust 1,046,323 912,961 Remeasurements of defined benefit （154,532） （73,141） Trading liabilities 14,067,826 11,624,122 Net gains (losses) on debt securities 492,989 29,977 plans Securities 65,555,127 64,262,463 Borrowed money 24,651,574 16,268,170 General and administrative expenses 2,801,858 2,647,137 Share of other comprehensive income Loans and bills discounted 109,114,612 107,412,468 of associates accounted for using equity （29,257） （44,893） Foreign exchanges 2,223,010 2,271,145 Amortization of goodwill 29,551 17,431 method Foreign exchanges 1,741,290 2,134,807 Short-term bonds payable 962,295 793,999 Net operating profits before credit costs for Total other comprehensive income （337,087） （262,766） Other assets 13,900,403 12,838,412 trust accounts, provision for general allowance 1,213,997 1,096,013 Bonds payable 13,464,472 12,179,680 for credit losses and amortization of goodwill Comprehensive income 271,456 686,992 Tangible fixed assets 1,319,789 1,335,972 Net operating profits before credit costs Due to trust accounts 9,798,688 10,282,227 (Comprehensive income attributable to) Buildings 341,984 361,580 for trust accounts and provision for 1,184,445 1,078,582 Other liabilities 10,407,459 9,452,717 general allowance for credit losses Comprehensive income attributable to Land 680,425 674,285 owners of parent 177,138 615,166 Reserve for bonuses 110,964 79,236 Provision for general allowance for credit losses （111,408） − Lease assets 19,811 15,078 1,073,037 Comprehensive income attributable to Reserve for bonuses to directors 1,446 689 Net operating profits*1 1,078,582 non-controlling interests 94,317 71,825 Construction in progress 34,733 33,618 Net non-recurring gains (losses) 162,733 269,461 Reserve for stocks payment 11,298 10,814 Other tangible fixed assets 242,834 251,409 Credit costs （214,966） （143,006） Net defined benefit liabilities 86,547 59,540 Intangible fixed assets 1,498,407 1,136,530 Losses on loan write-offs （179,213） （154,941） Reserve for retirement benefits to Software 552,291 513,231 directors 1,058 1,058 Provision for specific allowance for credit losses （18,237） − Goodwill 283,672 237,310 Reserve for loyalty award credits 31,247 17,606 Other credit costs （17,514） 11,935 Lease assets 22 198 Reserve for contingent losses 206,029 265,707 Reversal of allowance for credit losses − 15,053 Other intangible fixed assets 662,421 385,790 Reserves under special laws 4,269 4,263 Reversal of reserve for contingent losses included in credit costs 8,148 55,064 Net defined benefit assets 712,206 824,007 Deferred tax liabilities 754,111 829,418 Gains on loans written-off 95,275 67,063 Deferred tax assets 127,516 104,451 Deferred tax liabilities for land 107,641 114,292 revaluation Net gains (losses) on equity securities 31,339 112,602 Customers’ liabilities for acceptances and guarantees 8,830,436 9,241,062 Acceptances and guarantees 8,830,436 9,241,062 Gains on sales of equity securities 166,710 203,481 Allowance for credit losses （740,641） （711,236） Total liabilities 319,715,640 293,877,225 Losses on sales of equity securities （74,552） （77,486） Total assets 336,571,379 311,138,903 Net assets: Losses on write-down of equity securities （60,817） （13,392） Capital stock 2,141,513 2,141,513 Equity in earning of equity method investees 277,221 284,389 Capital surplus 980,102 1,034,641 Other non-recurring gains (losses) （34,286） （121,704） Retained earnings 10,855,798 10,640,655 Ordinary profits 1,235,770 1,348,043 Treasury stock （505,518） （516,649） Net extraordinary gains (losses) （406,326） （202,715） Total shareholders’ equity 13,471,894 13,300,160 Losses on impairment of fixed assets （65,786） （184,692） Net unrealized gains (losses) on Losses on change in equity （21,311） （15,223） available-for-sale securities 2,066,363 2,249,231 Amortization of goodwill （343,368） − Net deferred gains (losses) on hedging instruments 189,342 122,516 Gains on sales of shares of subsidiaries 31,462 − Land revaluation excess 158,633 167,681 Profits before income taxes 829,443 1,145,327 Foreign currency translation Income taxes-current 189,231 189,195 adjustments 300,838 339,713 Income taxes-deferred 31,668 6,373 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans （159,766） （4,729） Total taxes 220,899 195,568 Debt value adjustments of foreign Profits 608,543 949,758 subsidiaries and affiliates （36,470） 4,702 Profits attributable to non-controlling interests 80,392 77,069 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 2,518,940 2,879,115 Profits attributable to owners of parent 528,151 872,689 Subscription rights to shares 59 217 *1 Net operating profits = Banking subsidiaries’ net operating profits + Other consolidated entities’ gross profits Other consolidated entities’ general and administrative Non-controlling interests 864,844 1,082,184 expenses Other consolidated entities’ provision for general allowance for credit Total net assets 16,855,738 17,261,677 losses Amortization of goodwill Inter-company transactions Total liabilities and net assets 336,571,379 311,138,903 (Reference) FY 2019 FY 2018 Total credit costs*2 （222,950） （5,826） *2 Total credit costs = Credit costs for trust accounts + Provision for general allowance for credit losses + Credit costs (included in non-recurring gains / losses) + Reversal of allowance for credit losses + Reversal of reserve for contingent losses included in credit costs + Gains on loans written-off 98 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 99 Financial Data / Corporate Data Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets (Millions of Yen) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) Accumulated other FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2018 Shareholders’ equity comprehensive income FY 2019 Total Net unrealized Net deferred Cash flows from operating activities: Cash flows from investing activities: gains (losses) on gains (losses) on Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock shareholders’ available-for-sale hedging equity securities instruments Profits before income taxes 829,443 1,145,327 Purchases of securities （90,417,706） （65,103,588） Balance at the beginning of the period 2,141,513 1,034,641 10,640,655 （516,649） 13,300,160 2,249,231 122,516 Depreciation and amortization 330,371 322,770 Proceeds from sales of securities 64,642,308 33,033,639 Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies （17,550） （17,550） Restated balance 2,141,513 1,034,641 10,623,105 （516,649) 13,282,610 2,249,231 122,516 Impairment losses 65,786 184,692 Proceeds from redemption of securities 23,887,868 26,809,238 Changes during the period Payments for increase in money held in Amortization of goodwill 372,920 17,431 （810,487） （570,030） Cash dividends （304,543） （304,543） trust Equity in losses (gains) of equity method Profits attributable to owners of parent 528,151 528,151 （277,221） （284,389） Proceeds from decrease in money held investees in trust 701,517 600,105 Repurchase of treasury stock （50,022） （50,022） Increase (decrease) in allowance for Disposal of treasury stock （752） 2,527 1,774 credit losses 20,148 （83,641） Purchases of tangible fixed assets （127,176） （142,393） Retirement of treasury stock （58,625） 58,625 − Reversal of land revaluation excess 9,084 9,084 Increase (decrease) in reserve for bonuses 8,086 （5,206） Purchases of intangible fixed assets （318,853） （286,200） Changes in subsidiaries’ equity 4,839 4,839 Increase (decrease) in reserve for Proceeds from sales of tangible fixed bonuses to directors 5 68 assets 70,574 33,447 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity （182,867） 66,825 Total changes during the period − （54,538） 232,692 11,130 189,284 （182,867） 66,825 Increase (decrease) in reserve for stocks Proceeds from sales of intangible fixed payment 484 （792） assets 1,922 622 Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 980,102 10,855,798 （505,518） 13,471,894 2,066,363 189,342 Decrease (increase) in net defined Payments for transfer of business （559,561） − (Millions of Yen) benefit assets 49,212 （89,588） Accumulated other comprehensive income Payments for acquisition of subsidiaries’ Increase (decrease) in net defined Debt value Total Subscription benefit liabilities 4,109 1,132 equity affecting the scope of （494,920） （1,106） Foreign Non-controlling Land currency Remeasurements adjustments accumulated rights Total net assets consolidation revaluation of defined of foreign other interests Increase (decrease) in reserve for to shares excess translation benefit plans subsidiaries comprehensive retirement benefits to directors （0） （30） Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries’ adjustments and affiliates income equity affecting the scope of 58,701 − Balance at the beginning of the period 167,681 339,713 （4,729） 4,702 2,879,115 217 1,082,184 17,261,677 Increase (decrease) in reserve for loyalty consolidation award credits 12,519 （124） Cumulative effects of changes in accounting policies （17,550） Others （2,631） （1,282） Restated balance 167,681 339,713 （4,729） 4,702 2,879,115 217 1,082,184 17,244,127 Increase (decrease) in reserve for contingent losses （59,390） （51,235） Net cash provided by (used in) Changes during the period investing activities （3,368,444） （5,627,546） （304,543） Interest income recognized on Cash dividends statement of income （3,841,301） （3,732,203） Profits attributable to owners of parent 528,151 Cash flows from financing activities: Interest expenses recognized on Repurchase of treasury stock （50,022） statement of income 1,948,484 1,809,580 Proceeds from subordinated borrowings 31,720 55,000 Disposal of treasury stock 1,774 Retirement of treasury stock − Losses (gains) on securities （544,698） （131,439） Repayments of subordinated borrowings （67,945） （173,119） Reversal of land revaluation excess 9,084 Losses (gains) on money held in trust （8,476） 837 Proceeds from issuance of subordinated bonds payable and bonds with warrants 586,670 376,800 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity 4,839 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity （9,048） （38,874）（155,036）（41,173） （360,175） （157） （217,340） （577,673） Foreign exchange losses (gains) 847,932 （259,172） Payments for redemption of Total changes during the period （9,048） （38,874）（155,036）（41,173） （360,175） （157） （217,340） （388,388） subordinated bonds payable and bonds （90,241） （47,020） Losses (gains) on sales of fixed assets （1,669） （6,639） with warrants Balance at the end of the period 158,633 300,838 （159,766）（36,470） 2,518,940 59 864,844 16,855,738 Net decrease (increase) in trading assets （4,120,479） （1,207,299） Proceeds from issuance of common 3,823 7,493 (Millions of Yen) stock to non-controlling shareholders Accumulated other Net increase (decrease) in trading liabilities 2,384,310 928,496 Payments for redemption of preferred Shareholders’ equity （330,000） （222,000） comprehensive income Adjustment of unsettled trading securities FY 2018 Net unrealized Net deferred accounts （240,582） 342,532 Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock Total shareholders’ gains (losses) on gains (losses) on Dividends paid by MUFG （304,535） （276,279） available-for-sale hedging Net decrease (increase) in loans and equity securities instruments bills discounted （227,530） 116,865 Dividends paid by subsidiaries to noncontrolling shareholders （42,331） （49,431） Balance at the beginning of the period 2,141,513 1,196,803 10,064,649 （522,158） 12,880,807 2,388,234 59,360 Cumulative effects due to revision of accounting Net increase (decrease) in deposits 6,503,304 3,352,158 （2,723） （2,723） （844） Purchases of treasury stock （50,022） （159,903） standards for foreign subsidiaries and affiliates Net increase (decrease) in negotiable certificates of deposit （1,623,847） （438,845） Proceeds from sales of treasury stock 2,291 4,141 Restated balance 2,141,513 1,196,803 10,061,926 （522,158） 12,878,084 2,387,390 59,360 Changes during the period Net increase (decrease) in borrowed Payments for purchases of subsidiaries’ Cash dividends （276,249） （276,249） money (excluding subordinated 8,353,562 63,519 equity not affecting the scope of （6,494） （38） borrowings) consolidation Profits attributable to owners of parent 872,689 872,689 Repurchase of treasury stock （160,985） （160,985） Net decrease (increase) in call loans and Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries’ （12,772,206） （6,928,266） Disposal of treasury stock （0） 3,775 3,774 bills bought and others equity not affecting the scope of 15,401 − Net decrease (increase) in receivables consolidation Retirement of treasury stock （162,720） 162,720 − under securities borrowing transactions （719,976） 6,443,287 Net cash provided by (used in) Reversal of land revaluation excess 2,557 2,557 financing activities （251,664） （484,359） Net increase (decrease) in call money Changes of application of equity method （20,269） （20,269） and bills sold and others 7,697,173 7,350,286 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes Changes in subsidiaries’ equity 557 557 on cash and cash equivalents （311,992） （4,192） Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity （138,159） 63,155 Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers （158,147） 149,537 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash Total changes during the period − （162,162） 578,729 5,509 422,075 （138,159） 63,155 Net increase (decrease) in payables equivalents 4,128,739 （506,793） under securities lending transactions 151,607 （7,231,076） Balance at the end of the period 2,141,513 1,034,641 10,640,655 （516,649） 13,300,160 2,249,231 122,516 Cash and cash equivalents at the Net decrease (increase) in foreign beginning of the period 74,206,895 74,713,689 (Millions of Yen) exchanges (assets) 477,953 803,375 Accumulated other comprehensive income Cash and cash equivalents at the end of Net increase (decrease) in foreign the period 78,335,634 74,206,895 Foreign Debt value Total Subscription Non-controlling exchanges (liabilities) （48,568） 235,037 Land Remeasurements adjustments accumulated rights Total net assets currency of defined of foreign other interests revaluation to shares Net increase (decrease) in short-term translation excess adjustments benefit plans subsidiaries comprehensive bonds payable 168,295 （53,300） and affiliates income Balance at the beginning of the period 170,239 499,557 62,182 （35,743） 3,143,832 274 1,270,123 17,295,037 Net increase (decrease) in issuance and redemption of unsubordinated bonds payable 704,633 1,288,395 Cumulative effects due to revision of accounting standards for foreign subsidiaries and affiliates （844） （3,568） Net increase (decrease) in due to trust accounts （483,538） （100,251） Restated balance 170,239 499,557 62,182 （35,743） 3,142,987 274 1,270,123 17,291,469 Changes during the period Interest income (cash basis) 3,970,441 3,741,110 Cash dividends （276,249） Interest expenses (cash basis) （1,965,180） （1,762,774） Profits attributable to owners of parent 872,689 Repurchase of treasury stock （160,985） Others 395,291 （7,248） Disposal of treasury stock 3,774 Retirement of treasury stock − Sub-total 8,203,259 5,922,916 Reversal of land revaluation excess 2,557 Income taxes （228,784） （346,496） Changes of application of equity method （20,269） Refund of income taxes 86,365 32,884 Changes in subsidiaries’ equity 557 Net changes of items other than shareholders’ equity （2,557）（159,844） （66,912） 40,446 （263,871） （56） （187,939） （451,867） Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 8,060,840 5,609,305 Total changes during the period （2,557）（159,844） （66,912） 40,446 （263,871） （56） （187,939） （29,791） Balance at the end of the period 167,681 339,713 （4,729） 4,702 2,879,115 217 1,082,184 17,261,677 100 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 101 Financial Data / Corporate Data Company Overview Corporate Information Major MUFG Group Companies (As of March 31, 2020) (As of August, 2020) Company Name Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Head Office 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, ■ Consolidated subsidiary ● Equity method investee Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Date of Establishment April 2, 2001 Amount of Capital ¥2,141.5 billion Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Common Stock (Issued) 13,581,995,120 shares Stock Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange Commercial Bank Credit Cards / Consumer Finance / Installment Credit Ticker Symbol Number 8306 (Tokyo Stock Exchange, Nagoya Stock Exchange) ■ MUFG Bank ■ Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS MUFG (New York Stock Exchange) ■ Bank of Ayudhya Public Company Limited ■ ACOM Number of Shareholders 754,778 ■ PT Bank Danamon Indonesia, Tbk. ● JACCS ● Security Bank Corporation ● JALCARD ● Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade Stock Price Tokyo Stock Exchange Ownership and Distribution of Shares* Leasing Government and local Commercial Bank Holding Company 160 MUFG Nikkei 225 Securities: governments: ● Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance 140 4.93% 0.02% ■ MUFG Americas Holdings Corporation ● Hitachi Capital 120 Corporations: Trust Bank Asset Management 100 12.89% Foreign 80 institutions, etc.: ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Kokusai Asset Management 60 32.88% ■ The Master Trust Bank of Japan ■ MU Investments 40 Individuals ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Investor Services & Banking (Luxembourg) ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management (UK) and others: 20 Financial ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Baillie Giﬀord Asset Management 0 15.75% institutions: Securities ■ MUFG Lux Management Company 2019/3 2019/6 2019/9 2019/12 2020/3 33.51% Note: Share index (2019/3E = 100) * Excludes treasury shares and fractional shares ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (Securities Holding Company) Holding Company ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Website ■ MUFG Investor Services Holdings (Fund Management) The cover photo shows MUFG Group ■ au Kabucom Securities Co., Ltd. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. employees in Japan and overseas. ■ First Sentier Investors Holdings Pty Ltd (Asset Management) ■ MUFG Securities (Canada) ● AMP Capital Holdings (Asset Management) ■ MUFG Securities EMEA ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International Internet Bank / Regional Bank ■ MUFG Securities Asia (Singapore) ● au Jibun Bank Corporation ■ MUFG Securities Asia ● The Chukyo Bank ● Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Others MUFG Report 2020 Integrated Report ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services About MUFG Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group ■ MUFG Innovation Partners https://www.mufg.jp/english/ (English) ■ Global Open Network ■ Japan Digital Design ■ MUMEC Visionary Design, Ltd. ■ Japan Shareholder Services Ltd. ● Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS This integrated report was printed in Japan on FSC paper with vegetable oil ink. 102 MUFG Report 2020 MUFG Report 2020 103 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 7-1, Marunouchi 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Telephone: 81-3-3240-8111 Issued September 2020 www.mufg.jp/english/ Printed in Japan
