Nomura Report Nomura Holdings, Inc. Integrated Report 2020 At a Glance Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura Group About Nomura 001 Retail Division Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Accounts with balance Retail client assets As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2020 As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2020 4.98 million accounts 5.32 million accounts ¥72 trillion ¥104 trillion Asset Management Division Assets under management Domestic public stock investment trusts market share* As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2020 As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2020 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 ¥24.6 ¥49.3 17.5% 26.2% trillion trillion * The Investment Management Trust Association, Japan Wholesale Division Percentage of Japanese listed US Treasury US Equity companies that name Nomura market share Flow Derivatives as lead / deputy underwriter #5 #1 * 61 * % 8% share 2019 2019 October 2019 to December 2019 * Greenwich * McLagan Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Non-Financials Employees A diverse workforce Sustainable investment in over 30 countries with approximately ratio 26,629 (As of March 31, 2020) 90 nationalities (As of March 31, 2020) 73 % (As of March 31, 2020) Value of sustainable finance we support SDG Bonds (Green, Social, Sustainability bonds) in which Nomura Group is involved As of March 31, 2010 As of March 31, 2020 Contribute to social ¥19.0 billion 2 deals ¥1,270.8 billion 72 deals value creation by Index promoting the 001 About Nomura 001 At a glance 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Corporate Governance 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Financial Review circulation of capital 003 Business Model 047 Interview to Outside Director 083 Key Financial Data 051 Directors of Nomura Holdings 085 Eleven-Year Consolidated Financial 005 Strategies for Value Creation 053 Executive Officers and Senior Managing Summary 005 Message from Group CEO Directors of Nomura Holdings / Outside 087 ESG Data Directors of major subsidiaries in Japan 091 Corporate Data / Share Information / 015 Nomura Group's Management Vision Nomura Group is a global financial services group with an integrated network 055 Code of Conduct Total Shareholder Return / Credit Ratings 019 Message from CFO spanning over 30 countries. We connect investors with issuers such as corporates 057 Compliance 093 Independent Assurance 023 Materiality 025 Special Feature: Sustainable Finance 063 Risk Management through the capital markets and provide liquidity by facilitating the flow of capital, 067 Business Continuity Management / Cyber Security 029 Business Divisions: Retail Division an essential component of ensuring a sound economy that contributes to business 033 Business Divisions: Asset Management Division 069 Sustainability 071 TCFD development and improving society. 037 Business Divisions: Wholesale Division 073 Financial Literacy 075 Human Resources Strategy 001 002 Business Model Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 BUSINESS MODEL Nomura Group's Business Model Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Major revenue items* Retail We provide financial services through our nationwide branches, call centers and online platform. In addition C I Revenue Structure to traditional investment products such as stocks and bonds, we Services related to offer inheritance, real estate, asset succession, financing, and A T asset management and corporate finance advisory. business succession for C individual and corporate C Commission 24% Asset management We manage clients' assets according to their clients needs. We also provide investment trusts through various financial A I Fees from investment banking 8% Nomura's Strengths institutions. Asset management and A portfolio service fees 18% Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 T Net gain (loss) on trading 38% Other 13% I We provide advisory services on mergers, M&A acquisitions, sales, business alliances, etc. We support clients in I Gain (loss) on private Brand and trust built up P equity and debt 0% valuations of target companies and negotiations. investments over 95 years of history Creating Value-Add through Financial Markets T Gain (loss) on investments -1% and experience in equity securities A Financing We support financing from financial markets I by issuing stocks and bonds. Consulting capability and Supporting corporate Nomura's revenue comes from the provision of value-add growth strategies and consulting solutions and from the smooth execution in employees with profound financial products. An increase of volume in transaction capital funding and investment of clients' financial products and in market knowledge Solutions We provide currency and interest rate risk corporate activities such as financing will lead to an hedging strategies associated with M&A and finance transactions. I T increase in our revenue. Net gains or losses on financial Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 products positions held by Nomura also affect earnings. *Represents the percentage of net revenue (¥1,287.8 billion) for the year ended Comprehensive capabilities as a main March 2020 Merchant Banking We support our clients' business growth by Cost Structure player in global financial providing funds using Nomura Group's own capital. In 2019, we P launched the first deal after the reorganization. This area will play a key role in expanding Private business in the future. markets Sales We provide solutions utilizing products Compensation and Strong Corporate 46 % such as stocks, interest rates, credit, foreign exchange, and C T benefits Commissions and floor Governance Structure securitization products. brokerage 10 % Adapted to Company with Committees Information processing and communications 16 % etc. structure (now known as Company Occupancy and related 7% with Three Board Committees) at early depreciation Trading We provide market liquidity through trading stage in Japan Business development 3% operations such as pricing financial products and managing T expenses Services related to the inventories. Other 17% investment and market Financial strength with intermediation for institutional investors adequate capital base and corporations Structuring We develop and structure products that T well above the regulatory utilize derivatives to meet client needs. We aim to efficiently manage the business resources minimum requirements required to provide high-quality financial services. Research We conduct research and quantitative Because compensation and benefits account for a large portion of our costs, the performance of our employees analysis on financial markets and individual stocks, providing is an important factor in Nomura's profitability. information to support clients' decision-making. Through the — *Represents the percentage of total expenses (¥1,039.6 billion) for the year recently established Content Company we aim to further ended March 2020 enhance our consulting solution capabilities. *Major revenue items for each business are shown in the corresponding markers in the revenue breakdown on the right page. 003 004 Message from Group CEO Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Stepping up to a Next Stage of Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Growth I am Kentaro Okuda and I have been Group CEO since April 2020. Since my appointment as the incoming Group CEO in December Group CEO 2019, I have held a number of honest discussions with the new management team about the future of Nomura Group. These discussions included asking ourselves what Nomura should aim to Kentaro Okuda Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 become, what our clients, shareholders, the markets, and society expect from us, and what is our principal purpose for our stakeholders. The financial industry is regarded as a highly public function that is essential to society, and I believe it will continue to grow and evolve. However, this does not guarantee that Nomura Group will remain a key industry player in the future. Maintaining our position in the industry requires that we continue to adapt to the evolving marketplace. As barriers to entry in the financial industry continue to fall due to the digitalization of financial services, we need to be sensitive to the needs of the market and our clients, and constantly transform ourselves by developing new ideas. I often reflect on and have spoken about these themes as a business leader and as a Group Co-COO since 2018. Furthermore, as Group CEO, I promote the message that I want to bring Nomura to a next stage from where we stand now. Some may be a bit surprised by my saying Let's aim for nonlinear growth, create unconventional security businesses, and no need to stick with only financial businesses domain. However we have not yet shared the complete form of Next Stage of Growth that we are aiming for at this point and we are still working to finalize some of the details. Through this report I hope to convey as much as possible about major transformation to come and the goals that drive it. 005 006 Message from Group CEO Nomura Report 2020 Nomura Group has established this constantly evaluating effective and lagging About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Management Vision for the management vision for the year 2025, the 100 year anniversary of its founding. In Business Trust from Employee strategies. The details of each business division are 100th Anniversary of Our order to realize this management vision society satisfaction growth described in greater depth later in this report. within the next five years, we will promote First, in the Retail Division, we will leverage the Foundation three core values: business growth x trust from society x employee With recognition of these issues, we will reviewed channel formation and last year's implementation of digital infrastructure to Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 satisfaction . focus on business growth as one of the provide the most suitable services through pillars for realizing our management vision. By appropriate channels based on client profiles. the fiscal year ending March 2023, we aim to By doing so, we will increase the number of Achieve sustainable growth by helping solve social issues expand existing businesses and improve active clients by 1.4 times and nearly double productivity. At the same time, we will invest consulting related revenues. In addition, we in and cultivate new business areas, thereby plan to leverage the expertise of the CIO (Chief expanding our company's strategic options. Investment Office) Group, which we Business Trust from Employee By the fiscal year ending March 2025, five established in July 2020, to provide high growth society satisfaction years from now, Nomura aims to expand its value-add asset management services that will core business domain which is not just in the lead to the introduction of a new fee model. public but also private space to make a leap The Asset Management Division aims to Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 to a Next Stage of Growth. The ROE target increase assets under management to ¥65 is set between 8-10%. trillion by strengthening its investment One component of our management vision In facing these issues, we have to In the first phase of the plan, which proceeds capabilities in growth areas such as multiis achieving sustainable growth by helping overcome some of our own challenges first. through fiscal 2023, we aim to achieve income asset, alternative and ESG investments. We solve social issues . In order to realize this In Japan, we are responding to an aging before income taxes of ¥280 billion in existing believe the Wholesale Division has improved its vision, we need to break away from our existing client base due to demographic trends and core businesses (¥110 billion in Retail Division, profitability and earnings potential following business model and take forward thinking the accompanying changes in our profit ¥50 billion in Asset Management Division, ¥120 their business portfolio review last year. Over actions to reach a Next Stage of Growth. structure. On a global level, we are billion in Wholesale Division). Over the next the next three years, our focus is to continue What social issues should Nomura Group responding to challenges including three years, we set KPIs (key performance pursuing resource efficiency, prudent risk deal with over the next five years? First, increasing need for value-add services, indicators) for each business division to management, and operational efficiency to investor appetite and demand has broadened higher productivity and operational determine areas of focus, and to monitor how increase earnings stability. in response to the historically low interest rate efficiency by using digital technologies. we are progressing toward our goals while At the same time, we will invest in new Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 environment and increasing volatility in Another major challenge is to improve business areas in order to appropriately financial markets. Second, there is growing earnings stability and return on capital in respond to social issues and create a interest in Environment, Social, and our international Wholesale business and foundation for long-term growth. Additionally, Governance (ESG) investments as a means improve the capital efficiency of the entire three segments profit target of ¥280 billion of achieving economic growth in harmony group. It is also essential for us to develop was set amid significant uncertainties with the environment and society. Another new business areas and diversify revenue regarding the impact and length of the major challenge is to increase productivity streams in order to grow in uncertain coronavirus pandemic, and therefore targets and add value through digitization. market environments. could be subject to review in the future. However, we do not intend to significantly change the core strategy or the actions planned to achieve our goal and appreciate the understanding of our stakeholders as we navigate this crisis. In the second phase of our management plan, which is scheduled for the fiscal year ending March 2025, or five years from now, we aim to properly respond to social issues by providing a comprehensive range of services, from public to private, through the investments we are making going forward. As we pursue business growth, we will maintain our financial soundness while striking the right balance between investment in growth areas and shareholder return. 007 008 Message from Group CEO Next Stage of Growth About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Products and services Expanding our scope of business from Public to Private Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Delivery method What does it mean to step into Next Stage only continue to grow. Our company's of Growth and expand our business scope involvement in this platform will lead to the from Public to Private in order to achieve creation of new revenue streams. this goal? Since our definition of Private With regard to the second point, client includes various meanings, we will explain franchise, as an example, we will reallocate each of them in the context of three ideas: some of our coverage resources towards products and services we offer, client unlisted companies such as startups franchise and delivery method. (currently, clients of our Investment Banking First, with regard to products and business are primarily listed companies, Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 services, we continue to be strong in public such as issuers). This will contribute to markets and financial products such as listed further expansion in this field. Moreover, we stocks and investment trusts. Going forward, will not only provide products to existing we will also strengthen alternative investment investors, but also aim to provide new management in the private sector, which services by identifying needs through includes business assets such as private consulting and advisory services. PRESENT AREA PROSPECTS AREA equity, private debt and infrastructure. In The third focus point, delivery method is order to meet these needs, we will position to promote the use of digital technologies in Clients the private investment business as one of the addition to providing services based on Group's growth strategies, expanding the physical meetings and other high-touch range of products offered to our clients for business. This will be implemented, as an startups with limited public information something from scratch, but to leverage which fees are paid based on investment additional tool to increase our client orders should provide significant added value to Nomura Group's track record in public Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 performance. This will increase our so-called via online presence. For example, the Retail venture capitals and other clients. We will businesses, relationships with clients, and fee business. We are currently formulating Division have already moved to a hybrid also expand the scope of our consulting individual employees' strengths into new detailed business plans for targeted asset model where they use data from various business, which goes beyond research to areas. In the United States, while Amazon's classes, including fund sizes and interactions to select the appropriate channel solve our client's challenges together. strength in the e-commerce field is management teams, which we will elaborate services, ideal timing for each client — Furthermore, we recognize that the remarkable, Wal-Mart, which combines on later. physical face-to-face, phone, e-mail, or online commercialization of new technologies and digital and physical outlets, is growing again In terms of products and services in the conferencing. Going forward, we will continue the development of new industries are in both spaces. In China, Ping An Insurance private side, we will also work on digital to evolve the delivery of content and other essential for the revitalization of the is expanding its business domain beyond assets, a new asset class. A joint venture products that we have been providing with economy, and our mission is to contribute insurance by utilizing insurance salespeople company established with Nomura Research the goal of meeting the unique needs and to solving social and environmental issues. as a channel to promote digital Institute named BOOSTRY Co., Ltd. began preferences of individual clients. In a way, this In order to effectively use our intellectual transformation, integrating interpersonal full-scale operations in November 2019 to can be defined as a private service. assets and content, in July of this year, we sales (high-touch) and digital dialogue undertake upstream financing operations in If we can expand these three focus points, consolidated and reorganized the Group's (high-tech), and introducing doctors and the digital asset value chain. In March 2020, we will be able to provide services and research capabilities and established a new supporting health management. While we we provided and underwrote technical solutions that are customized for each client, organization called Content Company. rely on digital services as much as possible, infrastructure for the issuance of Japan's first that is, private. This tailored just for you Going forward, in addition to providing our employees need to continue raising digital asset bonds / digital bonds. In proposal should lead to truly differentiated information, we intend to enhance their abilities for face-to-face high-touch addition, together with Ledger in France and competitiveness. functionality, adding digital delivery consulting and advisory so that they can be CoinShares in the UK, we launched Nomura's research capabilities are development teams. We will be able to fully recognized as a trusted consultant for Komainu, to offer custodial services, settle amongst our most important management proactively promote business and provide our clients. We are confident that we will be accounts and manage digital assets on resources, and the content generated by more value with a wider range of points of able to further increase our growth potential behalf of institutional investors in the them will play an important role in realizing contact than ever before. by maintaining the face-to-face aspect as a downstream (administration) area of the future growth. For example, reliable The goal of working toward Next Stage core while still moving away from the narrowlyvalue chain. The need for digital assets will research on unlisted companies and of Growth is not to deny the past or create defined scope of securities business. 009 010 Message from Group CEO Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 expansion and investment, especially in Business Trust from Employee new digital fields. These are areas in which growth satisfaction society our comprehensive strengths can be utilized, and we will work to strengthen our responsiveness with urgency in order to Trust from society included as an support our clients' growth strategies and Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 element of our management vision has their efforts to improve corporate value. several key considerations. The first step is Our vision to maintain the Trust from to increase client satisfaction by providing Society and efforts to maintain trust in the best services and solutions to meet the Nomura Group is also an important issue. needs and challenges faced by individual In May 2019, an inappropriate clients. Through our core businesses, we communication concerning a review of would like to contribute even more to the market segmentation of the Tokyo Stock realization of a sustainable society, Exchange caused considerable including the achievement of the goals of inconvenience to our clients and other the SDGs and the Paris Agreement. To this stakeholders. We established the Nomura ESG as the pillars of end, we listed sustainable finance, including Group Code of Conduct in December 2019 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 green bonds, and Nomura Asset so that every employee can translate the Management Vision Management's sustainable investment ratio shared values of challenge, collaboration as KPIs. and good faith into action, keeping in Meeting these social needs will lead to mind that it is our social mission to the growth of our business. In April 2020, contribute to the development of healthy In addition to the business growth , our advance our business. When I speak with Nomura completed its acquisition of U.S. capital markets. We have also established management vision incorporates ESG junior employees, I find that they appreciate M&A boutique Greentech Capital Advisors. the Nomura Group Corporate Conduct elements to achieve trust from society and and value the fact that their work Greentech is a leader in the sustainable Committee directly under the Executive employee satisfaction . After my contributes to society and are proud to technology and infrastructure sector M&A Management Board to instill the Code of appointment as Group CEO, I listened to serve their company with these priorities. advisory space. Through this acquisition, Conduct in our employees and foster opinions from people outside the company, In order to strengthen ESG management, we combine Greentech's expertise and ethical corporate culture. The Code of and noticed some have felt that Nomura is I chair the ESG Committee, which is now knowledge with our global network and Conduct represents our commitment to our Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 becoming less functioning to serve broader aligned with members of the Executive expertise in the solutions business to stakeholders. As society changes society than before. Even before that, our Management Board to create a framework provide value-add services and contribute drastically, it is important to understand the clients often brought up ESG in for the strategic promotion of ESG within to sustainable growth with consideration of needs of society and to be accountable to conversation, and I realized that the world the highest decision-making body at the the global environment. a wide range of stakeholders, including was changing. In addition to climate executive level. In addition, four The trend in society to increase clients and investors. Holding ourselves change, large-scale natural disasters, subcommittees were established under the productivity and add value through accountable leads to increased trust. At the widening social disparities, and the crisis ESG Committee: (1) Wholesale digitization is expected to accelerate in the same time, we want to develop a company caused by coronavirus further reveal Sustainability Forum to plan business future. While many companies are exploring that employees are proud to work for and distortions in the economy and society, opportunities and strategies for sustainable new growth strategies in light of the major deepen our dialogue with stakeholders. where we will be required to make more finance; (2) Climate Risk Working Group structural changes in society caused by the There is no end to these efforts, but I will effort to build a sustainable world. to analyze scenarios of climate change coronavirus pandemic, there is still a need take the lead and work to continually Under these circumstances, we will risks and conduct stress testing; (3) for responding social and economic improve our discipline as an organization. reform the Group to reach the next level and Working Group on Environmental to achieve nonlinear growth, while Activities to promote Nomura Group's maintaining our core mission of efforts to reduce environmental impact; and contributing to the creation of a truly (4) TCFD Working Group for the Task affluent society through financial and capital Force on Climate-related Financial markets. I would also like to strengthen our Disclosures (TCFD). In addition, the vision through expanding ESG capabilities Nomura Group's top management in line with changes taking place during our materiality which was identified in last times. In addition to the securities business, year's comprehensive review of which is our specialty, there are many other management issues and existing ESG things that we can do to help our society issues, is being reviewed in accordance and community as we aim to transform and with the Management Vision. 011 012 Message from Group CEO Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 To be a company that employees are About Nomura 001 proud to work for Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Nomura has a large platform with approximately 27,000 employees worldwide. Business Trust from Employee There are about 16,000 and 11,000 growth society satisfaction employees in Japan and overseas with backgrounds diversified across 90 nationalities. Each and every employee is our greatest asset. We believe that Our job is to provide clients with value-add diversity regardless of gender, nationality services. The most important of these is the or age will become even more important as Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 three S's; Skills, Speed and Spirit . we evolve into a Next Stage of Growth. Skills means to continue to refine expertise Under the new management structure and improve professionalism in order to be introduced in April 2020, a key executive in selected by clients. The next S is Speed charge of corporate finance transitioned which requires quick response to clients, from Investment Banking to become the keeping an eye on the changing world, and director in charge of Wealth Management in being capable of taking the lead. Spirit is Retail Division, and an executive in charge our DNA, our founding spirit of contributing of Fixed Income moved to Investment to society through our business. Nomura Banking. I felt that if someone who knows has always endeavored to be the first in investors moves to the issuer side, they will new frontiers. I want to keep this spirit be able to do something that they have not unchanged. Contributing solutions to been able to do before, especially in the Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 environmental and social issues is private space. appreciated by our clients, society, and the Half of the newly appointed 12 executive world. We have included employee officers came to Nomura after working satisfaction as the third element of our outside our company. We believe their management vision, with the aim of creating various backgrounds can create synergies a company where employees are excited with different areas of the Group, and and proud to work for a company that is therefore contribute toward our goal of cherished by their family and friends, and responding to changes in society and Kentaro Okuda is currently President and Group CEO of Nomura Holdings. Prior to becoming Group CEO in those closest to them. complicated clients' needs. April 2020, he served as Group Co-COO of Nomura Holdings from April 2018. He concurrently served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Nomura Holdings America, a position he held from 2017 to 2019, together with his role as Head of Americas. He joined Nomura in 1987. During his career at Nomura, he has held a number of senior positions In closing Finally, the coronavirus as an invisible threat changed our lifestyle completely. It reminded us that tomorrow is not just an extension of with the firm, mainly within the Wholesale / Investment Banking business, including Global Head of today. There is no guarantee that people's lives and ways of thinking Investment Banking, Joint Head of Wholesale and will remain the same after things settle down. That is why we should Global Head of M&A. He also has management experience within corporate functions, having not be bound by conventional ideas, and look to move towards our served as Head of Group Strategy and Executive Next Stage of Growth with thoughtful ideas about future business. Office, where he was responsible for developing and We have to change ourselves. We will continue to take on new implementing the group's corporate strategy. challenges. In this spirit, we will continue to make every effort to enhance our corporate value. 013 014 Nomura Group's Management Vision Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 NOMURA Group's Red letter shows KPIs. MANAGEMENT VISION Nomura Group needs to comply with various financial regulations in order to operate globally. We are working to improve capital efficiency by appropriately allocating the limited capital to businesses, while complying with these requirements and ensuring financial soundness. At the same time, we aim to provide the appropriate return to In May 2020, Nomura Group announced a new management vision Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 shareholders. for the year 2025, the 100 year anniversary of its founding. Under Increase profitability of existing businesses this vision, we aim to realize business growth by expanding our Expanding the scope of business Businesses Optimize resource allocation business domain from public to private, with our core business Business growth capital allocation (Retail, Asset Management, Wholesale and Merchant Banking) as ROE 8-10% the foundation. The ROE target is set at 8-10%. P17-18 Regulatory Pursuit of requirements optimal capital At the same time, we will focus on ESG (Environment, Social and Appropriate return to shareholders Governance) elements such as trust from society and employee satisfaction. We believe sustainable growth cannot be achieved if Financial soundness Shareholders Dividend payout ratio*: 30 % (CET1 ratio: 11% or higher) either element is missing. By combining business growth, trust Total return ratio: 50% or more from society and employee satisfaction to create synergies, we Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 will achieve sustainable growth and help solve social issues. Management vision: Nomura Group operates businesses by placing our clients at the heart of everything Achieve sustainable growth by solving social issues we do. The environment surrounding us is changing rapidly, and the needs of our clients are becoming more diverse and complex. We would like to remain the most trusted partner for clients by sincerely addressing the needs of each client in any environment and providing the best financial products, services and solutions. Employee Trusted by our clients Client satisfaction Business growth Trust from society Trust from society satisfaction As environmental and social issues such as climate change and widening social disparities become more serious, consideration of these issues are essential for Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 economic growth. Nomura Group continues to contribute toward the realization of a sustainable society through the financial and capital markets. Creating a sustainable society Value of sustainable finance we support Sustainable investment ratio Nomura Group's capital that has been cultivated over its 95 year history Approximately 26,600 employees of 90 nationalities work for Nomura Group. We seek to manage our employees in a flexible and appropriate manner so that each Financial capital Non-financial capital and every one of our employees can thrive as they collaborate with each other and contribute their skills to the workplace. The new management vision will focus on Japan's leading client base the following three areas. Trust from clients Our revenue base consists of domestic Products and services capabilities business and carefully selected Full-scale global franchise Employee Environment where employees can international business work with enthusiasm Employee satisfaction Awareness of the Nomura brand Capital and liquidity ratios well above Organization with diversity of about 90 satisfaction the regulatory minimum requirements nationalities Organizational development and talent Corporate culture Talent development management that allow our employees from various backgrounds to work to their full potential. Organizational management focus Strengthened oversight function by separating management oversight and Diversity & Inclusion toward diversity and capabilities business execution, enabling an expedited decision-making process Female manager ratio Advanced risk management structure Infrastructure which supports global franchise * We will strive to pay dividends using a consolidated pay-out ratio of 30 percent of each semi-annual consolidated earnings as a key indicator. Dividend payments are determined taking into account a comprehensive range of factors such as the tightening of Basel regulations and other changes to the regulatory environment as well as the Company's consolidated financial performance. 015 016 Nomura Group's Management Vision Nomura Report 2020 NOMURA Group's MANAGEMENT About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 VISION Path to Achieving Our Management Vision ROE Tree Since 2012, Nomura Group has conducted structural reforms by transforming the business model ROE is one of the most important financial targets in our management vision. The targeted 8-10% Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 in Japan and improving profitability of international business. As a result, the quality of our business of ROE is broken down into three factors; profitability, efficiency and financial leverage, which we and the recognition from our clients has improved significantly, and we have built a more solid call as the ROE tree. In particular, to improve profitability, we have established Key Performance business foundation in international regions by focusing on areas of our strength. For the next Indicators (KPIs) and Key Goal Indicators (KGI) to align our efforts with those of each business. five years, we will continue to focus on transformation within our core businesses, while making necessary investments and incorporating new ideas to expand our scope of business from public to private so that we are able to enter into a Next Stage of Growth. Initiatives, Main KPIs/KGI Our management vision for the fiscal year ending March 2025 is broadly divided into two phases. Recurring revenue assets By fiscal year ending March 2023, we aim to expand existing businesses and invest towards Consulting related revenue developing new business domains. By the fiscal year ending March 2025, we aim to expand our Retail Number of active clients core business domain from public to private. The ROE target is set at 8-10%. Net inflows of cash and P29-32 securities ROE Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 ROE trajectory 8-10% Asset Management Assets under Management Structural transformation in line Enhance productivity, Achieve sustainable growth P33-36 with changing environment expand revenue mix by helping solve social issues Grow revenues Revenue/RWA Transform domestic Measure progress by main Advise clients on their total KPIs balance sheet requirements Wholesale Growth of fee and business model commission based Ongoing transformation of core Improve profitability of businesses Provide comprehensive P37-40 revenue international business Stringent cost control and risk services covering both public (reduce unprofitable businesses, and private Profitability management focus on areas of competitive Earnings contributions from Future Innovation strength) Foundation for management business and new areas other New users vision Company than the three segments Shore up balance sheet, Invest and develop new Set as new businesses step up shareholder returns business domains New areas launched 8% -10% Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 (expand private services) Maximize shareholder value with balance of investment and shareholder returns Cost control Complete firm-wide cost reduction of ¥140 billion (by FY2021/22) P19-22 KGI Grow pretax Retail ¥110 billion 6.0% income Asset Management ¥50 billion (FY2022/23) Wholesale ¥120 billion Balance sheet control Sell strategic shareholdings P19-22 1.9% Efficiency Off-balance Reallocation from unprofitable businesses to sheet control highly profitable businesses P19-22 Pre-FY2011/12 Actual Target FY2022/23 (average)*1 (average)*2 (FY2024/25) Maintain appropriate levels of leverage Financial FY2012/13 FY2019/20 -FY2022/23 -FY2024/25 leverage Total shareholder returns of at least 50% as basis, then achieve P19-22 balance of investment and shareholder returns for surplus capital Fit for the Future / Vision C&C Management vision *1 Average of FY2009/10 – FY2011/12. *2 Average of FY2012/13 – FY2019/20. 017 018 Message from CFO Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Financial and capital support to achieve our management vision In the fiscal year ended March 2020, we growth , trust from society and employee significantly improved financial performance satisfaction , we aim to help solve social from the previous year's loss despite difficult issues and to achieve sustainable growth. We will strive to maximize our business conditions, which included the I believe that my main role as CFO is to Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 market downturn in March, due to our provide financial and capital support, while corporate value and contribute successful reforms to the Retail Division and communicating with a variety of toward the realization of our firm-wide cost saving initiatives. In Retail, we stakeholders and taking their interests into *1 Consolidated Common Equity Tier1 ( CET1 ) capital ratio: realigned sales channels and improved our account to realize our management vision. defined as Tier1 capital minus management vision by pursuing an organizational structure to better support To this end, we will maintain a balance Additional Tier1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. client needs. In Wholesale, we lowered our between (1) maintaining an appropriate *2 We will strive to pay dividends optimal balance between investment break-even point through a review of our financial base that enables compliance with using a consolidated pay-out ratio of 30 percent of each semi-annual consolidated business portfolio and ongoing cost reductions. various financial regulations, which are in growth areas and digitalization Nomura Group reformed the management essential for Nomura Group to conduct earnings as a key indicator. Dividend payments are determined taking into account and shareholder return board in April 2020 and set forth a new business globally, (2) supporting Nomura a comprehensive range of factors such as the tightening management vision towards the fiscal year Group's sustainable growth from a financial of Basel regulations and other Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 changes to the regulatory ending March 2025. In this management and capital perspective, and (3) providing environment as well as the Company's consolidated vision, through a combination of business appropriate shareholder returns. financial performance. Increase profitability of existing capital businesses allocation Expanding the scope of business Optimize resource allocation Businesses ROE 8-10% Regulatory Pursuit of requirements optimal capital Appropriate return to shareholders Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Chief Financial Officer Financial soundness Shareholders Takumi Kitamura Dividend payout ratio*2 : 30% *1 CET1 ratio : 11% or higher Total return ratio: 50% or more Income (loss) before income taxes and net income (loss) attributable to EPS (Diluted net income (loss) attributable to Nomura Holdings Nomura Holdings shareholders shareholders per share), and ROE (billions of yen) (yen) (%) Income (loss) before income taxes Net income (loss) attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders EPS(lhs) ROE(rhs) 400 100 10.0 361.6 346.8 8.9% 8.6% 8.7% 322.8 328.2 7.9% 8.2% 300 75 7.5 248.3 65.65 61.88 66.2 237.7 239.6 4.9% 55.81 60.03 4.9% 213.6 224.8 219.3 217.0 200 50 5.0 165.2 3.7% 131.6 35.52 100 105.2 93.3 85.0 107.2 25 28.37 2.5 21.59 67.8 1.4% 28.7 7.86 0.6% 0 11.6 0 3.14 0 -37.7 -100.4 -29.92 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Fiscal years ended March 31) (Fiscal years ended March 31) 019 020 Message from CFO Nomura Report 2020 the coronavirus pandemic. We have more *1 The minimum required With regards to efficiency , we will pay Compliance with financial Toward sustainable growth About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 CET1 capital ratio may time to prepare for the tightening of the fluctuate each quarter as attention to the optimal allocation of regulations and maintenance of regulation, but there is no guarantee that such the counter cyclical buffer In our management vision, in addition to our resources. One of the KPIs of Wholesale is is updated quarterly. As financial soundness a sudden market downturn as we saw in of March 31, 2020, the exiting public business areas, we aim to the revenue to risk-weighted assets ratio. By minimum requirement is There are several global financial regulations March will not happen again. We will continue 7.51% expand and grow our businesses into the regularly monitoring whether each business *2 Abbreviation for Total Lossthat Nomura Group must comply with. Above to manage appropriately while attentively Absorbing Capability. private area in terms of products and services, line is achieving an appropriate return on Sufficient Total Lossall, the capital adequacy regulations set by controlling risk. Absorbing Capacity aims to client base and delivery format. financial resources, such as risk-weighted Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 the Basel Committee have a direct impact on In April 2018, it was announced that the promote financial stability ROE is the most important indicator of assets, we can redistribute resources as *3 Liabilities, etc. that satisfy our operations. As we anticipate the minimum Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC*2) requirements for loss business growth. Our management vision and necessary from low to high-profitability required consolidated Common Equity Tier1 requirement would be applied to Nomura absorbing capacity as goal is to build the foundation of a business businesses and conduct operations with defined by the Financial ( CET1 ) capital ratio at 7.5-8%*1, we are Group effective March 31, 2021. As a result, Services Agency of Japan capable of achieving ROE of 8-10% by the greater awareness of capital efficiency. In *4 Unsecured perpetual aiming to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of 11% we have been proceeding with issuance of subordinated bonds with fiscal year ending March 2025. ROE can be addition, based on our policy to hold strategic or higher over the medium term, which TLAC-eligible debt*3 and refinancing existing optional redemption clause divided into three factors: profitability x shareholdings only when they contribute to and write-down clause. includes a discretionary management buffer. liabilities. We have raised approximately ¥240 Under the capital regulatory efficiency x financial leverage . Nomura's the maintenance and improvement of our rules for international The rapid spread of the coronavirus billion on TLAC-eligible debt in fiscal year financial institutions (Basel current challenge is profitability . In our corporate value based on both quantitative III), they are recognized as pandemic since the beginning of this year ended March 2019 and ¥380 billion in fiscal capital and classified as management vision, we have established new and qualitative analysis, we continue to resulted in significant capital markets year ended March 2020. At the same time, as additional Tier1 capital. KPIs (key performance indicators) so that we conduct rigorous reviews of our strategic fluctuations. In March, the VIX index reached a result of our efforts to ensure disciplined can regularly measure the progress of each shareholdings. We will also promote the Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 record high levels since the global financial management of our balance sheet, we have business division's efforts to improve optimization of our booking entities. crisis, and credit spreads widened rapidly. managed our loss absorbing capacity profitability . By expanding our business The third factor, financial leverage, can be Due to these acute market changes, risk(regulatory Capital and TLAC-eligible debt) to reach from public to private, we would like to raised by reducing capital and actively using weighted assets, the denominator of the meet the minimum required level of TLAC as steadily increase revenues not only in our debt, but excessive leverage increases financial CET1 capital ratio, increased mainly on of March 31, 2020 that is applied upon TLAC existing, but also in new business areas. At risk, and we must meet the regulatory capital market risk. As of March 31, 2020, the CET1 regulation implementation. In June 2020, we the same time, we will thoroughly control requirements mentioned earlier. Therefore, it is capital ratio was 15.3%, down from a year issued perpetual subordinated bonds*4 worth costs. At present, the ¥140 billion cost important to control financial leverage at an ago (17.1%). Nevertheless, our financial ¥150 billion to strengthen capital base, which reduction plan towards the fiscal year ending appropriate level. Shareholder return is also an position is sound as the CET1 capital ratio is supports our growth strategy, and to increase March 2022 has progressed approximately important element. We set policies to ensure a well above our medium-term target of 11%. the flexibility of our financial strategy. These 70% as of March 2020, and we will continue payout ratio of 30% on a semiannual The methodology for measuring riskperpetual subordinated bonds are considered to make steady progress on the remaining consolidated basis and a total payout ratio of weighted assets will be more stringent with to be both Tier1 capital and TLAC eligible. We 30%. We will also selectively invest in at least 50% for the fiscal year including share Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 the finalization of Basel III. This stricter will continue to implement our fund raising digitization and growth areas to take a leap buybacks. Based on these return policies, we regulation was scheduled to be implemented plan so that we can meet the required forward to the Next Stage of Growth . will allocate capital efficiently. in the fiscal year ending March 2022, but was regulatory level without difficulty. postponed for one year due to the impact of ROE tree Cost control Profitability Financial support for business expansion on existing business, digitalization and growth areas Reallocate financial resources from unprofitable businesses to highly profitable businesses ROE Efficiency Sell strategic shareholdings Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio Response to meet TLAC requirements 8-10% Global booking strategy (Calculation based on the balance sheet as of March 31, 2020) Risk-weighted assets (trillions of yen) CET1 capital ratio (%) Financial Maintain appropriate level of leverage 20.0 20.0% leverage Achieve balance of investment and shareholder returns 18.9 18.2% 16.5% 17.1% Since 2012, Nomura Group has worked to ending March 2025, we will exercise financial 16.0 15.0 15.1 15.7 16% reform its domestic business model and and capital discipline, and we will 14.0 14.3 15.3% Minimum level improve the profitability of its overseas communicate with our stakeholders about 15.4% requirement March 31, 2021 business while simultaneously strengthening our progress based on established KPIs for 12.9% its financial base. I am confident that we each business division. Although I did not 10.0 have been able to improve our mention it in this message, trust from competitiveness in the areas where we have society and employee satisfaction are CET1 capital ratio (medium term target): 6.8% more than 11% strengths while transforming toward a leaner also essential to achieving our management 5.0 6% structure by continuously assessing the vision. As a member of the group executive Minimum level requirement ideal business platform. Over the next five board, I will strive to create an organization March 31, 2021 years, we will deepen these efforts while that can grow sustainably through the also investing in growth areas to reach the resolution of social issues and make steady 0 Regulatory capital + TLACRegulatory capital + TLACNext Stage of Growth . In order to achieve efforts to address these issues. Thank you 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 eligible debt against leverage eligible debt against risk(End of March) exposure weighted assets our management vision for the fiscal year for your continued support. 021 022 Materiality Nomura Report 2020 Selection About Nomura 001 MATERIALITY About Nomura 001 process Nomura Group Materiality Achieving sustainable growth by listening to our stakeholders and helping to solve social issues List the issues 1 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 We make a list of issues based on A rich natural environment and healthy social environment are the foundations of economic and business domestic and overseas non-financial advancement as well as people's lives. Without such foundations, it is impossible to fulfill Nomura Group’s social information disclosure guidelines such as mission of helping to enrich society. We have been expanding our products and services, and globally expanding our the GRI Guidelines and SDGs, etc. businesses and bolstering our corporate governance based on the recognition that initiatives such as protecting the 2 global environment and promoting the active participation of a diverse range of people are essential for advancing both economic activity and society as a whole. In May 2020, Nomura Group announced a new management vision Evaluate importance to Achieve sustainable growth by helping solve social issues ahead of the year 2025, the centennial anniversary of Nomura’s founding. In addition to business growth, our management vision incorporates the ESG elements of trust We evaluate the importance to stakeholders based on the matters to be from society and employee satisfaction. By combining these three elements to create synergies, we will achieve evaluated as provided by ESG research sustainable growth and help solve social issues. organizations* in Japan and overseas Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 and based on opinions from external The highest priority issues Metrics Targets SDGs* stakeholders. In addition, we evaluate Material issues the importance to Nomura, referencing our Management Vision, Corporate Since Nomura Group first identified CSR Value of sustainable finance we Provide financial services that Through our core business, create a better Philosophy and the Nomura Group Materiality in 2008, we have conducted contribute to the creation of a support future by addressing stakeholders’ needs Code of Conduct, as well as based on regular reviews based on trends in the sustainable society Sustainable investment ratio and providing value added solutions interviews of key internal departments. international community and the * DJSI(S&P Global/SAM), Vigeo Eiris, MSCI, ISS-oekom, Initiatives toward sustainable growth Sustainalytics expectations of stakeholders. In light of the Continue to focus on transformation to 3 management vision announced in May Pursue digitization to enhance respond to the ever-changing business customer service and Expansion of diverse digital delivery environment. Enhance the quality and quantity 2020, we reviewed the Nomura Group Formulate draft Materiality productivity of customer service and achieve high Materiality and identified the 27 material productivity through digitization initiatives issues including seven highest priority Based on the evaluation of importance Provide customized products, (see 2 above), we formulate a Nomura issues. We will continue to make every Expand and strengthen services and solutions Group Materiality draft following businesses from Public to Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 effort toward our targets by using metrics to Address new investor base and Achieve medium to long-term growth through verification by the Group Strategy and Private expanding our business presence in private monitor how we are progressing. needs markets by expanding out alternative products Executive Office and ESG Department. and discovering new client needs. In addition, The Continually review existing optimize the business portfolio taking into highest Optimal allocation of resources priority Nomura Group Materiality business portfolio based on account the profitability of each business ROE issues https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/group/issues.html profitability Importance for stakeholders To increase corporate value, strengthen and enhance the corporate governance framework Ensure all Nomura people as corporate governance is one of the most understand and comply with Status of instilling of the Nomura important issues. At the same time, build trust the Nomura Group Code of Group Code of Conduct with society and protect and enhance Conduct corporate value with thorough compliance and Platform toward sustainable growth by raising employee awareness of the Nomura Group Code of Conduct To improve financial soundness and corporate value, various risks must be managed Ensure financial soundness Monitoring of financial indicators appropriately. Establish a risk management and transparency Important framework for monitoring and reporting on a issues globally integrated basis Importance for Nomura Group The highest priority issues 4 Diverse and talented employees are our greatest asset amid the changes in the Senior management discusses Enjoyable work environment for environment, such as innovation and and makes final decision Employee surveys digitalization. Make sure every employee can employees The ESG Committee, chaired by the be active and successful in utilizing her/his capabilities and individuality, and provide high Group CEO, makes a final decision after * The SDGs logo covers not only the highest priority issues, but also all of Nomura Group's material issues. For all the material issues, value-added service reviewing the validity of the Nomura visit our website. Group Materiality. 023 024 Special Feature Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Special Feature SUSTAINABLE FINANCE Companies' sustainable needs Issuing of ESG bonds Bringing in ESG investment money Commitment to sustainability Taking advantage of Nomura's Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 ESG product origination ESG-related advisory comprehensive strengths to contribute Structuring Underwriting services centered on the environment to the realization of a sustainable society ESG investment/ Provision of dialogue research Nomura Nomura Nomura Asset Nomura Nomura Group Research Center Securities Management Greentech of Sustainability Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Sales ESG investment Investors Institutional investors / Individual investors What Financial Institutions Need for Sustainable Development Nomura Group's Achievements Engagement Meetings In order to achieve the SDGs and the 2°C target, which are international goals, financial institutions In light of the growing interest in ESG among ESG-related meetings Business strategy need to create a flow of funds that will contribute to the formation of a sustainable society. issuers and investors both in Japan and 76% 16% Initiatives for E (Environment), S (Society), and G (Governance) in corporate management have abroad, Nomura Group established a team become essential for improving enterprise value. Supported by growing recognition of SDGs in dedicated to working on ESG bonds globally, Proxy voting-related 21% Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 recent years, initiatives to address environmental and social issues, such as green bonds, social and has built up a track record of underwriting Financial strategy bonds, and sustainability bonds (hereinafter collectively referred to as SDG bonds ) are attracting SDG bonds. Ratio by 8% international attention, and the amount of SDG bonds issued worldwide continues to increase. In Japan, we underwrote Sustainability Bonds topic The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which stipulates the consideration of ESG issues in issued by Obayashi Corporation and Japan Environmental Governance the decision-making process of institutional investors, highlights ESG issues and the responsibilities of Railway Construction, Transport and 29 % 15 % financial institutions, and promotes the creation of a framework that contributes to the establishment Technology Agency, and Green Bonds issued Social of a stable and sustainable financial system through global partnerships. Since the establishment of by Shimizu Corporation and the Japan Housing 11% the PRI in 2006, the number of signatories has increased globally, and ESG investments have become Finance Agency in 2019, and Green Bonds The number of engagement topics (total number of companies) mainstream. In Japan, the Japanese version of the Stewardship Code was revised in March 2020 to issued by Asahi Kasei Homes Corporation and 2018 2019 656 793 require institutional investors to make investment decisions taking sustainability into consideration and NTT Finance Corporation in 2020. We actively to engage in dialogue with companies. underwrite SDG bonds not only in Japan but topics topics (345 companies) (399companies) also overseas to share market conditions and Global issuance of SDG bonds Growth in PRI signatories provide customers with useful information and (US$100 million) (US$ trillion) proposals. SDG bonds issuance amount (involving Nomura Group) 3,000 120 3,600 Nomura Asset Management regards (millions of yen) (Bonds) Assets under management(AUM) (lhs) 2,000,000 80 Green Social Sustainability engagement as an important activity for the 2,500 100 Asset Owners' (AO) AUM (lhs) 3,000 Number of Signatories (rhs) improvement of enterprise value of portfolio Green Social Sustainability (lhs) Number of AOs (rhs) Bonds issued (rhs) 2,000 80 2,400 companies. In addition to regular dialogue, 1,500,000 60 Nomura Asset Management engages in 1,500 60 1,800 dialogue aimed at resolving ESG issues with 1,000,000 40 1,000 40 1,200 key companies that need to be further examined out of approximately 2,400 portfolio 500,000 20 500 20 600 companies (as of December 31, 2019). In 2019, Nomura Asset Management engaged in ESG0 0 0 0 0 related dialogue with a total of 400 companies, 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 2 00 2 00 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 and approximately 800 topics were discussed. 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 01 2 02 (Calendar year) (Fiscal years ended March 31) (Fiscal years ended March 31) Source: Prepared by NICMR based on Bloomberg data Source: PRI 025 026 Special Feature SUSTAINABLE FINANCE Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Developing NOMURA-BPI SDGs Leveraging the Group's comprehensive Nomura Securities began joint research with Nomura Research Institute in April 2019, and has published strengths to meet clients' sustainable needs Nomura-BPI SDGs (this index) since that November as a new sub-index to the Nomura Bond Performance Index (NOMURA-BPI). This index will select green bonds, social bonds, and sustainability bonds (SDG bonds) Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 from a universe of NOMURA-BPI constituents, and reflects the overall performance of the secondary market for Nomura Group is strengthening ESG management under the Mission of We help to SDG bonds. The index value is calculated based on certain internal rules and has transparency and continuity. enrich society through our expertise in capital markets. Through this index, we support issuers in the formulation of bond Group companies will continue to work together across the board with their respective issues and investors in the decisions on investment. In addition expertise to maximize the collective strengths of the Group to meet the needs of to contributing to the sustainable development of the entire SDG investors and clients and realize a sustainable society. bonds market, we will promote initiatives to achieve the SDGs. Strengthen advisory and financing operations through the acquisition of Greentech In April 2020, Nomura Group completed the acquisition of Greentech Capital Advisors, a leading boutique investment banking firm focused on supporting Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 clients across sustainable technology and infrastructure. Under the rebranded Financial products Nomura Greentech, we will connect companies working to create sustainable technologies with investors and clients across different geographies to help them incorporate innovation into energy, transportation, food, water and waste infrastructure systems. Advisory/Financing Underwriting Implementation of the world's first Sustainable FITs (stock acquisition rights) Underwriting and sales of SDG bonds Nomura Securities was allotted the world's first Sustainable FITs (stock acquisition rights). Airtech Japan's stock acquisition rights are the first in Nomura Group established a team dedicated to the world in the form of equity financing to receive a second opinion from an working on ESG bonds in Japan in Investment Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 evaluation organization from the perspective of ESG and SDGs, in the belief Banking, Wholesale in 2017. In 2018, the team that the use and significance of the funds will contribute to the reduction of was transformed into a global organization to environmental impact through energy conservation and the resolution of social support the structuring of sustainable finance problems such as infectious disease countermeasures. projects in Japan and overseas. In October 2019, Nomura Securities was elected as the only Japanese company in the Green Bond Principles and Social Bond Principles Advisory Council of the International Capital Market Association, and Research participated in the formulation of international Investment management standards for SDG bonds and activities for market development on behalf of Japan. Establishment of the Nomura Research Center of Sustainability Nomura distributes Inter-American Development Bank's coronavirus mitigation bond In December 2019, Nomura Institute of Capital Markets Research (NICMR), an In April 2020, Nomura supported the Inter-American independent research institute in Nomura Group, established the Nomura Research Nomura Asset Management Initiatives Development Bank (IDB) on its Sustainable Center of Sustainability. The new research center focuses on objective and practical PRI assessment results In FY2019/2020, in addition to the previous Governance initiatives, we Development Bond (SDB), which aims to provide research. The center strategically identifies and FY2018PRI Median strengthened our Environment and Society initiatives. For the environment, we assistance to countries facing coronavirus. IDB conducts research into areas of sustainability closely 2019 evaluation identified climate-related risks and opportunities in our investment portfolio, is the largest government-owned regional source related to the financial and capital markets and Strategy and governance A+ A used these analyses in engagement with portfolio companies and in the of development finance for Latin America and provides value-added information and proposals to Status of integration into responsible investment for listed stocks A B management of our investment portfolio, and worked to improve investment the Caribbean. The proceeds from this SDB clients. Specifically, NICMR creates an open platform Active ownership for listed stocks A+ B quality so that it is more resilient to climate change issues and leads to higher are earmarked to focus on the United Nations to connect people within Nomura Group with people Engagement A+ added value. With respect to Society, in addition to the traditional concept of Sustainable Development Goal 3, ensuring healthy outside, including through collaboration between external advisors and specialists at the firm. NICMR risk-return, we incorporated the 3rd axis of social impact into the process and lives and promoting wellProxy voting A will also collaborate with relevant international promoted the development of new investment methods with higher sustainable being, and is targeted at Bond investment (government bonds, etc.) A B organizations in order to broaden the themes and growth while linking to social development. In the PRI assessment, which was fighting and mitigating the Bond investment (corporate bonds, etc.) A B granted in 2019, a rating of A or higher was received in all categories, indicating impact of the outbreak in scope of its research. that external evaluations are steadily improving. IDB's member states. 027 028 Business Divisions: Retail Division Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Review of FY2019/20 Activity in the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 2020 was sluggish due to concerns over an economic slowdown RETAIL related to US-China trade friction and heightened geopolitical risks. In October, investor confidence improved along with the market recovery. However, in 2020, the spread of coronavirus prompted concerns of a knock-on effect to economic activities, which led to plunge of stock prices and a risk-off stance spreading quickly. In this environment, sale of stocks decreased from the prior year when there was a large primary offering, but the sales of bonds and investment trusts increased. As a result, net revenue was ¥336.4 billion and income before income taxes was ¥49.4 billion, almost DIVISION Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 unchanged from the prior year. In summer 2019, we reviewed our sales channel alignment and integrated some of our branches in order to provide the best services to each client segment. We also enhanced our digital approach to complement our face-to-face expertise in order to reach more clients. Business Performance (billions of yen) Net revenue Income before income taxes 600 Based on our aspirations to enrich clients 512 by responding to their asset concerns, the 477 Retail Division provides a variety of financial 436 450 413 services to individuals and corporate clients 398 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 388 392 374 in Japan through its branches, call centers 350 339 336 and online platform. In addition to traditional 300 investment products such as stocks and bonds, we offer consulting services such as 192 inheritance, real estate, business succession, 162 150 fund-raising, and corporate finance advisory 113 128 101 103 101 based on client needs, financial assets and 75 63 49 life stages. 49 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fiscal years ended March 31 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Retail client assets Strength Vision and its initiatives No.1 in Japan In order to provide appropriate services to meet each client's needs, the Retail Division had 1 Largest client base across Japan's securities sector 2 Sophisticated consulting capabilities and supporting platforms undertaken its channel alignment strategy in August 2019, and also improved digital ¥104 trillion 3 Ability to offer products and services by leveraging Nomura's infrastructure. The client interface is now a hybrid model that goes beyond physical meetings (as of March 31, 2020) comprehensive strengths by utilizing phone, email, online services and conferencing systems. In the fiscal year ending March 2021, we intend to further deepen our use of digital tools and data to enhance client Challenges satisfaction and employee productivity, and to achieve long-term business relationships with Japan Client Satisfaction Study (Full-service Securities Category) 1 Approach to client's total balance sheet more clients. In addition, we aim to build a more advanced advisory system in the future by leveraging the knowledge of the CIO (Chief Investment Office) Group, an independent unit No.1 ranked 2 Relatively high sensitivity to market fluctuation 3 Building relationships with family members of elderly clients separate from the business divisions. This group will play a central role in providing asset management services and introducing a new fee structure. We also aim to expand our business for 8 consecutive years 4 Expanding younger generation client base 5 Expanding contact points with clients and improving client satisfaction through collaboration with third parties such as regional financial institutions in order to broaden J.D. Power Japan 2012-2019 the contact points with clients to whom we have not been able to deliver our services. Actions FY2019/20 FY2022/23 1 Training Sales Partners* whom clients could completely trust / March 2020 / March 2023 2 Sales Partners* deployment with knowledge and expertise tailored to Consulting related revenue ¥14.9 billion ¥27.8 billion client needs Key performance Recurring revenue assets ¥15 trillion ¥21 trillion 3 Building stable earnings structure by increasing recurring revenues indicators 4 Deployment of Sales Partners* (Heartful Partners) for elderly clients to KPIs Active clients 1.07 million 1.47 million each branch Net inflows of cash and securities -¥0.4 trillion ¥2.4 trillion 5 Enhancing content targeted at younger generations FY2019/20 FY2022/23 (websites, seminars, apps, etc.) * We call our sales representatives Partners because we want to be 6 Deepening the use of digital tools and data Key goal indicator KGI Income before income taxes ¥49.4 billion ¥110 billion the most trusted financial service group for clients. 029 030 Business Divisions: Retail Division Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 Point About Nomura 001 Create a high value-add advisory model Initiatives in next three years 02 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 We plan to offer new asset management services by leveraging insights from the independent CIO Initiatives in next (Chief Investment Office) Group established in July 2020. Based on the new channel formation, Retail Division will expand and enhance productivity of existing three years businesses, and implement a full-scale business shift by introducing a high value-add advisory model. The CIO Group, an independent unit separate from the business divisions, was formed by consolidating the investment consultation team to institutional investors and the discretionary investment service team to individual investors. By leveraging value-add content, the group will provide an asset allocation strategy based on investors' risk appetites, investment strategies and thesis. Expand business Point Point Point 01 02 03 Enhance productivity of Create a high value-add through collaboration We will also create a strategy so that each Sales Partner can leverage output from the CIO Group providing sophisticated proposals to clients existing businesses advisory model with regional financial who want to make investment decisions based on advice. institutions Provide new asset management services: Create a high value-add advisory model We will promote digitalization and We will leverage the expertise of the We will promote collaboration with Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 expand our products and services in independent CIO Group to provide more third parties such as regional financial Retail Organization independent from business divisions order to further evolve the channel advanced investment services tailored to institutions to provide securities services realignment that was done in 2019. each client needs. to more clients. Client needs Sales Partners CIO Group Mandate Clients who rely Investment management services CIO Group is a team to provide Proposals, on advice investment (Portfolio consulting) investment advice to Retail Division's report clients (individuals, corporates, etc.) Point Provide client-oriented advice with a Enhance productivity of existing businesses Brokerage services by sales 01 Proposals, strong awareness of the performance of Clients who consulting Partners, asset management consulting the clients, by proactively collecting and want to make utilizing a variety of information from decisions based Premium brokerage services by professionals qualitative and quantitative aspects In order to improve productivity of existing businesses, we will increase the use of digital tools and data, on advice Initiatives in next and further expand products and services. Non-face-to-face advisory management three years Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Enhance client experience by providing necessary services through optimized combinations of face-to-face and non-face-to-face channels and timing for each client, based on data obtained through various interactions. Point Expand business through collaboration with regional 03 Strengthen our digital marketing capabilities to improve the efficiency of our Partner's sales activities and to provide highly financial institutions specialized services to more clients. We expect synergies from collaborations between regional financial institutions who have strong client bases and branch networks in the region and with Nomura, who has industry expertise and an Enhance our products and services so that we can provide advice to client's total balance sheet. expansive lineup of products and services. By entering into a new collaboration strategy, we aim to Initiatives in next Offer a wide range of services to corporate clients and their owners in addition to asset management, which supports businesses three years provide our products and services to the clients we have not yet reached, and further contribute to the growth, helps employees build their assets, and ensures that we maintain long-term relationships with corporate clients and revitalization of the local economies. diversify our revenue sources. Nomura has already announced a comprehensive business collaboration with San-in Godo Bank Group and Awa Bank in the Provide services using digital marketing financial instruments intermediary business and is preparing for the collaboration to start. Understand clients using data Lead to proposals/contracts I need advice I want to check Contribute to a better quality of life for clients and assets own Enhance collaboration of digital, contact centers, I want to gather and sales Partners help invigorate regional economies information (To realize initiatives I want to complete shown to the left) Clients of regional financial institution Regional clients Clients of Nomura Securities various procedures Build framework to Analyze data Digital tools Strengthen digital / match information, Contact centers marketing functions products and services · Client type and (Inside sales, etc.) to client needs past transactions Online seminars · Record calls, analog Enhance client satisfaction data and other input information Business Optimize Partner sales activities · Times of past calls, Regional financial institution alliance Nomura Securities branch visits, visits Client to clients Using data Bolster use Strengths Strengths Using data · Website browsing, Grasp of digital actions taken such Personalize technologies by Professional knowledge convenient as opening of Extensive branch office network client proposals sales Partners Synergies Wide variety of products and services Sales Partners times for client emails Trust from clients Talented people Abundant information, latest IT infrastructure Increase contact with clients and enhance client satisfaction Drive efficiencies by using digital tools and data 031 032 Business Divisions: Asset Management Division Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Review of FY2019/20 In the fiscal year ended March 2020, the Asset Management Division reported net revenue of ¥92.6 billion, down 5% year-on-year, ASSET MANAGEMENT and income before income taxes of ¥28.8 billion, down 16% year-on-year. This decline was mainly due to an increase in mark-tomarket losses for investment in our strategic partner American Century Investments (ACI) following the market downturn in March 2020, as well as a significant decline in assets under management toward the end of the fiscal year, resulting in reduced management fees for the fourth quarter. DIVISION On the other hand, the investment trust business continued to book inflows into products that contribute to our clients' asset building Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 goals aligned with the era of 100-year life expectancy , products provided for Defined Contribution Pension Plans, and ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds). In the investment advisory business, we continued to book inflows from public pension funds, and in the past fiscal year, we reported approximately ¥2 trillion in net inflows. Despite the impact of the market downturn, the underlying business remained solid. Business Performance (billions of yen ) Net revenue Income before income taxes 200 The Asset Management Division, led by Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd., has approximately 1,500 staff in 13 locations worldwide, and aims to become Japan's 150 leading asset management firm, chosen Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 127 by clients around the world. In addition to pursuing investment strategies, offering 100 92 95 99 98 93 products and services that satisfy the varied needs of our clients, we are committed to 80 69 promoting active engagement and dialogue with 62 67 66 66 investee companies and issuers that can lead to 50 the mutually beneficial coexistence of companies 32 37 42 34 27 and broader society , while we also actively 15 20 21 21 29 promote socially responsible investment practices 0 to achieve the sustainable development of society. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fiscal years ended March 31 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Vision Initiatives Assets under management Strength We aim to become Japan's 1 In addition to our outstanding performance in traditional investment 1 Our global investment platform based on our capacity to analyze global areas such as stocks and bonds, we will leverage our global ¥49.3 trillion trends from regional perspective leading asset management company, chosen by clients investment research knowledge in ESG and Alternative investment (As of March 31, 2020) 2 Ability to provide solutions and investment strategies to meet diverse areas to provide new sources of return. In multi-asset management, investment needs of domestic and overseas investors around the world. in which multiple asset classes are combined, we will utilize our asset Assets under management of ETFs 3 The human resources structure, originally established in 1959, has Establish our presence as the dominant allocation capabilities to expand our range of products and services adapted to the changing environment and supported sustainable growth firm in Japan that provide stable performance. 5th largest worldwide Challenges Create and offer products and services with outstanding features and superior 2 In Japan, in the areas of public investment trusts and Defined Contribution Pension Plans, we will establish our position as a leading (No. 1 in Japan) 1 Diversification of investment needs due to low interest rates and growing track records firm in the industry, focusing on providing investment education, as market uncertainties seen globally (As of March 31, 2020) well as products that support our clients' long-term and steady asset 2 Growing interest in Japan towards asset management for individual Achieve sustainable growth by adapting to a changing environment accumulation. Overseas, we aim to increase assets under management investors amid an aging population, a declining birthrate and the era of Publicly offered investment trust share while addressing the needs of overseas pension funds and institutional the 100year life expectancy investors by expanding our investment product offerings while 28.2% (No. 1 in Japan) 3 Changes in business models and services due to advancement of digitalization Key performance FY2019/20 FY2022/23 differentiating our product platform from those of our competitors. 3 In order to achieve sustainable growth despite changes in the (As of March 31, 2020) indicators KPIs / March 2020 / March 2023 Actions business environment, we will actively make investments to 1 In addition to investing in traditional asset classes, expand investments in Assets under strengthen our competitiveness in asset management and expand areas such as ESG and Alternatives, while further strengthening our asset Management ¥49.3 trillion ¥65 trillion our new client franchise. We will also promote initiatives that lead allocation capabilities to higher productivity, such as the automation and streamlining of Key goal indicator business functions that support our asset management operations, 2 Develop and provide products and services that align with the life stages KGI of our clients while also enhancing financial literacy in Japan and effectively allocate management resources to growth areas. 3 Improve efficiency of and enhance decision-making processes through Through these initiatives, we aim to achieve sustainable growth, and Income before leveraging digital technology, and provide services both face-to-face income taxes ¥28.8 billion ¥50.0 billion contribute to growth and development of our society through the asset and remotely management business. 033 034 Business Divisions: Asset Management Division Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Point 02 Establish presence by expanding market share in growth areas Initiatives in next three years Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Initiatives in next three years In Japan, we regard public investment trusts and Defined Contribution Pension Plans (DC) as growth areas and aim to establish our position as the Point leading firm in these areas. 03 In the current environment, interest in asset management is growing among a wide range of age groups, ranging from young people to retirees. To Products / services further expand our market share in the public investment trust market, we need to provide good investment performance and also easy-to-understand Point and useful information and services that will encourage clients to select our funds. 01 Allocation of management With Defined Contribution Pension Plans (DC), the number of new participants is expected to increase and the amount of contributions per participant will Growth areas resources for increase in the future due to deregulation following revisions to the law. We aim to further expand our presence in this market as an asset management sustainable Further strengthen company that provides support and education for individual investors seeking to build personal pension assets through DC strategies including iDeCo, while growth areas of investment providing a wide range of products that contribute to long-term and stable accumulation of investment assets utilizing tax efficient NISAs. management that Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 offer additional For overseas clients, in addition to our mainstay investments in Japanese stocks, we aim to further increase assets under management by expanding value our portfolio of highly competitive investment products and also marketing funds through financial institutions in Europe and Asia. We will also promote the use of products from our strategic partner American Century Investments. Traditional products such Existing Enhancement of ESG investment to contribute to resolving material issues for society as Japan and foreign (ESG integration in Japan equity investments) stocks and bonds businesses ESG Score Material Issues E Research Climate change Client base Evaluation of enterprise value Natural capital Environment S Investment trust business Point Establish presence 02 via various channels, Human rights/labor discretional business for by expanding market Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 share in growth areas Portfolio manager institutional investors Social Personal capital Platform Integration Decision making on investment G Top management Board of directors Research for Governance responsibility investment SDGs Sustainable 17 goals Engagement Development Goals Point 01 Further strengthen areas of investment management that offer additional value Point 03 Initiatives in next Allocation of management resources for three years In an uncertain investment environment, investment proposals that contribute to diversification of return sources and risk diversification are needed. In order to meet these requirements, we identified three growth areas; ESG, Alternative and Multi-Asset Management. We are working to further sustainable growth Initiatives in next strengthen our product offerings in these areas. three years Through ESG, we strive to achieve coexistence and mutually beneficial interaction between companies and broader society through active dialogue We will allocate management resources and improve productivity of our operations in order to create opportunities for sustainable growth, even in the with our investee companies and issuers. We will also enhance our presence in this area to help realize a sustainable society by integrating important changing business environment. Specifically, we will allocated our resources to develop new investment methods based on research and data ESG issues into our investment process, including measuring the impact on climate change and SDGs. analysis, and employing cutting-edge asset management technology. We are also focused on strengthening our ESG, Alternatives and Multi-Asset investment strategies.We will further utilize digital marketing to provide timely and easy-to-understand information to clients, both face-to-face and In Alternative Investment, we will respond to the needs of our clients as they seek new sources of return by deepening our expertise in asset classes through on-line and other remote methods. We will also steadily implement various internal reforms, including automating and streamlining business that are different from traditional assets, such as private equity and infrastructure investments. processes that support our asset management operations. In order to effectively allocate management resources to growth areas, we will actively In the area of Multi-Asset management, we will leverage the strength of our global asset management platform by demonstrating our capabilities promote initiatives that lead to increased productivity, and transform our business structure into one that can continue to grow amid a dynamic across a wide range of asset classes as well as our risk management and asset allocation capabilities, to provide personalized investment solutions environment. Through these efforts, we aim to achieve sustainable growth and deliver the highest returns to our clients while contributing to the that meet our clients' expectations. growth and development of society over the long term. 035 036 Business Divisions: Wholesale Division Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Review of FY2019/20 FY2019/20 was largely affected by concerns over economic slowdown due to heightened geopolitical risks and the rapidly spreading of the new coronavirus in 2020 weighed on the global economy, significantly affected client activity and market volatility. WHOLESALE Although business environment remained uncertain for a year, in April 2019, the Wholesale Division overhauled its business platform by downscaling and optimizing from unprofitable businesses and focused on areas of strengths within each region. As a result, the full year net revenue was ¥648.6 billion, up 17% year-on-year, due to substantial recovery of Fixed Income mainly in Rates products and FX/EM in AeJ. Moreover, the Wholesale Division cost was reduced by 17% year-on-year as the DIVISION Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 cost reduction plan of $1 billion (approx. ¥110.0 billion) progressed ahead of original schedule and goodwill impairment charge attributable to Wholesale (¥81.0 billion) was no longer present. Income before income taxes totaled ¥92.2 billion, a significant recovery from FY2018/19. Business Performance (billions of yen) Net revenue Income (loss) before income taxes 1,000 Wholesale Division consists of two 790 765 790 720 739 715 750 businesses: Global Markets and Investment 645 649 Banking. The former provides financial 626 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 555 555 products, solutions and secondary market 500 liquidity, and the latter offers capital raising transactions and advisory services. We provide diverse services to a broad range 250 of clients including corporates, government 175 161 entities and financial institutions in Japan as 112 82 101 92 well as overseas. 72 15 0 4 -111 -38 -125 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fiscal years ended March 31 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Japan Strengths Vision and its initiatives 1 Leading position in Japan The key focus of Wholesale business is to be at the forefront of developments in the capital FX house of the year, Japan*1 2 Global strength across core businesses markets and seamlessly serve the needs of our clients globally across primary and #1 in Japan M&A*2 secondary markets, while ensuring consistent and sustainable contribution to the profitability 3 Diversified business portfolio #1 in Japan ECM*3 of the firm. With a momentum gained from the strategic realignment of the business portfolio *1 FX Week, January 2019 – December 2019 in April 2019, Wholesale franchise is well positioned to deliver extensive market access and *2 Refinitiv, April 2019 – March 2020 Challenges *3 Refinitiv, April 2019 – March 2020 liquidity, differentiated products and services, and tailored-made financing/solutions across 1 Revenue skewed towards secondary businesses market cycles. Overseas There are number of initiatives to reinforce the Wholesale platform and position for further 2 Uncertain in operating environment Volatility Derivatives growth and diversification of the portfolio of businesses. Strategic focus is to generate new 3 Rapidly evolving market structure house of the year, third opportunities pivoting on the strength in our secondary trading platform, scale-up of the consecutive year*1 Advisory business globally leveraging our unparalleled Japan franchise, develop new Actions revenue streams through digital transformation and build-up of capabilities in digital assets, #8 in US Fixed Income 1 Growth of fee-based revenue streams and realize synergies with Greentech to broaden our presence in the ESG space. market share*2 2 Allocation of resource to high growth areas FY2019/20 FY2022/23 Specialist Agency Broker of 3 Accelerated roll-out of digitization plan / March 2020 / March 2023 the Year*3 4 Use of third-party alliances to access untapped markets Revenue / RWA 6.5 % Approx. 6 %* #2 in EGB e-Trading volume Key performance indicators CIR (Expense / Revenue) 86 % 82 % or lower market share*4 KPIs Growth of fee and +15 % or higher US RMBS bank of the year*5 commission based revenue Approx. $1billion (vs. FY19/20 actual) *1 Global Capital 2019 *2 Greenwich, January 2019 – December 2019 FY2019/20 FY2022/23 *3 Financial News – Trading and Technology Awards Europe 2019 * Uncertain impacts such as Key Goal Indicator KGI Income before income taxes $ 0.8 billion $1.1billion regulatory changes are not *4 Bloomberg 2019 (¥92.2billion) (¥120billion) *5 2020 Global Capital US Securitization Awards considered at present. 037 038 Business Divisions: Wholesale Division Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Point Digital transformation Initiatives in next three years 02 A key lever of our business strategy are digitization initiatives to improve productivity and nurture new Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Initiatives in next revenue streams. Our immediate focus is to ensure stability and resilience of the business as the global economy and markets three years emerge out of the impact caused by coronavirus pandemic, and continue to provide uninterrupted service to our clients while maintaining robust risk management to safeguard from uncertainties ahead. In the medium Digitization of existing platform includes advanced analytics, AI tools and execution algorithms for pricing and hedging in eTrading, term, Wholesale is focused on achieving the $1.1bn PTI target, mainly through initiatives shown below. deployment of AI tools in secondary businesses for pricing, hedging and market making as well as improved efficiency through automation of manual processes and retiring legacy platforms, redundant infrastructure. Additionally, we intend to explore new business opportunities in the digital space, through recently launched Komainu, a Point Point Point 01 02 03 regulated digital asset custody solution for institutional clients, to broaden our digital asset footprint as well as further build on Business strategies Digital transformation ESG initiatives successful underwriting of Japan's first block chain based digital bond leveraging block-chain platform BOOSTRY. Maintaining core business strengths and Improved platform ef ficiency as well Further into ESG space leveraging recent Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 deployment of resources to high growth, as new revenue streams through Greentech acquisition, etc. high return areas digitization initiatives Point Cost reduction 03 Delivering on remaining structural cost saves of $0.3 billion by March 2022 ESG initiatives Initiatives in next Point three years Business Strategies 01 Our business strategy is mainly focused on continuing momentum in core areas, while capitalizing new growth opportunities and focus on cost efficiency. To accelerate financing and solutions for projects that will support a carbon-free society, we have established the Wholesale Sustainability Forum under the ESG Committee, with Head of Wholsale Division as the chair and members from related departments. The Forum will continue to accumulate relevant expertise, monitor trends in markets and laws and regulations, identify opportunities for financial products and services that contribute to a sustainable society, and actively participate in industry activities. Initiatives in next three years As part of our ongoing commitment to sustainable finance, Nomura acquired Greentech Capital in April 2020, a leading boutique Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 investment banking firm focused on sustainable technology and infrastructure. This acquisition will help Nomura respond better Business Strategic focus to diverse client needs with stronger environmental, social and governance-related primary and advisory services, and expand Diversification of revenue stream and further expansion of market share in industry expertise. Further gain in market share agency execution Expansion of non-brokerage revenue streams to Execution Services expand wallet share through multi-product services Leverage momentum in secondary Continued focus on cost efficiency trading businesses and use of technology for further differentiation and improved productivity in Flow Trading Continued growth in core areas Improved monetization and differentiation in Flow Secondary Trading Further development of structured and Trading by use of technology solutions offerings Monetize demand for liquidity Prudent risk management and improving Support client financing through structured and resource efficiencies through flexible solutions offerings deployment of management resources Origination / Financing Drive resource efficiencies, prudently manage exposure Leading advisory practice Leverage our strengths in the public Renewable energy Industrial IOT and software Global footprint market to enhance our presence in Advanced transport systems Power generation infrastructure and smart grid Solutions and financing capabilities private markets Capitalize on new opportunities Water Environment services and technologies Advisory Scale-up of key focus sectors Continue to invest in priority areas and (collaboration with Greentech) strengthen advisory functions to support Sustainability expertise and solutions new customer needs Synergies Access to wider client base Global reach Cross-selling opportunities Expanded product and service capabilities Pursue new business opportunities through partnerships with third parties New business Pursue partnerships with third parties and invest to build new digital businesses opportunities Invest to build new digital businesses Build ESG-related financing and advisory platform meet social needs and increased demand for sustainable products 039 040 Corporate Governance Nomura Report 2020 CORPORATE About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 GOVERNANCE Reinforcing the corporate governance In 2010, two additional Outside Directors from abroad joined the Ratio of Outside Directors Board of Directors, which is now comprised of a majority of 36% 60% Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Outside Directors. In 2015, we established Outside Directors 2003 2020 Nomura Holdings recognizes that in order to achieve the management's goal of enhancing corporate Meetings where they discuss matters related to our business and value by deepening society's trust in the firm and increasing the satisfaction of stakeholders, corporate governance regularly. In addition, we invited Asian beginning with shareholders and clients, strengthening corporate governance is one of the most experts as members of the Advisory Board, which is designed to important issues. As a company with Three Board Committees, we have separated management upgrade our corporate governance, helping us evolve into a global Ratio of non-Japanese Directors oversight from business execution. This separation of duties strengthens the oversight functions of investment bank. In 2019, all three of our committees have an the Board of Directors and delegation of authority regarding business execution to the Executive Officers with the aim to accelerate the Group's decision-making process. Outside Director as the Chairman to further enhance our corporate governance structure. In addition, the Succession Plan was 2003 0% 20% 2020 discussed in the Nomination Committee, concerning the Group CEO qualifications based on factors such as the management Nomura's corporate governance environment and candidate proposal to further develop our Ratio of female Directors Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Enhanced the Board of Directors' oversight The Nomination Committee decides Director governance structure. function and achieved a high level of impartiality and transparency by separating oversight and business execution functions. Nominees based on certain appointment standards, including personality, insights, ethics, in-depth knowledge and experience in their In the same year, we published Nomura Group Code of Conduct, to build upon the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group, established in 2003 0% 20% 2020 2004, into actions and guidelines for Nomura Group officers and The Board of Directors has formulated the specialty areas. employees. We operate all of our business activities based on the Adopted a Company with Committees, Fundamental Management Policy of Nomura All members of the Audit Committee meet the Holdings, Inc., in which the Board of Directors independence standards prescribed in the Code, and we strive to fulfill our responsibility not just to etc. structure (now known as a Company with Three Board Committees) elects the Group CEO and other Executive Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the U.S., and more than one shareholders but to all other stakeholders. Officers while also making key decisions on our business execution. of them are financial experts under this legislation. On the basis of pay for performance principle, the Compensation Committee decides the Our company's continuous efforts to strengthen corporate governance are reflected in the corporate governance framework, 2003 Accelerated decision-making process by which is shown as the Nomura Holdings Corporate Governance delegating business execution authority from compensation of Directors and Executive Guidelines, established in November 2015. In addition, the current Board of Directors to Executive Officers. Officers while seeking to enhance objectivity and Established the Advisory Board as status of compliance with the Corporate Governance Code is an advisory body to the Executive Board of Directors are composed of diverse transparency based on analysis performed by Management Board Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report. members in terms of nationality, gender, external evaluation institutions. backgrounds and experts such as corporate management, corporate accounting, financeBoard of Directors discloses the results from analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of Nomura Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/data/cg_guideline.pdf 2001 related legal systems, and other areas. the entire Board based on each Directors' Corporate Governance Report https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/data/cg_report.pdf A majority of the Nomination, Audit, and self-evaluation each year. Compensation Committee are independent Outside Directors. Regularly held Outside Directors Meetings Corporate Governance System Oversight General Meeting of Shareholders 2015 Oustside Directors Inside Directors (Executive) Board of Directors Business execution Directors Outside Experts Inside Directors (Non-executive) Group CEO Executive Form of Corporate Governance Management Board of Japanese companies GCEO Oversight Delegation of Company with Audit Company with Three Meetings held in Attendance rate in Formulation of proposals for Determination of decision-making Audit etc. Committees Board Committees FY2019/20 FY2019/20 election and dismissal compensation authority on Nomination Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee business execution Four Business Group Group Integrated 1,090 76 Board of Directors 11 100% Determination of compensation for Divisions Conduct Risk (30%) (2%) Executive Officers Committee Management Number of Committe companies listed Nomination Committee 9 100% Audit Corporate Function on TSE (Full-time member) 3,672 Audit Committee 16 100% Internal Controls Company with Committee Board of Auditors Compensation Committee 8 100% Outside Directors Meetings Internal audit (IA) Advisory Board 2,506 (68%) Source: Nomura, Japan Exchange Group Corporate Governance Outside Directors 5 100% Nomura Securities Outside Directors Information Search (As of July 7, 2020) Meetings 041 042 Corporate Governance Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Main items discussed by the Board of Directors We have been conducting evaluations on the effectiveness of the Board of Directors since the Main agenda Content of the discussion fiscal year ended March 2016. Each Director assesses the management of the Board of FY2018/19 full year results, dividend payouts Company overview, performance and market environment by division and region, situation of competitors, etc. Directors, including the quantity and quality of information offered and discussions by the Board Business execution report Review of business platform and future strategies of Directors. Based on those results, they also share their findings at Board of Directors Meetings 1Q Risk management report Operational status of risk appetite and discussion of risks requiring attention Compliance reporting Current status and next steps on addressing the incident of improper communication of information Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 as well as Outside Directors Meetings, and further discuss about issues found with other Audit activity findings report Initiatives to realize medium to long-term management strategy Directors including Executive Officers in order to continue strengthening their oversight function. FY2019/20 1Q results Company overview, performance and market environment by division and region, situation of competitors, etc. Through evaluation of these discussions and findings, the Board of Directors found the Business execution report Partial sale of Nomura Research Institute shares and future strategy for Retail Division effectiveness of Board of Directors is generally at an almost good level this year as well. As a Risk management report Operational status of risk appetite and discussion of risks requiring attention company with Three Board Committees structure, we ensure to accelerate the Group's decision2Q Compliance reporting Current status and next steps on addressing the incident of improper communication of information making process, and we are enhancing the ability to utilize of all members' expertise either during Revision of Corporate Governance Guidelines Clarification of selection criteria for Chairman of Nomination and Compensation Committee or outside of Board of Directors Meetings, to further enrich the function of the Board of Directors. Strategic Shareholding Review Committee reporting Current status of strategic shareholdings and future measures FY2019/20 2Q results, dividend payouts Company overview, performance and market environment by division and region, situation of competitors, etc. Business execution report Future strategy for each division 1 2 Investments, sales and alliances report Current status of investments, sales, alliances 3Q Proxy voting analysis of Annual General Meeting in June 2019 Proxy voting results for Institutional and individual investors Major shareholder proxy voting results analysis and future measures Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Operational status of risk appetite and discussion of risks requiring attention PDCA cycle concerning effectiveness of the Board of Directors Risk management report Compliance reporting Discussion to establish the Nomura Group Code of Conduct 1 2 3 4 FY2019/20 3Q results Company overview, performance and market environment by division and region, situation of competitors, etc. Business execution report Future strategy for each division Each individual Director The Board of Directors Discussions based on The results of the self-evaluates their analyzes and evaluates issues that can be evaluation, including the 4Q Shareholder Relations Report Status of dialogue with key shareholders execution of duties and the effectiveness of the handled by the Executive report on response Risk management report Operational status of risk appetite and discussion of risks requiring attention the effectiveness of the entire Board based on Officers and proposals measures, are discussed Compliance reporting Discussion on rule changes in relation to establishment of the Nomura Group Code of Conduct entire Board of Directors inputs from each are submitted to the at meetings of the Board individual Director Board of Directors of Directors Internal Controls System 4 3 We are strengthening our internal controls to ensure appropriate corporate behaviors throughout the Group are made in an effort to deliver management transparency, ensure efficiency, comply with regulations, manage risks, maintain the reliability of business and Evaluation items Response to results Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 financial reports, and encourage appropriate information disclosure. * Internal Controls Committee Response to results from previous year First, we implemented risk controls in the sales and trading businesses, which are then deliberates and determines Constitution and management of the Board of Directors reviewed and monitored by risk management teams. They also encourage development of matters regarding the In fiscal year ended March 2019, Director Kimura who establishment and evaluation is the lead Outside Director has been assigned to the management frameworks. Finally, the Internal Audit department, which is independent from of internal controls for the Information provision to the Board of Chairman of Nomination Committee and Compensation Nomura Group's business Directors business execution, conducts their internal audit (This is commonly referred to as the Three management structure as Committee, and aimed for sophistication of Board of well as matters regarding the Directors. Lines of Defense approach. See page 63 for details). improvement of corporate The Board of Directors' involvement in management goals and strategy The status of the internal audits is reported to the Internal Controls Committee* chaired by behavior. Upon the consent At the Nomination Committee, Succession Plan of the Audit Committee, the discussed by concerning the Group CEO qualifications the Group CEO and attended by members of the Audit Committee. Deliberations of the Internal Committee approves the The Board of Directors' function ability internal audit plan, the budget to oversee management based on factors such as the management environment Controls Committee are reported to the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee collaborates regarding the internal audit, and candidate proposal. At the Compensation and elects and dismisses the Committee, performance-based compensation was directly with the Internal Audit department and submits reports to the Board of Directors. Constitution and management of the Head of the Internal Audit Nomination, Audit and Compensation discussed, and the function of each Committee was To strengthen the independence of the Internal Audit department from business execution Division. The Committee is enhanced. comprised of Group CEO, Committees functions, and implementation plans, their budget formulation and the election and dismissal person(s) assigned by Group CEO, member(s) of Audit Monitoring of the state of dialogues with Regarding the incident of improper communication of their heads require the consent of the Audit Committee. Committee designated by stakeholders of information, the Board of Directors concerning the Audit Committee and investigation results by the special investigation team Director(s) designated by Management of Outside Directors Meetings, under the Audit Committee, required to establish a Structure of Nomura Holdings' internal controls system Board of Directors. remediation action plan to the senior managements. Oversight Business Execution etc. As a result, the Nomura Group Code of Conduct which Board of Directors is an essential part of the remediation plan has been Audit established based on the discussions at the Board of Audit Committee Group CEO Directors, and the efforts to permeate the code were also discussed at the Board of Directors. Monitoring Attendance Internal Controls Executive Management Report Verification Committee Board Future Challenges Report At the regularly held meetings of Outside Directors, Independent Independent Audit Group Conduct Committee enhancement of discussions regarding management's Assistance to the Auditor Audit Committee Report goals and strategies, and effective management of and Directors Internal Audit Control Board of Directors will be discussed with Directors and Report Departments engaged in Departments engaged in Internal Audit (IA) senior management for ideal way of the Company's risk management trading and sales Board of Directors. Office of Non-Executive Directors and Audit Committee Third line of defense Second line of defense First line of defense 043 044 Corporate Governance Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers Basic policy for strategic shareholdings As Nomura has adopted the Company with Three Board Committees structure, the Over the past 20 years, Nomura Group has consistently reduced its investments in strategic Compensation Committee has established the Compensation Policy of Nomura Group and shareholdings that are not used for pure investment purposes. As of end of March 2020, our the Compensation Policy for Directors and Executive Officers. We ensure that the Nomura Company held 250 companies' stocks, total assets recorded on the balance sheet is ¥92.1 Group's compensation framework aligns with our business strategy. billion (total market value of holdings) and represented only 3.6% of our Tier1 capital. Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategic shareholdings (billions of yen) 500 1,000 Compensation Policy of Nomura Group Compensation Policy for Directors and 961 We have developed our compensation policy to enable Executive Officers Amounts on the balance sheet (lhs) Number of securities (rhs) us to achieve sustainable growth, realize a long-term The compensation of Directors and Executive 400 800 increase in shareholder value, deliver added value to our Officers comprises fixed compensation and variable clients, compete in the global market and enhance our compensation, and is determined by the Compensation reputation. Committee based on this policy. 300 600 A portion of compensation may be deferred or paid in 510 Align with Nomura's values Align employee and 525 1 and strategies 4 shareholder interests the form of equity-linked awards. 473 435 419 Equity-linked awards have vesting periods to ensure 200 398 378 360 400 Reflect group, divisional, Appropriate 2 5 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 that the medium to long-term interests of Directors and 336 and individual performance compensation structures 313 306 301 297 276 Establish appropriate Executive Officers are closely aligned with those of 250 Ensure robust governance 3 performance measurement 6 and control processes shareholders. In addition, the deferred compensation may 100 200 with a focus on risk not be paid or may be forfeited under certain circumstances. 0 0 1998 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (End of March) Compensation framework: fixed compensation and variable compensation We have ongoing discussions concerning the value of strategic shareholdings (see below Nomura delivers compensation to senior management and employees through fixed and chart). Regarding strategic shareholdings, we balance the risks and costs involved in holding such variable components. shares with potential benefits into business strategy, such as additional opportunities to increase the revenues of our businesses through expansion of transactions, or business alliances with (1) Fixed Compensation Compensation paid to Directors and Executive Officers partners whose shares are held, and Nomura shall hold such shares only if such shareholdings Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Fixed compensation primarily consists of base Directors Executive will contribute to maintaining or enhancing the corporate value of the Nomura Group. Position (Outside Total salary and other allowances. Directors) Officers These topics are discussed by the Strategic Shareholders Discussion Committee Base salary is determined by examining established by Board of Directors (held twice during fiscal year ended March 2020). As a individual duty, role, responsibility, knowledge, Number of People*1 8 8 16 result, we will proceed with the sale of such shareholdings, where it has been determined to (6) skills, competencies, experience, etc. Other be reasonable upon consideration of the impact on the market and other circumstances. Basic allowances are determined by reflecting the Compensation*2,3 253 560 813 (129) (millions of yen) local labor market standards and practices. Process for Reviewing the value of strategic shareholdings (2) Variable Compensation Bonus 100 538 638 Quantitative analysis regularly held for Confirm medium to long-term revenue projections for Variable compensation is consisted of cash (millions of yen) (-) all strategic shareholdings qualitative analysis bonuses and deferred compensation, which Deferred Compensation*4 15 203 218 Verification of whether the return on required capital (Revenues Qualitative analysis considers whether to continue to hold or are performance-linked compensations. In (-) and dividends from transactions with companies, etc.) exceeds the sell based on medium to long-term revenue projections, holding (millions of yen) determining performance-linked required level. If it meets the required level, we will continue to hold objectives and periods, relationships with issuers and regional our position, and if not, we will conduct further qualitative analysis. economies, and other strategic factors. compensation, following indicators are Total 368 1,301 1,669 (millions of yen) (129) referred. In addition to referring these financial indicators, the total compensation Notes 1. Compensation to Directors who were concurrently serving as Quantitative analysis Qualitative analysis Holding policy Executive Officers is included in that of Executive Officers. is determined by comprehensively 2. Basic compensation of 813 million yen includes other Expected return of compensation (such as commuter pass allowances) of 750 Continue holding considering individual responsibility and thousand yen. stock above criteria Meets Meets criteria performance, as well as trends of global 3. In addition to basic compensation of Executive Officers, 27 million yen of corporate housing costs, such as housing expectation Objectives, durations Continue holding competitors and industry-wide. allowance and related tax adjustments, were provided. and other qualitative Under criteria 4. Deferred compensation (such as RSU, stock options, etc.) factors for holding Sale of strategic granted during and prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, Confirm future holding Expected return of 2020 is recognized as expense in the financial statements return prospects 1 Income before income taxes stock below criteria Under Meets criteria for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. etc. expectation Relationship with Continue holding 2 Net income attributable to NHI shareholders 5. Subsidiaries of the Company paid 61 million yen to Outside issuers, regional Directors as compensation, etc. for their directorship at economies, and other Under criteria per share (diluted) Sale of strategic those subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. significant factors holding 3 Dividends per share 6. The Company abolished retirement bonuses to Directors in 2001. 4 Share prices, etc. Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/compensation.html 045 046 Interview to Outside Director Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Could you explain activities of the What perspectives are important to the Nomination Committee when Nomination Committee, and what Q Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Q is discussed in the Committee? selecting nominees for Nomura Holdings' board of directors? Nomura's Corporate Governance Guidelines From a governance perspective, Nomura The mission of the Nomination Committee state the requirements for directors, the first Holdings has taken an advanced approach. is to decide each year's nominees to the is to ensure a diverse board, and the In other words, the Board of Directors is Board of Directors with sufficient reasoning second is to have a majority of outside essentially responsible for the supervision of and to define the independence criteria for directors. Diversity includes nationality, management, and is very clearly separated outside directors. Over the past couple gender, and specialty of directors. As for from the execution. Furthermore, although years, we have spent the most time on our internal directors, the Group CEO and there are no explicit standards to exert, it is key task; planning for a successor to the Group COO (currently unassigned) are also the role of the Board of Directors to dismiss Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Group CEO. The committee rules stipulate appointed as directors. As a result, of the the Group CEO if he or she is judged unfit that the Nomination Committee must meet 10 currently on the Board, six are from the to fulfill the duties sufficiently. at least once a year. Normally, the outside, including two non-Japanese and two Committee meets about three times a year, female directors. Outside directors are but the number increased to six in fiscal required to meet independence criteria in year ended March 2019 and nine in fiscal addition to their expertise. March 2020. In December 2019, Nomura announced its key managerial position effective April 2020. When did you begin discussing and eventually decide upon Q appointing Mr. Okuda as the new Group CEO? Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 It effectively started from 2018. Mr. Nagai, In fact, the Nomination Committee the Group CEO at that time, attended the members do not have many opportunities Nomination Committee as an advisory to speak directly with incumbent executives. Hiroshi Kimura explainer to the Committee and we On the other hand, the Audit Committee Outside Director gradually narrowed down the list of conducts monthly interviews and each Chairman of the Nomination Committee / candidates from more than 10 people. First, member has opportunities to meet not only Chairman of the Compensation Committee we identified and defined the requirements the heads of each business division, but Honorary Company Fellow of Japan Tobacco Inc. for the next leader since the business also the executive officers under them. As a environment has changed considerably result of the opinion raised by the Board of from Mr. Nagai's time. Looking ahead to the Directors and the evaluation of the future, we discussed at length which effectiveness process three years ago, qualifications, experiences and leadership outside directors other than the Audit styles are necessary to lead in this changing Committee members can now attend environment. I felt the discussions became meetings. If timing allows, I attend the really focused and intensive at the three Committee meetings and ask questions. Nomination Committees in August, October Outside directors can also attend meetings and November 2019. During the Committee where executives from Japan and overseas meeting in December, the Committee gather to discuss the business conditions decided on Mr. Okuda and submitted its and strategies for the Group and its recommendation to the Board of Directors. divisions. By attending these meetings, the members of the Nomination Committee have a chance to meet the executives and know who each candidate is, and this indeed helped smooth our screening process. 047 048 Interview to Outside Director Nomura Report 2020 Why did the Committee conclude that Mr. Okuda would be the best to fill We would like to incorporate qualitative addition, the KPIs we refer to for performance Q About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 the Group CEO position? evaluation as well. For example, better evaluation may differ between the firm-wide fiduciary duty fulfillment and client satisfaction management and individual business that result in an increase to client assets could executives. Nomura is a company filled with extremely and this year. However, there are questions be important factors for some divisions. In talented personnel. In fact, if you look around, about the volatility of earnings. One year, the there are so many people from Nomura who Wholesale business may deliver significant There is an opinion that Chairman of the Board of Directors should be an Q Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 play important parts in various fields. I think profits and in the next year, it could swing to a outside director, but is not currently the case for Nomura. What is your opinion? Nomura encourages nurturing people. The loss. I cannot guarantee this will not occur. reason we recommended Mr. Okuda from Stabilizing overseas earnings and raising such a large pool of talented people is that we profitability are important financial objectives In some financial institutions, an outside evaluated highly for the effectiveness of the felt he will be a great leader during times for Nomura. This does not mean that we need director serves as the Chairman of the Board Board of Directors. when Nomura continues to transform itself to expand aggressively, instead, we need to of Directors. However, I think an internal As the majority of Nomura's Board are five or ten years from now. Furthermore, Mr. manage the growth while controlling costs director as Chairman works better for Nomura. outside directors, the board has the ability to Okuda has worked mainly in the Wholesale properly. While we certainly have outside directors who change Chairmen should the sitting Division and also has overseas experience. In the face of rapidly evolving technology are familiar with financial industry, they do not Chairman have material problems in fulfilling Taking into consideration the macroeconomic and infrastructure demand, as demonstrated know everything about the securities industry. his duties. This is a safeguard though, I don't environment, including the declining birthrate, in response to the coronavirus pandemic, we The Chairman's responsibility is to facilitate believe that situation would arise. At present, Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 aging population and the decline in must be running ahead of advancements in discussion. In the past, the Chairman rarely the Board of Directors, including six outside commission rates in Japan, we believe that digitization, which are expected to accelerate had influence on the conclusion, and I have directors, is engaged in vigorous there are limitations to significant growth in in the future. Partnerships with regional never had any concerns. Mr. Koga, who served discussions, and the Chairman may lead, but earnings even if we increase our share in financial institutions in Japan and with LINE as the Chairman until March this year, was not individually make decisions. Japan. Under these circumstances, it is the Securities are extremely important, and we do Wholesale business and capital markets not need to do everything ourselves. business, as well as new business areas such Identifying the right balance could determine as China and the Marchant Banking business, our competitiveness. We have decided that that have greater future growth potential. Mr. Mr. Okuda is the most appropriate person to Okuda was the best person to lead the firm's lead the firm in accelerating these efforts focus of the client franchise in addition to while also tackling the challenges we face, established brokerage capabilities in the and maintaining overall balance. He instinctively Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Wholesale business. excels with both conceptual thinking and Although the Wholesale Division reported planning ability, and is also effective at valuation losses in response to the sudden communicating externally and internally. He market downturn in March of this year, we feel also possesses the ability to convey that our fundamental competitiveness in this information in an easy-to-understand manner, business has steadily improved both last year instead of relying on financial terminology. Next, could you explain the frequency of the Compensation Committee Lastly, if there are any challenges regarding Nomura Holdings' governance, Q meetings and the topics of discussion? Q how will you address changes? Under the committee rules, these meetings we should set up rules to ensure that As I mentioned at the outset, I believe that employees can engage in activities that are are held at least once a year, but in fiscal year compensation is consistent. Executives will Nomura's approach and structure for not explicitly forbidden in the rules, they must ended March 2020, we convened eight times. have greater incentive to perform well if they governance is quite advanced. ask themselves whether their actions align During one meeting, we discussed the understand the criteria on which they are Executives are responsible for ensuring with the principles and meet the standard of voluntary return of executive compensation being evaluated. proper corporate governance. In response ethics required of them. I ask myself five set following the TSE incident, and discussed We reached a general agreement to an to last year's inappropriate communication questions and if all can be answered Yes, I compensation levels at the subsequent overall framework in March this year, and of information, and in order to ensure that can proceed with the action in question. This meetings. Now that I have become the taking into consideration best practices from such incidents never recur, the firm had is very important. However, development of Chairman of the Committee, we started to other companies in Japan and overseas. We created the Nomura Group Code of governance has no end point. The discuss ways to increase transparency of our are now at the stage of deciding details such Conduct through discussions at all levels of environment will change and evolve, and I remuneration methodology for executives. as which KPIs to use. Since Mr. Okuda has the company. It's very rigorous and based believe that we have to continue taking When our company is doing well, executives delivered his new management vision, the KPIs on foundational principles. In order to necessary actions to improve governance should be proud to be compensated well, and will also incorporate the vision's objectives. eliminate some of the misconceptions that and address new matters. 049 050 Directors of Nomura Holdings Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 3 8 1 4 Directors of Nomura Holdings Chairman of the Board of Directors 1 Koji Nagai Member of the Nomination Committee/ Member of the Compensation Committee Director 2 Hisato Miyashita Member of the Audit Committee (Full-Time) Chairman of the Nomination Committee/ Chairman of the Compensation Hiroshi Kimura Outside Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 3 Director Committee/ Honorary Company Fellow of Japan Tobacco Inc. He has extensive experience with respect to corporate management, and including the holding in the past of positions such as President, CEO and Representative Director of the Board of Japan Tobacco Inc., and then Chairman of the Board, such achievements and related insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. He was appointed as an outside director of the Company in June 2015, and is now serving as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Compensation Committee from June 2019. Member of the Nomination Committee/ Member of the 4 Kazuhiko Ishimura Outside Director Compensation Committee/ Director of AGC Inc. He has extensive experience with respect to corporate management, and including the holding in the past of positions such as Representative Director and President and CEO, and Chairman of the Board of AGC Inc., such achievements and related insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside 5 6 of the Company. He was appointed as an outside director of the Company in June 2018, and is now serving as a member of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Compensation Committee. Chairman of the Audit Committee/ Advisor of the IFRS 5 Noriaki Shimazaki Outside Director Foundation Asia-Oceania Office/ Former Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation 9 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 He has extensive experience with respect to corporate management and a high degree of expertise with regard to international accounting systems corresponding to a Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 financial expert. Including the holding in the past of positions such as Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation, Member of the Business Accounting Council of the Financial Services Agency, Trustee of IASC Foundation, Director of the Financial Accounting Standards Foundation, such achievements and related insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. He was appointed as an outside director of the Company in June 2016, and is now serving as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee/ Certified Public Accountant/ Former 6 Mari Sono Outside Director Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission She has a high degree of expertise with respect to corporate accounting based on many years of experience as a Certified Public Accountant and has held positions such as External Comprehensive Auditor, Tokyo, and Member of Business Accounting Council, Ministry of Finance. Further, after retiring from the Audit Firm, she served as Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, and such achievements and related insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. She was appointed as an outside director of the Company in June 2017, and is now serving as a member of the Audit Committee. Former Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, 10 7 7 Michael Lim Choo San Outside Director Singapore He is well-versed in international accounting systems and has held positions, including Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers (Singapore) and public service roles in Singapore, and was also awarded with honors by the Government of Singapore three times between 1998 and 2010, etc., Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 and such achievements and related insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company. He was appointed as an outside director of the Company in June 2011. Former Commissioner and Acting chairperson of the U.S. 8 Laura Simone Unger Outside Director Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) She is well-versed in finance-related legal systems, and such achievements and related insights have been evaluated highly both within and outside of the Company by serving as a Commissioner and as Acting Chairman of the SEC, etc. She was appointed as an outside director of the Company in June 2018. 9 Kentaro Okuda Director, Representative Executive Officer and President Group CEO 10 Toshio Morita Director and Representative Executive Officer Distribution of skill-set for each Director Chairman of the Committee Member of the Committee 2 Involved Committee Experience Name Corporate International Securities Accounting/ Nomination Compensation Audit Legal management business industry Financial Non-Executive Director Koji Nagai (Chairman of the Board of Directors) Hisato Miyashita Non-Executive Director Hiroshi Kimura Outside Director Kazuhiko Ishimura Outside Director Noriaki Shimazaki Outside Director Mari Sono Outside Director Michael Lim Choo San Outside Director Laura Simone Unger Outside Director Representative Executive Officer Kentaro Okuda and President Group CEO Toshio Morita Representative Executive Officer 051 052 Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors of Nomura Holdings / Outside Directors of major subsidiaries in Japan Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors of Nomura Holdings (As of July 1, 2020) About Nomura 001 Executive Officers Representative Executive Officer, President and Group CEO Kentaro Okuda Content Company Head of Content Company Chie Toriumi Senior Managing Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Directors Head of Future Innovation Company and Future Innovation Company Hajime Ikeda Brand Strategy (Joint) Representative Executive Officer, Chief Health Officer (CHO) Toshio Morita Deputy Head of Future Innovation Company Chuzaburo Yagi and Innovations Executive Managing Director, Head of Asset Management Junko Nakagawa Corporate Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) Toru Otsuka Executive Managing Director, Chief of Staff and Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Tomoyuki Teraguchi Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) and Jonathan Lewis CEO of Nomura Europe Holdings plc Executive Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Takumi Kitamura Group Finance Michio Okazaki Executive Managing Director, Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Group Legal Head and Compliance Yoshifumi Kishida Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Sotaro Kato (based in New York) Group Legal Takako Mori Senior Managing Retail Head of Retail Satoshi Arai Directors Global Human Resources Etsuro Miwa Head of Wholesale Wholesale Steven Ashley Global Human Resources Yukiko Ozaki (based in London) Global Head of Group Corporate Communications Go Sugiyama Head of Global Markets Yutaka Nakajima and Brand Strategy (Joint) Group Head of Corporate Services Rikiya Nonomura Global Head of Investment Banking Masahiro Goto Group IT Head Jun Yoshimura Deputy Head of Global Markets Rig Karkhanis (based in Singapore) Banking Banking Kenji Kimura Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Deputy Head of Global Markets Executive Chairman of Nomura Holding America, Inc. Jonathan Raiff Americas Kunio Watanabe (based in New York) (based in New York) CEO of Nomura Holding America, Inc. Asia Wealth Management Yo Akatsuka Yuji Hibino (based in New York) (based in Singapore) Vice Chairman of Nomura Europe Holdings plc EMEA Takeo Aoki Investment Banking (based in London) Kenji Teshima (based in Hong Kong) Asia ex-Japan Head of China Committee Toshiyasu Iiyama Merchant Banking Head of Merchant Banking Masahiko Maekawa Asia Vikas Sharma (based in Singapore) Merchant Banking Yutaka Mogi Internal Audit Group Internal Audit Shoji Ogawa Outside Directors of major subsidiaries in Japan (As of July 1, 2020) (Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. / Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd.) Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. Advisor Attorney of TMI Associates, Former Outside Director Toshiaki Hiwatari Outside Director Board Chairperson of NPO Triton Arts Network Rikio Nagahama Superintending Prosecutor Former Chairman of the Board of Directors Of-Counsel, Attorney-at-Law, Outside Director Motoki Ozaki Outside Director Akiko Kimura of Kao Corporation Anderson Môri & Tomotsune 053 054 Code of Conduct Nomura Report 2020 CODE of CONDUCT About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Ensuring Commitment to the Code of Conduct To ensure that our people clearly understand viewers is now available, utilizing pictures Nomura Holdings published the Nomura Group Code of Conduct in December 2019. and abide by the Code of Conduct, and to and diagrams to help them make use of the The Code of Conduct is a guide for all in Nomura to translate into actions the core values of foster the correct culture in the firm, we have Nomura 5 YES when they are faced with entrepreneurial leadership, teamwork and integrity included in Nomura Group's Corporate Philosophy. incorporated the Code of Conduct into difficult decisions. An e-mail magazine that Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 The Code represents the commitment by everyone at Nomura to adhere to the highest standards of trainings for new employees and by title and introduces topics related to the Code of ethics and integrity in their business conduct with all clients and stakeholders. themes, along with posting the Nomura 5 Conduct and compliance is also being YES on our websites, PC screen savers, distributed by employees voluntarily. and smartphones. Each August 3, the firm observes Nomura Nomura Group Code of Conduct To further motivate our employees to abide Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Nomura Group's Corporate Philosophy defines by the Code of Conduct, we have revised Day. On this day, all Group executives and the Group's mission as Contribute to enrich our personnel review system and also employees pledge to comply with the society through our expertise in capital markets recognize employees who conduct good Nomura Group Code of Conduct. and the Group's vision as being a Financial business in accordance with the Code. A Against the backdrop of this Group-wide Services Group selected by clients as the most special website that features actual examples initiative, each division holds its own activities, trusted partner. The firm has embraced of desirable conduct and poses questions to such as seminars and group discussions. Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 entrepreneurial leadership, teamwork and integrity as the three values to cherish in order Promoting Proper Conduct: Conduct Program to realize our mission and vision. The Nomura Group Code of Conduct The firm engages in business operations In each division, under the supervision of the provides guidelines of concrete actions based on the Conduct Program, a Groupdivision head, a Senior Conduct Officer and (behavior) we should take in line with the three wide framework that aims for everyone to his/her support team play a central role in values in the various business situations we legal compliance. The Code is the foundation understand and abide by the Code of drafting an annual plan and implementing encounter every day. These business that supports the Group, linking our vision Conduct and to reduce risks arising from specific activities laid out in the plan. A situations include planning and execution of with the three important values. The Code inappropriate conduct. management PDCA cycle is then utilized to management strategies, managing risk, and includes the Nomura 5 YES, a set of five We have created committees at the ensure effectiveness. This includes building business frameworks. The Code of questions which prompt our people to stop executive level, subcommittees at the identifying conduct that could adversely Conduct's scope extends well beyond just and ask themselves about the propriety of department and branch management level, impact clients and/or the market, formulating Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 their own actions when they are in doubt. and working groups at lower levels. Under preventive measures, monitoring, identifying The Nomura Group Code of Conduct sets out the Group-wide framework, these bodies problems, and planning subsequent actions. 19 specific guidelines for our actions work to disseminate ideas and encourage Employees' contributions to these efforts according to our three major stakeholders: desirable conduct, as well as manage risk are reflected in their performance reviews, our clients, our people, and society, from the by limiting inappropriate conduct through thereby providing additional motivation for perspective of how we view them in light of regulations and monitoring. them to be proactively involved. the three values of entrepreneurial leadership, teamwork and integrity. In addition to legal Structure to Implement Conduct compliance as well as general professional and social ethics, these guidelines cover all Executive Management Board Board of Directors aspects of our activities, including the Nomura Group Conduct Committee Audit Committee fundamental view on client services, Conduct Conduct Risk personnel development, diversity and CCO CSO Subcommittee Subcommittee Internal Controls inclusion, respect for human rights, and our Diversity & Inclusion Committee Subcommittee stance on addressing social challenges. Conduct Nomura Group Global HR Working Group Subcommittee Head Entrepreneurial Leadership Teamwork Integrity Manage/implement Be the most trusted partner for our clients initiatives CONDUCT for Pursue the best interests of our clients Leverage our Uphold the highest standards of compliance CLIENTS Continually enhance our expertise and capabilities collective strength Handle information properly Division Head Group Group Group Never pursue self-interests Review Senior Conduct Officer Monitoring Group HR Internal Audit Compliance Conduct Control gifts and entertainment CONDUCT for Be passionate about achieving more Collaborate as one team Support team Be disciplined OUR PEOPLE Develop our people Create a comfortable work environment Learn from mistakes Speak up Identification of risk/issues CONDUCT for Respect diversity and individual rights Firm-wide framework to Firm-wide Conduct Risk Move towards the future Contribute to a sustainable society Initiatives by Division support Divisional approach Management and Risk Evaluation SOCIETY Disclose information appropriately 055 056 Compliance Nomura Report 2020 Matters that have been discussed by the For its part, Nomura Securities has About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Group Conduct Committee are reported to established the post of Internal the Executive Management Board. In Administration Supervisor to be responsible addition, the Board of Directors periodically for managing conduct risk in line with Japan asks members of senior management to Securities Dealers Association rules, as well provide reports and provide opinions as as Sales Managers and Internal needed, and otherwise manages the Administrators for each sales unit. Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 committee from both executive and Compliance Officers are also appointed in supervisory angles, to ensure that initiatives each branch and department, and are are implemented appropriately in tasked with raising compliance awareness accordance with the Conduct Program. among employees and promoting legallyA Chief Compliance Officer has been compliant business operations. The appointed to oversee compliance for Compliance Division, which is responsible Nomura Group as a whole. In addition, all for conduct risk management, formulates Group companies and overseas regions internal rules and makes sure that all have a Compliance Officer. The Chief employees understand them, and monitors Compliance Officer, through instructions to the status of compliance with rules at each the Group Compliance Department, works department and branch. If problems are Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 with the Compliance Officers of each Group found, improvement measures such as company and overseas region to strengthen re-educating employees or correcting rules COMPLIANCE internal controls in response to global are implemented. Through this entire business development, and to develop and process, the Compliance Division maintain the respective compliance strengthens and improves legal and structures of each Group company, regulatory compliance as well as the internal Recognizing compliance and conduct risk management to be critical to overall management, Nomura Group has including overseas offices. control system. established the Conduct Program, a fundamental document that contains the frameworks and initiatives targeting compliance and appropriate conduct. This document is a key part of the Group's framework for achieving a high level Approach to conduct risk management of compliance and conduct risk management that transcends legal compliance. Nomura Group engages in a variety of initiatives based on the Conduct Program to ensure that each and every Compliance risk refers to the risk of incurring financial losses, including fines, or member of the Group can act appropriately in accordance with the Nomura Group Code of Conduct, the guidelines damage to reputation, as a result of violations of laws or regulations, actions that Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 stipulating the behavior required of professionals in a financial services group. undermine the fairness and equality of financial markets, or improper conduct that adversely impacts client protection. Compliance risk includes conduct risk, which is the risk that the conduct of any member of Nomura Group deviates from the social norms and ethics required of a Compliance and conduct risk management system financial institution, and, as a result, adversely affects client protection and the All Group companies and departments Based on the Conduct Program, Nomura soundness of the market. establish thorough compliance, and Group has a Group Conduct Committee establish adequate control frameworks to comprising executive officers which Based on the non-financial risk management monitor and verify the effectiveness of the first ensure that their members do not engage in deliberates on organizational aspects and framework, Nomura Group has stipulated the line's measures. As the third line of defense, activities suspected of being in violation of important matters related to compliance approach and policies for conduct risk from an independent position, the Internal laws or regulations. In the event that such and conduct risk management. The management in the Risk Appetite Statement Audit Department studies and verifies the issues arise, they are reported to members committee also verifies the effectiveness of and the Conduct Program. conduct risk management frameworks put in of senior management and handled the Conduct Program through monitoring Based on the three lines of defense approach, place by the first and second lines of defense, appropriately. and other measures. as the first line of defense, division heads are and gives advice for making improvements. Nomura Holdings responsible for managing conduct risk in their Conduct risk management is conducted in Oversight respective divisions. Each division has a accordance with the PDCA cycle approach. Executive Management Senior Conduct Officer, whose job is to assist Under this approach, risks are identified, Board of Directors Board the division head in managing conduct risk then assessed using the Risk and Control Nomura Group companies Audit Committee Nomura Group and keep the division head in check. Self-Assessment (RCSA), controlled to Conduct Committee Compliance and conduct-related departments prevent risks from materializing, and Report are responsible for the second line functions. monitored using various indicators such as Report Compliance Departments They provide advice and guidance with Key Risk Indicators (KRI). Chief Compliance Officers Group Compliance Officer Direction respect to the conduct risk management Department Direction implemented by the first line of defense, keep Non-financial risks: Refer to P65 The three lines of defense: Refer to P63 the first line of defense in check, as well as 057 058 Compliance Nomura Report 2020 Compliance Hotline are investigated under WCMS: Under this system, Strengthening the conduct risk management framework Compliance Hotline About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 companies evaluate their own the direction of the person who received the whistleblowing programs and apply to have them registered. Nomura Group believes that compliance is not limited to legal compliance, but is also a The firm has established the Nomura Group report, while maintaining strict confidentiality Each program is then means of satisfying society's expectations and engaging in common-sense behavior. We Compliance Hotline in order to maintain and for the reporting individual. If a problem is reviewed by the designated registration organization to continuously work to strengthen our internal control system in order to achieve a level of ensure an effective compliance framework found, appropriate corrective measures are determine whether it meets compliance and conduct risk management surpassing legal compliance alone. at each Nomura Group company. This taken, and strict measures are in place to the certification standards set forth by the Consumer Affairs Compliance Hotline is a means for all persons ensure that there is no retaliation against Agency in its guidelines. If the working at a Group company (including informants. Internal documents and the application is approved, the Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 company is registered and 2019 Current contract employees, temporary staff, etc.) intranet are used to ensure that employees granted the right to use the Non-financial risk management Implementation of the Groupwho become aware of a potential legal or are familiar with the Compliance Hotline official WCMS symbol. framework introduced (p65) wide efforts to instill the Nomura regulatory violation, an action that infringes and to encourage them to use this system Legal, compliance, and operational risk Group Code of Conduct management functions integrated and Promoting non-financial risk on the Nomura Group Code of Conduct, or as necessary. By promoting the use of the reorganized as Legal Compliance & management based on the three a suspicious action related to accounting or Compliance Hotline, we are working to foster Control (LCC) lines of defense, PDCA and accounting audits, to directly report such an environment in which anyone who senses Good Compliance Award introduced*5 RCSA approaches Nomura Group Code of Conduct Introducing global, policies information to specified persons, including something strange can speak up about it. established (P55-56) outside attorneys, designated by Nomura In FY2019/20, there were 101 calls received Group (informants may also report through via the Compliance Hotline, and in all cases channels provided by specialist outside a thorough review was conducted and entities and have the option of remaining appropriate measures were taken. 2017 anonymous). The Compliance Hotline is In November 2019, Nomura was registered Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Client-Oriented accessible 24 hours a day, seven days its whistleblowing system under the Japan Business Operations a week, and is available in English and Consumer Affairs Agency's Whistleblowing 2012 established and published Japanese. Matters reported through the Compliance Management System ( WCMS ). Improvement Measures Implementation Compliance Hotline Flow Chart Committee Report 2004 established * 4 2020 (Can be anonymous) Code of Ethics of Nomura Group Compliance Hotline Investigation Conduct Program instructions Appropriate 1991 Nomura Group established (P56) Reporting Response (investigation or not/ Receiving end (If required) departments established *3 The Administration Nomura Group person result of investigation) for handling Nomura Holdings executive officers Division reorganized Conduct Committee Report each aspect of All Nomura Group Outside attorneys into the Compliance 2018 established (P56) (Can be anonymous) matters report employees Outcome report Division and * Strict confidentiality and thorough prevention of adverse Financial Crime External hotline treatment such as dismissal during investigation based on Confidentiality related departments Department reported information integrated. Response established (P61) (investigation or not/ 2015 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 result of investigation) Corrective actions and measures to prevent recurrence Nomura Founding Related person (s) Principles and Ongoing Implementation Corporate Ethics Compliance training for new hires, base year Day established (Years 1-3) employees, Compliance Officers Segregation of customer assets Effective protection of clients' personal (P56) and department/branch heads and information security information and other information assets Periodic compliance training for all employees 2007 In accordance with applicable laws and of the Group Messages from top management, division Chief Compliance heads, and Group company heads (Tone from regulations,including the Financial The Nomura Group Information Security Policy 1997 Officer introduced the top, Tone from the middle) provides the basic principles for appropriately Instruments and Exchange Act and the Whistleblowing Principle-based compliance in addition to rule-based compliance Personal Information Protection Act, protecting information assets. Each Group system introduced (P60) Nomura Group works to properly protect company has its own information security Compliance Officer customers' assets and information. related regulations in accordance with this basic system introduced *1 *1 Appointed in all departments/branches as a compliance leader supporting department/ branch heads Proper segregation of customer assets policy. We are also working to enhance the *2 Name as of March 2020. Currently this function is taken over by the Conduct Risk Management Sub-committee of the Group Conduct Internal Administration Committee Nomura Securities properly segregates the management of information provided to *3 Name as of March 2020. Committee *4 Established to monitor the implementation status of improvement plan after the insider trading incident related to public offering. assets of its customers from the assets of customers in accordance with the established *2 Subsequently reorganized as the Improvement Promotion Committee to discuss detailed analyses of the root causes of legal Nomura Securities itself. Nomura Securities characteristics of each company's business violations. Currently this function is taken over by the Conduct Risk Management Sub-committee of the Group Conduct Committee 5* The Good Compliance Award recognizes Retail Division staff who demonstrate a high level of compliance awareness to ensure has requested that EY Shin Nihon LLC activities. In particular, customer-related customer-oriented business operations. The program introduction will be considered in other divisions. provide Assurance related to legal personal information is handled in line with compliance with segregated management rigorous standards set out in the Nomura Group of customer assets in accordance with Privacy Policy and other information securityPractical Guideline No. 54 of the Industry related rules, and is handled in full compliance Compliance and conduct training Committee of the Japanese Institute of with the Personal Information Protection Act Certified Public Accountants. As of March and other related laws and regulations. For Nomura Group provides comprehensive with firewall regulations, and managing client Nomura's Segregation 31, 2020, Nomura Securities had received further information, please refer to our website. Management compliance and conduct training for all information. We are working to raise the level https://www.nomura. from the auditor a written assurance to the We are considering introducing and using executive officers and employees on topics of legal and regulatory knowledge among co.jp/guide/system/ effect that management's arguments in the various IT tools required in the course of bunbetsu/ such as combating money laundering and the executives and employees, raise compliance management report on the segregation of promoting new work styles such as financing of terrorism, managing conflicts of awareness, and foster a corporate culture of Nomura Group Privacy customer assets were consistent with laws telecommuting and web conferencing, from Policy interest, preventing insider trading, complying pursuing appropriate business practices. https://www. and regulations in all material respects. For the perspective of making sure that data are nomuraholdings.com/ more information, visit our website. properly managed. policy/privacy.html 059 060 Compliance Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 Ensuring fair financial business practices The Financial Crime Department was established to Elimination of transactions obtained from Public Officials. These regulations About Nomura 001 assist the Group AML/CFT Head in maintaining an with anti-social forces stipulate the systems for managing and reporting effective AML/CFT management framework. Each undisclosed corporate information and Anti-Money Laundering and Combating Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Nomura Group company designates an Anti-Money In order to eliminate transactions with anti-social undisclosed material information, as well as the the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) Laundering Compliance Officer who is responsible forces, the Nomura Group Code of Conduct, the prohibited acts such as soliciting securities if in The Nomura Group Code of Conduct sets forth for that company's AML/CFT management guideline that all Nomura people must abide by, possession of such information. the basic policy of preventing money laundering framework. Nomura Securities appoints AML/CFT stipulates that Nomura must reject all and combating the financing of terrorism (AML/ Officers in each department and branch to oversee transactions with anti-social forces or groups, Measures to prevent conflicts of interest CFT) with a high level of control to prevent the planning and implementation of the AML/CFT with a basic policy of eradicating all ties with proceeds from criminal activity from flowing into management framework. anti-social forces. Nomura Group provides global financial services the financial and capital markets or to be used to through numerous Group companies. We have finance terrorism. Nomura has also established the Concrete measures to prevent money Prevention of bribery and corruption established a conflict of interest management Nomura Group Anti-Money Laundering and laundering system based on the Nomura Group Conflicts of Combating the Financing of Terrorism Policy, a The Nomura Group Code of Conduct stipulates Interest Management Policy to ensure that conflicts Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 global policy on AML/CFT that stipulates the Using a risk-based approach, Nomura Group has that all executives and employees must of interest with customers do not materialize. common rules to be established in each region established a range of measures aimed at preventing understand and comply with all applicable laws Specifically, each Group company develops its own and at each subsidiary. We have also established money laundering and other illegal activities. and regulations, including laws regulating bribery system to appropriately manage conflicts of interest. specific standards that apply across the entire and tax evasion. Suspected violations of laws and Nomura Holdings' Group Compliance Department, Group in areas of particular importance, such as Examples of Nomura Securities' measures regulations, including bribery, and acts in violation which is in charge of managing conflicts of interest, client due diligence and responding to economic of The Nomura Group Code of Conduct are determines whether a risk of conflicts of interest Customer due diligence sanctions. Nomura Group is working to strengthen subject to reporting under the Nomura Group exists within Nomura Group. If there is concern Due diligence when clients open accounts and Compliance Hotline. Nomura Securities has about a conflict of interest, the Nomura Holdings its AML/CFT management system throughout the continuous updates of client information, etc. established the Guidelines for Gifts and Group Compliance Department appropriately Group by complying with the laws and regulations of each country and by closely monitoring Entertainment applicable to entertaining public manages the situation to prevent any conflicts of Transaction monitoring international regulatory developments, including officials as well as officers and employees of interest from materializing. Introduction of a system to monitor abnormal private sector organizations, and strives to prevent recommendations by the Financial Action Task transactions Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Force (FATF). bribery and ensure fair transactions by carrying Examining market manipulation and other The Group AML/CFT Head is responsible for out continuous training to make sure all people in unfair transactions Formulating, implementing, verifying, and establishing and maintaining the effectiveness of reviewing policies, procedures, plans, etc. the company are aware of and understand these Nomura Group's AML/CFT management system. guidelines. We also monitor the use of Nomura Securities examines transactions on a Verification and check of the status of AML/CFT, entertainment expense accounts to ensure that daily basis to determine whether there is a risk that and reconsideration and improvement of the management framework they are used appropriately. our own transactions, or those we execute on Nomura Holdings behalf of clients, could constitute unfair trading, Executive Management Board of Directors Three lines of defense Prevention of insider trading such as market manipulation, intentional market Board Implementation of risk mitigation measures through formation, or insider trading. Based on the review, the first line (sales departments), checks and In accordance with laws and regulations, Nomura we interview and give warnings to those persons Audit Committee balances through the second line (complianceSecurities prohibits accepting orders knowing who have engaged in transactions that are Group AML/CFT Head related departments), and independent verification that they violate or are likely to violate insider suspected of being unfair. unfair. We continuously through the third line (Audit Division) trading laws and regulations. Also, in order to monitor transactions in accounts for which we Financial Crime Department prevent insider trading, we have prepared an deem there to be a risk of recurrence of suspicious Group-wide management framework insider registration card. When accepting an trades. If no improvements are seen, we stop Established the Nomura Group Anti-Money order from a related party of a listed company executing received orders, and take other Direction Report Laundering and Combating the Financing of (an insider), we first confirm that the order will appropriate measures. In addition, we periodically Nomura Group companies Terrorism Policy to strengthen the internal not be an insider trade or the party in question analyze the results of examinations, verify the control system throughout the Group. In addition, Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Officer/ does not possess undisclosed material effectiveness of the examinations and the AML Administrator regular training and education on AML/CFT are conducted to foster awareness within the firm. information. Furthermore, Nomura Securities has soundness of the examination system as part of Direction Report Training is provided to all employees and Group established the Regulations on Corporate our effort to build and maintain an appropriate Departments companies, as well as to employees by position Confidential Information Management, and the trading management framework. and department. Regulations on Material Nonpublic Information 061 062 Risk Management Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Risk appetite Our business activities are exposed to levels of risk (risk appetite) that the firm is to various risks including market risk, credit take, as documented in the Risk Appetite Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. Statement. Properly managing these risks is one of Our Risk Appetite Statement is approved by management's top priorities. the Executive Management Board, and risks It is important for us to maintain capital are monitored daily against the risk appetite. adequacy and achieve business plans If by any chance risk levels exceed the risk under any type of economic environment, to appetite, senior management consults with protect our clients, and to comply with laws those directly involved and takes actions to and regulations. eliminate excessive risk as necessary. Nomura Group has defined the types and Categories for which risk appetite is established Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Capital RISK MANAGEMENT Nomura Group defines the level of capital adequacy and sound liquidity as risk appetite, taking into adequacy and account the regulatory requirements, funding capacity, and business environment. liquidity Nomura Group allocates financial resources to each business in order to achieve corporate strategies and business plans, while remaining within the bounds of the risk appetite forcapital adequacy and liquidity. Nomura Group promotes integrated risk management as part of the firm's management strategy to control various Nomura Group defines the types and levels of financial risks that each business takes within its allocated risks inherent in daily operations, secure capital soundness in any economic environment, achieve business plans, Financial risk resources as financial risk appetite. protect customers and comply with laws and regulations. In setting the financial risk appetite, Nomura Group classifies market and credit risks into segments according to the nature of business, and uses quantitative metrics or qualitative indicators as well as processes to capture these characteristics. Non-financial risks exist in daily activities and processes, and can result in a financial loss or significant Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Non-financial Risk culture Three lines of defense adverse impact on Nomura Group, our clients and financial markets. It is therefore everyone's risk responsibility to manage non-financial risks in line with Nomura Group's risk appetite. Fostering a sound risk culture is essential for Nomura Group to All executives and employees of Nomura maintain its social credibility and sustain its business activities. At Group actively engage in the risk Nomura Group, all employees, irrespective of their function or management through the three lines of geographic location, must understand their specific responsibilities defense framework. Nomura Group's major financial risk related to risk management, and actively work to manage risks. Risk management policy 1 First line of defense 2 Second line of defense 3 Third line of defense Mark to market risk Risk of incurring losses due to a change in the value of assets or liabilities resulting from movements in interest rates, currencies, and prices of stocks and other securities All executives and employees of Nomura Group, irrespective of their 1 Departments engaged in trading and sales Market liquidity Risk that trading costs will increase due to the time taken to close positions, or that trading will become function, actively engage in risk management. As a risk owner, the first line identifies, risk unfeasible due to rapid changes in the market. assesses, and manages risks arising in the Nomura Group aims to identify the risks that could lead to significant course of daily operations in accordance losses by categorizing the types of risks associated with its business with the Risk Appetite Statement, company activities, as well as the impacts of risks and their likelihood of policies, and procedures. Default risk Risk of incurring losses when a counterparty or issuer fails to meet its obligations. occurrence. In principle, Nomura Group avoids risks that are difficult to identify and manage. 2 Departments engaged in risk management The second line is responsible for establishing Risks inherent in specific financial transactions, such as losses from events caused by discontinuous Nomura Group recognizes that there are risks that cannot be the risk management framework and Event risk changes in the market. Events may or may not result from fluctuations in financial markets. supporting the first line. The second line identified at present. As financial professionals, all executives and independently monitors risks and reports to employees of Nomura Group must expand their knowledge of risks, senior management. As necessary, the second Nomura Group uses models for valuation of financial instruments, for measurement of key risks including and foster a corporate culture that appropriately recognizes, line controls the first line's risk-taking activities. Value at Risk and counterparty exposure, for estimating liquidity, and for asset price verification. evaluates and manages risks. 3 Internal Audit Department Model risk Model uncertainty due to simplification, incorrect use of a model, or reduced model suitability in the current market environment can lead to financial losses and failure to satisfy regulatory requirements. The third line examines the operations and governance of the first and second lines and This is called model risk. advises on improvement. 063 064 Risk Management Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Non-Financial Risk Operational Risk Risk management governance and oversight Non-financial risk includes Operational Risk Risk of financial loss or non-financial impact Risk management oversight is carried out Risk Management Committee, for example, and Reputational Risk. arising from inadequate or failed internal by the committees comprising members of deliberates and decides on risk processes, people and systems, or from senior management. The Group Integrated management issues material to the firm. external events. Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Nomura Group's approach to operational risk Delegation for deliberation and/or certain decision making Appointment management includes four core processes: operational risk event reporting, risk and Board of Directors (BOD) control self-assessment (RCSA), monitoring using key risk indicators (KRI), and scenario analysis. Managed operational risks are Executive Management Board (EMB) divided into the 10 categories below. Group Integrated Group Conduct Risk Management Committee Committee (GIRMC) Chief Compliance Chief Risk Officer Chief Financial Risk Category Definition Officer (COO) (CRO) Officer (CFO) Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to violations of financial services laws, Compliance rules or regulations, and improper conduct which disrupts the integrity of the financial Global Portfolio markets and causes unfair client treatment. Committee (GPC) Legal Compliance Asset Liability Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to (i) ambiguity and/or insufficiency in & Control Risk Management Committee (ALCO) Finance contractual terms to secure Nomura's legal rights and/or enforceability of the contractual Global Transaction Legal terms; (ii) failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations; and/or (iii) failure to adopt Committee (GTC) to changes in laws and regulations. Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to (i) poor performance or unavailability of IT and Cyber Security IT systems; (ii) data corruption and/or; (iii) unauthorised or improper access to IT systems and data from within or outside the institution. Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to inability to resume normal business Business Resilience operations during a business disruption event and damage to or unavailability of physical Risk management activities Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 assets from natural disasters and other events. Based on the concept of PDCA cycle (Plan, Plan Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to failure of third-party to perform in line Do, Check and Action), all executives and In order to realize Nomura Group's corporate Third-Party philosophy, the Executive Management Board with expectations employees of Nomura Group conduct risk formulates business plans and establishes risk Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to material misstatement or omission management activities as three defensive appetite taking into account the business environment and the state of management resources. These are Financial Reporting & Tax in the firm's (i) external financial reporting, regulatory reporting or internal financial lines or committees to ensure that the reviewed annually or as needed. management reporting; and/or (ii) external tax reporting or payments. various risks inherent in daily operations do not exceed the level of risk appetite. People Risk of financial loss, staff impact or reputational damage due to acts inconsistent with Do employment or health and safety laws or employment norms and agreements. Each business division carries out its business Transaction Lifecycle Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to failures in transaction processing and/or process management. P plans in accordance with the risk appetite and the Code of Conduct. Prudential Risk Frameworks Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to inadequate prudential risk Check management frameworks. The first line of defense identifies, assesses and manages risks that may exceed the risk appetite, Risk of financial loss or reputational damage due to intent to defraud, misappropriate Fraud and the second line of defense advises, supports D property or conduct unauthorized activity by an internal or third party. A PDCA cycle and checks the first line of defense through monitoring, analysis, stress testing and predictive management. The third line of defense examines Reputational Risk and advises on these from an independent position. The possible damage to Nomura's Nomura Group's values and corporate reputation and associated risk to earnings, philosophy. All personnel must consider the Action capital or liquidity arising from any impact of their actions or inactions on Each business division works to improve risks that C may exceed the risk appetite, as well as carries out association, action or inaction which could Nomura's reputation and apply high activities based on the advice, support and checks be perceived by stakeholders to be standards to their behavior as set out in the received from the second line of defense. inappropriate, unethical or inconsistent with Nomura Group Code of Conduct. 065 066 Business Continuity Management / Cyber Security Nomura Report 2020 BUSINESS CONTINUITY CYBER SECURITY About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 MANAGEMENT Nomura Group has for some time been undertaking security measures to protect systems against cyber-attacks. However, in protected from these increasingly challenging cyber security threats, and to enable clients to conduct transactions with Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Nomura Group regards natural disasters for. In the event for such crisis, we have light of the increasingly serious cyber peace of mind, Nomura Group is working to such as earthquakes and typhoons, manestablished a global business continuity security threats throughout the world, we strengthen its cyber security platform, using made disasters such as fires and terrorism, framework and work on a wide range of recognize that our current countermeasures the Comprehensive Guidelines for infectious diseases like coronavirus, system measures, including educating our people may not be sufficient in the future. In Supervision of Financial Instruments failures, and information asset leaks as the about our disaster response measures. addition, in the financial sector, digitalization Business Operators, etc. of the Financial key types of crises that must be prepared is proceeding at an accelerating pace. The Services Agency, and the Cybersecurity connection of all financial systems to Management Guidelines of the Ministry of networks may increase the cyber security Economy, Trade and Industry based on Business continuity framework risk. In order to ensure that clients' ISO27001 and ISO27002, as references. The Group Crisis Management Committee is protect our clients from being impacted. information and assets are securely tasked with preparing for crises, and under Similar infrastructure have also been put in Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 the committee's leadership the Group has place at our key overseas offices. Cyber security system been continually strengthening the crisis In response to the coronavirus pandemic, and Nomura Group, as a whole, has established a global organizational structure to deal with incidents stemming from cyber-attacks management program and the business in accordance with Group guidelines, we and to minimize potential damage. The Nomura Group Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), formed within Nomura continuity framework both in Japan and worked to prevent the spread of the virus Holdings, has spearheaded the formation of a CSIRT in Nomura Securities and other Group companies, and governs the CSIRT in overseas. The Group Crisis Management before significant outbreaks occurred in each Group company. Each CSIRT works to protect its company's operational and information assets, as well as systems, promoting Committee is chaired by a senior officer Japan and overseas by restricting travel and cyber security measures from four vantagepoints: organizational management, system security measures, human-level response, and coordination with outside organizations. appointed by the Group CEO, and comprises other activities that could accelerate its senior officers from Group companies. spread. When the Japanese government Resolutions passed by the committee are declared a state of emergency we temporarily reported to the Executive Management suspended business operations at domestic Organizational structure Executive Management Board Board of Directors Board. In the event of a major disaster, the branches. We have also enhanced the remote • The Manager of the Group IT Head Office, Nomura Crisis Management Committee committee functions as the Command Center work capability and established a work Holdings is in charge. • The organization comprises the CSIRT Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 to lead the Group's response. system that has allowed us to both continue Office of Crisis Management representatives of each Group company, and its Committee As a specific example of this business our business operations and prevent the secretariat is in Nomura Holdings' Group IT Head Person in charge of continuity framework, a system has been spread of coronavirus. At our key overseas Office (Crisis Management Division). information security enforced so that operations can be continued offices, we have ensured business continuity Reporting, checking of management instructions Nomura Group CSIRT at backup offices in the event that key offices through remote work. Outside relevant parties NHI Manager of the are rendered unusable due to an earthquake In Japan, the Crisis Management Committee Communication and response to outside parties Group IT Head Office or other disaster. We also have a remote Office regularly conducts employee safety Regulatory agencies Police Secretariat backup data center that protects critical data confirmation drills, disaster prevention drills, Media, etc. NHI Group Strategy and Executive Office NHI Group Compliance Dept. and applications in the event of a data center and business continuity drills to ensure that NHI Group Corporate Communications Dept. Cooperation and failure. Furthermore, we have bolstered our we are able to respond quickly should a crisis NHI Group General Services Dept. information sharing NHI Group IT Head Office (Crisis Management Division) infrastructure, which includes power occur. At overseas offices, these exercises JPCERT/CC generators, so that in the event of a power are carried out by the Business Continuity Securities CEPTOAR Provision of information on vulnerabilities, attacks, etc. CSIRT Representative of CSIRT Representatives of Financials ISAC Nomura Securities Nomura Group companies down affecting a wide area, such as a Management Team in each location. Through Security experts powerful earthquake directly beneath the these and other efforts, we aim to become Tokyo metropolitan area, we can continue our CSIRT of Nomura Group more proficient at handling crises and CSIRT of Nomura Securities companies critical functions to avoid systemic risk and to strengthen our systems for managing them. Business continuity initiatives At normal times, we take part in cyber security drills, conduct Threat-Led Penetration Test, assess cyber risks and monitor Organization actions taken by overseas subsidiaries and outside contractors in a constant effort to heighten our readiness. Strengthen the business continuity 1 framework Maintain/enhance backup offices / Secure emergency response personnel / Maintain/enhance emergency communication equipment / Enhance telework environment management In the case of an incident such as obtaining dangerous vulnerability information or detecting a cyber-attack, the CSIRT leads the efforts to analyze the cause, minimize damage, and quickly restore systems. Employee safety confirmation drills / Drills based on business continuity plan (BCP) / 2 Periodic drills and training Initial response training and drills simulating earthquake with epicenter directly under Tokyo or other massive earthquake / Nankai Trough earthquake response training at branch offices System security measures We adopt a multi-layered defense system, which includes multiple detection and defense mechanisms against unauthorized access and malicious programs such as computer viruses. We review these countermeasures as appropriate to deal with new threats. Strengthen collaboration between Human-level In accordance with the Nomura Group Information Security Policy, relevant seminars and training programs are regularly provided 3 Group companies in Japan and overseas Enhance information-sharing with Group companies in Japan / Enhance information-sharing framework with overseas Group companies response to all executives and employees and they are kept alert in order to raise their awareness and knowledge about cyber security. Cooperation Nomura is cooperating with information sharing organizations such as Financial ISAC Japan and FS-ISAC and cyber security 4 Business Continuity Plan Review and revise the Business Continuity Plan for the scenarios of a massive natural disaster or a massive system failure with outside organizations vendors to gather and share information on the cyber attackers and their approaches. 067 068 Sustainability Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 Efforts to Achieve Sustainable Management About Nomura 001 -ESG Governance Structure and Activities of Subordinate GroupsStrategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Governance System Wholesale Sustainability Forum Business opportunities Business opportunities and Transaction frameworks, Board of strategies for Sustainable Finance appetite and policies Directors To accelerate our efforts to provide financing and other solutions for low-carbon projects, our Wholesale Division created the Forum which is led by the Head of Wholesale and comprises employees from relevant departments across the firm. The Forum will monitor market and regulatory trends, identify opportunities for financial products and services that will contribute to sustainability, and take an active role in industry initiatives, while accumulating expertise at the same time. Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Attendance Executive at committee meetings as Management SUSTAINABILITY appropriate Board Climate Risk Working Group Business risks Scenario analyses on Analyses of climate Stress testing physical and transition risks change risk in the portfolio To fulfill our social responsibilities as a corporate citizen, Nomura Group actively engages in ESG activities to ESG We have launched the Climate Risk Working Group comprising members from contribute to the development of financial markets through our business activities as well as works to achieve Committee risk management and related departments, in order to build a global framework sustainable growth and resolve social challenges. to identify, understand and manage ESG-related risks based on our strategies. Working with all of our stakeholders, including clients, business partners, and employees, the entire Nomura Group This working group will formulate methods (processes for new transactions, credit promotes activities to realize a sustainable society. evaluation, scenario analyses, risk management techniques, etc.) to manage ESGand climate change-related risks. Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Summary of ESG Committee ESG execution process Environmental Activities Working Group Reduction of meetings environmental impact Our ESG Committee is a management-level decision-making body In FY2019/20, two ESG Committee that plays an integral role in Nomura Group's sustainable growth meetings were held to realign important Efforts to achieve CO2 emissions Environmental management system reduction targets and our aim to contribute to resolving social issues. Nomura Group ESG issues (materiality) and discuss TCFD executives in charge of businesses and corporate affairs comprise disclosure. The Environmental Activities Working Group, a Group-wide the ESG Committee. The Committee is responsible for developing organization, is the secretariat for the environmental management system. In order to reduce CO2 emissions, we are purchasing business policies on ESG-related risks and opportunities for Nomura Number of 2 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) meetings green power certificates in Japan, and most of the electricity used Group as a whole and for approving and deciding on related in our offices in Europe is supplied by renewable energy such as activities. The ESG Committee's activities are reported to the Board hydroelectric power. Agenda Important ESG Issues (materiality) of Directors and the Executive Management Board as the occasion items Matters related to TCFD demands. The Committee also considers specific business Reports related to climate operations that will contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals change (SDGs) established by the United Nations. TCFD Working Group Information disclosure As a subordinate body of the ESG Committee, we have established Overview of Realignment of key ESG issues discussions (materiality) separate subordinate organizations consisting of members from Disclosure policy Analysis of impact on Study of climate change Establishment of the TCFD and content our businesses risks and opportunities related groups which examine business opportunities and risks Working Group related to ESG, including climate change and Nomura Group's Risks and opportunities related We established the TCFD Working Group as a Group-wide organization in order efforts to reduce environmental impact. to climate change to provide enhanced disclosure in line with TCFD recommendations. Based on Trends in Sustainable Finance in the four core elements of the TCFD recommendations (Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, Metrics and Targets), the TCFD Working Group analyzes the Japan and overseas impact of climate change-related risks and opportunities on Nomura Group's Matters related to UNEP FI PRB businesses and works to enhance the content of disclosure. For details, see signing TCFD on page 71. 069 070 TCFD Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 TCFD Disclosure Roadmap 2018 2020 2020 2021 Efforts to date Future initiatives Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 · Commitment to support TCFD Strengthen the following processes, taking · Participation in the TCFD Consortium ESG factors into consideration · Group-wide TCFD Working Group established Risk · Process for new transactions under the ESG Committee Management · Credit evaluation Governance · Creation of the Wholesale Sustainability Forum · Scenario analysis under the ESG Committee (studies ESG-related opportunities) · Creation of the Climate Risk Working Group under · Strengthen primary services and advisory the ESG Committee (studies ESG-related risks) services related to ESG · Provide value-added information on sustainability closely linked to the financial Strategy and capital markets, and enhance proposals Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Identify risks and opportunities Strategy · Encourage greater awareness and related to climate change understanding among investors about TCFD sustainable finance Task Force on Climate-related Disclosure Published the Nomura Group TCFD Report Disclosure Update the Nomura Group TCFD Report Financial Disclosures As a good corporate citizen, Nomura Group recognizes the importance of disclosing climate-related financial information. Nomura supports the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and we are committed Metrics and Targets to consistent and effective disclosures aligned with the TCFD recommendations. Sustainable finance targets Greentech Capital Advisors, which was private innovation companies over the past acquired in April 2020, has completed more 10 years. Now as part of Nomura, Greentech Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Clean Energy and Energy Smart M&A seeks to help clients raise capital equal to Strategy and Risk Management transactions than any other advisor, and or greater than this amount over the next We will work to expand our business opportunities in response to growing interest in the has raised $4 billion of growth capital for five years. transition to a low-carbon society, as well as identify and appropriately manage risks associated with climate change. Reducing CO2 emissions in business activities In December 2018, Nomura established Opportunities Risks Level of Area Target type Base year Target year Type of financial group-wide CO 2 emission reduction targets reduction service Example of initiative Details Risk type Assumed risks Response for the medium and long term. As of March Strengthen ESG-related Support the transition of social infrastructure Risk of extreme weather We are focusing in 2020, we had already achieved a 41.7% reduction in CO 2 emissions, which exceeds Medium-term FY2030/31 32% advisory and financing particular on the Global Absolute FY2012/13 (energy, transportation, events, natural fires, through the acquisition following areas: our medium-term target level. We will flooding and other climate 65% food, water, waste, etc.) Advisory/ of Greentech Capital to more sustainable change-driven events continue to work toward achieving our Long-term FY2050/51 Financing Advisors Physical risk Strengthening systems damaging the business long-term target. infrastructure of Nomura processes for new Group, our clients and transactions business partners Looking into introducing Establishment of the Provision of information a process to analyze Nomura Research and proposals on physical and transition For the full text of Nomura TCFD Initiatives in the Asset Management Division Research Center of Sustainability sustainability Impact of more stringent risks when conducting Group's disclosure Nomura Asset Management supports the TCFD, and through its engagement laws and regulations credit evaluations based on TCFD activities Nomura Asset Management actively encourages portfolio companies and other changes in recommendations, to support the TCFD, disclose climate-related financial information, and external environment Scenario analyses please refer to the integrate climate-related risks and opportunities into management strategies. Transition risk associated with the Nomura Group TCFD Provision of products For more information, please refer to Nomura Asset Management's Expansion and sales transition to a low-carbon Developing risk Report. seeking both investment Responsible Investment Report. of ESG/SDGs-related society on Nomura management Financial gains and the resolution techniques that factor Nomura Group TCFD Report Responsible Investment Report 2019 investment products Group's operating of social problems https://www.nomuraholdings.com/ https://global.nomura-am.co.jp/responsibility-investment/pdf/ri_report_2019.pdf products environment in ESG risks investor/library/tcfd/2020/pdf/all.pdf 071 072 Financial Literacy Nomura Report 2020 the courses they want to take from among all of for the achievement of all of the SDGs, and About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 the offered classes, which are designed for a correct understanding of finance and the different age groups and purposes. economy is also the foundation for Nomura Group will continue to proactively achieving all of the SDGs. endeavor to improve financial literacy and To achieve the SDGs, Nomura Group will contribute to the from savings to asset continue to teach people about the role and formation through investment trend in Japan. value of money in society, and offer Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 The smooth circulation of money, which is financial and economics education to help said to be the lifeblood of society, is essential people lead independent lives. Nikkei Stock League Nomura Holdings has supported Nikkei Stock reports, as students evaluate Japanese League (a contest for learning about stocks companies from a fresh perspective based hosted by Nihon Keizai Shimbun) as a special on their sensibilities as young people. partner since its inaugural year in FY2000/01. Participating in the Nikkei Stock League In FY2019/20, the 20th year of the Nikkei prompts students to consider what type of Stock League, more than 7,000 students future and society they find to be ideal. They from junior high schools, high schools, and learn the significance of investing in companies Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 universities participated, creating virtual that will help make that kind of future a reality, stock portfolios based on their own investment and come to the realization that through FINANCIAL LITERACY The 21st Nikkei Stock League themes and submitting reports. Every year, investment they can solve social problems, A finance and economics education program for more than 100 Nomura Group employees form sound capital markets, and support a junior high, high school, volunteer to read and judge reports, evaluating prosperous society. and university students. Participants learn about the originality of investment themes and the In the 21st edition of the Nikkei Stock League, companies and gain a better Increasing financial literacy leads not only to enhanced asset formation and improved living standards, but understanding of how society participants' level of understanding of new initiatives such as webinars are being works by examining the living also contributes to the healthy development of capital markets and the proper circulation of capital. Nomura economy. economic and social mechanisms. launched. We look forward to continuing to Group has been providing financial and economics education to different generations of people, so as to raise Employees look forward to reading students' support the ever-evolving Nikkei Stock League. individuals' knowledge and understanding of finance and economics. Nikkei Stock League Participants Financial literacy for a wide range of people 150,000 Cumulative Fiscal Year Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Nomura Group was among the first companies careers. Since spring break, when the spread 120,000 in Japan to provide financial and economics of coronavirus became a concern, in addition education to young people who will be the to continuing to provide free educational 90,000 leaders of the future. In 2001, we began materials to schools, which we have been offering courses for university students, and doing for quite some time now, we have been 60,000 today more than 400 employees from our delivering free educational materials to branches throughout Japan provide lectures. families as a way to give parents and children 30,000 We also provide classes at elementary an opportunity to learn about the economy schools, junior high schools and high schools together. As of June 30, 2020, we have sent 0 nationwide. Requests to provide classes have these learning materials to more than 1,500 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Fiscal years ended March 31) been increasing against the backdrop of the households, helping people learn how society Japanese government's curriculum guidelines works through the economy. Special Seminar for Women which will be gradually implemented from We also provide employees of private companies FY2020/21 which aim to enhance career and government employees with opportunities On Securities Investment Day in October investment techniques and shareholder education, entrepreneurship, and financial to enhance their financial literacy, including life 2019, Nomura Holdings held a special seminar benefits, they learned about how to use education, and the lowering of the age that planning seminars and workshops on defined for women entitled Get the Power to Shine! fragrances in business situations and what people are recognized as adults in Japanese contribution pension plans for individuals. In At this seminar, organized by the Nihon Keizai kind of effect doing so can have. We will society. In addition to the Money and Your November 2018, we launched the Nomura Shimbun and co-hosted by Nomura Holdings, continue to provide opportunities for people Future class which teaches the basics of Financial Academy, a tuition-based program a Nomura Securities employee gave a lecture of all ages to casually and enjoyably learn asset-building, we are providing other classes open to the general public that helps participants about basic investment knowledge, while a about investing. including our entrepreneurship education systematically learn about life planning, asset special lecture on aromatherapy was given by (Right) Special seminar lecturer Ms. Ayako Terada, Equity Market Strategist, program called the NOMURA Business management, and other aspects of personal an aroma fragrance designer. Approximately Investment Research-Retail Dept., She spoke to the attendees about how to build Challenge. On top of improving students' finance which they can put in to practice in 200 people attended the event where, in assets as an investment in one's future. financial literacy, our people talk with students their own lives. Starting in FY2020/21, classes addition to gaining an understanding about the (Left) The hall was filled with sweet fragrances from the aromatherapy to help them better understand different are available online, and students can select need for diversified investing and hearing about fragrance exhibit. 073 074 Human Resources Strategy Nomura Report 2020 Financial advisors (new graduates) Recruiting and hiring talented Mid-career hires 0.2% About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 people 26.8% Recognizing that people are our greatest General Career Type asset, since our founding we have placed Number of A employees particular emphasis on recruitment. In our General Career new hires 38.3% Type C employees constant efforts to secure the most talented 5.2% people, we continue to follow a policy of Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 recruiting people regardless of nationality, General Career Type B employees Japan: Nomura Holdings, gender, or other attributes. We strive to recruit 29.5% Nomura Securities FY2019/20 outstanding and diverse people by increasing Nomura Passport recruitment program for contact with students in a variety of ways, doctoral students in science and engineering. including the use of our Career Support In addition, we are making efforts to provide System for new graduate recruitment, job seekers with a variety of ways to interact enhancing our internship programs, and with our firm, such as hiring throughout the participating in international student year and holding some recruitment events and recruitment events. interviews online. HUMAN RESOURCES In addition, we are also focusing on mid-career By making sure to place these diverse people hires who can contribute immediately. We are in positions they are best suited for, we take a Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 also seeking to acquire human resources in a personnel management approach that allows STRATEGY variety of ways, such as through the each employee to display their capabilities to reemployment of retired employees and the the fullest. Personnel development Individuals of more than 90 nationalities are currently employed in Nomura Group. To ensure that people with diverse career Amount invested in employees This diverse group of people represents our greatest asset. Nomura Group provides equal opportunities, builds backgrounds and values can demonstrate their a healthy work environment and, under the Nomura Group Code of Conduct, forbids discrimination based on Education and training expenses In-house training talents, the Group believes that, in addition to nationality, ethnic origin, gender, gender identity, gender preference, beliefs, social standing, disability or any other attribute, so that each and every employee can be active and successful in utilizing her or his capabilities human resources development, developing and personal strengths. and enhancing a structure for organizational development aimed at fostering a vibrant and 2,035 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Japan Proper evaluation and unified corporate culture is important. Cumulative total of participants: Global human resources system Nomura Group takes an integrated approach to talent management compensation To properly evaluate performance and Accordingly, we provide diverse education and training programs to help employees at all Japan 1,907 187,639 (FY2019/20) employees by employing professionals around the world who are capable of further the development of personnel, the levels proactively develop their careers. Europe 228 providing financial services that meet the diverse needs of clients. Group adopts an integrated personnel In Nomura Securities, each division appoints Having a pool of employees with a wide variety of career paths and evaluation system. From this fiscal year, we instructors to serve for one year to guide and Europe 108 Americas 639 Americas 233 values within the Group, we seek to manage our talent in a flexible have further incorporated compliance and train new hires and help them develop into Asia-Pacific 193 Asia-Pacific 196 Cumulative total of hours: and appropriate manner so that each and every one of our conduct into evaluations. Depending on the independent-minded employees. In the Retail employees can thrive as they collaborate with each other and division, the Group also undertakes a Division, a trainer (managerial-level employee) 2,441 million yen 3,100 million yen 565,949 hours contribute their abilities to the workplace. 360-degree evaluation for certain personnel is appointed to work with instructors to train (FY2012/13) (FY2019/20) (FY2019/20) 2008 2020 in managerial-level positions. sales staff (partners). The Nomura Training *Subtotals may not add up to totals due to rounding. 77 Japan 59 Every employee is provided, in principle Curriculum was introduced in April 2019 to Ratio of employees by 2008 11 Europe 10 2020 once a year, with the opportunity to be enable partners to acquire the skills and include annual online and in-person group End of March End of March region (%) 6 Americas 8 interviewed by the Human Resources knowledge required to provide services to training by years of service, job position or 6 Asia-Pacific 23 Department and directly communicate their customers in a given period of time. according to title, and human resource thoughts about their career. To make each employee's development more development through on-the-job training. We Introduction of new personnel system The Group has established its visible, Nomura has established a framework have also created a self-study support system Nomura Securities introduced a new personnel system in April 2020. Compensation Policy for Group executive that brings together the necessary actions and comprising a large number of e-learning and In an operating environment marked by great change, such as diverse officers and employees in order to secure, skills for improving performance and achieving correspondence education to support work styles and digital innovation, we aim to be a company that retain, motivate and nurture outstanding targets, and this framework is utilized in employees in their efforts to develop skills on continues to attract competent and motivated talent. The new personnel. dialogue between employees and their their own. personnel system is designed to help expand opportunities for evaluators to clarify the skills that employees At the same time, we have established various talented employees to leverage their abilities regardless of their age or should develop. overseas training programs to develop human the number of years working in Group, and to support each individual In addition to introductory training for new resources who can play an active role on the Compensation Policy of Nomura Group in building a professional career that leverages their unique aptitudes. https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/employee/capability.html hires, our core training programs in Japan global stage. 075 076 Human Resources Strategy Nomura Report 2020 *1 Refer to Structure to Communication with employees Diversity and Inclusion strategy Various types of diversity About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Implement Conduct on page 56 for the structure. *2 Refers to sexual minorities: Nomura organizes various forums for direct As part of our continued efforts to Nomura Group is promoting Diversity and In April 2019, Nomura Holdings became the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex. dialogue between management and understand how our employees feel about Inclusion (D&I) based on the belief in first company in the Japanese financial *3 In Japan, there are three employees around the world. Town hall Nomura, we periodically conduct surveys of creating new value through respect for services industry to sign the UN Standards networks: Women in Nomura (WIN), which works meetings and employees gatherings are all Group employees to monitor the status diversity and collaboration transcending of Conduct for Business for Tackling to raise awareness about career advancement for held regularly in each region to provide of communication within the organization organization and position. Discrimination against LGBTI*2 People. women; Life & Family (L&F), Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 which focuses on work-life opportunities for senior management to and the level of employee satisfaction. From In 2016, we established a Group-wide Nomura Securities is working to increase management; and Multi1 share the firm's vision, strategy, and FY2020/21, Nomura Group will further organization* to deliberate the promotion of the number of LGBTI supporters (allies) and Culture Value(MCV), which promotes the understanding philosophy, and for employees to engage in enhance its dialogue with employees by D&I at the management level, and adopted a to support employees with disabilities and of diverse values such as multiculturalism, LGBTA, and active dialogue with senior management measuring their awareness of the Nomura declaration to create a work environment that those undergoing cancer treatment to people with disabilities. with the aim of deepening mutual Group Code of Conduct, including their makes use of diverse employees. Under the balance their work and treatment. understanding. views on ESG and diversity. slogan NEXT D&I, we are working to further promote diversity management. Employee networks Nomura Group has voluntary employee Supporting women's careers networks*3 operating at its offices globally. Nomura Securities revised the Action Plan for These employee networks provide Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 the Promotion of Women's Participation and information, hold events, and offer Advancement established in 2015, to a new opportunities for internal and external Action Plan based on the new management exchange regarding diversity. vision and new personnel system with the aim of advancing the firm to a higher stage. To achieve this, the firm is taking further steps to create an environment in which women can play active roles. In addition, in order to create a comfortable work environment for employees who have time constraints due to childcare and/or family nursing care, the firm provides information on support for work-life Our People https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/employee/ Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 balance and encourages men to take External evaluations childcare leave, among other initiatives. https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/evaluations/ Work Style Innovation and Health & Productivity Management In July 2016, Nomura Group adopted the coronavirus, and the number of employees NOMURA Health & Productivity Declaration working remotely has increased dramatically External evaluations Statement as part of the Group's efforts led in a short period of time. We will continue to by the Group Chief Health Officer (CHO) to promote all forms of digitization, such as maintain and improve the health of streamlining operations using technology Kurumin Kurumin Tomonin (Nomura Securities) (Nomura Asset Management) (Nomura Securities) employees. In addition, since 2017, Nomura and centralizing operations. At the same has launched the Nomura Work Style time, as we move towards a new normal, we Nomura was named as one of Innovation initiative, which comprises Work will pursue additional productivity the Organizations Recognized under the 2020 Certified Health Style Reform and Health & Productivity improvements by addressing new challenges & Productivity Management Eruboshi Pride Index, Gold grade Semi-Nadeshiko Outstanding Organizations Management, and has been developing an and by listening to new ideas. (Nomura Trust and Banking) (Nomura Holdings) (Nomura Holdings) Recognition Program (White 500) (Nomura Holdings / Nomura environment that enables diverse employees Asset Management) to demonstrate their talents and play active roles. In this regard, we have developed and internally announced guidelines with Employment of people with disabilities quantitative targets. Nomura has further 100% In recent years, the desire to work for persons with disabilities has increased rapidly, and it has become a corporate responsibility to provide them with opportunities to develop their careers. Nomura Kagayaki Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Nomura Group, was established on October 1, 2019 to provide promoted these initiatives by posting a more flexible work environment for people with disabilities so that they can work with peace of mind. This includes ensuring work that takes into messages from top management and Mental health training account the special characteristics of people with disabilities, improving the work environment, and assigning appropriate specialist staff. positive examples on the internal website participation rate Nomura Kagayaki provides opportunities for career development in Nomura Group to people with disabilities while creating a work environment (from 2017) where they can work with a sense of security. The name of the company embodies Nomura's strong desire to be a company that shines and and by appointing people in charge of thrives forever, along with the strong wish for each and every one of our employees with disabilities to continue to thrive and shine. advancing initiatives in each division. On January 23, 2020, Nomura Kagayaki Co., Ltd. was designated as a special subsidiary company under the Act on Promotion of We are currently facing a challenging Employment of Persons with Disabilities. environment due to the spread of (FY2019/20) Nomura Group aims to realize a symbiotic society by further promoting and stabilizing the employment of persons with disabilities. 077 078 Financial Review Nomura Report 2020 Financial review and analysis of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Business environment Summary of consolidated results The global economy slowed down in 2019 towards downturn, the ECB announced in September 2019, Net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, shareholders was ¥217 billion, ROE was 8.2%, the summer. Concerns around U.S.-China trade a policy rate cut and resumed quantitative easing. 2020 was ¥1,287.8 billion up 15.3% from the and EPS (diluted earnings attributable to Nomura friction have destabilized financial markets and Even after leaving the EU in January 2020, the previous fiscal year, and expenses other than Holdings shareholders per share) was ¥66.20, all forced major central banks to resume monetary U.K. decided to maintain their existing economic financing expenses decreased 10.0% to ¥1,039.6 of which represented a significant recovery from Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 easing. In the U.S., the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) relationship through the end of 2020. This helped billion. Income before income taxes was ¥248.3 the previous year. introduced a precautionary interest rate cut in July, mitigate downside risks in the Eurozone economy. billion, net income attributable to Nomura Holdings and in the euro area, the European Central Bank However, due to the coronavirus pandemic in (ECB) decided on an easing program in September, Europe, 2020 first quarter real GDP in the euro area (billions of yen) FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Year-on-year Comments including a deeper rate cut into negative interest experienced its worst downturn since 1999, and the rates and the resumption of quantitative easing. ECB announced the expansion of its quantitative In the fall, the expectation of a global economic easing policy in March. Commissions from sales of stocks and investment trusts Commission 293.1 308.8 5.4% increased. recovery increased as the U.S. and China moved In Asia, the 2019 real GDP growth rate of China toward a trade agreement. However, in 2020, the was 6.1% greater than the previous year, although global spread of the coronavirus pandemic weighed the pace of growth was slower in recent years. The solution business related to M&A and financing activity on the global economy, and economic growth in the Although monetary policy easing has remained in Fees from investment contributed to the improved profitability, but the market banking 101.5 103.2 1.7% shock in the middle of February led to the cancellation or first quarter declined sharply. place since the end of 2018, private companies' postponement of IPO projects. Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 In the U.S., the growth rate of real GDP in 2019 fund-raising activities in the capital markets was +2.3% indicating a moderate economic remained sluggish. On the other hand, the Chinese While funds continued to flow into Defined Contribution recovery. In the first half of 2019, concerns about an government had undertaken aggressive economic Asset management and Pension Plans and ETFs, the sharp market decline in portfolio service fees 245.5 238.2 -3.0% the fiscal fourth quarter resulted in a decline in AUM and economic slowdown heightened due to an increase recovery measures in response to the spread of management fees. in tariffs on Chinese products and the expansion coronavirus. The rest of Asia had achieved solid of the tariff eligible items, but in the latter half of economic growth in 2019, but the economy slowed 2019, the U.S. and China moving toward a trade in March 2020 due to the impact of the coronavirus Fixed Income business mainly contributed to the increase in Net gain (loss) on trading 343.0 356.6 4.0% revenues. agreement, and concerns about trade friction eased. pandemic. However, starting in early 2020, the coronavirus In Japan, domestic demand remained solid Revenue pandemic has caused a major economic downturn, in the first half of 2019 on the back of capital Gain (loss) on private and in March, the FRB launched a significant investment and last-minute consumption before equity and debt 1.0 -0.1 monetary easing program. The Dow Jones Industrial the consumption tax increase. Following that rate investments Average declined 15% from $25,929 at the end of increase in October, domestic consumption and March 2019 to $21,917 at the end of March 2020. demand declined significantly, only to be made The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasuries also fell by worse by the slow of economic activities caused Interest and dividends 777.0 794.5 2.3% Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 174bps, from 2.41% at the end of March 2019 to by the 2020 coronavirus pandemic. The Nikkei 0.67% at the end of March 2020. Stock Average fell 10.8%, from ¥21,205.81 at Although the Euro area economy also maintained the end of March 2019 to ¥18,917.01 at the end Gain (loss) on positive growth, the stronger environmental of March 2020. In the bond market, the Bank of investments in equity -7.0 -14.7 regulations on newly produced vehicles in the Japan maintained its quantitative and qualitative securities autumn of 2018 negatively affected demand for monetary easing framework with interest rate new vehicles, and manufacturing production in the controls, and bond yields generally remained automobile industry. Responding to the economic around the 0% range. securities Gain on the sale of shares in Nomura Research Institute Other 81.1 166.0 104.7% contributed to the increase in profitability Real GDP of the United States, Europe, Emerging and Yields on Japanese government bonds over the past 5 years: Developing Asia, and Japan over the past five years*1 10 years, dollar/yen exchange rate, and Nikkei average*2 Total revenue 1,835.1 1,952.5 6.4% Nikkei Stock Average yen/dollar exchange rate (%) Emerging and developing Asia U.S. Europe Japan 10-year government bond yield (Japan) 8 6.8 6.8 6.7 Interest expenses 718.3 664.7 -7.5% ¥19,207 6.3 6 Net revenue 1,116.8 1,287.8 15.3% 5.5 ¥18,917 4 This decline was mainly due to the absence of a one-time ¥120 ¥109 2.9 2.9 Non-interest expenses 1,154.5 1,039.6 -10.0% impairment of ¥81.4 billion on goodwill attributable to Wholesale 2.5 2.3 segment that had been recognized in the previous year 2 2.1 1.9 1.9 1.6 1.9 2.4 Income (loss) before income taxes -37.7 248.3 1.3 0.3 1.2 0 0.9 0.012% 0.396% -0.1 Net income (loss) attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders -100.4 217.0 -2 Net interest income, calculated as interest income and dividends less interest expenses, depends on the level and composition of total assets and liabilities, including trading assets, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Mar. 2015 Mar. 2016 Mar. 2017 Mar. 2018 Mar. 2019 Mar. 2020 repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreement transactions, as well as term structures and volatility of interest rates, remains an integral part of trading activities. *1 Source: U.S. Department of Commerce; Europe, eurostat; Emerging and Developing Asia, IMF; Japan, Cabinet Office. Fiscal year in Japan and calendar year in the other countries For the year ended March 2020, revenue from financing activities, including dividends from American Century Investments, increased 2%, and interest expenses decreased 8%. As a *2 Source: Bloomberg result, net interest income for the year ended March 2020 increased from the year ended March 2019. 079 080 Financial Review Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Performance by Business Segment Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio Retail Division Net revenue for the fiscal year Asset Management Division Net revenue for the The consolidated Common Equity Tier1 ratio as of of credit spreads in March 2020. Nomura has ended March 2020 decreased 0.9% to ¥336.4 fiscal year ended March 2020 were ¥92.6 billion, March 31, 2020 was 15.34%, down from 17.11% set a medium-term target of a consolidated billion, and income before income taxes decreased a decrease of 5.4% from the previous fiscal year, as of March 31, 2019. The main factor was an Common Equity Tier1 ratio of at least 11% and 0.1% to ¥49.4 billion. Based on the purpose of primarily due to a valuation loss on shares of increase in risk-weighted assets, the denominator has maintained a sufficient capital level. The Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 enriching clients by responding to their concerns American Century Investments. Income before of the ratio, as primarily market risk increased consolidated leverage ratio declined slightly to about assets, the Retail Division works closely with income taxes decreased 15.8% to ¥28.8 billion. In in response to the rise in volatility and widening 4.83% from 5.03% at the end of March 2019. each and every client to provide consulting services the investment trust business, inflows continued into with the aim of becoming the most trusted products that contribute to the formation of assets (billions of yen) March 2019 March 2020 Year-on-year partner . In this fiscal year, we were able to maintain for 100 years of life , products provided for Defined the same level of profitability as in the previous Contribution Pension Plans, and ETFs. In the Capital fiscal year, with an increase in bond and investment investment advisory business, we continued to see trust sales, despite a decrease in share offerings inflows from clients such as public pension funds; in CET1 capital 2,440 2,405 -35 compared to the previous fiscal year, when there the past year, cash inflows totaled approximately ¥2 were large-scale primary deals. In the summer of trillion. In response to the market downturn in March, Tier1 capital 2,606 2,572 -34 2019, we reassigned many of our sales partners the balance of assets under management at the and consolidated our branches in order to provide end of March 2020 was ¥49.3 trillion, a decrease of Total capital 2,652 2,602 -50 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 the best service to meet the preferences of our ¥2.1 trillion from the end of March 2019, though the clients. We are also enriching our digital capabilities business remains solid. Risk-weighted assets in addition to face-to-face communications to reach Credit risk-weighted assets 7,527 7,635 107 more clients. Wholesale Division Net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 2020 was ¥648.6 billion, a yearValue obtained by dividing market risk equivalent assets by 8% 4,211 5,549 1,338 on-year increase of 16.8% driven by a significant Value obtained by dividing the operational risk equivalent recovery in Fixed Income revenue. This growth assets by 8% 2,513 2,491 -23 Income (loss) before income taxes by segment across Rates, FX/EM products was supported by increased client activity and higher volatility. Total risk-weighted assets 14,252 15,675 1,423 Wholesale Asset Management Retail (billions of yen) Non-interest expenses decreased 16.6% to 200 ¥556.4 billion primarily due to a $1 billion (Approx. Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 170.4 ¥110 billion) cost reduction initiative that has CET1 capital ratio 17.11% 15.34% -1.77% progressed faster than originally planned, the 100 92.2 absence of previous year's goodwill impairment Tier1 capital ratio 18.28% 16.40% -1.88% losses attributable to Wholesale, and restructuring 18.60% 16.60% -2.00% Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 34.2 28.8 charges associated with a business portfolio Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 49.5 49.4 review. As a result, income before income taxes 0 -27.7 recovered to ¥92.2 billion, a turnaround from the loss in the previous year. -111.4 Return to shareholders -100 Our fundamental policy is to return profits Annual dividend per share Overseas Business to shareholders by continuously increasing (yen) shareholder value and paying dividends. Regarding 25 -200 International income before income taxes for dividends, the consolidated dividend payout ratio FY2018/19 FY2019/20 the year ended March 2020 was ¥13.1 billion, a of 30%, based on semiannual consolidated results, significant improvement from the previous year. is one of the important indicators. The dividend The improvements largely were attributable to 20 20 20 20 International income (loss) before income taxes by region amount for each fiscal year will be determined by a recovery in Fixed Income earnings, mainly comprehensively taking into account the trends Asia and Oceania Europe Americas from Rates, FX/EM in AeJ, the successful in the regulatory environment, including the (billions of yen) implementation of cost reduction measures such strengthening of the Basel requirements, in Japan 50 as the concentration of management resources and overseas, as well as consolidated business 15 13.1 in areas with competitive advantage through the 5.0 7.4 results. Dividends are, in principle, paid twice 13 19.8 review of the business portfolio, and the absence 0 a year (base dates: September 30, March 31). -14.1 of one-time charges (impairment loss of goodwill Total shareholder return policy, including share attributable to Wholesale, restructuring costs buybacks, is at least 50%. 10 -50 associated with business portfolio review, legal Based on the above policy regarding dividends -114.1 costs related to past transactions, etc.) recorded from surplus, we paid a dividend of ¥15 per share -100 -165.9 in the previous year. By geographic segment, with a record date of September 30, 2019 and 6 the Americas and Asia/Oceania reported profits, a dividend of ¥5 per share with a record date of 5 while Europe posted a loss of ¥14.1 billion, due to March 31, 2020. As a result, the annual dividend -150 -56.9 valuation losses on loan related positions caused is ¥20 per share. We also decided to repurchase by significant market movements in March 2020. our own shares on June 18, 2019 and repurchased -200 approximately ¥150 billion of our own shares by 0 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 February 21, 2020. FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 081 082 Key Financial Data Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Key Financial Data (billions of yen) (billions of yen) P/L FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Funding and liquidity FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Net revenue 1,604.2 1,395.7 1,403.2 1,497.0 1,116.8 1,287.8 Liquidity portfolio* 6,064.0 5,947.1 4,970.3 4,628.4 4,870.5 5,354.4 Income (loss) before income taxes 346.8 165.2 322.8 328.2 (37.7) 248.3 Short-term unsecured debt 2,557.0 3,303.8 1,883.0 2,107.0 2,518.8 3,072.3 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Net Income (loss)* 224.8 131.6 239.6 219.3 (100.4) 217.0 Long-term unsecured debt 6,509.4 6,593.6 5,918.9 5,218.9 6,483.5 6,344.0 * Net income (loss) attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders * Definition differs from financial disclosures reflecting Liquidity Management's view. Cash and cash deposits portion of liquidity portfolio excludes funds on deposit at exchanges and segregated client funds (billions of yen) Segment information FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 (yen) Net revenue Retail 476.5 435.6 374.4 412.9 339.5 336.4 Per share data FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Asset Management 92.4 95.4 99.4 127.3 97.8 92.6 Basic-net income attributable to Nomura 61.66 36.53 67.29 63.13 (29.90) 67.76 Holdings shareholders per share (EPS) Wholesale 789.9 720.3 739.3 715.3 555.4 648.6 Diluted-net income attributable to Nomura Subtotal 1,358.7 1,251.3 1,213.1 1,255.6 992.7 1,077.6 60.03 35.52 65.65 61.88 (29.92) 66.20 Holdings shareholders per share (EPS) Other 220.8 165.1 183.5 239.5 131.3 231.6 Nomura Holdings shareholders' equity per Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 752.40 748.32 790.70 810.31 794.69 873.26 Unrealized gain (loss) share (BPS) on investments in equity 24.7 (20.7) 6.6 1.9 (7.2) (21.3) Dividends per share (DPS) 19.0 13.0 20.0 20.0 6.0 20.0 securities held for operating purposes Dividend payout ratio 30.8% 35.6% 29.7% 31.7% (20.1)% 29.5% Net revenue 1,604.2 1,395.7 1,403.2 1,497.0 1,116.8 1,287.8 Income (loss) before Retail 161.8 127.6 74.8 103.1 49.5 49.4 (billions of yen) income taxes Asset Management 32.1 36.7 42.3 66.2 34.2 28.8 Consolidated capital adequacy, etc.*1 March,31 2015 March,31 2016 March,31 2017 March,31 2018 March,31 2019 March,31 2020 Wholesale 82.2 15.4 161.4 100.6 (111.4) 92.2 Tier1 capital 2,459.2 2,577.5 2,689.8 2,666.4 2,605.9 2,571.5 Subtotal 276.1 179.7 278.6 269.9 (27.7) 170.4 Tier2 capital 361.2 323.1 109.6 66.1 46.0 30.9 Other 46.0 6.1 37.6 56.4 (2.8) 99.2 Total capital 2,820.4 2,900.6 2,799.4 2,732.5 2,651.9 2,602.4 Unrealized gain (loss) RWA 18,929.2 15,970.5 13,977.9 15,122.3 14,251.6 15,674.5 on investments in equity 24.7 (20.7) 6.6 1.9 (7.2) (21.3) Tier1 capital ratio 12.9% 16.1% 19.2% 17.6% 18.3% 16.4% securities held for operating purposes Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 CET1 capital ratio* 2 12.9% 15.4% 18.2% 16.5% 17.1% 15.3% Income (loss) before 346.8 165.2 322.8 328.2 (37.7) 248.3 Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 14.8% 18.1% 20.0% 18.1% 18.6% 16.6% income taxes Consolidated leverage ratio* 3 3.82% 4.28% 4.63% 4.74% 5.03% 4.83% (billions of yen) (trillions of yen) Geographic information* FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 HQLA*4 — 6.2 4.5 4.0 4.3 4.2 Income (loss) Japan 363.2 244.8 234.7 328.8 128.2 235.2 before income LCR*4 — 175.8% 180.0% 153.6% 198.4% 201.1% taxes by region Americas (27.6) (32.0) 50.0 (8.8) (114.1) 7.4 *1 Based on Basel III *2 CET1 capital ratio is defined as Tier1 capital minus minority interests divided by risk-weighted assets. Europe (23.5) (67.4) 14.4 (14.7) (56.9) (14.1) *3 Tier1 capital divided by exposure (sum of on-balance sheet exposures and off-balance sheet items). *4 Monthly average of 4Q. Asia and Oceania 34.6 19.8 23.7 22.8 5.0 19.8 Subtotal (16.4) (79.6) 88.1 (0.7) (165.9) 13.1 Number of shares outstanding, Consolidated 346.8 165.2 322.8 328.2 (37.7) 248.3 share price, etc. March,31 2015 March,31 2016 March,31 2017 March,31 2018 March,31 2019 March,31 2020 * Region information is based on US GAAP. Revenue and expenses are allocated based on the country of domicile of the legal entity providing the service. This information is not used for business management purposes. Number of shares outstanding (thousands) 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,643,563 3,493,563 3,493,563 Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 706.2 502.9 691.9 615.3 400.2 457.8 ROE FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Market capitalization (trillions of yen)* 2.7 1.9 2.6 2.2 1.4 1.6 ROE 8.6% 4.9% 8.7% 7.9% 8.2% PBR (times)* 0.94 0.67 0.88 0.76 0.50 0.52 (billions of yen) PER (times)* 11.45 13.77 10.28 9.75 6.76 B/S FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 * Figures based on the fiscal year-end share price. Total assets 41,783.2 41,090.2 42,852.1 40,343.9 40,969.4 43,999.8 Total Nomura Holdings shareholders' equity 2,707.8 2,700.2 2,789.9 2,749.3 2,631.1 2,653.5 Gross leverage (times) 15.4 15.2 15.4 14.7 15.6 16.6 Net leverage* (times) 9.3 9.6 8.6 8.8 9.0 10.6 * Total assets minus securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, divided by Nomura Holdings shareholders' equity. 083 084 Eleven-Year Consolidated Financial Summary Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Eleven-Year Consolidated Financial Summary (US GAAP) For the fiscal years beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year This financial summary is prepared solely for convenience. Readers are recommended to refer to Form 20-F. (Millions of yen) FY2009/10 FY2010/11 FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Operating results: Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Revenue: Commission 395,083 405,463 347,135 358,210 473,121 453,401 431,959 327,129 373,313 293,069 308,805 Fees from investment banking 121,254 107,005 59,638 62,353 91,301 95,083 118,333 92,580 101,663 101,521 103,222 Asset management and portfolio service fees 132,249 143,939 144,251 141,888 168,683 203,387 229,006 216,479 245,616 245,519 238,202 Net gain (loss) on trading 417,424 336,503 272,557 367,979 476,356 531,337 354,031 475,587 442,885 342,964 356,609 Gain (loss) on private equity and debt investments 11,906 19,292 25,098 8,053 11,392 5,502 13,761 1,371 (869) 1,007 (93) Interest and dividends 235,310 346,103 435,890 394,007 416,350 436,766 440,050 441,036 585,675 776,964 794,472 Gain (loss) on investments in equity securities 6,042 (16,677) 4,005 38,686 15,156 29,410 (20,504) 7,708 2,683 (6,983) (14,726) Other 37,483 43,864 563,186 708,767 179,485 175,702 156,460 153,626 221,192 81,057 165,991 Total revenue 1,356,751 1,385,492 1,851,760 2,079,943 1,831,844 1,930,588 1,723,096 1,715,516 1,972,158 1,835,118 1,952,482 Interest expense 205,929 254,794 315,901 266,312 274,774 326,412 327,415 312,319 475,189 718,348 664,653 Net revenue 1,150,822 1,130,698 1,535,859 1,813,631 1,557,070 1,604,176 1,395,681 1,403,197 1,496,969 1,116,770 1,287,829 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Non-interest Compensation and benefits 526,238 518,993 534,648 547,591 570,058 596,593 574,191 496,385 530,641 497,065 479,420 expenses: Commissions and floor brokerage 86,129 92,088 93,500 91,388 111,849 129,977 123,881 94,495 99,868 82,637 106,123 Information processing and communications 175,575 182,918 177,148 179,904 192,168 192,300 189,910 175,280 184,781 166,865 170,317 Occupancy and related depreciation 87,806 87,843 100,891 91,545 80,142 76,112 78,411 69,836 67,895 64,940 72,986 Business development expenses 27,333 30,153 48,488 49,010 38,485 35,230 35,892 35,111 36,762 36,915 31,885 Other 142,494 125,448 496,227 616,463 202,754 227,205 228,238 209,295 248,864 306,049 178,837 Total non-interest expenses 1,045,575 1,037,443 1,450,902 1,575,901 1,195,456 1,257,417 1,230,523 1,080,402 1,168,811 1,154,471 1,039,568 Income (loss) before income taxes 105,247 93,255 84,957 237,730 361,614 346,759 165,158 322,795 328,158 (37,701) 248,261 Income tax expense (benefit) 37,161 61,330 58,903 132,039 145,165 120,780 22,596 80,229 103,866 57,010 28,894 Net income (loss) 68,086 31,925 26,054 105,691 216,449 225,979 142,562 242,566 224,292 (94,711) 219,367 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests 288 3,264 14,471 (1,543) 2,858 1,194 11,012 2,949 4,949 5,731 2,369 Net income (loss) attributable to NHI shareholders 67,798 28,661 11,583 107,234 213,591 224,785 131,550 239,617 219,343 (100,442) 216,998 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Balance sheets (Period end): Cash and cash deposits 1,352,244 2,150,453 1,953,677 1,652,752 2,189,310 2,096,596 3,898,843 2,972,088 2,959,046 3,261,869 3,874,948 Loans and receivables 2,071,714 2,227,822 2,211,423 2,629,875 2,570,678 2,948,424 2,969,578 3,097,428 3,875,199 3,882,038 5,116,913 Collateralized agreements 12,467,213 15,156,318 13,742,646 14,115,257 17,347,001 16,719,520 15,077,660 18,729,825 16,237,743 17,306,959 15,907,112 Trading assets and private equity and debt investments 14,700,282 15,241,931 14,123,594 17,124,349 18,714,314 17,308,848 16,410,002 15,192,364 14,980,156 14,385,789 16,898,100 Other assets 1,638,975 1,916,466 3,665,972 2,420,206 2,699,011 2,709,848 2,734,084 2,860,373 2,291,803 2,132,784 2,202,742 Total assets 32,230,428 36,692,990 35,697,312 37,942,439 43,520,314 41,783,236 41,090,167 42,852,078 40,343,947 40,969,439 43,999,815 Short-term borrowings 1,301,664 1,167,077 1,185,613 738,445 602,131 662,256 662,902 543,049 743,497 841,758 1,486,733 Payables and deposits 1,528,419 2,103,608 2,437,370 2,413,801 2,836,873 3,398,600 4,249,118 3,708,435 3,567,655 3,768,038 4,397,082 Collateralized financing 11,216,481 13,686,438 12,519,274 15,409,383 17,111,999 15,379,803 16,605,591 19,061,091 16,696,994 16,684,403 18,028,339 Trading liabilities 8,356,806 8,688,998 7,495,177 8,491,296 11,047,285 10,044,236 7,499,335 8,191,794 8,202,936 8,219,811 8,546,284 Other liabilities 494,983 552,316 1,165,901 978,163 1,141,750 1,217,099 1,200,647 1,308,510 950,534 858,867 1,034,448 Long-term borrowings 7,199,061 8,402,917 8,504,840 7,592,368 8,227,063 8,336,296 8,129,559 7,195,408 7,382,507 7,915,769 7,775,665 Total liabilities 30,097,414 34,601,354 33,308,175 35,623,456 40,967,101 39,038,290 38,347,152 40,008,287 37,544,123 38,288,646 41,268,551 Total NHI shareholders' equity 2,126,929 2,082,754 2,107,241 2,294,371 2,513,680 2,707,774 2,700,239 2,789,916 2,749,320 2,631,061 2,653,467 Noncontrolling interests 6,085 8,882 281,896 24,612 39,533 37,172 42,776 53,875 50,504 49,732 77,797 Total equity 2,133,014 2,091,636 2,389,137 2,318,983 2,553,213 2,744,946 2,743,015 2,843,791 2,799,824 2,680,793 2,731,264 Total liabilities and equity 32,230,428 36,692,990 35,697,312 37,942,439 43,520,314 41,783,236 41,090,167 42,852,078 40,343,947 40,969,439 43,999,815 Cash flows: Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (1,500,770) (235,090) 290,863 549,501 457,426 (77,028) 1,238,372 1,305,025 (445,690) (361,165) (15,943) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (269,643) (423,214) 9,942 (160,486) (103,195) 12,337 (23,711) (118,051) (56,172) (112,503) 216,336 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 2,176,530 1,284,243 (844,311) (701,623) 289,385 (178,206) 986,387 (2,130,644) 373,168 761,191 332,062 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 964 (26,246) (6,314) 47,175 41,089 68,513 (40,195) 4,249 (53,504) 44,741 (27,277) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 407,081 599,693 (549,820) (265,433) 684,705 (174,384) 2,160,853 (939,421) (182,198) 332,264 505,178 085 086 ESG Data Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Environment, social and governance (ESG) Data ESG Data https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/ Data for FY2019/20 items marked with have undergone assurance verification by a third party. Corporate governance Contributing to Sustainable Communities Members of the Board Unit June 30, 2015 June 30, 2016 June 30, 2017 June 30, 2018 June 30, 2019 June 30, 2020 Community contribution expenditures Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Board of Directors No. of people 12 11 10 10 10 10 Total Millions of yen 1,457 1,325 1,704 1,224 1,717 2,053 Outside Directors No. of people 7 6 6 6 6 6 Education Millions of yen 530 562 451 407 410 308 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Ratio (%) 58 55 60 60 60 60 Arts, culture, and sports Millions of yen 333 102 567 157 476 932 Non-Japanese Directors No. of people 3 3 1 2 2 2 Science and academic achievement Millions of yen 114 120 116 109 230 241 Ratio (%) 25 27 10 20 20 20 Community contribution Millions of yen 161 162 189 261 277 237 Female Directors No. of people 1 1 1 2 2 2 Welfare and health Millions of yen 85 79 53 33 46 48 Ratio (%) 8 9 10 20 20 20 Environment Millions of yen 34 29 71 59 69 62 Human rights and labor Millions of yen 19 39 12 6 16 41 Officers (Executive Officers and Senior Disaster relief Millions of yen 68 56 61 9 18 12 Managing Directors) Unit April 1, 2015 April 1, 2016 April 1, 2017 April 1, 2018 May 1, 2019 April 1, 2020 Other Millions of yen 113 176 184 185 175 173 Men No. of people 26 27 33 34 33 38 *Subtotals may not add up to totals due to rounding. Women No. of people 2 2 1 1 1 3 Ratio of women % 7 7 3 3 3 8 Participants and materials in financial Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 and economics education Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Board of Directors meetings Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Visiting classes (elementary, junior and high No. of schools 265 304 346 442 393 287 schools, universities, teachers) since 2008 No. of participants 9,836 9,637 15,317 19,377 18,919 13,847 No. of times held No. of times 10 10 11 10 10 11 Average attendance rate % 99 100 99 100 100 100 No. of schools 108 106 104 106 102 101 Financial courses for universities since 2001 Average term of office Year 3.8 3.2 3.3 2.7 3.7 4.7 No. of participants 11,000 11,000 11,200 11,000 11,200 10,924 Financial courses for the general public No. of schools 566 412 304 270 256 212 since 2003 No. of participants 24,712 14,958 10,926 8,105 7,421 7,100 Contributing to Sound and Sustainable Capital Markets No. of teams 1,361 1,429 1,618 1,832 1,792 1,726 Caseload at Customer Help Desk Nikkei Stock League Since 2000 Department (Nomura Securities) Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 No. of members 5,167 5,587 6,462 7,180 7,103 6,892 Total No. of cases 5,540 5,767 6,003 7,054 7,843 6,961 No. of schools 527 440 434 470 730 804 Number of educational materials supplied* Complaints No. of cases 2,537 2,771 2,531 2,479 2,542 2,315 *2 No. of copies 39,550 27,305 30,167 37,163 61,581 62,698 * The total volume of learning materials donated to elementary and junior high schools by Nomura Holdings. Inquiries No. of cases 2,766 2,749 3,267 4,147*1 4,852 4,180 Opinions and requests No. of cases 81 128 98 270 237 323 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Other No. of cases 156 119 107 158 212 143 Developing human resources who respect diversity *1 The increase in the number of inquiries in FY2017/18 is due to system changes. Education and training expenses Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 *2 Of this total, 25 complaints were related to personal information Total Millions of yen 2,972 2,880 2,767 2,987 3,225 3,100 Results of customer satisfaction surveys Japan Millions of yen 2,076 2,020 2,094 2,093 2,004 2,035 Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 at branch offices (Nomura Securities) Europe Millions of yen 115 225 161 228 280 228 Average Satisfaction Point 4.21 4.22 4.29 4.34 8.49 8.56 Americas Millions of yen 573 426 299 435 694 639 Note: Figures represent the average score from among the overall company satisfaction ratings received from customers who visited our branches via postage-paid return postcard. Asia-Pacific Millions of yen 208 209 213 230 247 196 From FY2014/15 to FY2017/18, a scale of 0 (worst) to 5 (best) with six ratings was used, while from FY2018/19 a scale of 0 (worst) to 10 (best) with 11 ratings has been used. * Subtotals may not add up to totals due to rounding. Sustainable Finance Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Participation in education Bonds issued Number 9 13 15 33 47 72 and training Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Proceeds Millions of yen 180,967 94,961 394,886 552,464 1,916,593 1,270,819 Total Aggregate no. of hours 507,639 499,386 501,377 530,869 537,323 565,949 *SDG Bonds (Green, Social, Sustainability bonds) in which Nomura Securities is involved Aggregate no. of participants 132,672 211,014 195,819 277,824 302,460 187,639 Japan Aggregate no. of hours 333,305 307,295 303,854 298,571 332,570 440,867 Sustainable Investment (Asset Management Division) Unit March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 Aggregate no. of participants 14,398 16,294 15,581 14,896 18,879 22,451 Sustainable investment ratio % 74 73 Europe Aggregate no. of hours 48,434 47,709 33,638 49,288 43,787 29,407 *To determine the sustainable investment ratio for our assets under management we include the following investment approaches: Aggregate no. of participants 41,654 62,077 44,325 70,240 77,539 41,030 1 Best in Class (Investment in leading companies in each industry from an ESG perspective), 2 ESG Thematic Investment, Americas Aggregate no. of hours 15,439 17,589 15,848 23,139 15,983 9,127 3 Impact Investment, 4 ESG Integration, Aggregate no. of participants 12,255 25,122 19,816 38,169 35,932 17,393 5 Active Share Ownership, including the exercising of proxy voting rights and direct engagement with investee company management. In addition, to ensure an accurate assessment of our sustainable investment activities, we exclude investment strategies from the overall universe for which our company is unable to directly Asia-Pacific Aggregate no. of hours 110,461 126,793 148,037 159,871 144,983 86,548 undertake sustainable investment decisions. Aggregate no. of participants 64,365 107,521 116,097 154,519 170,110 106,765 * Certain subsidiaries and affiliates were not included in the number of participants in internal education and training in Europe, the Americas and Asia-Pacific as the data was compiled based on persons registered through the Wholesale Division's internal training system. 087 088 ESG Data Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 ESG Data https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/ Data for FY2019/20 items marked with have undergone assurance verification by a third party. Developing human resources who respect diversity Our environment Composition of employees*1 Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 GHG emissions Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Total No. of employees 28,672 28,865 28,186 28,048 27,864 26,629 Scope 1: Direct emissions*1 Japan t-CO 2 2,107 1,986 2,005 1,968 1,901 1,895 Ratio of male employees (%) 62 62 61 61 60 60 Europe t-CO 2 797 752 772 784 683 675 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Ratio of female employees (%) 38 38 39 39 40 40 Americas t-CO 2 69 72 72 73 74 69 Japan No. of employees 15,973 16,083 16,227 15,819 15,852 15,748 Asia-Pacific t-CO 2 143 169 173 167 201 175 Ratio of male employees (%) 58 58 58 57 56 57 Scope 2: Indirect emissions*1 Japan t-CO 2 40,965 39,065 36,783 35,302 34,126 30,709 Ratio of female employees (%) 42 42 42 43 44 43 Europe t-CO 2 14,164 12,822 11,786 10,031 8,364 6,880 Europe No. of employees 3,485 3,424 3,026 3,057 2,909 2,691 Americas t-CO 2 6,406 6,966 6,168 5,510 5,361 4,728 Ratio of male employees (%) 71 71 70 70 69 68 Asia-Pacific t-CO 2 22,007 21,892 20,942 19,800 17,207 16,251 Ratio of female employees (%) 29 29 30 30 31 32 Scope 1, 2: Emissions Japan t-CO 2 2.9 2.7 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.1 per employee*1 Americas No. of employees 2,449 2,503 2,314 2,362 2,357 2,120 Europe t-CO 2 4.6 4.3 4.2 3.6 3.2 2.9 Ratio of male employees (%) 74 74 74 74 74 73 Americas t-CO 2 2.6 2.8 2.7 2.4 2.3 2.3 Ratio of female employees (%) 26 26 26 26 26 27 Asia-Pacific t-CO 2 4.3 4.2 4.2 3.8 3.2 3.1 Asia-Pacific No. of employees 6,765 6,855 6,619 6,810 6,746 6,070 Scope 3: Emissions Japan t-CO2 20,823 22,013 22,936 24,554 23,417 19,476 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 from employee travel*2 Ratio of male employees (%) 61 61 59 60 59 59 (Air, rail, and automobile Europe t-CO2 8,127 7,651 7,023 7,929 5,774 4,342 Ratio of female employees (%) 39 39 41 40 41 41 travel) Americas t-CO2 4,349 4,966 4,343 5,547 5,147 4,205 Asia-Pacific t-CO2*3 10,575 11,587 11,041 12,196 11,628 8,711 Number of new hires*2 Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Total No. of employees 2,934 2,868 2,763 2,901 2,779 2,416 Energy consumption Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Ratio of male employees (%) 67 65 57 61 59 60 Direct energy consumption Japan MWh 11,229 10,573 10,654 10,402 10,054 10,008 (Natural gas, etc.) Ratio of female employees (%) 33 35 43 39 41 40 Europe MWh 4,438 4,201 4,329 4,374 3,804 3,791 Japan No. of employees 845 932 1,107 1,008 1,100 1,004 Americas MWh 340 355 359 360 368 340 Ratio of male employees (%) 57 58 53 54 51 59 Asia-Pacific MWh 611 732 743 720 862 758 Ratio of female employees (%) 43 42 47 46 49 41 Indirect energy consumption Japan MWh 72,780 70,520 68,372 67,360 66,807 62,574 (Purchased electric power) Europe No. of employees 510 405 283 376 346 286 Europe MWh 30,836 30,133 30,713 30,135 31,666 28,233 Ratio of male employees (%) 76 71 67 69 67 65 Americas MWh 22,148 21,882 20,236 18,883 18,345 17,273 Ratio of female employees (%) 24 29 33 31 33 35 Asia-Pacific MWh 27,862 26,720 25,577 24,200 24,996 23,912 Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 Americas No. of employees 510 424 318 355 333 251 Including, renewable power*4 MWh 32,626 34,652 35,033 34,193 35,560 32,564 Ratio of male employees (%) 75 74 71 74 76 71 Percentage of renewable power % 21.2 23.2 24.2 24.3 25.1 24.7 Ratio of female employees (%) 25 26 29 26 24 29 (Purchased cooling and Japan MWh 12,400 11,971 12,320 11,680 11,335 10,289 heating power) Asia-Pacific No. of employees 1,069 1,107 1,055 1,162 1,000 875 Europe MWh 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ratio of male employees (%) 67 64 54 60 59 57 Americas MWh 238 140 198 254 284 202 Ratio of female employees (%) 33 36 46 40 41 43 Asia-Pacific MWh 1,694 1,617 1,723 1,824 1,832 1,656 Composition of managers*3 Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Environmental resource efficiency Unit FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2018/19 FY2019/20 Total No. of employees 8,329 8,535 9,110 9,174 9,187 8,734 Water consumption Japan Thousand m3 171 170 168 161 161 153 Ratio of male employees (%) 85 84 85 84 83 82 Europe Thousand m3 97 115 107 111 109 103 Ratio of female employees (%) 15 16 15 16 17 18 Americas Thousand m3 26 30 29 30 30 27 Japan No. of employees 3,673 3,615 4,672 4,493 4,493 4,267 Asia-Pacific Thousand m3 48 36 35 53 45 47 Ratio of male employees (%) 94 93 92 91 90 89 Copy paper consumption*5 ton 1,041 1,083 1,018 1,002 1,018 990 Ratio of female employees (%) 6 7 8 9 10 11 Amount of waste generated*6 ton 2,281 2,540 2,658 2,403 2,341 2,206 Europe No. of employees 1,790 1,838 1,559 1,624 1,568 1,473 The scope 1, 2, and 3 classifications follow The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol):https://www.ghgprotocol.org/ The coverage by region is as follows. However, data on air transportation in scope 3 are compiled based on corporate data. Ratio of male employees (%) 83 82 81 81 80 79 Japan: Group companies located in Japan (https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/group/) Ratio of female employees (%) 17 18 19 19 20 21 Europe: Offices in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Madrid, Milan, Luxembourg, and Cape Town Americas: Offices in New York and Instinet offices Americas No. of employees 1,343 1,399 1,279 1,366 1,355 1,257 Asia-Pacific: Offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Dalian, Bangkok, Seoul, and Australia Ratio of male employees (%) 81 80 80 80 81 80 *1 The Cape Town office was included in the scope for Europe from FY2017/18. The Seoul office and Australia office were included in the scope for Asia-Pacific from FY2019/20. Ratio of female employees (%) 19 20 20 20 19 20 *2 Data based on airline and long-distance railway travel in Japan and overseas purchased from specified travel agencies. Data for Japan, Europe, and the India, Hong Kong, Bangkok and Seoul offices in Asia include emissions from automobiles used on a daily basis (The Seoul office was added to the scope of calculation from FY2019/20). Asia-Pacific No. of employees 1,523 1,683 1,600 1,691 1,771 1,737 *3 Assurance-verified data for Asia totaled 8,512 t-CO2 in FY2019/20. (Offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Bangkok, Seoul, and Australia.) *4 Data for FY2014/15 comprise Japan, as well as the London, Frankfurt, Zurich and the Millan offices in Europe. The Luxembourg and Paris offices were included in the scope of calculation Ratio of male employees (%) 71 71 70 70 68 67 for Europe from FY2015/16, while the Madrid office data was added from FY2019/20. Ratio of female employees (%) 29 29 30 30 32 33 *5 Data for Japan were compiled based on paper purchased from specified suppliers by Nomura Securities for (all types of copy paper), Europe data comprise paper consumed by the London office, while Asia data comprise paper consumed by India, Hong Kong and Bangkok offices. *1 Employee composition: The Nomura Group is the scope of the totaling (on a consolidated basis). *6 FY2014/15 data comprise data for Tokyo (the Nihonbashi Head Office building, Dai-ni Edobashi Building and the Urbannet Otemachi Building), the Osaka Branch, the Nagoya Branch, *2 New hire composition: The Nomura Group is the scope of the totaling (on a consolidated basis). Data for FY2015/16 and prior fiscal years for Japan cover Nomura Holdings and the Kyoto Branch and the Okayama Branch, as well as the London, Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Luxemburg, Hong Kong and India offices. From FY2015/16, data for the Nomura Asset Nomura Securities. Data for FY2015/16 and prior fiscal years for Asia-Pacific cover consolidated subsidiaries with certain exceptions, such as Capital Nomura Securities Public Management Head Office building in Tokyo was added to the scope. Company Limited and Nomura Asset Management Taiwan Ltd which were added to the scope of consolidation in FY2014/15. *3 Management composition: The Nomura Group is the scope of the totaling (on a consolidated basis). Data for FY2015/16 and prior fiscal years do not cover certain subsidiaries in Japan. 089 Refer to standards for calculation ( https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/ ). 090 Corporate Data / Share Information / Total Shareholder Return / Credit Ratings Nomura Report 2020 About Nomura 001 About Nomura 001 Corporate Data Company name Nomura Holdings, Inc. Total Shareholder Holding Period *2 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Date of incorporation December 25, 1925 Return (TSR*1) Nomura Holdings 73.1% 102.6% 94.6% 65.0% 76.0% Head office 1-9-1, Nihonbashi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8645, Japan Paid-in capital ¥594,493 million TOPIX 89.2% 102.3% 118.5% 112.5% 101.8% Strategies for Value Creation 005 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Group employees 26,629 *1 Ratio obtained by dividing investment amount (stock price) by return (dividend and capital gains). Common stock issued 3,493,562,601 shares Calculated based on Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure of Corporate Affairs *2 Figures based on the last price of March 31, 2015 Number of shareholders 349,668 (Unit shareholders:326,975) The common shares of Nomura Holdings, Inc. are listed on the Tokyo, Nagoya, and Singapore stock exchanges. Credit Ratings Nomura Securities Nomura Holdings The shares are also listed on the NYSE in the form of (As of June 30, 2020) Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term Listing American Depositary Shares (ADSs) evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). Each ADS represents one share of common stock. R&I A+ a-1 A+ a-1 8604 Securities code (Tokyo Stock Exchange), NMR (New York Stock Exchange) JCR AAAAStrengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Moody's A3 P-2 Baa1 Transfer agent and registrar Corporate Agency Department Depositary for American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) The Bank of New York Mellon Standard & Poor's AA-2 BBB+ A-2 Date of record for dividend September 30, March 31 payments Fitch Ratings AF1 AF1 Major shareholders (Top 10)*1 Share Information Number of Owenership (As of March 31, 2020) Name of shareholder shares owned (%)*2 (thousands)*2 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 228,152 7.5% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 163,096 5.4% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 70,680 2.3% Corporate Information / Data 079 Corporate Information / Data 079 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 53,546 1.8% Northern Trust Co. (AVFC) Re Silchester International 51,872 1.7% Basic Information in the Report Investors International Value Equity Trust Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 50,758 1.7% Period covered April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (Some content may be outside this time frame.) State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 49,110 1.6% Northern Trust Co. (AVFC) Re U.S. Tax Exempted Reporting cycle Once a year 39,176 1.3% Pension Funds Previous August 2019 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 36,260 1.2% SSBTC Client Omnibus Account 34,172 1.1% Current August 2020 *1The company has 454,625 thousand shares of treasury stock as of March 31, 2020 which is not included in the major shareholders list above. Entities covered Nomura Holdings, Inc. and its major subsidiaries and affiliates *2 Figures for Number of Shares Owned are rounded down to the nearest thousand and figures for https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/group/ Percentage of Shares Owned are calculated excluding treasury stock. Numerical data are presented alongside information on the scope of companies covered. Individuals and others Financial institutions (including treasury stock) Reference guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) (including Financial instruments firms) Please access the following URL on our corporate website for 40.6% our GRI Guidelines Index. 25.6% https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/gri/index.html Component ratio International Integrated Reporting Frameworks recommended of shareholders Other legal entities by the International Integrated Reporting Council and the World (unit share base) 4.2% Intellectual Capital Initiative Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation of Japan's Ministry Foreign legal entities of Economy, Trade, and Industry Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 Version) of Japan's 29.6% Ministry of the Environment 091 092 Independent Assurance About Nomura 001 Strategies for Value Creation 005 Translation The fo llow in g is an En glis h tr ans la tio n of an i nde pe nd en t as s ura nc e r epo rt pre pare d in J ap anes e a nd is f or infor m atio n an d ref ere nc e pur pos es onl y. In th e ev ent o f a d is c repa nc y betw ee n th e J a pa nes e a nd En glis h v ers ions , th e J a pan es e v ers io n wi ll prev ai l. Independent Assurance Report J uly 15, 20 20 TO : Mr. K ent aro O k uda Pres ide nt an d G ro up CEO Nom ura H old in gs , Inc . Strengths Supporting Value Creation 041 Kenj i Saw a mi Eng age m ent P art ner Erns t & You ng S hi nNih on LLC Tok y o,J apan Nomura Report 2020 We, Erns t & Yo un g S hinN iho n LLC, hav e b ee n c o mm is s ione d by N om ura H ol din gs , I nc . (h erea fter th e “Com pany ”) a nd h as c arried out a li mite d as s ura nc e e nga ge me nt o n the K ey Sus tai na bil ity Perfor ma nc e Indic a tors (h erea fter th e In dic at ors ) of t he C o mpa ny a nd i ts m ajor s ubs id iar ies for th e y ear e nd ed M arc h 3 1, Inquiries 202 0 as i nc lu ded in “ ESG Dat a ” ( her eaft er t he “ R epor t” ). The sc op e of ou r as s ura nc e pr oc ed ures was l im ite d Nomura Holdings, Inc. to th e I ndic a tors mark e d wit h th e s y mb ol “ ” in th e Re port. １． The Company's Responsibilities Investor Relations Tel: +81 (3) 5255-1000 (Main switchboard) The Company is responsible for preparing the Indicators in accordance with the Company’s own criteria, that it determined ESG Department Tel: +81 (3) 5255-1000 (Main switchboard) with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations and other regulations as presented in “Citizenship－ESG Data－ Corporate Information / Data 079 Standards for Calculation” (http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/) . e-mail csr@jp.nomura.com Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are estimated using emissions factors, which are subject to scientific and estimation uncertainties given different instruments for measuring GHG emissions may vary in characteristics, in terms of functions and assumed parameters. ２． Our Independence and Quality Control We have met the independence requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is based on the fundamental principles of integrity, objectiveness, professional competence and due care, confidentiality, and professional behavior In addition, we maintain a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures for compliance with ethical rules, professional standards, and applicable laws and regulations in accordance with the International Standard on Quality Control 1 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. ３ ． Our respon sibi litie s Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Indicators included in the Report based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements: Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE 3000”) (Revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board and, with respect to GHG emissions, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The procedures, which we have performed according to our professional judgment, include inquiries, document inspection, analytical procedures, reconciliation between source documents and Indicators in the Report, and the following: • Making inquiries regarding the Company’s own criteria that it determined with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations and other regulations, and evaluating the appropriateness thereof; • Inspecting relevant documents with regard to the design of the Company’s internal controls related to the Indicators, and inquiring of personnel responsible thereof at th e Co mp any a nd m ajor s u bs id iary ’s 2 s ites ; • Performing analytical procedures concerning the Indicators at t he C om pany an d m aj or s ubs i diary ’s 2 s it es ; • Testing, on a sample basis, underlying source information and conducting relevant re-calculations at the Co m pany an d maj or s u bs idi ary ’s 2 s ites . The pr oc ed ures perf or med i n a li mit ed as s ur anc e e nga g em ent ar e m ore li mit ed i n na ture , t im in g an d ex tent th an a re as on abl e as s ur anc e en gag e me nt. As a r es ult, th e lev el of as s ura nc e obt ai ned i n a l im ite d as s uranc e en ga ge me nt is low er tha n w ou ld hav e bee n o bt ain ed if we h ad perf orm ed a r eas o nab le as s uranc e e nga ge me nt. ４ ． Conclusio n Bas ed on th e pr oc ed ures perf orm ed a nd ev id enc e obt ai ne d , no thi ng has c o me to o ur a tte nti on tha t c aus es us to b eli ev e th at t he I nd ic ators i nc lud ed in t he R ep o rt hav e not be en me as ure d a nd r ep orte d in ac c ordanc e wit h the Co m pany ’s ow n c rit eria t hat it det erm ine d w ith c ons i der ati on of J apa nes e env iro nm ent al r eg ul ati ons a nd oth er re gu lat io ns . 093
