Autodesk FY2020 Sustainability Report Letter from our President and CEO I am equally humbled by the magnitude of opportunity to make our entire business climate neutral beginning in that lies ahead as we and our customers future-proof fiscal year 2021. We are equally committed to building our businesses to align growth with positive impact, as a resilient, diverse, and equitable culture at all levels articulated by the UN Sustainable Development Goals. of the organization. To that end, I’m proud that every Our success this decade will be measured by our Autodesk employee is now an owner of the company customers’ ability to deliver sustainable outcomes. through stock grants deployed this spring. And finally, we have committed to invest 1% of our annual operating Our platform must automate and power decisions with margin in Autodesk Foundation, to support entrepreneurs insights and intelligence that catalyze industry innovation and innovators who are at the forefront of creating and deliver positive outcomes in three key areas. positive impact. First, our technology needs to help customers design The coming decade demands the very best of each of us. and make products, buildings, and entire cities that foster We need courage to confront and accept the unprecedented healthy, resilient communities. We envision a future that challenges we face. We need new levels of conviction, is equitable, safe, and free from preventable illness and and the confidence to believe that an economically injury. We will continue to focus on technologies such as inclusive, socially just, and environmentally restorative Construction IQ, which uses machine learning to make future is possible. To achieve this, we’ll need to collaborate construction sites safer and healthier for workers, By all measures, the next decade will be pivotal. The in ways previously unimaginable across sectors, helping to prevent the hundreds of thousands of challenges we face—a global pandemic, a warming climate, industries, and disciplines. construction injuries that occur annually. rising inequality, and political instability—will continue to Please join us in working to shape a thriving future for test the resilience of businesses, countries, ecosystems, Second, we must help designers and engineers understand billions of people. This is our decade to deliver—to make and our global community. the impact of everyday decisions about materials and the impossible inevitable. energy use in the context of other goals. Technologies While few of us predicted that the global economy would such as generative design and the Embodied Carbon Sincerely, be shut down by the novel coronavirus, it’s easy to argue in Construction Calculator (EC3) enable customers to we could have, and perhaps should have, seen this coming use resources more efficiently and productively, thereby and been more prepared. This pandemic has been a saving money and reducing carbon emissions. wake-up call to leaders around the globe. Third, we have to continue delivering technology As we look ahead to the next decade, it is more clear than Andrew Anagnost that helps people adapt, grow, and prosper alongside ever that we need to design for resilience—in business, President and Chief Executive Officer increasing levels of automation. Our cloud tools must infrastructure, manufacturing processes, and political Autodesk support and enable human creativity, not replace it, in systems. It is equally important that we sharpen our an increasingly remote workforce. Autodesk customer collective ability to forecast business, market, and societal The Industrial Sewing and Innovation Center (ISAIC) in drivers, especially the unexpected ways these forces amplify and accelerate one another. Detroit, Michigan, is focused on upskilling workers in Table of contents the era of automation—just one example among many As the CEO of Autodesk, I am grateful for the work we’ve that illustrates how Autodesk tools are accelerating a Customers 4 done this past decade to prepare our business for today’s better future. Climate change 8 realities—moving to the cloud years ago, shifting most With these focus areas top of mind, we continue to lead Employees 10 of our business to be recurring, and delivering products by example within our own business. Ten years ago we Philanthropy 12 and platforms that enable distributed workforces set one of industry’s first science-based greenhouse gas to collaborate on data-driven decisions that create Ethics 14 emissions reduction targets. We’re proud to announce we positive impact. achieved that goal and set an even more ambitious target UNGC index 15 2 Highlights from fiscal year 2020 We have a tremendous opportunity to help our customers and employees imagine, design, and make a better world. Our biggest opportunity to improve our shared future is through the designers who use our software. We also work hard to improve the direct impact of our operations. This report provides a high-level view of our progress in sustainability over the past several years. To learn more about our commitment to sustainability and the ways we’re working to accelerate a thriving future, visit our website. See our Investors website for information about Autodesk's financial performance. EC3 1% 100% the Embodied Carbon in target of operating margin of office and data Construction Calculator, to contribute to the Autodesk® center electricity from integrated with Autodesk® Foundation for the next renewable sources BIM 360® software three years Achieved 43% Target set our fiscal year 2020 sciencereduction in GHG emissions to achieve climate neutral based GHG emissions reduction footprint compared to fiscal GHG emissions for Scopes target (baseline 2009) year 2009 1, 2, and 3 annually, beginning fiscal year 2021 $1.31 million+ $9.70 million $39.9 million in employee volunteering time in company and Autodesk in Autodesk product donations (29,700+ hours) Foundation cash contributions Performance data included in this report is based on the Autodesk fiscal year when noted, and the calendar year otherwise. The Autodesk 2020 fiscal year ran from February 1, 2019, through January 31, 2020. Performance data covers Autodesk’s global operations, unless otherwise stated. In some cases, segments in tables do not add up to the total due to rounding. Dashes indicate where data was unavailable. 3 Customers Our customers have a broad and global reach. They Global demographic trends compound the urgency include a wide range of companies, design firms, of reducing these impacts. As the global population Education academic institutions, nonprofits, students, and continues to urbanize over the next 30 years, the entrepreneurs in the architecture, engineering, construction industry will need to build an average of We offer flexible, self-paced online learning construction, product design, and manufacturing fields. 13,000 buildings every day.8 Indeed, 60% of urban opportunities as well as in-person experiences to Pressure on the built environment and productionareas anticipated to exist in 2030 have yet to be help people get more out of Autodesk tools and to consumption systems will grow as global population built.9 Industry demand will continue to rise for teach sustainable design concepts to those already increases. This must be balanced with the urgent need solutions that enable architects, engineers, and practicing or considering a career in architecture, to tackle climate change during the critical 2020s, which contractors to support this rapid growth engineering, design, or related fields. will set the trajectory for decades to come. Autodesk more sustainably by improving energy and Autodesk Knowledge Network, a repository of technology helps our customers to design and make better materials productivity while managing embodied more than a million contributions from Autodesk, things with less overall negative impact on the world. carbon thoughtfully. its community, and its partners, includes more Architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC): This past year, the Autodesk® Revit® 2020.1 update than 250 videos and articles related to The buildings sector represents 19% of GHG emissions included enhanced systems analysis workflows for sustainable design. globally1 and 39% of energyand process-related mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (MEP) engineers. Autodesk® Design Academy offers free projects, emissions: 28% from operational energy consumption This update supports HVAC systems analysis enabling courses, webinars, and more for educators and and 11% from the production of building materials.2 earlier, better, and more integrated collaboration design students at all levels. During fiscal year between architects and engineers for better building 2020, the site received more than 1 million new Reducing operational energy consumption in new and energy performance. and returning visitors. existing buildings remains a high priority for Autodesk and our customers. Tackling the embodied GHG emissions Our customers are increasingly working to make Autodesk® Education Community enables students, of building materials also offers great potential for net-zero energy buildings, reduce embodied carbon, faculty, and educational institutions to access near-term improvement, since those materials will reduce construction waste, and develop smart and Autodesk’s professional-grade software portfolio account for about half of the climate impacts of sustainable cities. A study of Autodesk AEC customers at no charge.11 In fiscal year 2020, students and projected new building construction between 2020 and showed that approximately 47% of those customers educators accessed millions of educational 2050.3 Reducing the impacts of building construction is have commitments to implementing sustainable licenses for Autodesk software. essential, since that industry consumes more than half practices.10 Providing automation tools to support of all extracted raw materials4 and generates over 36% these objectives affordably and at scale is central to Autodesk University, a learning community for of the waste stream in the developed West.5 Up to 30% our sustainability efforts. The Autodesk® Architecture, design and engineering professionals from around of construction activity on-site is related to rework,6 Engineering & Construction Collection and Autodesk the globe, offers conference experiences and free and as much as 30% of construction material is wasted Construction Cloud™ help enable customers to access to online learning resources year-round. In on-site,7 costing time, money, and natural resources. achieve these outcomes. fiscal year 2020, the Autodesk University website receieved nearly 2.2 million visits, and users 1. https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ipcc_wg3_ar5_chapter9.pdf, Chapter 9: Buildings. watched more than 61,000 hours of instructional 2 https://www.worldgbc.org/news-media/2019-global-status-report-buildings-and-construction video, as well as 26,000 hours on additional 3. https://www.worldgbc.org/sites/default/files/WorldGBC_Bringing_Embodied_Carbon_Upfront.pdf distribution channels such as YouTube. 4. http://www.mdpi.com/2075-5309/4/3/266/pdf 5. https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php/Waste_statistics#Waste_generation_excluding_major_mineral_wastes Autodesk Certification Program provides educational 6. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/291000555_Cost_Management_in_Construction_Projects_Rework_and_Its_Effects resources and product certification for professional 7. https://www.sciencedirect.com/book/9780123814753/waste, Chapter 15: Construction Waste. users and student worldwide, both instructor-led 8. According to internal research with market research firm Statista. 9. https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/handle/10986/25219 and self-paced. More than 700,000 certifications 10. Autodesk engaged Business Advantage, a market research consulting firm, to conduct a study of 1400 Autodesk customers to understand their were issued in fiscal year 2020. commitments to sustainability. The study, completed in 2019, determined a “commitment to sustainability” if the customer committed explicitly to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and/or showed evidence of a commitment to sustainability on their corporate website. 11. Free Autodesk software and/or cloud-based services are subject to acceptance of and compliance with the terms and conditions of the software license agreement or terms of service that accompany such software or cloud-based services. Software and cloud-based services subject to an Educational license may be used solely for Educational Purposes. 4 Working to tackle the housing crisis with off-site construction technology United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Autodesk is supporting Factory OS, a volumetric modular construction startup, to help address the affordable housing crisis in the San Francisco Bay Area and beyond. Factory_OS is revolutionizing home construction by The United Nations Sustainable Development building multifamily homes more affordably and sustainably in a massive off-site facility, while also creating Goals provide an important framework to drive jobs. This innovative approach has considerable potential to displace conventional construction practices social, environmental, and economic progress for affordable multi-unit residential properties in U.S. urban centers. Autodesk expanded its relationship with globally. Although Autodesk addresses all 17 Factory_OS with an investment in 2019 that supported the build-out of the Factory Floor Learning Center, a goals to varying degrees, we focus particularly space dedicated to education and research on industrialized construction and changes needed in public on the following goals to maximize our positive policy to optimize its benefits. Learn more. impact with our customers and through our products, operations, and philanthropic activities. Addressing embodied carbon in buildings The embodied carbon of the materials used in buildings—from resource extraction, refining, manufacturing, and logistics—accounts for 11% of global GHG emissions each year. To help customers reduce these impacts, during 2019 Autodesk served as a lead sponsor of the Embodied Carbon in Construction Calculator (EC3), incubated at the Carbon Leadership Forum with input from nearly 50 industry partners, including leading roles by C Change Labs and Skanska. EC3 takes data from Environmental Product Declarations to align, assess, and present the embodied carbon impacts in a way that’s easy to use and act upon during material specification and procurement. What would have taken days by experts can now be done in minutes by general practitioners. We’ve enabled EC3’s integration with BIM 360® (part of Autodesk Construction Cloud™) at no additional cost. AEC professionals can transfer project material quantity data directly from BIM 360 to EC3 with the push Customer examples of a button. This turns the 3D building model into an interactive embodied carbon heat map (see graphic), A green renovation of a enabling users to visualize the impacts of materials selection and make carbon-smart choices. Learn more. midcentury monstrosity in Champagne, France Learn more How BLOX doubled efficiency and quality with lean design and construction data Learn more Dekker/Perich/Sabatini saves a client $2.5 million with net-zero building solutions Learn more 5 Product design and manufacturing (D&M): Consumer Using data science to reduce construction risk and waste demand for more environmentally friendly products, as well as new environmental regulations, pushes In 2019, Autodesk launched the Construction IQ Preview, a software program that uses machine learning to manufacturers to commit to sustainable and circular improve construction practices and outcomes. Our algorithms and models enhance design reviews, helping outcomes in their work. In a 2018 survey of senior to reduce rework and waste, detect high-risk defects like water penetration risk early, and analyze unsafe executives from large corporations around the world, behaviors and safety hazards in construction, which is consistently one of the most hazardous industry 30% said their company had a circular economy sectors. By analyzing data such as issues, observations, checklists, subcontractor assignments, and strategy, and over three-quarters plan on adopting historical data from across Autodesk’s construction management platform, Construction IQ identifies targets to make their products, processes, or business high-risk issues during design reviews and construction and finds patterns of unsafe behavior that increase models more circular in the coming five years.12 risk for fatal injuries on a jobsite. The algorithms were trained using more than 150 million data points gleaned from nearly 30,000 real projects. In March 2020, based on this innovation, Autodesk was rated #5 A study of Autodesk’s design and manufacturing on Fast Company’s list of the most innovative data science companies of 2020. customers showed that approximately 52% have commitments to implementing sustainable practices.13 To address sustainability challenges and meet their commitments, Autodesk customers are implementing Autodesk® AutoCAD®, CAMductTM, CFD, Civil 3D®, Formit®, FormIt® Pro, , InfraWorks®, Insight, Navisworks®, ReCapTM, smarter and more efficient design and manufacturing Revit®, Robot Structural Analysis Professional, and Autodesk Construction Cloud software approaches, increasing materials productivity, Building design and • Design high-performance buildings developing more circular business models, reducing engineering • Conduct energy analysis from concept to complex modeling energy use, and enhancing supply chain responsibility. • Optimize HVAC system design To better understand how these trends apply to our • Use clash detection during design to reduce waste in construction customers, in 2019 Autodesk and IDEO led a workshop • Reduce embodied carbon through design and material specification with approximately 20 designers, manufacturers, and • Plan for smart decommissioning and materials recovery consultants to explore what process changes and tools • Improve structural material efficiency could better support sustainable product design. Infrastructure • Plan and design infrastructure for resilience and adaptation to climate change • Visualize projects in the context of the surrounding built and natural conditions • Perform simulations to assess environmental and social impacts of designs • Conduct traffic flow and mobility impact studies • Optimize inland and coastal flooding projects • Manage bioretention and green stormwater infrastructure Construction • Reduce embodied carbon through low-carbon material procurement • Support lean production planning and execution to reduce waste and streamline schedule • Improve site safety • Modularize design and maximize prefabrication • Minimize scrap in fabrication • Increase precision to maximize built performance The “A.I. Chair,” the first chair created in partnership between humans and artificial intelligence, resulted from a conversation between Philippe Starck, Kartell, and Autodesk. Launched in 2019 and made using 100% recycled material, it was developed using generative design, a form of artificial intelligence that uses the power of the 12. Going Circular: How Global Business is Embracing the Circular Economy. https://d.newsweek.com/en/file/459592/newsweek-vantage-going-circular.pdf cloud to create better outcomes for products, buildings, infrastructure, 13. Autodesk engaged Business Advantage, a market research consulting firm, to conduct a study of 1400 Autodesk customers to understand their systems, and experiences. This technology offers great potential for commitments to sustainability. The study, completed in 2019, determined a “commitment to sustainability” if the customer committed explicitly sustainable design through optimization (and reduction) of materials to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and/or showed evidence of a commitment to sustainability on their corporate website. use, energy consumption, and other dimensions. 6 Insights that emerged from the workshop include the importance of engaging more stakeholders from across the business early in the design process, quantifying the return on investment of possible design changes, shifting Customer examples from transactional toward service-based business models, and focusing on repairability. We’ll use these insights as we develop the next generation of tools and features to support sustainable design across our products. The manufacturing process itself also presents opportunities. Time, money, energy, and materials are often wasted due to poor design and inefficient production cycles, creating bottlenecks, machine idling, and slow product runs. Manufacturers can reduce energy use by up to 25% and increase productivity through smart and connected manufacturing techniques.14 This past year, Autodesk® Fusion 360® software was enhanced with generative design for 2.5-axis manufacturing, cost estimating, and manufacturing extensions to help accelerate design decisions and improve the quality of production processes, which ultimately leads to less material waste and scrap. Utilizing automation to integrate design and manufacturing processes plays an essential role and helps designers Autodesk collaborates with Volkswagen Group on and engineers achieve productivity boosts and deliver more sustainable products. The Autodesk® Product Design generative design in electric concept vehicle & Manufacturing Collection and our cloud platform help customers deliver on these objectives. Learn more Autodesk® CFD, Factory Design Utilities, Fusion 360®, Fusion Lifecycle, Inventor®, Moldflow®, Netfabb®, PowerMill®, and TruNest software Material efficiency and • Improve materials efficiency, create lighter products, and reduce waste with generative circularity design and composites • Make greener materials choices • Conduct simulations to test and design more durable products • Nest pieces to optimize flat sheet cutting and reduce waste • Pack products and use support material efficiently to reduce waste in additive manufacturing • Improve print accuracy and success rate to decrease waste in additive manufacturing • Minimize waste by repairing parts with hybrid manufacturing Energy efficiency and • Design and create energy-efficient electronics and machines Recycling fly ash turns a lump of coal into smart manufacturing • Reduce energy use and waste in production by optimizing machine use and sustainable, durable tiles Learn more cooling cycles • Analyze and optimize factory building energy consumption Responsible supply chain • Audit suppliers to ensure product quality and compliance • Increase quality through failure analysis and reports • Comply with regulations with material and supplier declaration Learn more about how our customers are using Autodesk technology to make a better world. How Honda ditched conventional thinking to design a lighter crankshaft Learn more 14. McKinsey Global Institute, The Internet of Things: Mapping the Value Beyond the Hype. 7 Climate change Autodesk takes a broad approach to addressing the future by designing high-performance buildings, recovery strategies, and materials innovation. challenges and opportunities of climate change and resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient See Carbon footprint. driving progress for our company and customers. We transportation and products. To continue to grow • Metrics and targets: We set aggressive targets based focus on four key areas. this market, we provide software and support to early on climate science to drive progress (see below) and stage entrepreneurs and startup companies who are measure and report performance across the value • Governance: With oversight from our CEO, the designing clean technologies. We lead by example by chain (see Carbon footprint). Sustainability & Foundation team has direct infusing sustainability in our own business responsibility for setting and implementing The following commitments and targets operations. See Customers and Philanthropy. our corporate sustainability strategy, including demonstrate our broad and bold approach in this our climate change strategy. • Risk management: Internally, we are investing in area. Our Environmental Policy underpins the best practices to mitigate our GHG emissions and • Strategy: To drive continued progress and meet company’s efforts in our own operations and with climate change risk through investments in renewable growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, our products and services. energy, energy efficiency, disaster management and education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low-carbon COMMITMENTS • Continue to report climate change information in mainstream financial reports (see Autodesk FY2020 Annual Report). • Continue to conduct responsible corporate engagement in climate change policy (see Public policy). • Continue to use an internal price on carbon. • Continue to integrate sustainable design capabilities into our products and services (see Customers). TARGETS PROGRESS IN FY2020 We committed to following our Corporate Finance Approach to ClimateStabilizing Targets (C-FACT) methodology through 2020, to reduce GHG emissions in line with an 85% absolute decrease by 2050. Achieved. Compared to our fiscal year 2009 baseline, Reduce carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions across our value we decreased absolute GHG emissions by 43% through chain by 43% by fiscal year 2020, compared to fiscal year 2009. efficiency, renewable energy, and Gold Standard Achieve climate neutral GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2, and 3 annually, certified carbon offset projects with our customers. beginning fiscal year 2021. Power our facilities and cloud services with 100% renewable energy by Achieved. fiscal year 2021. Remove commodity-driven deforestation from Autodesk’s supply In progress. chain by 2020. Reduce short-lived climate pollutant emissions. In progress. 8 (Baseline) Carbon footprint Performance data FY2009 FY2019 FY2020 Commitments and targets: During fiscal year 2020, Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions [metric tons CO2e] (market-based) 301,000 178,000 172,000 our absolute GHG emissions across our value chain C-FACT carbon intensity ratio [metric tons CO2e/relative contribution to world GDP] 9.12 6.28 4.70 decreased by 3% compared with the prior year. Since GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/million US$ revenue] 130 69.2 52.5 fiscal year 2009 (our baseline), we have decreased GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/employee] 38.7 18.5 17.0 absolute GHG emissions by 43%, achieving our goal. GHG emissions intensity [metric tons CO2e/1,000 active square feet] 167 81.2 75.0 Moving forward, our target is to achieve climate neutral GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2, and 3 annually, Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned/controlled operations [metric tons CO2e] 4,250 2,650 3,190 beginning fiscal year 2021. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricity, steam, heating, 18,100 72 101 and cooling (including renewables)17 [metric tons CO2e] Business travel: We seek to reduce the GHG emissions Scope 3: Upstream [metric tons CO2e] 278,000 175,000 169,000 of business travel through virtual meetings, partner Purchased goods and services 18 132,000 105,000 105,000 education, and a green rating system for hotels, and by incorporating sustainability expectations into Capital goods18, 19 25,000 23,200 25,300 our standard meeting contracts.15 Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) 4,180 3,850 4,330 Transportation and distribution 18 19,400 7,940 5,250 Facilities: We assess our facilities’ environmental operating practices related to energy use and other Waste generated in operations 1,080 684 411 impact areas and create customized sustainability Business travel18 77,300 21,600 14,200 improvement plans. We also use our operations as Employee commuting 19,000 13,100 14,400 test cases to help refine the functionality of our Leased assets18 249 20.9 67.2 solutions, improve our environmental performance, Scope 3: Downstream [metric tons CO2e] 1,000 9.18 3.98 and showcase how customers can use our solutions Transportation and distribution 898 7.18 3.09 to meet their sustainability objectives.15 End-of-life treatment of sold products 104 2.00 0.893 Carbon-neutral cloud: In addition to using 100% Energy use [MWh] 53,200 57,800 58,900 renewable energy for our cloud services, we strive Direct energy use 11,700 1,770 2,310 to minimize data center energy use through server Indirect energy use 41,500 56,000 56,600 virtualization, selection of efficient equipment that meets respected industry standards, and by Renewable energy [as a percent of total indirect energy use] 4.91% 99.1% 98.1% streamlining our code. These efforts help us provide Carbon offset from renewable energy [metric tons CO2e] 752 23,500 22,000 customers a faster, more reliable experience, with Carbon offset from other projects [metric tons CO2e]20 0 71,300 69,000 reduced environmental impacts.15 Carbon offsets [as a percent of total GHG emissions] 0.271% 53.3% 34.6% Major conferences: Autodesk University and One Team LEED certifications21 2 15 15 Conference (our annual channel partner and sales Buildings with LEED certification [as a percent of total active square footage] 1% 31% 27% summit) are both carbon neutral, including the events Waste generation [metric tons]22 -9,150 6,570 and attendee travel.16 We achieve this by enhancing Landfill diversion rate [percent] -43% 53% efficiency, providing virtual attendance options, Environmental violations and fines [US$] 0/$0 0/$0 0/$0 reducing waste, and purchasing carbon offsets.15 15. Greenhouse gas emissions from business travel are included in Scope 3: “Business travel.” Emissions from facilities are included in Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3: “Waste generated in operations” and “Leased assets.” Emissions from data centers are included in Scope 2 (related to purchased electricity) and Scope 3: “Purchased goods and services.” Emissions from major conferences are included in Scope 3: “Purchased goods and services.” 16. Autodesk University has been carbon neutral since fiscal year 2016; One Team Conference since fiscal year 2017. 17. Data for fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2020 are calculated using the market-based accounting method, which takes into account purchased renewable energy and carbon offsets. Data for fiscal year 2009 uses a locationbased methodology to calculate GHG emissions. 18. These data are calculated based on the economic input-output lifecycle assessment model, using industry-specific emissions factors in conjunction with Autodesk’s spend. 19. Data for “capital goods” were calculated based on annual spend. 20. Gold Standard certified carbon offsets were applied to Scope 3 business travel and major conferences. 21. LEED certifications as of January 31, 2020, include facilities in Beijing, China; Mumbai, India; Tel Aviv, Israel; Milan, Italy; Singapore; Farnborough, United Kingdom; and the following in the United States: San Francisco, California; San Rafael, California; Boston, Massachusetts. 22. Includes waste from major conferences and facilities. Data are extrapolated to our full real estate portfolio based on sites where data are available. 9 Employees Diversity and belonging sustainability-related benefits, and company matching Outside the classroom, Autodesk employees can use funds that are available when they give their volunteer numerous tools to enhance their learning, such as We’re building a place where people can bring their time and money to nonprofits. online educational and professional development authentic selves to achieve personal and professional materials and a global tuition reimbursement program. success. This requires a commitment to diversity and Training and development belonging—principles that we prioritize. As a company Autodesk offers extensive professional and technical Health and safety driving change, we work in countries around the development opportunities to managers, individuals, At Autodesk, we work to maintain a strong health and world and in many languages. We believe diversity and teams. To inform our training, we perform safety culture. We help our employees work safely and encompasses so much more than gender, race, comprehensive analysis throughout the business to productively through participation in programs that ethnicity, or sexual orientation. It also includes identify skills gaps. This is linked to Autodesk’s Culture mitigate occupational safety risks in our workplaces. valuing backgrounds, perspectives, and beliefs Code framework for managers and employees, which All company sites have emergency response plans, that are different from our own. In 2019, we: defines what we expect of individuals at various levels and many also have emergency response teams to • Bolstered our seven Employee Resource Groups, throughout the organization. help keep our employees safe. voluntary, employee-led groups of individuals As a part of our Win With Sustainability program, Our commitment to wellness begins with helping who join together based on common backgrounds we provide employees in our sales organization with employees and their families stay fit and minimize or dimensions of diversity such as gender, race, onboarding training about sustainability workflows in health concerns. Many of our facilities offer gyms, or ethnicity, to foster and enable a diverse, Autodesk products as well as the company’s corporate and our wellness campaign includes events such as inclusive workplace. sustainability efforts. This training is designed to help softball, basketball, and soccer tournaments. • Furthered investment in the Autodesk Mentorship customers succeed in their sustainability goals. Program, which breaks down the barriers of meeting fellow colleagues from around the world and helps colleagues learn from each other. • Engaged in new strategic partnerships with Hispanic Serving Institutions and Historically Black Colleges and Universities to help develop the next generation of diverse talent. • Established partnerships with the following organizations to support the growth and diversity of the broader technology ecosystem: AfroTech, /dev/ color, PowerToFly, SMASH Rising, Upwardly Global, and Visual Effects Society. Learn more. Employee impact Whether they’re developing our latest sustainable design tools, volunteering in local communities, or helping nonprofits create change, our employees bring our vision of a better world to life and drive our culture of positive impact. We encourage all our employees to In December 2019, five Autodesk employees worked on a pro bono immersion project with Gashora Girls Academy of Science and Technology, a high take advantage of professional development school-level boarding school in Rwanda. For two weeks, the Autodesk team taught day-long workshops to teachers and students related to graphic opportunities in sustainability and social good, pro design, 3D design, website design, learning resources, and Micro:bit. The team also installed Fusion 360 software for the two brand-new computer bono consulting and immersion projects, labs and teaching staff. These employees volunteered about 1,100 hours on the projects (including preparation before the trip), which will positively impact about 4,000 learners in the local community. 10 Performance data FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 We’re building a diverse workforce and Number of employees 23 8,800 8,900 10,200 a culture of belonging to give more Regional breakdown of employees [percent of employees] people the chance to imagine, design, Americas 53.0% 52.0% 54.8% and create a better world. Asia Pacific 23.0% 24.0% 22.9% Europe, Middle East, Africa 23.0% 24.0% 22.3% Total turnover24 [percent of employees] 17.7% 18.5% 13.1% Voluntary turnover24 [percent of employees] 8.40% 9.10% 9.50% Employee engagement25 [percent] 77.0% 79.0% 79.0% Global gender diversity26 [percent female] Board of directors 50.0% 44.0% 50.0% Company officers, executives, and senior management 21.0% 25.8% 32.0% Managers and supervisors 24.0% 39.8% 41.6% All employees 31.0% 32.2% 33.4% U.S. ethnic diversity27 [percent of employees] White 67.0% 66.0% 66.0% All nonwhite 33.0% 34.0% 34.0% Black/African American 2.00% 1.60% 1.70% Hispanic 5.00% 6.20% 6.60% Asian 21.0% 23.8% 23.1% Training budgeted per employee globally, approximate [US$] $1,000 $1,000 $1,000 Incident rates28 Recordable incident rate 0.13 0.16 0.24 Days away, restrictions, and transfers (DART) rate 0.04 0.01 0.05 Fatalities 0 0 0 23. Data are as of the end of the fiscal year noted. 24. Ibid. 25. Represents the percentage of employees who responded favorably to questions that measure different aspects of employee engagement. These data are reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2020 corresponds to calendar year 2019, and so forth. 26. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year, except for the board of directors, which are as of the annual meeting date (typically a few months following the end of the calendar year). In these rows fiscal year 2020 corresponds to calendar year 2019, and so forth. 27. Percentages are as of the end of the calendar year. In these rows fiscal year 2020 corresponds to calendar year 2019, and so forth. Segments for “All nonwhite” do not add up to the subtotal due to nonwhite employees in nonspecified categories (such as American Indian, Native Hawaiian, and others). 28. For consistency, we use U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) definitions to record incident data worldwide. Rates are calculated based on the OSHA standard using 200,000 labor hours, which is equivalent to 100 employees working a full year. Contingent workers are not included in incident rates. Data reflect injuries and illnesses at all sites worldwide, and are reported on a calendar-year basis. Fiscal year 2020 corresponds to calendar year 2019, and so forth. 11 Philanthropy Autodesk Foundation takes an expansive and tens of thousands of dollars for disaster relief and catalytic view of philanthropy that encourages smart resilience-building efforts. Many also volunteered their Measuring impact risk taking and innovative resource allocation in order time to provide direct aid in the months following to create a sustainable, equitable, and prosperous these destructive events. See the Employees section Impact measurement is essential to effective future. We do this through our philanthropic for more information about our volunteering efforts. philanthropy. We’re committed to ensuring our grantmaking and investing, software donations, work is delivering results—and helping to create a Autodesk business units also provide direct funding better world. Download Autodesk Foundation and employee impact programs. for design and engineering programs and projects in impact briefs to learn more about our efforts in The mission of the Autodesk Foundation is to support their respective industries. For example, Autodesk these areas: the design and creation of the most innovative Education is an expansive program that supports solutions to the world’s most pressing challenges, students, teachers, and academic institutions • Low-carbon innovation: How low carbon which include climate change and inequality. We seek worldwide with free access to Autodesk software and innovations can fight the negative impacts of out impact-driven, design-oriented organizations— online learning opportunities.29 Read more about climate change. from social enterprises and startups to accelerators how we’re educating the next generation to be • Resilient communities: How we’re increasing and incubators—and help them scale promising problem solvers and encouraging job readiness in the community resilience through technological solutions. In order to achieve this, we provide Education sidebar in the Customers section. innovation. funding, software, training, and additional related • Future of work: How we’re preparing the support to help each organization have the greatest workforce to thrive in the age of automation. possible impact. In 2019, Autodesk committed to target 1% of annual operating margin for the next three fiscal years in support of the Autodesk Foundation. This commitment will enable us to manage our societal impact long into the future. We focus our philanthropic investments in the following areas where we can have an outsized impact: • Low-carbon innovation (reducing GHG emissions) • Resilient communities (helping climate-vulnerable communities adapt and thrive) • Future of work (initiatives that address inequality in the automation age) Read more about the impact of our grantees and investees on the Foundation website. We match charitable donations and encourage paid volunteer time so that Autodesk employees can support the causes and organizations they care about most. In response to the many natural disasters that occurred in 2019, our employees joined forces to raise 29. Free Autodesk software and/or cloud-based services are subject to acceptance of and compliance with the terms and conditions of the software license agreement or terms of service that accompany such software or cloud-based services. Software and cloud-based services subject to an Educational license may be used solely for Educational Purposes. 12 Performance data FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Company and Foundation cash contributions30 [US$] $6,530,000 $8,460,000 $9,700,000 Company product donations31 [US$] $19,100,000 $26,400,000 $39,900,000 Employee giving [US$] $1,500,000 $1,300,000 $1,440,000 Foundation match of employee giving of time and money32 $1,480,000 $1,240,000 $1,620,000 [US$] (also included in the “Company and Foundation cash contributions” line above) Employee traditional volunteer hours33 22,000 24,100 29,700 Value of traditional volunteer hours33 [US$] $507,000 $555,000 $755,000 Employee pro bono volunteer hours (donated to nonprofits and 4,000 2,610 3,920 impact-related startups) Value of pro bono hours34 [US$] $416,000 $280,000 $550,000 30. Data reflects combined cash giving from Autodesk, Inc., and the Autodesk Foundation. Values updated for FY2018 and FY2019 to reflect changes in calculation methodology. 31. Autodesk calculates its product donations at commercial value. These data do not include the value of products granted to students, faculty, and educational institutions at no cost through the Autodesk Education Community. 32. Values updated for FY2018 and FY2019 to reflect changes in calculation methodology. 33. Autodesk does not track what percentage of traditional volunteer activities take place during company time. Value of traditional volunteer hours aligns with data cited by Taproot Foundation ($25.43 per hour), as indexed by Independent Sector in April 2019. 34. Value of pro bono hours based on hourly rates for various skills cited by Taproot Foundation. In 2019, we made investments in workforce development initiatives that address issues related to inequality in the automation age. These investments complement a focus on climate change, with the goal of helping human beings not only survive—but thrive—through the disruptions brought on by new technology. 13 Ethics Ethics and compliance Privacy and data security less negative impact on the world. We champion public policies that advance the transformation of construction, We strive to maintain an environment that demonstrates The privacy and security of our customers’ data is manufacturing, and production; enable cloud and strong business ethics, and our Code of Business important to Autodesk. Autodesk is committed to data-driven business models; promote sustainability; Conduct (CoBC) outlines our responsibilities to act incorporating the core principles and requirements prepare students and workers for the careers of the ethically, with integrity, and inclusively. All active of the General Data Protection Regulation into its future; and create a diverse and inclusive workplace. Autodesk employees are required to complete annual global privacy and data protection program. Learn Our Corporate Sustainability and Government Affairs training on our CoBC. Our officers, directors, more about privacy and compliance at the Autodesk and Public Policy teams meet regularly to align on contingent workers, and global subsidiaries are Trust Center and Autodesk Privacy Statement. current and future policy activities and opportunities. also required to abide by our CoBC. Suppliers and business partners During fiscal year 2020, we engaged with government Our CoBC includes instructions for reporting possible Our Partner Code of Conduct outlines the standards officials, nonprofit organizations, and other entities violations of Autodesk policies or practices. and practices we require our partners to follow while to advance sustainability principles. For example, Autodesk’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline enables conducting business with or on behalf of Autodesk. Autodesk participated in the UN Climate Change employees and third parties to report suspected It also specifies that business partners must support Conference COP25 in December 2019 in Madrid, violations for investigation and resolution. internationally recognized human rights and comply signed United for The Paris Agreement, and supported We are committed to complying with all applicable with all applicable laws and regulations regarding efforts to expand net zero and carbon pricing policies anticorruption laws and regulations. This includes health and safety in the workplace, the eradication in the Northeast and Western United States as well the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery of human trafficking and slavery, and the elimination as nationally. Act, and any similar local regulations in the areas of child labor. We also require our partners to support Autodesk does not have a political action where we operate. Partners must abide by these fair labor practices. committee and it does not provide corporate funding same standards while conducting business with to candidates for elected office. Learn more about or on behalf of Autodesk. Public policy our public policy engagement and political Autodesk advocates for public policies around the Human rights world that enable people to build and make more with contributions policy. Autodesk promotes and protects human rights wherever it does business. The Autodesk Human Rights Policy describes our commitments in this area, as well as how we promote human rights among our employees, suppliers, business partners, and customers. Autodesk supports and upholds human rights as outlined in the International Bill of Human Rights, which includes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights. We also support the rights described in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. View our Conflict Minerals Policy and Autodesk Limited’s Statement on Countering Slavery and Human Trafficking. 14 United Nations Global Compact index In 2011, Autodesk endorsed the United Nations (UN) UN Global Compact principle Response Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that outlines 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Human rights environment, and anticorruption. This Sustainability Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Suppliers and business partners; Human rights; Autodesk Human Report and the policies and codes we’ve posted the protection of internationally proclaimed human Rights Policy; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct online serve as our Communication on Progress for rights; and fiscal year 2020 and describe how we are integrating Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Suppliers and business partners; Human rights; Autodesk Human these principles into our business. The table to the human rights abuses. Rights Policy; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct right indicates where relevant content can be found. Labor In 2015, Autodesk also endorsed Caring for Climate—an initiative led by the UN Global Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Suppliers and business partners; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; of association and the effective recognition of the Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct Compact, the UN Environment Programme, and right to collective bargaining; the secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change—aimed at advancing the role of Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Suppliers and business partners; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; and compulsory labor; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct business in addressing climate change. Information about Autodesk’s progress against the Caring Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Suppliers and business partners; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; for Climate commitments can be found in Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct the Climate change section and in the company’s Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Employees; Suppliers and business partners; Human rights; CDP submission. respect of employment and occupation. Autodesk Code of Business Conduct; Autodesk Human Rights Policy; Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct Autodesk does not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on a person’s race, color, creed, religion, national origin, citizenship, “We endorse the principles of the age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, mental or physical United Nations Global Compact, which disability, or any other classification protected by law. This protection applies to all Autodesk employees and contingent align with our company values to workers worldwide. We require all managers with U.S. employees operate ethically and responsibly. We to complete harassment training every two years. support collective action to address Environment global challenges, such as climate Principle 7: Businesses should support a Climate change precautionary approach to environmental challenges; change, corruption, and human rights Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Climate change; Autodesk CDP submission; Autodesk endorsement and labor abuses, and we embrace environmental responsibility; and of Caring for Climate our role as a corporate citizen to make Principle 9: encourage the development and Climate change; Autodesk CDP submission; Autodesk endorsement a positive impact in these areas.” diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. of Caring for Climate Anticorruption — Andrew Anagnost President and Chief Executive Officer, Autodesk Principle 10: Businesses should work against Ethics and compliance; Autodesk Code of Business Conduct; corruption in all its forms, including extortion Autodesk Partner Code of Conduct and bribery. www.autodesk.com Autodesk, the Autodesk logo, AutoCAD, BIM 360, CAMduct, Civil 3D, FormIt, Fusion 360, InfraWorks, Inventor, Moldflow, Navisworks, Netfabb, PowerMill, ReCap, and Revit are registered trademarks or trademarks of Autodesk, Inc., and/or its subsidiaries and/or affiliates in the USA and/or other countries. All other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders. Autodesk reserves the right to alter product and services offerings, and specifications and pricing at any time without notice, and is not responsible for typographical or graphical errors that may appear in this document. © 2020 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.
