The LEGO Group Sustainability Progress 2019 A letter from the CEO Encouraging progress made in 2019 At the LEGO Group, children are our role models, This record was made possible by the passion and In 2003, the LEGO Group became the first toy due to their hands-on, minds-on approach to commitment of our colleagues, with more than company to join the United Nations Global learning. This belief is drawn from the LEGO Idea 3,100 volunteering: in the UK classrooms tasking Compact and we remain committed to upholding Paper which forms the foundation for all LEGO kids to build robots and electronic cars, in our its 10 principles. As a company whose mission is brand entities. In 2019 this statement has never global “WeDo Challenges” where children learn to ‘inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow’, been more true as we continued our efforts to STEAM skills, and our annual Play Day, where as I promise, along with my colleagues, to continue promote sustainability, inclusivity, and learning a company, we spend the day building and playing our commitment for a cleaner, safer, and more through play for children across the globe. together. sustainable planet as we reach a new year, and a new decade. I’m proud to say that in 2019 we set a new In the US, we encouraged consumers to “pass on benchmark for engaging children, as we reached play” through the LEGO Replay program and the more than 1.8 million children in our employees’ response was overwhelming and they shipped local communities. This includes 180,000 children more than 50,000 lbs (22,000 kg) of LEGO® bricks. in 26 countries who participated in 500+ events, We released the LEGO® Ideas Treehouse, and designed to help children learn through play, as with 185 botanical elements it’s the set with the well as 240,000 children reached through partner most sustainably sourced elements to date. And donations and 1,420,000 LEGO sets through our we took another step to make our packaging more Build to Give program. sustainable as we began to phase out plastic bags in Niels B. Christiansen LEGO retail stores. CEO of the LEGO Group 2 Contents Encouraging progress made in 2019 2 Introduction to sustainability at the LEGO Group 4 The LEGO Group business model 5 Children 6 Learning through play 6 Promoting kids’ wellbeing 6 Product safety 7 Digital safety 7 Environment 8 Sustainable materials and packaging 8 Zero waste 8 Reducing climate impact 9 People 10 A safe and motivating workplace 10 Human rights 10 Ethics 11 Diversity 12 The LEGO Group sustainability governance 13 Sustainability performance data 14 Accounting policies 16 Limited assurance report of the independent auditor 18 3 Introduction to sustainability at the LEGO Group At the LEGO Group, we are working hard on our in the supply chain, and the health and safety sustainability efforts to ensure a better, cleaner of employees. planet for future generations. Our Planet promise forms a core part of the LEGO Brand Framework The Sustainability Progress Report 2019 is part and we believe that learning through play can of the management review of LEGO A/S’ Annual help the children of today become the problem Report 2019 and constitutes the LEGO Group’s solvers of tomorrow. report on Corporate Social Responsibility and Diversity cf. Sections 99a and 99 b of the The LEGO Group is one of the world’s leading Danish Financial Statements Act. This manufacturers of play materials. Our operareport describes not only the work we do to tions have an overwhelmingly positive impact minimise the impact of our operations, but on children, the environment and people – both also how we make a positive impact for directly and indirectly – but also presents some children, communities, and the risks. Climate and environmental impacts include environment. It outlines our key the use of non-renewable energy, the generation ambitions and targets from the of waste to landfill, and making products and LEGO Group’s sustainability packaging from non-sustainable materials. Social agenda, and our latest impacts include children’s safety in both performance and results. physical and digital play, labor and human rights 4 The LEGO Group business model Suppliers LEGO Group facilities Customers Consumers Our global supply chain proThe LEGO Group has a global Customers include Consumers are individuals who purchase our vides us with the raw materials production footprint with retailers where the LEGO products. Our primary consumers are parents, to produce our products. Supfactories in Denmark, China, Group operates globally as although children are our most important ply chain risks include human Mexico, Hungary and Czech as well as LEGO® stores stakeholders, we know that it is primarily parents rights violations such as working Republic, as well as multiple and partner stores. Risks who purchase LEGO products for their children. hours, child labour and bribery. packaging facilities and include ethical issues such Consumers also include adult fans. Risks include Mitigations include regular warehouses. Risks include as bribery and corruption, product and digital safety, sustainability of products audits in high and medium risk employee safety and a negative as well as the sustainability (single-use plastic) and CO2 emissions. Mitigations countries to ensure compliance impact on climate and the of products (single-use include safety by design, responsible engagement with our Responsible Business environment from CO2 and plastic). Mitigations policies, strict compliance to child advertising principles. Roughly 90% of our waste. Mitigations include safety include ethical business rules such as COPPA (Children’s Online Privacy total CO2 footprint comes from training, targets to reduce CO2 training for leaders and the Protection Act), the 2030 sustainable materials the supply chain so we’re and waste, and investments 2030 sustainable materials ambition and reducing CO2 impact through working with suppliers to in renewables and improving ambition. investments in renewables. reduce this impact. the energy efficiency of our 5 productions. Children Learning through play Promoting children’s wellbeing Everything we do is driven by our desire to Children’s development is deeply important put children first and our belief in the power to the LEGO Group and one of our goals is to of learning through play. Our research shows promote family-friendly workplaces across our that learning through play builds important life supply chain. We understand the critical role skills and is essential to children’s development. parents and caregivers have, especially during The LEGO Group works closely with the LEGO children’s early years, and believe that the impact Foundation and LEGO® Education to champion of workplace policies is vital to nurturing these learning through play, which we believe is where relationships. In 2019 we held a summer camp we can make the most positive impact on society. program in China to help unite non-local workers In 2019, we reached more than 1.8 million with their children who live far away. For the first children in our local communities. This includes time, children of employees from our factory in more than 180,000 children who participated in Jiaxing joined the camp along with children of over 500 events designed to help children learn employees from 14 factories in our supply chain. through play, 240,000 children reached through partner donations, as well as through donating 1,420,000 LEGO sets through the Build to Give program. Our ambition for 2020 is to reach more than two million children globally. 6 Product safety We are committed to creating the safest possible play experiences for children and have a relentless focus on product safety. Throughout our almost 90-year history, children and parents have trusted us to provide safe, high-quality products that meet or exceed even the most rigorous international safety regulations for toys. In 2019, we had our tenth consecutive year of zero product recalls. Digital safety Children of all ages are spending significant time online, often on their own. Digital safety is as important to us as that of our products and we are committed to provide world-class safety-by-design digital experiences that enable children to play and learn online in a secure environment. In 2019 we launched the character Captain Safety, who inspired 660,000 LEGO® Life users to sign the digital Safety Pledge, which introduces the principles of digital safety in an engaging and compelling way. 7 Environment Our Environmental Policy outlines our approach sustainably sourced paper that is to tackling climate change and reducing our made from 100% Forest Stewardship own environmental footprint. We comply Council™ (FSC™C117818) materials. with all relevant legislation, standards and identified requirements. All our production Zero waste sites are certified according to the international environmental standard ISO 14001. It’s our ambition to ensure no waste from any LEGO® factory, office or store globally will be Sustainable materials landfilled by 2025. We are on track to reach this and packaging target as we currently recycle 93% of all waste and 100% of plastic waste from our molding Our ultimate goal is to eliminate the environmental machines. impact of making LEGO® bricks. One step is our journey to make LEGO bricks from sustainable In 2016 we set a very ambitious target in sources by 2030 without compromising quality or partnership with WWF to improve waste safety, a bold ambition that requires creating new efficiency from our own operations by 10% by materials. 80 different types of LEGO elements 2020. In 2019 we improved waste efficiency by are made from sustainable sources, in this case 0.5%. This is the amount of waste generated in the soft polyethylene elements used primarily for our factories compared to the amount of LEGO decoration. In 2019 this represented 2% of the boxes produced. In 2019 we created 18,270 3,600 LEGO elements available for designers. tonnes of waste and to meet our 2020 target we need to reduce the total amount by 3,000 By 2025, we aim to have 100% sustainable tonnes. This will be very challenging and we packaging. In 2019, we began to phase out plastic are revising our processes as well as employing bags in LEGO retail stores and over the coming more waste managers in our attempt to reach year, consumers will receive retail bags made from this goal. 8 Reducing climate impact We continue to be 100% balanced by renewable In 2016 we partnered with WWF to set a target to energy due to the production of onsite solar improve the carbon efficiency of making a LEGO power and investments in offshore wind by our brick by 10% by 2020. This target is calculated by parent company KIRKBI A/S. In 2019 we installed dividing the tons of carbon emitted by the weight 3,570 solar panels on the roof of our factory in of LEGO bricks produced. Carbon efficiency Kladno, Czech Republic, our second facility after decreased in 2019 by 0.1% vs 2018 due to lower the LEGO Campus in Billund, Denmark to be ® than planned production levels. This negatively partially powered by solar energy. In 2019, total impacted energy effectiveness as factories used energy output from investments in renewables the same energy for lighting and cooling/heating, exceeded the 340 GWh of energy used at our but did not produce as many bricks. factories. To meet the 2020 target we will continue to invest in energy efficiency projects across our operations and roll out solar panels at our factories in China and Hungary. In addition we will also invest in green gas supplies as well as purchasing some accredited renewable energy certificates. 9 People A safe and motivating workplace Human rights Employee safety is a top priority and we aim for zero All suppliers to the LEGO Group must comply with our accidents in our factories, stores and offices. Our Responsible Business Principles. These 12 Principles Occupational Health and Safety Policy ensures all activities reinforce our ethical way of working and how we relate are carried out with health and safety in mind. We comply to children, our planet and our colleagues. Their primary with national and international legislation as a minimum purpose is to ensure all workers involved in making requirement. In 2019, the number of injuries was 0.9 per LEGO® products are treated with respect, and that the million working hours, the best result recorded by the environment is protected for future generations. If a LEGO Group. supplier shows non-conformities during a responsible business performance audit, we work in partnership with We strive to ensure that the LEGO Group is a motivating them to identify the root causes and ensure they are workplace for our colleagues and to ensure our progress corrected immediately . Our aim is to create long-term, we score the motivation and satisfaction of all employees. sustainable solutions which benefit everyone. Our score is calculated based on four questions in our annual employee engagement survey ‘the LEGO Pulse’. In In 2019, 69% (41 out of 59) of suppliers audited did 2019 we exceeded our target with a score of 79 points, not have non-conformities that required immediate 15 points ahead of the external benchmark score of correction, an increase from 67% in 2018 but 64. In 2019 our vendor Ennova changed to a new and marginally below our target of 70%. One supplier to stricter external benchmark only reflecting the scores of the LEGO Group was included in a report from China multinational companies, and we are 7 points above this Labor Watch alleging poor working conditions. We take benchmark. The LEGO Group score, falls into Ennova’s such findings very seriously and have worked with the ‘Top in class’ category representing the top quartile, of all supplier and the ICTI Ethical Toy Programme (IETP) to multinational companies measured. conduct a thorough review of conditions at the factory and addressed the issues raised. 10 Ethics Every employee and third party acting on behalf of the LEGO Group anywhere in the world must apply high ethical standards and principles of integrity, honesty and legality in all they do. It is essential that they comply with our LEGO® Code of Ethical Business Conduct (‘Ethics Code’), even when this means losing business or reducing profitability. Our Ethics Code covers numerous issues including anti-bribery and corruption, charitable donations, children’s rights, competition compliance and avoiding conflicts of interest. Employees and third parties must adhere to our Anti-Corruption Policy and must not take part in any form of bribery, including facilitation payments. Where local regulations are stricter than this policy, the local policy takes precedence. As part of our commitment to ethical business conduct, we target 100% attendance on ethical training for employees at director level and above. Accountability for ensuring training and observance of the LEGO Code of Ethics and antibribery requirements is led by our people leaders. 11 Diversity We strive to create a diverse and inclusive composition in the future. By diversity within the workplace that brings together people with Board we mean competencies that represents different skills, characteristics, interests, diversity in the world within both gender, backgrounds and aspirations. In 2019 we launched nationality, religion or sexual orientation. a new learning platform, improved succession planning and introduced new tools to make the In 2020, we plan to appoint another woman to the language in our job adverts gender neutral and our LEGO A/S board which currently comprises six commitment more visible on our online platforms. people. We have set a target for this increase by We strive to improve gender equality and measure 1 January 2021. The board of LEGO System A/S our progress according to the number of women (a subsidiary to LEGO A/S) meets Danish we recruit and promote into manager positions. legislative guidelines for gender balance because In 2019, women represented 43% of positions one out of four general assembly elected board appointed or promoted to manager level and members is female. above. Additionally, women represented 63% of positions appointed or promoted to the Vice President and Senior Vice President positions. In 2019, Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen stepped down from the Board of Directors in LEGO A/S. No further changes were made to date. We continuously work to ensure we have the right set of competencies in place in order to deliver on the LEGO brand mission in the very long term. Our ambition is to develop a more diverse Board 12 Sustainability governance Board of Directors Chair: Thomas Kirk Kristiansen, Chariman of the Board of Directors Approves the sustainability commitments and targets, and monitors that targets are achieved. LEGO A/S Approves the annual sustainability reporting. Audit committee Chair: Søren Thorup Sørsensen, Deputy Chairman of the Board of A board committee appointed by the Board of Directors. Directors LEGO A/S and Monitors the process of setting sustainability targets and reporting. Manages the process for third CEO KIRKBI A/S party approval of non-financial data. Executive Leadership Team (ELT) Chair: Niels B. Christiansen, CEO Sponsors: Loren I. Shuster, CPO and Head of Accountable for sustainability programmes. Corporate Affairs Proposes sustainability commitments and targets to the Board and ensures they are achieved. Carsten Rasmussen, COO Julia Goldin, CMO Compliance board Sustainable materials Environmental Health & Safety Appointed by the ELT Steering Committee (EHS) committee Monitors compliance with legislation that Appointed by the ELT Appointed by the ELT apply to the LEGO Group within sustainability Manages the transition to sustainable materials Ensures compliance with our health, safety and other CSR areas. and monitors the performance of programmes. and environment targets and priorities. Chair: Marjorie Lao, CFO Chair: Carsten Rasmussen, COO, Chair: Carsten Rasmussen, COO Julia Goldin, CMO 13 Sustainability performance data 2015 2016 2017 2018 KPI name Accounting policy Unit of measure 2019 target 2019 result 2020 target result result result result Children Net Promoter Score® 1 Score 71.8 73.0 72.7 72.7 ≥70 72.1 ≥70 Product recalls 2 Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Children reached by Local Community 3 Number n/a n/a n/a 839,120 ≥1,100,000 1,859,601 ≥2,000,000 Engagement activities Environment Waste (t) 4 Ton 16,496 15,625 15,859 18,549 n/a 18,270 n/a Recycled waste 5 Percentage 93 93 94 93 ≥93 93 ≥94 Waste efficiency improvement 6 Percentage n/a 1.6 -2,9 -3.4 ≥0 0.5 6 Energy consumption (GWh) 7 GWh 309 303 313 340 n/a 340 n/a Carbon efficiency improvement 8 Percentage n/a n/a -25.4 11.3 ≥1 -0.1 10 Water consumption 9 1000 M3 528 538 684 683 n/a 712 n/a People Motivation and satisfaction 10 Number 16 16 8 12 ≥10 15 Top in class* Injury rate with absence 11 Rate 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 ≤1.3 0.9 ≥1.2 Females appointed and recruited 12 Percentage 43 44 41 43 ≥40 43 ≥40 Business integrity training 13 Percentage 99 100 89 100 100 100 100 Percentage of suppliers audited 14 Percentage n/a n/a 100 93 100 100 100 Percentage of suppliers with no nonconformities that require immediate 15 Percentage n/a n/a 71 67 ≥70 69 ≥70 correction Employees engaged in Local Community 16 Number n/a n/a n/a 2,408 ≥3,000 3,168 ≥3,300 Engagement activities *in 2020 we will change our benchmark and measure ourselves against comparable businesses. Our ambition is to be top in class and be among the top quartile of our provider Ennova. 14 Secondary sustainability performance data 2019 waste by disposal method and hazardousness (tons) (2018 in parentheses) Disposal method Non-hazardous (t) Hazardous (t) Total (t) 1 2 3 Incineration (0) (20) (20) 444 37 480 Landfill (495) (62) (557) 610 154 764 Recovery (427) (241) (668) 16,917 65 16,982 Recycled (17,091) (213) (17,304) 17,997 273 18,270 Total (18,013) (536) (18,549) Water by site, cubic meters (nearest 1000) 2018 2019 Billund, Denmark 65 64 Jiaxing, China 133 127 Kladno, Czech Republic 53 56 Monterrey, Mexico 261 303 Nyiregyháza, Hungary 171 161 Total 683 712 Energy by type (GWh) 2018 2019 District heating 9.2 8.1 Natural Gas 89.3 79.5 Electricity 241.5 252.7 Total 340.0 340.3 15 Accounting policies The LEGO Group is a privately held, family-owned company with 3. Children reached by Local Community Engagement (LCE) headquarters in Billund, Denmark, and main offices in Enfield, USA, activities London, UK, Shanghai, China, and Singapore. Founded in 1932 by Ole Kirk Kristiansen, and based on the iconic LEGO® brick, it is one of the Children are reached through the following activities: 1) DIRECT: world’s leading manufacturers of play materials. Participation in an LCE or employee volunteer hosted activity. 2) INDIRECT VIA PRODUCT DONATION: 1 Play box = 20 children and Data have been calculated by consolidating data for the parent 1 product box = 1 child (minifigures and small polybags excluded). 3) company (LEGO A/S) with data from all subsidiaries. LEGO A/S is INDIRECT VIA FINANCIAL DONATION: Number of children reached owned by KIRKBI A/S (75%) and the LEGO Foundation (25%). LEGO is provided by the cooperation partner and requires the submission A/S consists of several subsidiaries that together constitute the LEGO of documentation detailing the programme supported and number Group. of children reached with the financial donation in addition to a formal receipt acknowledging funding received. All numbers are reviewed by Data relating to health and safety includes data from all sites and Brand the LEGO Group and must be appropriate for the purchasing power Retail Stores. New sites will be added to the reporting scope by the parity of the country as well as the intensity of the program intervention. beginning of a new reporting year. Similarly, environmental data relates 4) INDIRECT VIA TRAININING: Children are indirectly reached through only to production facilities. New production facilities will be added to train the trainer programs focusing on play based learning. Each trainer the reporting scope on 1 January, +12 months from the handover of trained is counted as 100 children reached. the entire manufacturing facility from project to operational facility department. Definitions, data measurement methods and the basis of 4. Waste (tons) calculations are addressed below. Any changes to historical data are only made if considered material. Waste is calculated as the recorded quantities of waste disposed of by the LEGO Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production 1. Net Promoter Score® are included. Reported data from sites are based on documentation provided by external contractors. In connection with consumer engagement with LEGO products and experiences (e.g. LEGO Stores and LEGO.com), randomly selected 5. Recycled waste consumers are asked how likely they are, on a scale from 0–10 (10 = extremely likely), to recommend the product or experience to others. The recycled waste percentage is calculated as the recycled quantities The result is calculated as percentage of promoters (levels 9 and 10) of waste disposed of compared to the total quantities of waste disposed minus percentage of detractors (levels 0-6). The NPS is calculated of. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production are included. based on various product lines. Reported data from sites are based on documentation provided by external contractors. 2. Product recalls 6. Waste efficiency improvement Number reflects launched LEGO products recalled from the market due to product safety issues. A recall is based on a specific nonThe waste efficiency improvement is calculated as the rate between compliant component that can be part of several LEGO products; weight of waste and weight of boxes produced. The efficiency hence, an official recall can potentially cover more than one product improvement is calculated by comparing the current year with previous number. year. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production are included. Reported data from sites are based on documentation provided by external contractors. 16 7. Energy consumption 12. Females appointed and recruited at management levels Energy consumption is calculated as the total energy in the form of The number of females internally appointed or externally recruited at electricity and heating supplied to the LEGO Group. Only data from the management levels is shown as a percentage of all employees internally LEGO Group sites with production are included. Reported energy data from appointed or externally recruited into and at management levels. Specialist sites are based on meter readings. functions at management levels are included. Internal appointments include both promotions and horizontal moves. 8. Carbon efficiency improvement 13. Business integrity training The carbon efficiency KPI is calculated as the rate between Carbon [Ton co2e] generated by energy consumption and [kg] LEGO bricks produced. The percentage is calculated as the number of employees at the director The efficiency improvement is calculated by comparing the current year level and above (employed for more than three months) who have with previous year. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is completed the e-learning programme in Business Conduct biennially, out of included. Reported energy data from sites are based on meter readings for the total number of employees at the director level and above (employed for the energy types used, which are electricity, gas and district heating. more than three months) in the LEGO Group. 9. Water consumption 14. Percentage of suppliers audited Water consumption is calculated as the quantity of water supplied to the All direct suppliers of materials, components, or items used in finished LEGO LEGO Group. Only data from LEGO Group sites with production is included. products are audited by a nominated third party. This happens annually if based in a high-risk country, and bi-annually if based in a medium-risk country. 10. Motivation and satisfaction Country risk is annually assessed based on external objective information. Suppliers in low-risk countries are audited sporadically and are not included in The Motivation and Satisfaction index is based on the LEGO Motivation the calculation. If a supplier is either a potential new supplier with no orders, & Satisfaction score. It is calculated based on four questions in our annual or is removed during the year, the supplier will not be part of the percentage employee engagement survey ‘the LEGO Pulse’ (1. I always look forward calculation. Suppliers of transport/shipment packaging or internal components to going to work. 2. I feel motivated in my job. 3. From an overall point of of finished products are not audited or included in the calculation. view, how satisfied are you with your job at the LEGO Group? 4. Imagine the perfect place of work. How close is this ideal to your place of work?). Our 15. Percentage of suppliers with no non-conformities to the LEGO score is compared to an external benchmark, the Ennova Employee Index Code of Conduct that require immediate correction (EEI). The EEI is based on a yearly survey, which is conducted by Ennova, but independent from the Pulse survey. The survey is conducted globally The percentage of audited suppliers in highand medium-risk countries and is representative of each country’s full labour market. A LEGO-specific without non-conformities that require immediate correction, is calculated benchmark is calculated using the EEI results from the 18 countries where as the number of suppliers audited (see terms of the previous accounting the LEGO Group has its largest employee base (China, Czech Republic, principle) without identification of any ‘high-priority non-conformities’. Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, This is regardless of whether the non-conformity has since been resolved. Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Spain, Sweden, UK and US). A high-priority non-conformity is defined as a significant breach of the LEGO Group Code of Conduct that requires immediate correction. Non11. Injury rate with absence conformities are assessed by external third party auditors and the LEGO Group Code of Conduct team, according to the LEGO Group grading matrix. The rate of occupational injuries is calculated for all employees, including The latter is reviewed every six months to ensure it is up-to-date and in line external agency workers, but excluding external contractors, as the with international recommendations and industry standards. number of injuries per one million working hours. An occupational injury is defined as resulting in at least one day’s absence following the day of the 16. Employees engaged by Local Community Engagement (LCE) injury. Data from all sites and LEGO Brand Retail stores registered in the activities Incident Management System are included. Only cases clarified within the accounting year are included in the full-year calculations. Cases pending Employees engaged accounts for the number of unique LEGO employees 17 decisions from local authorities throughout the accounting year are not that have volunteered for a LCE event during the accounting year. included in the full year calculation. Limited assurance report of the independent auditor To the Stakeholders of What we are assuring Our independence the LEGO Group and quality control The scope of our work was limited to assurance The LEGO Group engaged us to provide limited over the Sustainability performance data on page We have complied with the Code of Ethics for assurance on the Sustainability performance data 14-15 for the period January 1 – 31 December 2019. Professional Accountants issued by the International stated on page 14 -15 in the Group Sustainability Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, Progress Report 2019 of the LEGO Group for the Professional standards applied which includes independence and other ethical period 1 January 31 December 2019. and level of assurance requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence We performed a limited assurance engagement in and due care, confidentiality and professional Our conclusion accordance with International Standard on Assurance behaviour. The firm applies International Standard Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a Based on the procedures we performed and the other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial comprehensive system of quality control including evidence we obtained, nothing has come to our Information’. A limited assurance engagement is documented policies and procedures regarding attention that causes us not to believe that the substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance compliance with ethical requirements, professional Sustainability performance data are free of material engagement in relation to both the risk assessment standards and applicable legal and regulatory misstatements and are prepared, in all material procedures, including an understanding of internal requirements. Our work was carried out by an respects, in accordance with the accounting policies control, and the procedures performed in response independent multidisciplinary team with experience as stated on pages 16-17. to the assessed risks; consequently, the level of in sustainability reporting and assurance. assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement This conclusion is to be read in the context of what is substantially lower than the assurance that would we say in the remainder of our report. have been obtained had a reasonable assurance 18 engagement been performed. Understanding reporting and • Planned and conducted interviews and show-me Our responsibility measurement methodologies meetings with Group functions to understand the consolidation and reporting processes, use of We are responsible for: Data and information need to be read and company-wide systems and controls performed at • Planning and performing the engagement to obtain understood together with the accounting policies Group level; limited assurance about whether the Sustainability (page 16-17), which Management is solely • Performed trend analysis of consolidated data performance data for the period January 1 – 31 responsible for selecting and applying. and made enquiries to understand significant December 2019 on pages 14-15 are free from The absence of a significant body of established developments in reported data over time; and material misstatement, and are prepared, practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure • Evaluated the obtained evidence. in all material respects, in accordance with non-financial information allows for different, but the accounting policies; acceptable, measurement techniques and can affect • Forming an independent conclusion, based on comparability between entities and over time. Management’s responsibilities the procedures we performed and the evidence obtained; and Management of the LEGO Group is responsible for: • Reporting our conclusion to the stakeholders of Work performed • Designing, implementing and maintaining the LEGO Group. internal control over information relevant to the We are required to plan and perform our work in preparation of the Sustainability performance Hellerup, 27 February 2020 order to consider the risk of material misstatement data on pages 14-15 that are free from material of the data and information. In doing so and based misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; PricewaterhouseCoopers on our professional judgement, we: • Establishing objective accounting policies for Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab preparing data; CVR no. 3377 1231 •T  hrough inquiries, obtained an understanding • Measuring and reporting the Sustainability of the LEGO Group’s control environment and performance data based on the accounting information systems relevant to quantification and policies; and reporting of the Sustainability performance data; • The content of the LEGO Group Claus Lindholm Jacobsen • Performed review of reported data from the Sustainability Progress Report for the State Authorised Public Accountant production sites in Denmark, Hungary, the Czech period January 1 – December 31 2019. Republic, Mexico and China, including assessment of the completeness, data collection methods, Mads Melgaard assumptions applicable to the sites and reconciling State Authorised Public Accountant reported data to underlying documentation; 19
