Action for sustainable agriculture Towards a positive difference Sustainability Report 2019 COFCO International Ltd 00 Towards a “The future success of our business depends on our ability to help transform the food system and create sustainable value for everyone in the supply chain.” David Dong food system CEO of COFCO International Our mission To create a positive and sustainable impact on our people and shareholders, on farmers and communities, and on our customers and partners. Our values Integrity, inclusiveness, innovation and sustainability. Today, we stand at a crossroads. As a global community, we must urgently transform the way we grow, produce and consume food if we are to feed nearly 10 billion people by 2050 within the limits of the planet. This year, as humanity stands on the threshold of a decade of change, we have a unique opportunity to co-create a sustainable food system, while improving farmer livelihoods and creating shared value for our business and stakeholders. We are committed to working with all our partners towards a positive difference. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 3 What’s inside? Welcome Our products 4 6 Welcome to our 2019 sustainability report. We are pleased to share our progress on What we do 7 the five strategic priorities underpinning our sustainable growth as a business, while Our sustainability strategy 9 creating value for all our stakeholders. Our five strategic priorities Connecting Taking care Managing our supply and demand of our people environmental responsibly impact 12 21 28 Building strong Upholding communities standards 33 37 Reporting boundaries Managing sustainability 40 Covering the 2019 calendar year, this report is aligned to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, Core option. The GRI Content Index, available for downloading on our website, forms an integral part of this report. This report also contains non-financial information on material aspects of our Environmental and Social Action Plan, as agreed on with International Finance Corporation, our shareholder. The reporting scope includes all facilities and operations 100% owned and/or operated by COFCO International throughout 2019. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 4 Welcome Our products What we do Sharpening our focus on sustainability with other major agri-businesses towards more In 2019, we made concerted efforts to improve Our world is facing unprecedented change. As a global sustainable soy production in Brazil through the environmental footprint of our freight community, we must find a way to feed the growing the Soft Commodities Forum. operations. Additionally, we have set a new target to improve industrial water efficiency population responsibly, while navigating the pressing To place sustainability and supply chain by 10% by 2025, and are already taking action challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss, resource traceability at the core of our business, we by expanding our water recycling and reuse formalised a $2.3 billion sustainability-linked loan best practice in our Potirendaba sugar mill scarcity and economic uncertainty. with a consortium of 21 global banks. With our to two more mills in Brazil. core financing facility now entirely linked to sustainability, we are poised to make further Our community programmes to help improve For COFCO International, this means taking advances and deliver new levels of transparency. health, wellbeing and education in sourcing action for sustainable agriculture, and working communities directly benefitted over 25,000 with our partners and employees towards In 2019, we achieved 100% soy traceability to people globally in 2019. a positive difference. The future success of farm for all direct sourcing in 25 priority our business, and continued support of our municipalities in Brazil’s Cerrado, and by 2023, All of this work is underpinned by our ongoing stakeholders, depends on our collective ability we aim to achieve full traceability to farm for all commitment to uphold high standards of integrity, to transform the food system, and create value directly sourced Brazilian soybean. Our volumes ethics and governance. Our Integrity Hotline, for everyone in the supply chain. of sustainable commodities continued to grow, established in 2018, continues to play a key with 23% of our global coffee sales volume now role here, as our primary means of resolving Our sustainability strategy – Meeting tomorrow’s certified as sustainable, and a ten-fold increase grievances. There were no instances of demand – directs our efforts to further drive in Better Cotton volumes in 2019. Our efforts corruption or product safety violations reported sustainability into our strategy and operations, in to conserve biodiversity amplified, formalised or identified in 2019. line with our commitment to the principles of the through our policies and implemented through UN Global Compact. Importantly, it enables us to sustainable farming practices and forest While there is still much to be accomplished, we contribute to global food security, and support conservation and restoration efforts. We have remain optimistic in the face of the challenges the UN’s 2030 sustainable development agenda. now planted over 1.85 million native trees in and ahead and determined to make a positive around our sugarcane fields in Brazil since 2001. difference. I would like to thank all our employees, Three years into our journey, we are building suppliers and partners for their dedication and a deeper view of social and environmental Taking care of our people remains paramount, support in a challenging year, and look forward challenges in our operations and supply chains to and in 2019, we strengthened our commitment to our continued collaboration towards a more inform targeted action. In 2019, we mapped more to improving safety at work, achieving a 48% sustainable future. The future success of our than 5.2 million hectares of soy farms in Brazil, and 31% reduction in lost-time incident business depends on our ability Argentina and Paraguay for environmental and frequency for contractors and employees to help transform the food social assessments. We analysed potential risks respectively. And amid the global Covid-19 in our soy supply chains with WWF and The pandemic, we took robust measures to keep system and create value for Nature Conservancy, undertook global human our employees, suppliers and communities David Dong everyone in the supply chain” rights impact assessments with BSR, and worked safe and operations running. CEO, COFCO International Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 5 Welcome Our products What we do We are COFCO International Storage Processing Port Trading hub Trade route COFCO International is a global agri-business committed to feeding the world in a responsible way. We specialise in sourcing, storing, processing, trading and transporting major commodities including grains, oilseeds, sugar, coffee and cotton. Our business growth is closely linked to our strong relationships with farmers, our agility in responding to demand in expanding markets and operational excellence supported by robust investment in storage, processing and ports. Our assets are located across strategic producing countries in the Americas, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, with the majority based in South America, the world’s largest agricultural commodity-exporting region. Warehouses Processing Ports APAC 1 1 EMEA 14 2 4 Latin America 40 8 8 North America 3 3 COFCO International shareholders $31BN Revenue 114M Tonnes turnover 34M Tonnes port capacity 26M Tonnes processing capacity 2.2M Tonnes inland storage capacity 10,511 Employees 35 Countries Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 6 Welcome Our products What we do Commodities that touch our daily life Agricultural commodities from wheat to soybeans to coffee form the foundation of everyday products consumed by billions of people worldwide. Grains Oilseeds Sugar Coffee Cotton Wheat, corn, barley, sorghum Soybean, sunflower seed, Origin: South America, South Origin: South America, Central Origin: South America, North rapeseed, palm oil Asia, Southeast Asia America, Southeast Asia America, South Asia, Middle East, Origin: South America, Black Sea, West Africa, Southeast Asia North America, Europe, Australia, Origin: South America, North Our role: Farming, sourcing, storing, Our role: Sourcing, storing, Southern Africa America, Black Sea, Southeast Asia, processing, trading, distribution processing, trading, distribution Our role: Sourcing, storing, trading, Our role: Sourcing, storing, trading, Southern Africa distribution distribution Our role: Sourcing, storing, processing, trading, distribution No.1 grains exporter from 40+ million tonnes 17M tonnes sugarcane 7 sustainability 400,000+ tonnes traded annually Argentina traded in 2019 crushing capacity certification and verification schemes Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 7 Welcome Our products What we do Our role in the global food system COFCO International is operating highly complex supply chains in a rapidly evolving world. We strive to efficiently connect the supply of agricultural commodities with growing demand for food, in the face of geopolitical dynamics, climate change, fluctuating yields and raw material price volatility. To create a more resilient global food system, we collaborate with our key stakeholders to take action towards more sustainable agriculture. Connecting supply… ....with demand Our value chain footprint Our value chain footprint Agricultural Retail and Consumption inputs Production Sourcing Storage Processing Trading Transport and marketing Together with We support agricultural We are a major Sourcing from all major We store agricultural Our refineries and As an international Distribution We collaborate with our supply chain producer of sugar, producing countries, commodities in crushing facilities in trading house, we trade partners, we support input providers to We operate a retail customers ethanol and bioenergy we purchase our warehouses and silos South America, Europe, agricultural commodities consumers in promote more naturesophisticated global to meet consumer in Brazil, operating over commodities from at strategic locations Asia and Africa process at scale via numerous making responsible friendly products that maritime and land demand for 190,000 hectares of farmers, co-operatives worldwide, operated by agricultural commodities trading platforms. purchasing choices improve yields and logistics network and sustainable products sugarcane plantations and third parties, COFCO International into products for local through sustainability maximise the efficiency large modern fleet, and improve the in Sao Paulo State. with an objective to or third parties, before and global markets, certifications and of nutrient and water use, transporting the majority transparency further strengthen despatching for with a particular focus enhanced supply while minimising impact of our commodities by and resilience direct collaboration processing or delivery. on the rapidly expanding chain transparency. on the environment sea and providing freight of agricultural and communities. with farmers. Asian market. services to industrial supply chains. customers. Optimising our impact We are improving We require all our Our storage sites uphold We innovate to reduce We monitor global supply To help halve the practices at farm level by suppliers to adhere to globally consistent our energy and water and demand trends, shipping industry’s opting for organic pest consistent sustainability product quality, use, create value from leverage our agility to carbon emissions by controls and fertilisers, standards. We evaluate environment and health by-products and industrial ensure timely responses 2050, we are taking monitoring flora and supplier performance, and safety standards, waste, and increase our to market shortages action to track carbon fauna, and conserving with a focus on our most in line with our corporate use of renewable energy. where demand exists, emissions from native vegetation around strategic suppliers and policies and legislative All our facilities have facilitating commodity our time-chartered our plantations. those with the greatest requirements. implemented a consistent flows within and ships and improve risk exposure. We are environmental, health across borders. the fuel, energy and also investing in farmer and safety management cost efficiency of capacity-building to system benchmarked our fleet. support continuous against international improvement. standards. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 8 Welcome Our products What we do Placing nature at the heart of business strategy Interview: WBCSD Businesses must play a key role in Laying the foundation for this vital and profound In re-thinking business models, WBCSD comprehensive, field-level knowledge and change means business and society must begin recommends that companies redesign their supply considered approach, helping to define common transforming the food system, says to attach a consistent value to nature. From there, chains to encourage more diverse, sustainable pathways for action.” Diane Holdorf, Managing Director of change should be rapid, Holdorf believes. nutritious diets while crisis-proofing the system. WBCSD’s Food and Nature Programme.* Beyond this, it will be vital to ensure that farmers However, challenges remain. Members must receive a fair share of the value derived from food push for stakeholder action that delivers shared “Today, more than ever, the fragility of our global value, Holdorf believes. “SCF members are production, helping to counter labour shortages by food systems has been thrown into stark relief,” operating in a region where geopolitical issues establishing farming as a viable, attractive career says Holdorf. “Natural resources are becoming and ecological issues pose distinct risks to COFCO is quietly getting choice for women and young people. rapidly depleted, and mass land conversion is tangible progress,” she says. “They must find a leading to unprecedented biodiversity loss and on with new ways of thinking, “Collaboration – across supply chains and way forward that supports farmers, businesses climate change. More than this, food supply chains must be structured in a way that better and has a real opportunity to industries – is the only way to achieve the impact and governments.” and scale we need for systemic change,” says benefits farmers and workers, while meeting lead by example, helping to Holdorf. “All our Food and Nature initiatives act as Looking ahead to the decade of action, consumers’ nutritional needs.” inspire sector-wide change” catalysts and platforms for collective action – from Holdorf concludes: “We must see real, water stewardship to climate-smart agriculture – meaningful, scalable action across the For food and agri-businesses, including COFCO food and agriculture sector.” to help create healthy, sustainable diets.” International, creating a long-term strategy to protect nature and promote biodiversity helps to Pathways to change Partnership in action Diane Holdorf boost supply chain resilience, improve livelihoods “Firstly, companies must change the way financing One such initiative is the Soft Commodities Managing Director, Food and Nature Programme and strengthen security of supply, while also decisions are made,” says Holdorf. “This means Forum (SCF). Established in 2017 to transform resonating with consumers and attracting identifying KPIs to address climate and nature soy production in the Brazilian Cerrado, this talented, motivated employees. at a landscape level. COFCO is changing the unique platform brings together the world’s game here – its sustainability-linked loan is “The question is not whether to act, it’s what six leading agricultural commodity traders, unprecedented in the sector. But we must business model to select to place nature at including COFCO International. see more companies placing social and the heart of company strategy,” says Holdorf. environmental considerations at the core “These companies have joined forces to address “Businesses have a powerful role to play in helping of their financial strategies.” a shared sustainability challenge,” says Holdorf. farmers to nourish the soil, protect pollinators, *The World Business Council for Sustainable “COFCO has brought an important, pragmatic and conserve the living systems that enable Development (WBCSD) is a global business-led perspective to the discussions, with its us to continue growing our food.” sustainability network. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 9 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Our sustainability strategy Our sustainability strategy, Meeting tomorrow’s demand, guides our efforts to help create a sustainable food system and contribute to global food security. It is based on the economic, social and environmental issues that are most important to our business and stakeholders and where we could make the greatest difference. In this section Meeting tomorrow’s demand10 2019 progress 11 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 10 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Meeting tomorrow’s demand To maximise our contribution Our strategic objectives to creating a more resilient, sustainable global food system, we have developed our strategy – Meeting tomorrow’s demand – Connecting Taking care Managing our Building strong Upholding supply and demand of our people environmental communities standards in line with 12 issues that matter responsibly impact the most to our business, See page 12 See page 21 See page 28 See page 33 See page 37 stakeholders and the UN SDGs. Among these, we have identified four priority Our material issues areas where we stand to make the greatest Sustainable agricultural Respect for human and Water management Community engagement Good governance and compliance impact: taking action towards sustainable sourcing (priority) labour rights (priority) Waste management (priority) Product quality and safety agriculture, promoting respect for human rights, Agricultural innovation Occupational health keeping our people safe and improving lives and Energy efficiency and Responsible agricultural and safety (priority) emissions reduction livelihoods of the communities where we operate. production Talent attraction and retention Importantly, we are addressing the systemic challenges of climate change and biodiversity loss by integrating climate action and nature conservation throughout our strategy. Our policies and priority targets Supplier Code of Conduct Occupational Health and Environmental Policy Stakeholder Engagement Policy Code of Conduct In 2019, we began setting concrete targets across Safety Policy Sustainable Soy Sourcing Policy Responsible Land Acquisition Food and Feed Safety Policy our five strategic pillars to help guide our progress Human Rights and Labour Policy and Leasing Policy Sustainable Palm Oil Sourcing in the key decade of action ahead. This exercise Policy (2019) Community Investment Policy will continue in the coming years. As we monitor our performance, we will regularly review our Target: Target: Target: Target: Target: strategy and target-setting to reflect our ambition. Full traceability to farm for directly Zero employee and Reduce water intensity Stakeholder Engagement Zero food/feed safety incidents sourced Brazil soy by 2023 contractor fatality index by 10% by 2025 Plan and social dialogue at 100% resolution of grievances As a major agri-business, we have a significant Environmental and social Safety Index for employees all high community impact received through our Integrity operations by 2021 opportunity to contribute to the seven SDGs assessments for 85% direct and contractors ≤ 1.5 Hotline below. These reflect where we can make the supplying farms in Brazil’s Environmental and social impact MATOPIBA by 2021 assessment prior to all new site greatest impact alongside our partners. Evaluation of all direct palm construction and acquisition oil suppliers by 2020 Full palm oil traceability to mill by 2021 For more detail on our sustainability governance, see page 39. For our material issues, see page 41. Our sustainability policies can be found here. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 11 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards 2019 in numbers Connecting supply Taking care Managing our Building strong Upholding and demand of our people environmental communities standards responsibly impact $2.3BN Sustainability-linked loan, with interest rates linked to 48% and 31% reduction in 74% of our treated wastewater sustainability performance lost-time incident frequency reused as irrigation water and supply chain traceability for contractors and employees and natural fertiliser 5.2M hectares of soy farms in Latin America mapped and assessed for environmental and social risks 40% increase in EHS training for contractors 10% water efficiency improvement by 2025 set as a new environmental target 50,000 smallholder soy farmers benefited from our Social Fuel Stamp biodiesel programme in Brazil 1.85M Native trees planted on and around sugar plantations in Brazil since 2001 87% of global energy needs met by renewable energy 263 volunteers in Brazil dedicated over 2,367 hours to good causes through a new volunteering programme 23% of global coffee sales certified 97% reduction in driver fatigue for sugar operations with the 660,994 MWh 25,000 of surplus bioenergy directed to beneficiaries of our Our Integrity Hotline is available in 13 languages for stakeholders to anonymously reporting or verified as sustainable Sleep Medicine Programme local power grids community programmes concerns and grievances Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 12 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Upholding standards Building strong communities Upholding standards Connecting supply and demand responsibly We collaborate throughout our supply chains to promote responsible and sustainable practices – from field to port and beyond – innovating with our partners and suppliers to boost productivity while acting to improve the impact of agriculture on people, nature and the environment. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Building supply chain resilience 13 Soy 14 Sugarcane 16 Coffee 18 Palm oil and cotton 19 Stakeholder interview: Rabobank 20 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 13 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Building supply chain resilience In 2019, we also began building an initial environmental and social profile for every one Strengthening our food system in of our non-trade suppliers to enhance supplier the face of crisis and uncertainty management practices. This will allow us to is now a global challenge requiring further identify sustainability risks in our non-trade urgent, collective action. As the food supply chains and define mitigation measures. and agriculture industry prepares to increase production to help achieve Conserving biodiversity for healthy, sustainable diets for the agricultural productivity growing global population, we face the Biodiversity – the huge variety of all plant and shared challenges of climate change, animal life on Earth – is the foundation of resource scarcity and biodiversity loss. agriculture and our food systems. The myriad Additionally, smallholder farmers – who interactions between different species create produce the majority of the world’s healthy ecosystems and enable nature to perform crops – typically lack access to the the vital functions that make crop growing possible. Within an agricultural field, biodiversity knowledge, tools and resources to is essential to maintaining fertile soils and “The urgency of our biodiversity improve practices and raise productivity. freshwater for healthy plant growth. Pollinators and climate crises means that For COFCO International, sourcing agricultural like birds, bees and butterflies play a vital role in we need to have solutions in the life cycle of plants, prompting the production commodities sustainably is both a moral and of seeds, grains, fruits and flowers. ‘Natural place now and these solutions strategic imperative, as we seek to feed the world responsibly, build supply chain resilience and predators’ such as ladybirds feed on pests, need to be at scale. We can only deliver greater transparency to our customers. helping the plant to reach maturity. do this together. That’s why we Our Supplier Code of Conduct consists of a set In 2019, we further formalised our commitment are collaborating throughout of principles that define the ethical, social and environmental standards we require all our to biodiversity conservation through our our value chain to promote Environmental Policy and environmental impact suppliers to uphold, and sustainability is assessment for all new operations, defining sustainable agriculture that increasingly a condition of doing business. priority areas for targeted conservation efforts. forest conservation and restoration in our supply respects the natural world, We support innovative technologies and invest chains and on our operated farms. We monitor in empowering farmers to cultivate crops in a These include our sugarcane operations in flora and fauna around our sugar plantations, and while contributing to global Brazil, soy sourcing in Latin America and palm way that improves their livelihoods, protects oil sourcing in Indonesia. We also updated promote responsible farming practices to improve food security and improving nature and respects human rights. commodity sourcing policies and respective soil health, preserve water and manage pests, farmers’ livelihoods” which help to lower our impact on biodiversity. management procedures to focus more closely David Dong, on conservation. COFCO International supports CEO, COFCO International Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 14 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards And as the climate changes, these regions are experiencing more frequent extreme temperatures Soy and irregular rainfall – potentially heightened by deforestation and native vegetation loss – presenting an increasing risk to the future of this valuable crop. COFCO International is one of the world’s largest soy traders. As we further expand our soy operations, we Soybeans are a highly strive to collaborate across the value chain to enable efficient form of protein farmers to amplify yields sustainably and build climate resilience. In particular, we have implemented and animal growth feed. a Sustainable Soy Sourcing Policy, defining To better prioritise and focus our risk Increasing global demand for requirements for soy suppliers in Brazil Amazon and Cerrado on issues from conserving natural habitats monitoring and mitigation activities, we have meat and dairy has more than deepened our collaboration with World Wildlife quadrupled soy production in Brazil to protecting indigenous peoples and labour rights. In 2019, we delivered refresher training to 175 Fund (WWF) and The Nature Conservancy over the past two decades. From the (TNC), through the Collaboration for Forests employees in our commercial, administrative and Amazon rainforest and the Cerrado logistics teams on implementing our policy. and Agriculture (CFA) initiative, to identify savanna to the Yungas Forest and environmental and social risks in our Brazilian the Grande Chaco region, expanding soy supply chain, including deforestation and Understanding and mitigating native vegetation conversion, forced labour, soybean cultivation, along with supply chain risks indigenous and traditional people land rights, other agricultural activities, has Traceability is the starting point for supply chain among others. We are expanding this work to Collaborating towards placed pressure on fragile risk management. In 2019, we enhanced our Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. Additionally, sustainable soy ecosystems in Latin America. internal systems to collect, validate and manage we worked together to conduct an external Accelerating the shift to sustainable soy is key information relating to suppliers’ individual review of our sustainable soy policies, too great a challenge for one company alone. farms. External audit reassured our progress and procedures and practices against the CFA To catalyse collective action for lasting change we are confident to reach full traceability to farm Operational Guidance, in order to develop a at scale, we are a signatory to industry-wide for directly sourced Brazil soy by 2023. In 2019, plan for enhanced supply chain sustainability agreements such as the Amazon Soy Moratorium, we continued to verify supplier compliance with our and transparency. 5.2M which prohibits financing or sourcing of soy policy through comprehensive satellite mapping of produced on deforested land since 2008 in the all pre-financed farms and farms located in high-risk Amazon. We conduct monthly internal audits regions across Brazil, overlaying parcels of land with as well as annual external audits on suppliers’ known information on social, environmental and compliance with the Moratorium. The 2019 audit deforestation risks. Non-compliant farms were confirmed that all our suppliers complied with excluded from transactions. In this way, we mapped Moratorium requirements in the past season. more than 1,000 supplying soy farms, covering over hectares of soy farms in Environmental NGOs also review the results 1 million hectares. Overall, including our sustainability mapping of soy farms for sustainable biodiesel Latin America mapped and of all Moratorium signatories to help ensure transparency and credibility. We are also in Brazil, Argentina and Paraguay (see page 15), assessed for environmental members of other multi-stakeholder initiatives we mapped and assessed more than 5.2 million and social risks to promote sustainable soy (see page 42), hectares in 2019. including the Soft Commodities Forum. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 15 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Case Study: “Having all these agri-business reduce the carbon intensity of the transport sector, Soft Commodities Forum: giants around the table with a while catalysing a sustainable biofuel industry. Looking ahead RenovaBio-certified biofuel is produced in line with Advances – both within our business Catalysing change in common sustainability agenda strict environmental requirements, including zero and industry – are laying the foundation Brazil’s Cerrado is truly a milestone for the deforestation. Under RenovaBio, tradable carbon for positive change. To raise supplier credits known as CBios are granted to certified food-agri sector. I am convinced producers as an incentive to invest in sustainable performance, we will strengthen our Covering more than 20% of Brazil, the Cerrado sustainable soy sourcing policy, monitor is the world’s most biodiverse tropical savanna, that collaborative, actionfarming. Meanwhile, fuel distributors can purchase our suppliers and build their capacity to delivering vital ecosystem services. The area oriented platforms like these these credits to help meet their annual carbon farm responsibly. However, sector-wide emission targets. In 2019, we mapped and hosts 44% of Brazil’s agricultural land and are the only way to achieve assessed 947,000 hectares of soy farms under transformation will only be possible through produces over 50% of its soy, providing a vital collective action, underpinned by rigorously source of income for local communities. However, supply security” the national RenovaBio programme in Brazil, enforced regulation. We will continue which also has strict environmental requirements to collaborate within our supply chains agricultural expansion and logging have led to David Dong, including zero deforestation, and produced and across our industry to help drive rapid loss of native vegetation. The impact on CEO of COFCO International 52,100 tonnes of biodiesel under this certification. systemic change. biodiversity and the regional climate could put agricultural productivity – and the livelihoods of those who depend on it – at risk. Supporting a sustainable To address the urgent need for action, in early biodiesel market 2019, we joined the Soft Commodities Forum In the global transition to renewable energy and (SCF), a coalition of the world’s six largest cleaner fuels, demand for soy for biodiesel is Case Study: agri-businesses seeking to reduce and eventually increasing. In Brazil, for example, diesel fuel must Sustainable soy programmes eliminate native vegetation conversion in their now contain a minimum of 12% biodiesel, with Cerrado soy supply chains. We operate the Agricultura Consciente a goal to reach 15% by 2023. As we move to programme, a free online platform for soy capture sustainable biodiesel markets across Latin producers to learn sustainable agricultural In 2019, with the support of Proforest, SCF America, we must take action to prevent growth practices through expert lectures, field members defined a common framework for from creating further pressure on ecosystems. demonstration and interactive tutorial videos. reporting and monitoring progress, prioritising 25 municipalities posing the highest conversion risks. By the end of 2019, our platform had received To promote responsible soy production, we have Members issued three joint reports, with COFCO over 61,000 video views, reaching a large adopted the 2BSvs scheme of Biomass and International disclosing that it had sourced 96% producer base in Argentina, Paraguay Biofuels sustainability in Argentina, Paraguay of soy directly from farmers and reached 100% and Uruguay. and Uruguay since 2017. We produce 2BSvs traceability to farm for direct sourcing within the biodiesel with soy grown using low carbon priority municipalities in 2019. In 2020, the SCF Working with our partners in Paraguay, we techniques and conserving land of high have completed the MejorAgro initiative, a will look beyond traceability to engage producers, importance for biodiversity and carbon storage. assess current practices and develop approaches two-year continuous improvement project, In 2019, we mapped over 3.2 million hectares of initially for 100 smallholder soy farmers. that support more sustainable soy production. soy farms to confirm their compliance with 2BSvs Through field visits, training workshops and requirements, enabling the production of over 142,100 various materials, farmers have learnt about 90,000 tonnes of biodiesel under this scheme. a wide range of sustainable farming topics, including disease prevention, soil protection, In Brazil, we source soy for biodiesel production fair labour practices, sustainable forestry tonnes of sustainable biodiesel under the Brazilian National Biofuel Programme and wider environmental management (RenovaBio). Established in 2017, it aims to help production in Argentina (learn more on page 34). and Brazil Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 16 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards As one of the world’s top five sugar traders, The findings are leveraged to raise awareness Case Study: and with our own plantations and sugar mills among our employees and communities, and Adopting bio pest control Sugarcane in Brazil, COFCO International has a significant develop targeted measures to protect wildlife opportunity to strengthen supply security by and natural habitats, such as installing road to protect pollinators promoting sustainable practices. signs and designating buffer zones. Within our sugar plantations, we are taking steps We advance towards more sustainable To help rebuild natural habitats, in 2019, we to protect natural habitats by adopting biological production by conserving biodiversity and continued with reforestation initiatives through pest control methods, including the use of adopting best practice techniques to improve soil our environmental management plan. We planted natural predators in place of synthetic pesticides. Sugar is a highly versatile health and guard against the impact of extreme over 240,000 trees on our dedicated 850-hectare Our sugar research team has started to place commodity, used extensively weather. We are also investing in promising conservation area. Together with the Brazil Forest fungi and bacteria in the soil during the sowing technological solutions, including big data Institute, local authorities and communities, season to help manage pests such as the in food, while ethanol is analytics to enhance yields without placing we also planted over 35,000 seedlings of native sugarcane borer or nematodes. We have also increasingly used for biofuels further stress on natural resources. trees on 30 hectares in the Northwest Forest of released wasps to eliminate pest caterpillars. and bioenergy offering clean São Paulo state. Another focus of our work is 17M In this way, we have increased our sugarcane to increase the use of biological pest controls yields per hectare by an average of 30% since energy alternatives. to protect pollinators, which are crucial for 2015, while reducing our use of synthetic However, sugarcane is also a conserving local biodiversity. chemicals. Harnessing these biological water-intensive crop, and faces approaches has greatly helped to protect distinct challenges including honeybees, which are vital to the pollination irregular rainfall and biodiversity of crops and vegetation in the region. loss (to learn why biodiversity is tonnes of annual sugarcane integral to farming, see page 13). crushing capacity, with over 5M tonnes of sugar and 1,000 gigawatts of bioenergy produced in 2019 Taking action to conserve biodiversity 1.85M With over 190,000 hectares of owned sugar fields, we recognise the significant responsibility to monitor and mitigate any impact on local biodiversity. We regularly use drones to monitor land use change around our sugar fields and those of our suppliers. In addition, we regularly monitor flora and fauna at 36 locations on over native trees planted on 5,450 hectares around our plantations, in line with our new Biodiversity Conservation Procedure. and around our sugar plantations since 2001 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 17 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Empowering innovators In 2019, we launched the ‘Ultrapasse as We believe in a better fronteiras da tecnologia’ (‘Go beyond the balance between production technology boundaries’) programme in Brazil, and the environment. inviting technology start-ups to develop innovative solutions to key challenges we face One day, we will discover in sugar and coffee production. We selected five Case Study: how to harness the sugarcane’s start-ups from 40 submissions and supported Engaging sugarcane suppliers natural defences. The cane them in developing and testing their solutions within our operations. These range from big data on sustainable practices will defend itself” analytics to predict rainfall in individual sugarcane In 2019, we further supported our sugar Patricia Fontoura fields and new mobile apps to centrally manage suppliers in adopting responsible farming Technical Manager – Sugarcane Production, technical requests at farm level, to applying techniques. We offered soil conservation COFCO International sensors in the sugarcane sampling process to courses to our suppliers and employees, accurately and instantly assess cane quality. in partnership with Rio Preto University. Importantly, we also began a major effort to help our suppliers raise their environmental, health and safety standards. In 2019, our “Innovation is vital to team conducted on-site environmental and continuous improvement. social audits among all 15 of our sugarcane suppliers in the region. Following these audits, Collaboration with these we co-created improvement plans to help start-ups to develop fresh ideas ensure supplier compliance with health and and technologies stands to safety regulations for rural workers and our supplier requirements. deliver significant efficiencies and advances” Luis Spadotto Director of Sugar Mill Operations, COFCO International Looking ahead We will continue to leverage innovations and new technologies to reduce the environmental footprint of our sugar production, while boosting productivity and exploring ways to build sugarcane’s natural defences. We will also further focus on supporting our suppliers to make progress on protecting people and the environment, and comply with our supply chain requirements. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 18 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards We are committed to collaborating throughout Empowering smallholder the value chain to build resilience and help Coffee secure a sustainable future for coffee farmers. coffee farmers in Vietnam Vietnam is the second largest coffee producer We are present in several major coffee-producing and exporter by volume. Some 95% of countries, including Brazil, Vietnam, Colombia and Vietnamese coffee is grown by smallholders. Indonesia. We partner with farming co-operatives To support farmers towards more sustainable to help raise productivity and improve livelihoods practices, our three farmer programmes in among more than 4,000 smallholder coffee farmers, Vietnam provide technical training and support As one of the popular building their capacity to participate in sustainability to over 3,200 smallholders on a wide range of beverages worldwide, coffee is certification schemes and capture additional value sustainable, cost-effective practices to help for their produce. In 2019, over 23% of our total improve soil health and water quality, protect the most widely traded tropical worker health and safety and promote labour Case Study: coffee sales volume was certified or verified as agricultural commodity. sustainable, a significant increase on 18% in 2018. rights. In 2019, our capacity-building focused Supporting sustainable 23% The majority of coffee is produced on promoting organic fertilisers production from production in Colombia agricultural residuals, including coffee husks, In Tolima of Colombia, a region long troubled by some 25 million smallholders, rice straw and corn pulp. who face increasingly unpredictable by the country’s civil conflicts, we are working together with 20 associations to bring yields and prices, as climate change Meanwhile, some common challenges, such as technical support to smallholder farmers. prompts extreme weather and plant lack of access to financial services, quality inputs, Training by our agronomists includes better diseases, shifting productive coffee equipment and technical support, create great soil analysis, disease control, climate-resilient zones to new areas. of our coffee sales in barriers for farmers to further improve livelihoods. farming. We also incorporate social topics 2019 certified or verified In 2019, we partnered with IDH (the Sustainable such as labour rights, worker health and Trade Initiative) to explore commercially viable as sustainable, compared ways to further support farmer livelihoods safety into these sessions to promote fair labour practices. Read more about this to 18% in 2018 while achieving a high-quality, traceable and programme here. sustainable coffee supply. In particular, we explored the viability of delivering one integrated Case Study: service package to farmers, combining crop Promoting reforestation insurance, sustainable farming training, inputs, irrigation systems and financing, etc. As a next on coffee farms step, we will refine the initial findings in 2020 to define concrete farmer service offerings. To help preserve vital natural resources and water systems for coffee production, we are funding Looking ahead the Viveiro de Atitude project in Brazil’s Cerrado As coffee production continues to be biome. This project unites stakeholders in a impacted by climate, environmental and collective effort to plant over 100 species of native social challenges, we shall continue to strive trees and support local communities. In 2019, to ensure the long-term viability of the coffee it grew and sold native tree seedlings to reforest supply chain. In particular, we will further over 150 coffee farms, totalling 14,000 hectares. explore new models to deliver innovative, 100% of the project’s profits were donated to practical services to farmers, improving local charities supporting children and elderly livelihoods and building resilience. people. (For more on our efforts to protect the Cerrado, see page 14-15). Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 19 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards COFCO International’s role in the palm oil market efforts. We aim to conduct this evaluation among demand, equivalent to 26% of our total volume. is primarily as a trader and refiner, supplying all our Tier 1 suppliers by the end of 2020. In 2019, we also joined the Cotton Made in Africa Palm oil markets in China and India. We do not operate Traceability is another key element for supply initiative, which empowers smallholder cotton any oil palm plantations or mills, with only one base analysis. We made steady progress on farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa to improve their refinery in India. In 2019, we stepped up our traceability to mill level, reaching 86% by end livelihoods by adopting sustainable practices. & Cotton approach to achieving sustainable palm oil supply of 2019, with the aim to reach full traceability 26% chains by launching our first Sustainable Palm to mill by 2021. To ensure accuracy and Oil Sourcing Policy, which formalises our NDPE transparency, our annual palm traceability data is commitments – no deforestation, no peat, no externally verified and we recently published our labour exploitation. We have started to specify 2019 supplying mill list, to be updated regularly these requirements in supplier contracts to help going forward. Meanwhile, we furthered our work raise supplier awareness and ensure compliance to identify environmental and social hotspots in Palm oil is one of the with our requirements. We have also developed our supply base, based on sustainability profiles of cotton traded in an internal procedure to guide our teams on of individual mills and their supplying volumes. world’s most versatile and policy implementation, including Tier 1 supplier This exercise will help prioritise future efforts on 2019 as Better Cotton, affordable vegetable oils, evaluation and engagement in case of supplier engagement, screening and monitoring. produced sustainably non-compliance, traceability data management 1st found in countless everyday and grievances. In addition to our global Integrity food and beauty products. Hotline (see page 39), we have launched a grievance However, its rapid expansion procedure specifically for issues related to non-compliance with our palm oil policy. in the past decades has been linked to severe environmental As member to the Roundtable on Sustainable and social challenges in Palm Oil (RSPO), we continue to support its producing countries, such as mission to create traceable, transparent and palm oil target: deforestation, biodiversity loss, sustainable palm supply chains. In 2019, our one full palm oil traceability land rights controversies and palm oil refinery in Kandla, India, achieved RSPO to mill level by 2021 certification and is now ready to supply certified poor labour conditions. sustainable palm oil to the domestic market. Looking ahead We will continue to engage with our palm oil Building sustainability risk Better cotton suppliers to support them in complying with We are an active player in cotton trading with our policy commitments, while improving profile of our palm oil chain and disclosing our traceability progress. a strong presence in key production regions, We continued to work with our partner Proforest moving swiftly to meet growing demand. We will also move to promote sustainable to better understand the environmental and To accelerate our journey towards sustainable palm oil and cotton and meet growing social profile of our supply base. Importantly, cotton, we participate in the Better Cotton demand for these commodities. Creating we developed environmental and social score Initiative (BCI), a multi-stakeholder initiative a sustainable future for palm oil depends cards for all our direct suppliers, in order to striving to make Better Cotton – cotton grown in on the ability of collaborative, sector-wide evaluate their existing sustainable palm oil a way that respects people and the environment efforts to raise standards, protect the rights policies, management programmes and and improves farmer livelihoods – a mainstream of workers and communities, and conserve reporting. This helps visualise the overall supply commodity. We are rapidly expanding our native forests. We will therefore participate chain management capacity of our direct sourcing of Better Cotton, growing our volumes in collective efforts to address systemic and suppliers and prioritise supplier engagement ten-fold from 2018 to 2019 in response to market local challenges in producing countries. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 20 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards The role of finance in sustainable agriculture Interview: Rabobank Why does Rabobank want Do you see more companies to be a pioneer in this area? taking similar action? Understanding COFCO Here, we speak to Rabobank’s As a co-operative bank founded by farmers COFCO’s bold move is part of a rapidly growing International’s sustainabilityKarel Valken, Global Head of Trade in the Netherlands in 1898, Rabobank has trend and has already prompted further interest & Commodity Finance Agri, about linked loan a longstanding commitment to pioneering in the sector. In the future, I envisage how our sustainability-linked loan What? purpose-led funding in the agricultural sector. sustainability-linked loans as the ‘new normal’, • A ground-breaking $2.3 billion three-year is an important step forward for It’s engrained in our DNA. To help farmers with sharper KPIs, discounts removed and sustainability-linked loan, the largest ever COFCO International, the industry worldwide build resilience and improve their penalties issued for poor performance. This for a commodity trader. and farmers in our supply chain. livelihoods, we have to walk the talk. That’s why won’t be easy – it will only succeed with the we actively promote sustainability in the world’s support of company CEOs. Central banks will • Agreed in 2019 with a consortium of 21 Why must the private sector top financial centres, why we are partnering with also push commercial banks like us harder on global banks, with Rabobank as one of invest in sustainable agriculture? UNEP to achieve $1 billion in blended finance to climate change and sustainability, providing the three lead sustainability co-ordinators. Feeding nearly 10 billion people by 2050 will sustainable, deforestation-free agriculture, and capital relief for green deals. further intensify pressure on the world’s fragile why we wanted to be one of the sustainability Why? ecosystems, as farmers seek to increase yields co-ordinators for COFCO International’s So what can COFCO do beyond this This creative financing structure is an in the face of climate change and resource sustainability-linked loan. loan to catalyse further change? important way of advancing our scarcity. Transforming the food and agriculture Firstly, COFCO could consider using its global sustainability progress, further integrating sector to maximise the use of existing farmland, In what way is COFCO International’s size and reach as a formidable voice to advocate social and environmental considerations reduce carbon emissions and conserve natural loan ground-breaking? for more robust environmental action and financial into the way we do business. resources is central to making this a reality. The COFCO loan is important for multiple support packages for farmers at a policy level. How? The public and private sectors must mobilise reasons. Firstly, it’s the largest sustainabilityThis is particularly urgent in countries such as We will report our independently verified to support this transition. linked loan for a commodity trader to date, Brazil, where a common strategic interest environmental, social and governance and the first with clearly defined traceability in agricultural commodities exists. There is What is needed to further performance and commodity traceability KPIs for a major agricultural commodity. also a potential role to play in partnering with encourage private investment? progress to the banks each year. If we hit our In return, COFCO is independently verifying its development finance and capacity-building pre-defined annual targets, we will be granted This could start with de-risking financial models, year-on-year improvements on environmental, initiatives keen to harness private sector a discount on the interest we owe. COFCO achieving a more cohesive, consolidated social and governance performance. Importantly, resources and expertise to empower farmers. International will direct any interest savings approach to development finance, and catalysing the company is directing any interest discounts For agri-business and the financial sector, towards advancing our sustainability journey. meaningful government intervention. We need towards further advancing its sustainability companies to look beyond their commercial agenda, taking the value of the loan full circle. sustainability is here to stay. Our ability to grow interests and collaborate across sectors, This includes efforts to help farmers improve food sustainably will be decisive for the wellbeing industries and entire value chains to take their practices. While there is work yet to be of our planet and future generations. We look Karel Valken transformative, collective action. done, this commitment sends a strong signal forward to further opportunities to advance this Global Head of Trade & Commodity Finance Agri about COFCO’s intentions for securing long-term, journey with COFCO. sustainable supply. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 21 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking careof Takingcare ofour people ourpeople Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Taking care of our people We strive to create diverse, inclusive workplaces where every individual is valued, empowering our people through equal opportunities, protecting their rights and prioritising their health, safety and wellbeing. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Investing in our most valuable resource 22 A safer workplace 23 Talent and growth 25 Human rights and diversity 26 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 22 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Investing in our most valuable resource Code sits at the heart of our efforts to promote Innovation an inclusive, diverse culture where every We strive to create new opportunities, exchange Protecting our people’s health and individual can thrive. knowledge and information, and work safety in the workplace is our top entrepreneurially to enhance our performance priority. To promote a culture of through innovation. safety, we uphold high standards underpinned by robust policies Sustainability and procedures. We constantly With high standards of Sustainability is a core value. Our robust engage with all our employees and integrity and a focus on corporate governance keeps our people contractors on health and safety, including and empowering our and products safe, helping us to balance our shareholders’ needs. seeking to continuously raise our people, we collaborate both performance. Importantly, we focus within and beyond our business on attracting the right talent for our to achieve our aims” diverse operations, and promote Marcus Seelbach, the growth and development of our Chief Human Resource Officer, COFCO International people, our most valuable resource. In 2019, we took significant steps to further improve our safety performance, particularly among contractors. We also partnered with BSR to conduct human and labour rights Our values impact assessments across our operations Integrity and key supply chains, while stepping up efforts to promote diversity and support We seek to be open, honest and act with talented employees whose skills and values integrity at all times. We also hold ourselves help deliver our ambitions. and each other to account in the event that integrity is not demonstrated. Inclusiveness Consistent standards worldwide Embracing difference and diversity is vital to We require all our employees, contractors and our Sunshine Culture. We don’t just celebrate business partners to respect the standards of difference, we recognise the value it adds behaviour and ethics set out in our Code of to business. Conduct. Informed by the UN Global Compact’s ten principles of human and labour rights, our Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 23 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards A safer workplace also increased to 1.88% of total work hours Lost-time injury frequency rate in 2019. These efforts have been reflected in (per 200,0001 work hours) We require all our global sites to adhere significant overall performance improvements: to our Occupational Health and Safety a respective 48% and 31% reduction in Employees Policy, which is supported by a robust lost-time incident frequency for contractors and 2019 0.27 management system in line with employees. However, we are deeply saddened 2018 0.39 OHSAS 18001, IFC Performance to report two fatalities in 2019: a subcontractor 2017 0.47 Standards and the World Bank Group in a construction accident in Argentina, and a logistics employee in a traffic collision in Brazil. Contractors EHS Guidelines. Additionally, each We have conducted full investigations and taken 2019 0.51 site has its own Safety Committee, all necessary actions to prevent the potential 2018 0.98 comprised of union and/or employee reoccurrence of the circumstances that prompted representatives, which meets regularly these incidents. 2017 0.48 Case Study: Improving health to discuss and address any site48% specific issues. In addition, safety and safety on the road Safety Index2 Transportation of products – from farms to dialogues are organised regularly (per 200,0001 work hours) storage units, operational facilities and ports to exchange on particular topics of – is a key linkage in our business. To reinforce interest to employees and contractors. Employees a culture of respectful driving and help keep 2019 1.6 We provide employees and contractors with people safe on the road, we undertake regular health and safety training, complemented Reduction in lost-time incident 2018 2.4 transport-specific safety initiatives. For example, within our sugar operations, all heavy by various local and global campaigns to raise frequency for contractors and 2017 4.7 vehicle drivers must undertake drug tests on awareness and nurture a safety-first culture. We encourage every person to take responsibility 31% reduction for employees Contractors hiring and departure, while random alcohol for their own safety and contribute to maintaining 2019 2.4 and drug tests are conducted among 1% of employees on a weekly basis. In 2019, we 40% a safe environment. Importantly, we measure our 2018 4.2 performance towards ambitious goals and take introduced heavy truck simulators, helping 2017 3.8 drivers learn to navigate different traffic action to address any health or safety hazards identified in internal and external audits to ensure Note: our 2019 health and safety data has been conditions in a virtual setting. We also offer continuous improvement. verified by Bureau Veritas. regular advanced driving training to Brazil 1 200,000 represents the number of hours of 100 employees, while camera systems and GPS In 2019, we put greater emphasis on health employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks tracking are installed in all company vehicles and safety training, with a particular focus on Increase in contractor per year and provides the standard base for to monitor safety. Any speeding is registered contractors. Our training time for contractors calculating incidence rates. (100*40*50=200,000) and reported in real time, so measures can reached 1.41% of total work hours, a 40% training time in 2019 be taken to prevent dangerous situations. 2 Safety Index = (Medical Aid frequency rate/7.5) + increase year-on-year, while employee training (Total Lost Time frequency rate) + (Severity Rate/5) Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 24 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Case Study: million hours free from lost time accidents, while Keeping people As the virus hit Latin America, we were mid our Romanian site reached three years without harvesting season for soy and corn. To protect Overcoming driving fatigue lost time accidents. At our Belgravia silo in safe in the global crisis truck drivers in Brazil, we are handing out Ukraine, we provided road safety training The global COVID-19 pandemic has posed hundreds of food kits daily and will distribute During the sugarcane harvest, hundreds of for children at local schools. In India, a ‘safety unprecedented challenges for us to ensure 20,000 face masks to truck drivers in spring truck drivers transport heavy loads across long week celebration’ took place with daily the continuous supply of essential agricultural 2020. In Argentina, all our ports and factories distances. When accidents occur, it is mainly activities and interactive training on creating commodities, as well as the health and safety have executed stringent preventative measures, due to driver fatigue and sleepiness. To improve a safe workplace. Employees’ children also of our people. Our teams have responded early including strict social distancing and disinfecting road safety, our EHS team implemented a took part in fun exercises to learn about the and quickly to implement health guidelines up to 700 trucks per day at each plant. comprehensive Sleep Medicine Programme in importance of health and safety. recommended by WHO and industry bodies 2019. Firstly, we installed cameras in 230 heavy across global operations. Major awarenessBeyond this, to help keep our communities safe, trucks to understand when drivers were most raising campaigns were rolled out among our we provided medical supplies to employees’ alert and when their concentration levels global workforce to help ensure that people families and healthcare services in countries dropped, with any signs of fatigue reported in understood and followed all new measures. including Brazil, Argentina, Ukraine and Portugal. real time to the EHS team. Based on the results, In Brazil, we provided 5,600 litres of alcohol to we offered 60 drivers a medical evaluation, and local hospitals for the fabrication of hand sanitiser, installed special rest rooms at the plants to help and 22,000 face masks to employees’ families. regulate drivers’ active and resting cycles. In this way, we achieved a 97% reduction in fatigue and distraction levels in just three months. Our efforts This is a huge undertaking were recognised with a National Health and requiring everyone to work Safety Award at the 2019 Brazilian Congress of Occupational Health and Safety. together. We are a critical part of a global food supply chain, and Incentivising better performance Case Study: now more than ever we need to Looking ahead To incentivise good performance on health and Health and wellbeing for all keep it going. If we keep our We will continue to nurture a safety-first safety, we recognise and reward outstanding team healthy, maintain good culture and work towards our safety targets achievements of global operations annually. In Brazil, we run health and wellbeing across global operations, focusing We grant ‘gold’ awards to sites with zero EHS campaigns on diverse themes, including communications, and continue particularly on contractors. We will install incidents, ‘silver’ to sites with successful delivery mental health, breast and prostate cancer preventive actions, we will 460 new fatigue sensors across our heavy on annual EHS targets and ‘bronze’ to those prevention and HIV prevention. 3,226 employees attended these activities maintain our operations” vehicle fleets in Brazil sugar operations in with good improvements. 2010 to further improve driver safety, and in 2019, hearing from experts including Hugo Acerbo better integrate carbon emissions and fuel In 2019, the number of sites with gold awards psychologists, nurses and other medical Health and Safety Manager, efficiency considerations in route planning. rose from 63 to 70. Among the highlights, our professionals. COFCO International Argentina employees in Mariupol, Ukraine, worked two Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 25 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Talent and growth “This opportunity to be a part Our continued growth relies on our of the Commercial Graduate At COFCO International, our people. For the agricultural sector, Program is one in a million. people are at the heart of finding the right talent is often a major I’m learning from people at challenge, with more rural populations everything we do. Building a every level and in contact with migrating to cities for work, skilled highly skilled workforce will people around the globe, getting workforce shortages and high labour enable the organisation to turnover rates. In this context, it is to know how COFCO works strengthen its competitive edge business critical that we strategically in other countries.” and ensure that COFCO remains invest in our employees to help fulfil their potential, while seeking to bring a great place to work” Camila Rosenthall Pereira Lima, COFCO International Commercial Graduate Programme in new talents whose skills and values David Dong undergraduate, Brazil match our ambitions. CEO, COFCO International In 2019, we further enhanced our global Learning and Development offering by implementing a dedicated learning management system for our Case Study: employees and refreshing our training policy. Nurturing tomorrow’s leaders This new platform will help build our people’s skills and capabilities by providing a range of learning opportunities in five languages, including In 2019, we launched our Commercial Graduate Looking ahead micro-learning solutions and dedicated Programme to bring in a new generation of talent We will continue to put people first as we grow classroom courses. Employees also now benefit with the potential to succeed across different our business, further developing our employee from a comprehensive curriculum of self-service, cultures and geographies. Gender equality development offering, with a focus on more video-based learning provided by LinkedIn and diversity sit at the core of our recruitment targeted training for specific teams. Learning, with unlimited access to over process. The first cohort of participants has 14,000 courses. joined the company to deepen their insights and skills by experiencing different jobs in diverse departments. The programme will accelerate graduates’ professional development through monthly networking and group training, mentorship and additional educational courses. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 26 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Human rights and diversity 66% We will continue to proactively As a responsible global business, we promote gender balance with seek to promote a diverse and inclusive every new recruitment search workplace, harnessing the talents, and internal promotion experience and perspectives of our opportunity” more than 10,500 employees to of our employees are Alfonso Romero Vedoya, innovate and strengthen our market covered by collective Managing Director Southern Cone, position. We strive to provide equal bargaining agreements COFCO International opportunities for all, and importantly, to protect the human rights of people in our operations and supply chains. Promoting women’s With more than 60 nationalities working across 35 countries, COFCO International is a truly empowerment global business. We require all our employees to Representation of women remains a core focus, respect our Code of Conduct, which sets out the and in 2019, we made targeted efforts to promote ethical behaviours we expect and formalises our gender balance in the recruitment and promotion commitment to inclusiveness, a core value for process. In 2019, the proportion of female COFCO International and central to our culture. employees globally improved, reaching 18%, Our Human Rights and Labour Policy crystallises compared to 17% in 2018 and 16% in 2017. our commitment to treating everyone with fairness and dignity, in line with internationally Our Argentina operations made extraordinary recognised conventions and standards, such progress in 2019, with a significant increase as the ILO’s core conventions on labour rights, of female recruitments and promotions to fill the UN Guiding Principles on Business and technical and commercial positions at our Human Rights (UNGPs) and the IFC Performance facilities and commercial offices – positions that Standard on Labour and Working Conditions. have been typically held by men. The business has developed a comprehensive plan to further Our Integrity Hotline, established in 2018, is advance this work in 2020. This includes ensuring open to anyone internally or externally as a fully gender-balanced short lists for every hiring role; confidential channel to report concerns relating 50% women as new joiners to our Commercial to human and labour rights within our operations Graduate Programme, and achieving a more and supply chains. See page 39 for more gender-based board. information. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 27 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Where do our people work? Building on a comprehensive review of our Diversity ensures rich ideas footprint, current policies and management and solutions to our challenges. Looking ahead North America 1.7% processes, this exercise aims to identify our We will continue to focus on protecting the Asia Pacific 4.5% priority human rights impacts, as well as It is a key driver for innovation rights of all our employees and the workers Europe, Middle opportunities to further comply with the UN and agility in our teams” in our supply chains, with a particular focus East and Africa 19.0% Guiding Principles on Business and Human on gender equality and diversity. We expect Rights. Building on the findings, we will develop Juan Carlos Artiagoitia, Latin America 74.8% to complete our global Human Rights Impact an action plan to enhance human and labour HR Director Southern Cone, COFCO International Assessment in 2020 and define an action rights impact management in our operations plan for continuous improvement. and key supply chains. What type of work? Inclusion of disabled people Admin and Everyone has the right to be fulfilled at work, Corporate 1,873 regardless of any physical or mental Commercial disadvantage. In Brazil, we have developed the and trading 662 “Efficient as You” programme to promote greater Asset and inclusion of people with disabilities within our Operations 7,976 work force. In particular, we strive to improve the way we recruit and select candidates and build employee capacity to support the inclusion of disabled colleagues. In our Buenos Aires office in Argentina, the successful integration of Identifying and prioritising disabled colleagues has proven to be a positive human rights risks experience for the team. It is highly challenging to gain visibility of diverse human rights challenges within long, complex supply chains – from child labour and forced labour, to discrimination and poor working conditions. In 2019, we took action to better understand where these risks might exist, in order to develop a more holistic and proactive approach to protecting human rights. Together with BSR – an independent, non-profit organisation – we are undertaking human rights impact assessments for our global operations and key supply chains. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 28 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Managing our environmental impact We strive to improve our environmental performance across our operation of farming, storage, processing and transport facilities, continuously innovating to reduce our impact on the climate and environment, conserve natural resources, prevent waste and harness renewable energy. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Environmental stewardship  29 Towards a low-carbon operation  30 Sustainable shipping 31 Resource efficiency  32 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 29 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Environmental stewardship Globally consistent standards With an extensive network of Our Environmental Policy is based on legal processing and logistics facilities compliance and international principles of best practice, including IFC Performance Standards globally and sugarcane farming and World Bank EHS Guidelines. It seeks to operations in Brazil, we take a holistic integrate environmental considerations into approach to monitoring and managing the heart of risk management and business the environmental footprint of our decision-making, creating a globally consistent own operations. Through our approach to environmental stewardship. global environmental policies and Aligned to ISO 14001, our Environmental management system, we strive for Management System guides us in consistently continuous improvement and innovate identifying, assessing and managing risks to to increase production efficiency while deliver on key environmental indicators across conserving natural resources. In our global operations. It is overseen by our EHS particular, a focus on reducing water, Director and supported by regional and local waste, energy and carbon emissions EHS teams, with regular internal and external audits to monitor progress. To further ensure impacts sits at the core of our efforts. our compliance with evolving environmental legislation and update our management system accordingly, in 2019, we further invested in tools to better monitor latest legislative changes in the countries where we operate, with new legislation alerts automatically sent to responsible country managers and EHS teams. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 30 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Towards a low-carbon operation Carbon intensity indicator Our energy intensity indicator reflects the quantity Timbues crushing plant in Argentina stepped kg CO2eq/tonne processed of energy consumption per tonne of feedstock up its use of biomass as alternative fuel for its We are committed to playing our part processed or crushed. boilers, resulting in a 16% reduction of natural in the global fight against climate gas consumption year on year. Our road logistics change by taking action to reduce 2019 37.6 The overall 1% improvement of energy efficiency operation is also seeking to harness cleaner fuels our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, 2018 38.3 in 2019 was mainly due to increased processing – bioethanol produced at our sugar mills is being particularly as we continue to expand volumes and operational efficiency at our oilseeds used to fuel our vehicles, reducing the need for 2017 33.1 crushing plants. In addition, to further reduce our fossil fuels. Additionally, our sugar mills supplied our production capacity and market energy footprint, our businesses took action in local power grids with 660,994 Mwh of surplus reach. This starts with improving the In 2019, the carbon intensity of our operations 2019 to improve energy efficiency, reduce carbon bioenergy in 2019, a 5% increase on 2018. energy efficiency of our operations was 37.6 kg CO2eq per tonne of production, emissions and save costs. For example, in Latin 87% and accelerating our transition to a 2% reduction compared to 2018. This 0.98 is America, our sites have replaced conventional renewable energy. partially due to the increased processing volume lighting with LED bulbs, including at our Puerto and production efficiency at our oilseeds crushing San Martin Plant, Timbúes Plant, Saforcada Plant Our global GHG emissions for the past three plants. In addition, our various energy efficiency and Lima Port. Similarly, at our Rondonopolis soy years are as follows: initiatives (see examples to the right), combined crushing and biodiesel plant in Brazil, we have with increased use of renewable energy has also taken multiple measures in 2019 to improve 2019 2018 2017 contributed to this improvement. We will continue energy efficiency. We have reduced steam Scope 1 (t CO2eq) 792,221 719,523 609,131 to analyse further improvement opportunities, consumption per tonne of biodiesel production of our global energy needs Scope 2 (t CO2eq) 107,809 86,591 104,903 with the objective to set concrete intensity from 275 to 250 kilos through regular cleaning of met by renewable energy reduction targets. heat exchangers. Meanwhile, enhancing boiler Scope 3 (t CO2eq)* 101,985 98,764 135,541 performance and installing energy-saving engines Total 1,002,015 904,878 849,576 Towards energy have achieved electricity savings of 8% per tonne efficient operations of production. * This includes energy and fuel-related Scope 3 emissions In 2019, our total energy consumption increased slightly from 51.2 to 54 million GJ, largely due to Advancing our transition to The largest carbon emitters within our global operations are crushing and processing facilities. increased production and port terminal activity. renewable energy To better monitor our progress on improving the In 2019, 87% of our global energy needs were emissions profile of these operations, in 2019, Energy intensity indicator met by renewables. We continue to prioritise we established a new performance indicator: MJ/tonne processed generating clean energy on site, where possible, the quantity of carbon emissions per tonne harnessing waste such as bagasse at sugar mills, of feedstock processed or crushed. sunflower husks and wood chips at oilseed 2019 2,463 crushing plants, and crop waste at warehouses, 2018 2,486 supplementing this with electricity purchased Note: Our 2019 carbon, energy and water data has been from renewable sources. For example, our audited by Bureau Veritas. 2017 2,208 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 31 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Sustainable shipping two years, we have been investing in exhaust cleaning systems in vessels, to support global Looking ahead Shipping is the most efficient form of clean air goals and work towards the IMO’s new In 2020, we will explore ways to further transport, yet with ships transporting 0.5% fuel sulphur limit for ships operating outside decarbonise our global operations and nearly 80% of the world’s trade by designated emission control areas. In late 2019, increase our use of renewable energy, volume, it represents 2-3% of global we took an important step by switching our entire while optimising resource efficiency. GHG emissions. The International fleet from conventional marine fuel to low-sulphur We will develop better monitoring to track Maritime Organization (IMO) has set fuel. This is expected to significantly reduce this progress over time. Additionally, as a overall sulphur emissions and improve the Getting to Zero Coalition member, we will an ambition to halve global carbon environmental profile of our fleet. participate in concrete projects to promote emissions from shipping by 2050. sustainable infrastructure and help develop At COFCO International, we operate a Exploring alternative fuels viable solutions for a zero-carbon marine sophisticated maritime logistics network and a Decarbonisation remains a major challenge fuel supply chain. large modern fleet, transporting over 50 million for us and the maritime industry. To reach tonnes of commodities in 2019 by sea, while the IMO target, we must go beyond technical providing freight services to industrial customers. improvements and efficiency gains to transform To meet evolving global targets, we strive to the types of fuels we use, eventually making a Case Study: reduce our fleet’s carbon emissions while complete transition away from fossil fuels to Getting to Zero Coalition improving its fuel, energy and cost efficiency. sustainable, renewable energy sources. To help catalyse the global shift to sustainable shipping, we joined the Getting In 2019, we started to track the global footprint To explore pathways towards a more carbonto Zero Coalition, launched in September of all our time-chartered ships, creating a efficient, sustainable shipping operation, in 2019, 2019 at the United Nations Climate Action benchmark to monitor improvements over time. we partnered with maritime technical expert DNV Summit in New York. This alliance of more This was 1,298,885 tonnes of carbon dioxideto conduct an overview of alternative fuel options than 90 companies in the maritime, energy, equivalent. We will continue to further refine our in the short and long term. This study analysed infrastructure and finance sectors is striving carbon monitoring to better reflect the efficiency the performance of a wide range of alternatives, to operationalise viable zero-emission level of our fleet. We also deployed efficiency including ammonia, hydrogen, electric batteries, vessels by 2030. measures including speed control and artificial biodiesel and methanol. Additionally, we intelligence to predict vessel positions and conducted an in-depth investigation into optimise operational and fuel efficiency. the technical and financial feasibility of commissioning new vessels powered by liquified Reducing sulphur emissions natural gas. The results of this analysis will inform our further decarbonisation plans going forward. Sulphur oxide emissions from conventional fuel oil can pose serious air quality risks in areas close to major ports and shipping lanes. Over the past Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 32 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Resource efficiency efficiency of these operations – the volume of in transportation. The concentrated vinasse Our waste generation ranges from construction water consumed per tonne of feedstock crushed then was mixed with other soil nutrients and waste, crop residuals, scrap metal, boiler ashes, Agriculture uses around 70% of the or processed, as follows: applied to the fields as organic fertiliser by used personal protective equipment and world’s freshwater. Increasing water GPS-guided tractors. packaging, to chemicals, oil, sludge and mercury 2019 2018 2017 scarcity caused by over consumption lamps. We have been developing clearly defined and pollution poses significant risks to Water intensity 0.58 0.57 0.58 As we strengthened our water efficiency pathways to help employees manage each waste our operations as well as the production indicator ambitions, we extended this approach stream effectively. For example, at our crushing (m3/tonne of to two more sugar mills in Catanduva and of commodities on which our business plant in Standerton, South Africa, which processes production) Sebastianópolis in 2019. At each site, we began over 250,000 tonnes of soybean annually, we depends. As the global population the installation of vinasse concentrators and Freshwater 12,832,443 11,802,059 12,237,571 re-defined in 2019 how best to give all plant waste increases, we remain committed to withdrawal (m3) advanced industrial wastewater treatment plants a second life, from paper to chemicals to electrical promoting sustainable farming and comprising both aerobic and anaerobic digestion. waste. This is expected to significantly reduce conserving natural resources within We also took a step forward by setting a new global This will enable treated wastewater to be fed back waste to landfill. water efficiency target. By 2025, we aim to have into the production cycle, further reducing our sugarcane operations, while 2019 2018 2017 reduced industrial water intensity by 10%, compared freshwater needs. Once in operation by 2021, continuously improving efficiency to 2019. To achieve this, we will increase our efforts we expect to gradually increase the volume of Hazardous 0.029 0.028 0.023 at our production sites. to recycle and reuse treated water, particularly in our water being reused at our mills, while reducing waste generation sugar operations, and optimise our industrial water use per tonne of production by up to 28%. (kg/tonne of production) Our Environmental Policy guides our efforts to 10% processes for grains and oilseeds. manage and optimise our freshwater use and Non-hazardous 0.607 0.666 0.620 treat our wastewater effectively, in line with waste generation (kg/tonne of production) national and local laws. In 2019, we withdrew 12,832,443 cubic metres of freshwater, with an Case Study: increase of 8.7% on 2018, due to our expanding Brazil: closing the water loop operations. We renewed our resource efficiency efforts, particularly in Brazil (see below), Water efficiency improvement When sugar is processed and distilled to produce increasing the proportion of treated wastewater applied to our sugar plantations for irrigation ethanol, the resulting water-based by-product, by 2025 set as a new known as vinasse, can often go to waste. Rich in or natural fertiliser to 74%, up from 66% in 2018. organic content and nutrients, largely potassium, environmental target it can be applied as liquid fertiliser to reduce Looking ahead Setting a new water reliance on synthetic fertilisers. However, its raw We expect to implement the efficiency ambition application in large volumes could harm soils and Managing waste new vinasse concentrator and wastewater requires carbon-intensive transportation by truck. treatment projects in our sugar mills, Our industrial operations – crushing plants, sugar Throughout our sites and sugar plantations, By concentrating and extracting water from while innovating to further improve mills and refineries, consumes up to 98% of our we seek to prevent waste and dispose of waste vinasse at our Potirendaba sugar mill, we have water efficiency and create value from global freshwater use. In 2019, we formalised responsibly. In 2019, 54% of all our waste was reduced its volume, resulting in significant savings waste across our operations. a key water indicator to better track the water recycled, reused, composted or recovered. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 33 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Building strong communities We forge long-term relationships with farming communities by supporting them to adopt sustainable practices and improve their livelihoods. In addition, we invest directly in community education and capacity building, improving people’s quality of life and empowering communities to protect their local environment. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Improving livelihoods  34 Community investment  35 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 34 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Improving livelihoods Case Study: Smallholder farmers in rural, Supporting smallholder developing communities often lack farmers in Brazil access to the knowledge, skills and resources to raise yields sustainably While Brazil is known for large-scale industrialised and improve livelihoods. With the soy production, there are also many smallholders majority of our operations and whose livelihoods rely on soybean, especially in the southern states. In 2019, we continued to promote sourcing partners located in rural the inclusion of smallholder farmers within our soy areas, we are committed to supply chain under the Social Fuel Stamp. In empowering farmers to benefit from particular, our technical teams visited farms and more sustainable agriculture. We provided expert support throughout the production partner with government agencies, process, from planning, soil preparation, planting Case Study: farming co-operatives and civil and pest control, all the way to harvest and storage. Innovating towards society organisations to build farmer In 2019, we purchased over 330,000 tonnes of sustainable soy in Paraguay soybean from 24 cooperatives, benefitting over capacity, helping to raise productivity 50,000 smallholder soy farmers. while increasing security of supply. Launched in 2017 with NGO Solidaridad, with experts visiting individual farmers to support Meanwhile, in Northeast Brazil, we are supporting the MejorAgro project aims to support 100 improvements. By the end of the project, Respecting land rights smallholder peanut farmers from the Quilombolas smallholder soy farmers in Paraguay’s Itapúa participating farmers had made progress on communities in creating stable income throughout and Alto Paraná regions in practising sustainable managing their finances, with 72% reaching the Our Responsible Land Acquisition and Leasing the year. Due to climate change, 2019 was agriculture. Our project scope has since highest level of performance. Many were also Policy is part of our approach to respecting the particularly challenging for peanut farmers in the expanded significantly due to high farmer taking a safer, more responsible approach to legal and customary land rights of local region. A dedicated COFCO International engineer demand for technical support in these regions. applying pesticides and fertilisers. communities and indigenous peoples, helping is helping farmers to adapt their practices, while By October 2019, over 1,500 smallholders had ensure they maintain secure and equitable rights to land and natural resources. We require all conducting field research to help strengthen their participated in 39 training workshops, covering “This project has made soy topics from pest control, soil health, responsible suppliers to uphold the tenets of this policy by resilience to climate change. forestry, to finance management, health and production more sustainable. incorporating land rights considerations, It is very satisfying to see how 50,000 safety and workers’ rights. particularly indigenous land rights, in both our Supplier Code and commodity sourcing policies. much progress has been made Each of the 100 farmers in the programme also follows a tailor-made improvement plan based by individual farmers.” on Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) Alma Acosta standards and Paraguayan legislation. Regular smallholder soy farmers monitoring helps to identify knowledge gaps, Programme Manager benefited from our Social Fuel Solidaridad Paraguay Stamp biodiesel programme Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 35 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Community investment Our Community Investment Policy guides us in Case Study: taking a consistent approach to invest our skills The starting point of building strong and resources to help improve community Building road safety communities is taking steps to protect wellbeing, strengthen our future workforce and awareness in Argentina local people from any potentially ensure stable, resilient supply chains. Importantly, negative impacts of our operations. we partner with credible, expert organisations to In the agricultural provinces of Argentina, road deliver clearly defined projects, create employee safety is an important concern. Heavy trucks We have begun conducting community impact volunteering opportunities, and empower transporting grains and other produce create high assessments to identify operations with high beneficiaries to sustain the initiative for the volumes of traffic. We are raising awareness of road community impacts and develop stakeholder long term. In 2019, our community programmes safety among students soon to take their first engagement plans for each site to guide benefitted over 25,000 people globally. driving test. In 2019, we partnered with the Pensar our ongoing stakeholder engagement and In particular, we focused on: Junín foundation and district authorities to empower communications. We aim to implement such students and teachers to build a driving simulator in plans together with social dialogue at all high a local school in Junín – the Escuela de Educación impact operations by 2021. Técnica Nº1. In particular, we contributed materials Education and capacity building Case Study: and supplies for the construction of the simulator Beyond this, many of the communities in the We seek to facilitate access to education and Helping girls’ netball and our team joined the final demonstration by countries where we operate would benefit from training for children, adolescents and adults, students. The simulator will soon be taken on tour teams raise their game better access to education, skills training and helping to improve their prospects while also to other schools in the region. healthcare. We seek to create a positive impact, building talent pool needed to support the In South Africa’s Mpumalanga province, working closely with communities to understand agri-business sector. school children often lack access to good where we can make the greatest difference, sports facilities, preventing them from building trust and forging long-term relationships. Community wellbeing gaining the most from exercise or improving We support inclusive projects designed to Case Study: their sports skills. In 2019, the COFCO improve people’s health and safety, promote Food and support for International South Africa team sought to healthy living and engage people with arts help girls at Stanwest Combined School families in need take their netball skills to the next level and culture, with a particular focus on those 25,000 facing social or economic disadvantages. by resurfacing their netball courts and Throughout Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, we donating netball kits for local tournaments. Environmental stewardship seek to improve lives and promote wellbeing The school’s two netball teams were proud We aim to empower communities to conserve among local communities. In 2019, we made over to wear their new kit for the first time at a their local environment and nature. 120 donations of food, toys, furniture and tournament in Ermelo. equipment to schools as well as health and people benefitted from our community centres. We will further collaborate with community projects in 2019 local partners in 2020 and mobilise our volunteers to support communities in need, with a specific focus on education and skills training for students. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 36 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards In particular, through a series of environmental practices. Through a partnership with children’s Case Study: games covering earth, air, fire and water, education specialist KombiLab, we delivered they learnt about topics including biodiversity learning sessions to over 500 children in four Stepping up employee conservation, carbon emissions reduction, municipalities on the importance of bees to volunteering in Brazil and waste prevention. As part of this effort, agriculture, the environment and human life. In 2019, we introduced a comprehensive Renovarte Caravan distributed 1,500 books to We also joined the BeeCare project to build volunteering programme in Brazil, in help children become conscious consumers. ‘hotels’ for solitary bees, helping to provide partnership with NGO Parceiros Voluntários. shelter for these vital insects. We plan to create With strong support from management, “Certainly the Renovarte more of these ‘hotels’ in 2020 and beyond. we formalised a volunteering policy and Caravan brought to our school 24 volunteering committees across the country. We provided training and support to information that goes beyond each committee leader on how to listen and protecting the environment. respond to local communities’ most pressing It also taught the children, in a Looking ahead needs. Our employees showed a strong interest in participating, with 263 volunteers light and creative way, to take In 2020 and beyond, we will continue to dedicating over 2,367 hours to nearly care of those who live with us support farmers in improving livelihoods 60 volunteering activities since programme through responsible agriculture. We will also through respect, knowing how continue to evaluate our community impact, launch. These included environmental awareness activities with schools, supporting to listen and having hope.” deepen our community engagement and the elderly and making blood donations contribute to their resilience and welfare. Teacher Wal Vilda benefitting over 6,600 people. EE Prof. Ismael, Brasil Corrêa – Alfenas Learning about the environment 2,367 with Renovarte Caravan Supporting bees and biodiversity conservation In Brazil, we help fund the Renovarte Caravan project, a cultural initiative to help children aged Since 2016, our Project Pollinate – Polinizar six to 14 learn about social and environmental – has been working with honey producers Volunteering hours by issues through theatre, workshops and fun, surrounding our sugarcane fields in Catanduva interactive activities. In 2019, our support 263 employees in Brazil’s new enabled 1,652 children in two municipalities and Potirendaba to promote healthy, productive bee colonies, improve producers’ livelihoods and volunteering programme close to our operations to learn about the conserve local biodiversity. In 2019, we expanded importance of protecting natural ecosystems. the project scope and furthered our ‘bee-friendly’ Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 37 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Upholding standards We create value, grow responsibly and respond to stakeholder expectations through strong, transparent governance and globally consistent standards and behaviours. We integrate our values and sustainability commitments into the way we do business, and comply with all relevant laws and regulations to help ensure the safety and quality of our products. Our wider contribution UN Sustainable Development Goals IFC Performance Standards In this section Driven by our values 38 Good governance and compliance 39 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 38 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Upholding standards Driven by our values Our core values of integrity, inclusiveness, innovation and sustainability sit at the heart of the way we do business, inform our strategy, and set the tone for the behaviour we require from employees and contractors. Reflecting these core values and our commitment to the UN Global Compact key principles, our Code of Conduct helps to ensure we conduct our business with integrity. In 2019, we developed an online training module for employees on the key principles of our Code, which has been rolled out in 2020. The Code also provides the basis for our Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the social, environmental ethical standards that we expect our suppliers and business partners to uphold. As we build a deeper understanding of environmental and social risks in our operations and supply chains, with support from NGOs and expert partners such as WWF, TNC, BSR and Proforest (see pages 14, 19, 22), we will increasingly take a strategic, risk-based approach to monitoring compliance. We comply with all relevant laws and regulations on food and animal feed safety, as outlined in our Food and Feed Safety Policy. In addition, we take a globally consistent approach to identifying, managing and preventing potential food safety hazards. Our suppliers are subject to stringent supplier qualification processes, third-party inspections and on-site audits. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 39 Connecting supply and demand responsibly Taking care of our people Managing our environmental impact Building strong communities Upholding standards Upholding standards Good governance and compliance and reports progress on corporate strategy. In 2019, we further developed the way we review, Poor behaviour and discrimination 141 In addition to the Nomination and Corporate address and resolve grievances. In particular, we Respecting the highest international Governance Committee, there is also an established a centralised Concerns Management Business integrity and conflict of interest 46 standards of corporate governance Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee, Committee, chaired by our Chief Audit Officer, Human resources policy violations 38 is fundamental to living our core values a Risk Committee and an Investment and who provides regular updates to the Audit Environment, Health and Safety 9 of integrity and sustainability, and Finance Committee. Committee appointed by our Board. This provides a firm foundation for our committee is responsible for overseeing the Non-compliance with Supplier Code of Conduct 1 One of our shareholders, the International grievance management process, helping to long-term growth and success. With Finance Corporation (IFC), is a member of the Total: 235 ensure impartial and effective investigation and clear lines of accountability and robust World Bank Group, and supports us in improving resolution, working with relevant teams to governance structures, we strive to our sustainability strategy and practices, in line cofcointernational.com/integrity-hotline promote effective remediation. The Concern promote product safety and quality, with IFC Performance Standards. Management Committee is supported by regional integrityhotline@cofcointernational.com maximise operational efficiency and committees responsible for the execution of create safe, healthy workplaces for Sustainability governance grievance analysis and investigation. our people. We maintain a zeroResponsibility for sustainability governance starts To engage employees and external stakeholders tolerance stance on fraud, bribery at the top of our company with the CEO and with the Integrity Hotline, we raised awareness and corruption, and strive to foster Chairman. Our Global Head of Sustainability through on-site and virtual presentations oversees our sustainability strategy and manages an inclusive, open culture. to employees, posters, leaflets, internal the sustainability team, reporting progress to the communications and social network tools, management and CEO. Corporate governance and ensured it was raised during dialogues The COFCO International Board of Directors is with communities and at supplier meetings. Integrity hotline: Our global As a result of increased stakeholder awareness, composed of 12 members, including six COFCO Corporation directors, four members representing grievance mechanism we received 235 concerns, compared to 69 our major shareholders, and two independent Our Integrity Hotline is our core global grievance in 2018. The majority of these related to poor non-executive directors, who are nominated by mechanism. It forms part of our commitment to behaviour and discrimination, 60% of the total the Nomination and Corporate Governance open, honest communication and promotes grievances received. We reviewed every concern, committee and appointed by the Board. compliance with our Code of Conduct. We invite undertaking appropriate investigations and employees and external stakeholders to share actions, and closing 212 by the end of 2019. The Board is responsible for the leadership any concerns regarding misconduct or A thorough analysis of prevalent themes has also of COFCO International, while overseeing the non-compliant behaviour confidentially and enabled us to improve learning and development group’s business, strategic decisions and anonymously via a dedicated telephone number training to help prevent reoccurrence. We are performance. To achieve this, it appoints or secure digital channels, hosted by an external addressing the remaining cases in 2020 and dedicated committees to manage every aspect of grievance specialist agency. The Hotline is providing feedback to complainants in a timely good governance. This starts with the Executive accessible in 13 languages. manner. Our aim is resolve all grievances through Committee, led by the CEO, which executes our Integrity Hotline. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 40 Our materiality Our stakeholders Our partnerships Managing sustainability To help optimise our sustainability efforts and take action on the issues where we have the greatest opportunity to make an impact, we maintain ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. We continuously evaluate our most material issues to ensure that we continue to take action on the issues that will enable our business and stakeholders to thrive in the future. In this section Our materiality 41 Our stakeholders 42 Our partnerships 43 Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 41 Our materiality Our stakeholders Our partnerships Our materiality Sustainability offers COFCO International an important COFCO International Materiality Matrix opportunity to strive for long-term success and resilience, while making a positive contribution to society. Sustainable agricultural sourcing Respect for To inform our Meeting Tomorrow’s Demand is a major focus. We have a key opportunity to human and  labour rights strategy, we conducted a comprehensive help prevent deforestation, accelerate the shift materiality exercise in 2017, assessing the issues to more sustainable agriculture and boost local Responsible that matter most to our business and stakeholders economies. Within our own operations, we stand agricultural and where we stand to make the greatest to drive the greatest change on our plantations Community production engagement difference. In this way, we seek to ensure that and at our processing facilities. our strategy is as relevant and effective as possible Importance for External Stakeholders to grow our business responsibly, and create We are investing in improving traceability as Energy efficiency the best possible value for our stakeholders. a key means of remaining competitive in the and reduction of marketplace, protecting the environment, emissions We interviewed internal and external conserving nature and promoting farmers’ and Occupational stakeholders, including employees, management, workers’ rights. Importantly, collaboration across Agricultural health and s  afety NGOs, customers, suppliers, etc., supplementing the value chain remains central to both improving Good governance innovation these discussions with research on all major agricultural practices and enabling consumers and compliance social and environmental topics connected to our to make more sustainable purchasing choices. Water business. With the approval of our Board, we are management focusing on the 12 material issues shown in the table below. Among these, we further identified Product quality four focal issues – where we can generate the and safety most impact – which are sustainable agricultural Waste sourcing, respect for human and labour rights, management occupational health and safety, and community engagement. In particular, commodity sourcing Talent attraction and 12 4 staff r etention Importance for COFCO International material issues focus areas Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 42 Our materiality Our stakeholders Our partnerships Our stakeholders We maintain continuous dialogue with our stakeholders to advance our sustainability journey, listening to their concerns and working together to address shared challenges. Here, we share our how we engage with our main stakeholder groups. Stakeholder group Areas of interest How we engage Examples of interaction Board of Directors and • Sustainability strategy • Board meetings and management Since 2018, our shareholder IFC has conducted on-site supervision on environmental, shareholders • Environmental, social and governance updates health and safety and labour management at 21 of our facilities. performance and risk management • Site supervisions Financial institutions • Environmental, social and governance • Bank update calls In July 2019, we successfully closed a $2.3 billion credit facility with 21 banks, linking performance and risk management • Meetings our sustainability performance to the company’s core financing facility. See page 20. • Sustainable finance innovation Customers • Supply chain sustainability • Meetings We actively promote certified sustainable products to customers, including coffee, • Product quality and safety • Questionnaires cotton, biofuels, soybean and corn. See page 19. • Certified sustainable products • Audits Suppliers and farmers • Supplier Code of Conduct • Meetings We build farmers’ capacity to adopt sustainable practices. See pages 14-18. • Traceability • Questionnaires We engage with our suppliers and evaluate their sustainability performance. See pages 14-19. • Sustainable livelihoods • Audits Sector peers and industry • Collaboration on shared challenges • Meetings We collaborate with our peers in the Soft Commodities Forum on shared sustainability associations • Industry events and workshops challenges in soy sourcing from Brazil’s Cerrado biome, with an objective to work towards • Joint reporting sector-wide progress. See page 15. Multi-stakeholder initiatives • Environmental and social issues • Meetings We participate in initiatives such as the Tropical Forest Alliance, contributing to systemic • Collaborations solutions that require multi-stakeholder collaboration. See page 43 for our key partnerships. Policy-makers • Legal compliance • Response to consultations Through our participation in Business for Nature, we work to bring a consistent • Supply chain resilience • Communication on progress business voice to policy-makers on reversing nature loss. See page 43. • Food security NGOs • Climate change • Consultations and collaborations We work with NGO partners to further enhance our soy supply chain management. • Biodiversity conservation • Campaigns See page 14. • Sustainable agriculture • Meetings Local communities • Community health and safety • Community impact assessments We invest in community projects in the countries where we operate. See page 35. • Community wellbeing • Social dialogue We stepped up our volunteering efforts in Brazil to further deliver on our commitment • Education and training • Community projects to build strong communities. See page 36. • Environmental stewardship • Volunteering Employees and trade unions • Labour and human rights • Internal communication channels We have regular safety committee meetings to discuss site-specific safety issues. See page 23. • Diversity and inclusion • Safety committees We offer regular EHS training and run a dedicated employee Learning Management System. • Learning and development • Employee training See pages 23-25. • Dialogue with trade unions 66% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. See page 26. • Collective agreements Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 43 Our materiality Our stakeholders Our partnerships Our partnerships Collaboration is key to better understanding and sensitively addressing the many diverse and complex sustainability challenges we face as a company and as an industry. We work with stakeholders from across the public, private and NGO spheres towards a long-term, positive impact. We are part of the Abrinq Foundation, We are a member of the Cerrado We are member of the Na Mão Certa Soy We are signatory to the Soy Moratorium Cerrado which defends the human rights of children Working Group (GTC), whose mission (On the Right Track) Programme of Moratorium and uphold its principle to not finance or Working the Childhood Brasil, which brings and adolescents in Brazil, with a particular is to eradicate deforestation and native source soy produced on deforested Group companies, government and NGOs focus on rights to education, health and vegetation conversion in Brazil’s Cerrado farmland in the Amazon after July 2008. protection. Biome, reconciling the production of together to eliminate the abuse We are audited by independent parties soy with environmental, economic and of children and adolescents on annually to ensure our compliance with social interests. Brazilian highways. this principle. We contribute to the development of We are a member of Cotton made in We joined the PCI Corporate Action We are a member of the Soy Working AgroIdeal, an innovative tool used to map Africa, an initiative that improves the living Group with the objective to support Group (GTS), a multi-stakeholder group and facilitate sustainable soy production conditions of cotton farmers in concrete sustainable agriculture projects made up of producers, traders, civil expansion in South America. Sub-Saharan Africa while promoting in Brazil’s Mato Grosso State, on human society, government and retailers, working farming practices that protect the rights, labour, the environment and to ensure the Amazon Soy Moratorium’s environment. anti-corruption. environmental protection achievements are maintained for the long term. We are a member of Better Cotton We are a member of the Getting to Zero With support from Proforest, we are We are a Tropical Forest Alliance Steering Getting Initiative, a major multi-stakeholder Coalition, committed to decarbonising the building a clearer understanding of the Committee member. In this way, we join to environmental and social profile of our initiative working to make sustainable shipping sector by bringing commercially other members in supporting Zero palm oil supply chain and defining cotton the norm. viable zero-emission vessels into multi-stakeholder efforts towards ending Coalition operation by 2030. actions to mitigate supply chain risks. deforestation in agricultural supply chains. We are member of BSR, a global We are a member of the Green Grains We are a member of the Roundtable on We are signatory to the UN Global Green not-for-profit organisation that works with Protocol of Pará, which bans financing or Responsible Soy (RTRS), a civil Compact, which unites more than 10,000 Grains sourcing of soy associated with illegal organisation that promotes responsible businesses worldwide in a collective effort more than 250 companies and other Protocol deforestation or forced labour in the state production, processing and trading of to respect its ten principles on human partners towards a fair and sustainable world. In 2019 we worked with BSR on of Pará, Brazil. We receive annual external soy on a global level, to ensure socially rights, labour, the environment and human rights impact assessment of our audits to ensure our compliance with equitable, economically feasible and anti-corruption. global operations and key supply chains. this commitment. environmentally sound soy production. We are on the Strategic Advisory Group of Our sustainability strategy is guided We are a member of the Roundtable on As a member of the World Business Business for Nature, a global coalition of by the Environmental and Social Sustainable Palm Oil, a not-for-profit Council for Sustainable Development influential organisations and leading Performance Standards of International organisation that unites oil palm (WBCSD) and its Soft Commodities businesses taking action and seeking Finance Corporation, one of our producers, processors and traders, Forum, we partner with our sector government commitments to reverse the shareholders. consumer goods manufacturers, peers to collectively monitor progress loss of nature. retailers, investors and NGOs to develop on transparent and traceable soy and implement global standards for sourcing in Brazil’s Cerrado. sustainable palm oil. Contents About us Our strategy Managing sustainability 44 Join the conversation cofcointernational.com/sustainability sustainability@cofcointernational.com Global Headquarters Route de Malagnou 101 1224 Chêne-Bougeries Geneva, Switzerland Got a concern? Report it: integrityhotline@cofcointernational.com Tel: +41 22 528 6888 cofcointernational.com/integrity-hotline
