ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 ALDI SOUTH Group July 2020 1 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 FOREWORD Dear reader, Simply, responsibly, consistently – this is how we conduct business in our 11 national markets and with our business partners. We believe that efficient business processes and collaborative relationships are the best way to drive change in the key areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are proud to be the first discount food retailer to join the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and I am pleased to confirm that the ALDI SOUTH Group is committed to continuing its support of the ten UNGC principles and has continued to make positive progress in 2019. This report not only highlights how we have successfully advanced projects and initiatives in cooperation with our partners, it is also part of our ongoing commitment to be more transparent concerning actions relating to our sustainability activities. Please feel free to send us your questions and comments via email to responsibility@aldisouthgroup.com. Anke Ehlers Managing Director Corporate Responsibility International (CRI) on behalf of the national organisations of the ALDI SOUTH Group July 2020 2 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally HUMAN RIGHTS proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. OUR APPROACH As an international company with global supply chains, we are aware of our responsibility to respect human rights. The ALDI SOUTH Group is certain that long-term business success can only be ensured if human rights are acknowledged and respected, protected and fulfilled. We believe that companies should be committed to respecting human rights. Our commitment Respecting encompasses adverse impact on human rights that we might cause, contribute or are directly Human Rightss linked to. OUR HIGHLIGHTS Human »»ALDI SOUTH Group joins the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI). Rights »»Enhancing the topic of living wage by engaging in the ‘IDH Living Wage Steering Committee’ as well as the ‘Living Wage initiative’ of the Partnership for Sustainable Textiles. »»In 2020, we will start to carry out human rights impact assessments (HRIAs) for Brazil nuts, coffee and avocado. AFA Project »»85,000 people in Bangladesh benefitted from the ALDI Factory Advancement (AFA) project in the past 6 years. A new approach will be piloted in Phase 2.0. Coffee »»Coffee project: Visit to smallholder farmers in Honduras. Fish & seafood »»ALDI SOUTH Group is a leading retailer for human rights in the canned tuna supply chain based on a survey by the ‘Business & Human Rights Resource Centre’. Palm oil »»The WWF Palm Scorecard for 2019 ranked the ALDI SOUTH Group as best discount retailer to be making most progress towards sustainable palm oil. OUR WORK IN ACTION AFA Fish & Supply Tropical Cocoa Coffee Cotton Palm oil Textiles Project seafood chain fruit OUR LIBRARY CR Principles ALDI Social Standards Human Rights Code of Conduct in Production Policy SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS July 2020 3 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory LABOUR labour. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OUR APPROACH The 157,000 ALDI SOUTH Group employees are the key to our success. We are an international business with a diverse workforce. We aim to be a reliable employer by offering job security, attractive remuneration and benefits, as well as comprehensive training measures and People development opportunities wherever we operate. As well as being accountable for our own activities, we are also committed to respecting human rights and improving living and working conditions throughout our supply chains. Our aspiration Responsible is that all our products are made in a responsible way and we consider human rights standards Sourcing and environmental criteria in our global supply chains from raw materials to the final production of the products. OUR HIGHLIGHTS Employee »»In 2019, a global Employee Engagement Survey was conducted. Based on the voices of our Survey employees, focus areas were identified. For 2020, concrete actions are being implemented. Health & »»All ALDI SOUTH Group countries started to implement a Health Programme and respective Wellbeing trainings were conducted for our employees. Diversity & »»An international Diversity Statement was agreed on for all ALDI SOUTH Group countries in 2019. Inclusion ALDI UK released their policy “Equal Opportunities & Prevention of Discrimination”. Diversity & Inclusion continues to be a top priority for 2020. »»ALDI UK/IE are investing in a Fairtrade Flowers Gender Empowerment Project that is aimed at enabling women to become leaders at work and in their communities. Human »»Anke Ehlers proud to be elected to amfori’s Board of Directors. Rights »»Respecting human rights in our supply chains: ALDI’s Child Labour Policy. Fish & seafood »»ALDI countries committed to responsibly sourced seafood and joined the Ocean Disclosure Project. Nuts »»Supporting the Ethical Trade Norway‘s Cashew project that strengthens labour standards in cashew nut supply chains in Vietnam. Textiles »»ALDI SOUTH Germany reports continuing progress with ‘German Partnership for Sustainable Textiles’. Social »»ALDI SOUTH Group conducted a total of 343 ALDI Social Assessments to evaluate production Auditing facilities’ compliance with our CR Requirements and ALDI Social Standards in Production. OUR WORK IN ACTION AFA Fish & Supply Tropical Cocoa Coffee Cotton Detox Palm oil Textiles Project seafood chain fruit OUR LIBRARY CR Principles ALDI Social Standards Human Rights Policy Child Labour Policy Code of Conduct in Production SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS July 2020 4 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. OUR APPROACH Our business activities have a significant impact on climate and the environment. This is a result not only of the products we sell, but also of our entire operations, from the construction and operational running of buildings to the transport of goods. Our goal is to minimise the ecological footprint of our activities. We will achieve this by lowering Protecting the our greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring that the products we offer do not have a detrimental Environment impact on the environment. OUR HIGHLIGHTS Climate »»Environmental projects support our carbon neutrality target. Protection »»The ALDI SOUTH Group set the goal for each individual country to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per m² of sales area by 30% by 2020. In 2018, all ALDI SOUTH Group countries achieved the reduction goal two years ahead of time. »»A new climate strategy beyond 2020 will be developed based on criteria of the Science Based Target initiative. Cocoa »»Joining forces: ALDI engages in the Retailer Cocoa Collaboration to tackle issues such as deforestation in the cocoa sector. Deforestation »»ALDI urged Brazilian government to stop Amazon destruction for the production of soy. Detox »»Four years ago, the ALDI SOUTH Group committed to the goals of Greenpeace’s Detox campaign and has made great progress to reduce the negative impacts of chemical-based production processes used in the textile and footwear industry. Palm Oil »»Since 2018, we use sustainable RSPO-certified palm oil in 100% of our own-brand food and nonfood products. »»ALDI SOUTH Group pushes for greater action on deforestation and exploitation free palm oil. Textiles »»ALDI SOUTH Germany’s sustainable textiles are marked with the ‘Green Button’. OUR WORK IN ACTION Climate DeforeSupply protection Detox Packaging Palm oil Textiles station chain OUR LIBRARY CR Principles ALDI Social Standards Code of Conduct in Production SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS July 2020 5 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OUR APPROACH As an international company the ALDI SOUTH Group and our employees are obliged and committed to complying with the respective laws of all the countries where we operate. In addition to the requirements defined by national and international law, we are committed to upholding our own set of ethical values and standards. The international ALDI SOUTH Group Code of Conduct defines our expectation of integrity and legal compliance. It sets the minimum standard for the national Code of Conduct Codes of Conduct, which provide guidance for our employees worldwide. OUR HIGHLIGHTS Compliance »»Across the ALDI SOUTH Group, Compliance organisation is tasked with implementing the Compliance Framework prioritising Anti-corruption and building a strong culture of Compliance. »»Internal Anti-corruption policies were updated in 2019. National Compliance Officers in all countries are point of contact regarding Anti-corruption topics. Additionally, Compliance trainings addressing Anti-corruption topics were rolled-out in the ALDI SOUTH Group countries. »»AlertLines and Counsels of Trust are continuously used as channels to anonymously report any instances of potential non-compliance issues. Social »»Since 2018, all high-risk non-food commodity groups of the ALDI SOUTH Group are integrated Auditing into our Social Monitoring Programme. »»ALDI SOUTH Group conducted a total of 343 ALDI Social Assessments to evaluate production facilities’ compliance with our CR Requirements and ALDI Social Standards in Production. ‘Bribery and corruption’ is one of the areas these assessments look into. OUR WORK IN ACTION Supply Textiles chain OUR LIBRARY CR Principles ALDI Social Standards Code of Conduct in Production SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS July 2020 6 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 By measuring our progress we can continuously understand the effectiveness of our actions and PERFORMANCE highlight the areas where we are already making strong progress, as well as other areas where further action is required. 2018 2019 STATUS GOAL RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AFA Project: Phase 2.0 ALDI Social Assessments (ASAs) conducted 388 343 Corporate Responsibility Supplier Evaluation (CRSE): 100% 100% All high-priority commodity Textile business partners integrated groups integrated RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Cocoa: Products containing certified cocoa 86% 88% 100% in 2020 Coffee: Sustainable coffee tonnage 56% 55% Cotton: Sustainable cotton tonnage 25% 100% in 2025 Fairtrade: Certified products (incl. Fairtrade-sourced ingredients) 334 686 Fish & seafood: Responsibly sourced fish and seafood 88% 89% 100% in 2020 Forestry: Certified/recycled wood-based own-brand 100% in 2020 71% 79% products (ALDI US: 2021) Palm (kernel) oil: Certified palm (kernel) oil in our 100% 100% 100% in 2020 own-brand products Tropical fruit: Certified bananas and pineapples sold 100% in European and US stores PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Company Carbon Footprint: Reduction of operational greenhouse gas emissions per m2 of sales area -30% -30% in 2020 (change compared to 2012) Carbon-neutrality of ALDI SOUTH Group countries 5 7 Zero carbon Food waste: Stores cooperating with charitable 93% 92% organisations to donate unsold food Packaging: Own-brand products with certified/ 100% in 2020 37% 53% recycled paper-based packaging (ALDI US: 2021) Refrigeration: Stores using more environmentally82% 87% 100% in 2025 friendly refrigerants ANTI-CORRUPTION Social Monitoring Programme (SMP): Non-food 100% 100% 100% production facilities with a valid social audit report ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Women in management positions 43% 43% Employee Engagement Index in employee survey 83% New In progress Completed Ongoing SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS July 2020 7 ALDI SOUTH Group UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2019 Legal Notice Published by: HOFER Kommanditgesellschaft Zweigniederlassung Global Sourcing & Corporate Responsibility International Alte Bundesstrasse 10 A-5071 Wals UID-Nr. ATU24963706 Commercial register: FN 26451z, Regional Court of Wels Version 1.0 as of July 2020 Contact: Corporate Responsibility International (CRI) responsibility@aldisouthgroup.com Please see cr.aldisouthgroup.com for more information on our international corporate responsibility activities. July 2020 8
