annual report 2019 02 Corporate Governance 04 06 07 16 01 Corporate governance structure 17 Our Environmental Risk management Commitment Growth Strategy 17 48 Ethical conduct 26 Key environmental milestones 05 Leadership strategy in 2019 27 49 Appendixes 03 Presentation Turning challenges into Sustainability throughout the opportunities entire life cycle of our projects 06 63 Message from our CEO 27 54 Materiality analysis and New projects Environmental performance stakeholder relationships 08 30 58 Outlook 2020 Visitor experience Environmental management 65 Our Social evolution by country Economic Performance 09 33 Commitment Who we are 2019 Results Incresasing the value 65 Employment 10 for brands 38 Our ESG culture 19 34 Employees 67 NEINVER Certifications Financial Performance 11 Digitalisation 42 Business model 21 Local Communities 68 Strategic alliances to jointly 35 Environmental Indicators 12 invest in the outlet industry Investment and 43 NEINVER in figures sustainable management Accesibility in our centres 69 23 44 About this report 13 Leasing 36 International footprint Sector participation Responsible partner 70 24 45 GRI Content Index 14 Brands’ sales and visitors to our portfolio Responsible supply chain 2019 Highlights 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 2 A year inside NEINVER Another year striving to be the best partner for brands, visitors, employees, partners, investors and society. Delivering value through commitment, effort and passion. NEINVER Offices, Madrid 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 3 Introduction (102-46) This document contains the 13th edition of NEINVER’s Annual Report, an integrated report incorporating the Group’s activity and main results in 2019; its environmental, social and governance (ESG) systems; and initiatives providing a basis for sustained growth, strategy and information. NEINVER’s ESG commitment reflected in this report aims to progress in the company’s sustainability roadmap for 2016-2020 and contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals which are most relevant to the company’s activity. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, as specified in point 102-54 of the GRI content index. Vicolungo The Style Outlets, Italy 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 4 01 Presentation We are a leading European developer, investor and property owner and manager. In 2019, NEINVER celebrated its 50th anniversary. Much of our success comes from the company’s high specialisation in the outlet sector. Our efficient and specialised asset management and 360° approach have been key to continuously increase footfall, sales and the assets’ value. Roppenheim The Style Outlets, France 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 5 Message from our CEO (102-2, 102-10, 102-14) First of all, let me start this message with a As part of our expansion few words to deeply remember our dearest strategy, we strengthened our Chairman, Founder and Father, José María leadership in Poland with the Losantos, who was taken away from us opening and acquisition of silently and surely too early. He was an Silesia Outlet through Neptune, inspiration for all of us and example of our joint venture with TIAA true kindness. He devoted all his efforts (represented by Nuveen Real to developing and expanding NEINVER Estate). The centre, which has always thinking how to give back to been rebranded as FACTORY everyone around him more than he took. Gliwice, is well suited to He was a great man, enthusiastic and position itself as a key shopping full of energy; a visionary that saw things destination in the Silesia region. before the rest, someone who converted With the acquisition of this everything he touched into an opportunity centre, we currently co-own a and whose values have transpired to all of portfolio of 15 assets, reinforcing us as well as making the foundations of the our position as a strategic company’s culture. Our personal tribute to partner for acquiring, developing him will be to continue working like he did, and managing outlet assets. with humility and tenacity making sure we leave a greater and better legacy that he Last year we laid the cornerstone left behind for us. of Amsterdam The Style Outlets, our first project in the I present NEINVER’s Annual Report Netherlands. It’s moving forward for 2019, a year of robust growth for at full speed and is scheduled the company and, most importantly, a to open at the end of 2020. I milestone as we celebrated NEINVER’s am convinced that Amsterdam 50th anniversary. The company has The Style Outlets will become evolved greatly over these five decades, a landmark retail destination in driven by an innovative, entrepreneurial Europe and another flagship nature that has positioned us as a market in our portfolio, perfectly leader in several European countries. As exemplifying our commitment to part of this change, last year we relocated creating successful destinations our headquarters to Madrid’s city centre, whose appeal goes well beyond settling in a beautiful, modern open-space shopping. after 15 years in an emblematic building we had developed on the outskirts of the Enhancing visitors’ experience and city. And amid the impact of the recent increasing the value of our strongest outlet health crisis in almost every sector of centres also took centre stage in 2019 as we the economy, including in our business, this ability to adapt is proving to be one started refurbishing several centres in our portfolio. Investment in these renovations “2019 was a year of the most important skills to survive the challenges to come. helped increase visitors’ spending, expand some of the most successful brands at the of robust growth for Over the past year, we continued taking centres, and introduce premium offerings, among other advantages. Last year the company and solid steps towards our goal of leading the European outlet industry, thanks to we defined a strategic approach based on four pillars to keep increasing our a milestone as we our three levers: expanding our European footprint through strategic opportunities, centres’ value proposition: strengthening the centres as destinations, increasing celebrated NEINVER’s differentiating our centres by creating a memorable visitor experience, and being the newness component, leveraging customer knowledge, and offering visitors 50th anniversary“ the best partner for brands so that together, a “phygital” (physical + digital) journey. One we can achieve our common goals. of the greatest challenges in today’s retail Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets, Italy 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 6 retail business is that we must now million visitors over the course of compete for consumers’ time, and this requires a deep customer focus the year, a 3% like-for-like increase compared to 2018. “He was a great man, enthusiastic and full in every decision we make. But the year’s achievements go In 2019, we also earned AIS far beyond these figures. We accessibility certification for all our centres in Spain, to make them physically accessible to everyone. In also continued defining a strong ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) culture to ensure that of energy; 2020 we will certify the rest of our portfolio in Europe. We also renewed everything we do, from development to management and investment, a visionary that saw things before the the BREEAM In-Use certification aims to maximise long-term value of our entire portfolio, increasing for both the company and all our our commitment to the sustainable stakeholders while guaranteeing management of our centres. transparency in our operations. Our score in GRESB, a key benchmark rest, someone who converted everything Defining a solid growth strategy of companies’ ESG performance, includes supporting brands’ rose by more than ten points in strategies and goals. In 2019, we 2019. Defining a strong ESG culture defined and implemented several projects to position ourselves as has proved vital to reacting quickly, wisely and in a manner that supports he touched into an opportunity and the best partner for brands, so we our stakeholders when companies continue growing together. This and society must face complex includes supporting their expansion situations such as the COVID-19 plans through the best solutions and refurbishing continuously our crisis we are facing now. whose values have transpired to all of us centres. The goal is to offer brand The outlet segment has been the partners flexible solutions, provide rising star in the retail industry since ongoing support to boost their long ago, with the most robust sales, and obtain detailed consumer insights by implementing and outlet centres showing strong increases in customer traffic and as well as making the foundations of the integrating several strategic digital sales. In 2020 the outbreak of the tools such as geolocation systems, COVID-19 virus forced a European transaction trackers and loyalty lockdown and will conclude in a programmes. All these efforts will help us continue decline in retail sales, however it’s our ability to adapt and our flexibility that will make us come out stronger company’s culture“ looking to the future from the front and ready for the next challenge. line and have already yielded results in 2019 as we increased brand Our outlet centres have already sales by 7% to €1.047 billion. shown great resilience in previous Moreover, the centres operated by recessions thanks to the company’s NEINVER welcomed more than 45 intensive management model, the attractiveness of its offer for consumers and, now more than ever, “The year’s the brands’ eagerness to use the outlet channel for their commercial achievements needs. We will continue building on this leadership and putting a steady go far beyond the commitment to creating value for all our stakeholders. Our flexibility and figures. We also courage in embracing change, our specialised, talented team and our continued defining a ambitious goals make me confident that these first 50 years are just strong ESG culture half the story of what we believe NEINVER can accomplish. José María Losantos, that impregnates NEINVER’s Founder and Chairman everything we do“ Daniel Losantos 1936-2020 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 7 Outlook 2020 The COVID-19 crisis has affected NEINVER’s operations in 2020, forcing a temporary closure of all the outlet Despite the shops’ closure, the company continued security and maintenance services in the centres and SUPPORTING TENANTS’ NEEDS centres we manage in Europe, except for some units was able to move forward with refurbishment of Getafe in the retail parks in Spain and Poland, exempted as The Style Outlets in Madrid and Megapark in the sellers of essential goods. Basque Country, as well as construction of Amsterdam Managing the challenges of the COVID-19 crisis has on individual solutions to help each brand, approaching The Style Outlets in the Netherlands, scheduled to required the coordination and effort of both retailers and this on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the open on Q4 2020. operators. From the beginning, NEINVER has followed particular situation of each centre, the different national up closely with retailers and helped them by providing regulations and the long-lasting relationship that different releif agreements. The company has worked NEINVER has always had with its brand partners. COVID-19 HYGIENE AND SAFETY PROTOCOLS AND PROCEDURES NEINVER has worked collectively across the Group, hygiene standards and with social distancing rules. adopting best practices and procedures so shoppers COVID-19’S FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL IMPACT can enjoy their visit in full confidence. In line with this The measures include hygiene stations throughout the commitment, the company has obtained certification centres; larger cleaning and maintenance teams for of the hygiene and safety protocols and procedures proper hygiene and disinfection of all areas, especially implemented in the centres it operates. The centres in the busiest zones; improved cleaning procedures for the Making an overall, clear assessment of the financial Outlet centres have proved more resilient than other Germany, Spain, Italy and Poland were certified through ventilation systems; capacity control at the centre and impact on the company, will depend on several retail channels in periods of economic uncertainty, due SGS, the world’s leading inspection, verification, testing ensure safety compliance; reinforcement of instructions factors, including on how quickly the market recovers. to their “smart shopping” concept and as a channel for and certification company, and in France by the inspection to visitors, with special emphasis on compliance with However, the temporary closure of the centres will have brands to sell overstock, so the company expects its and certification firm Socotec. social distancing (defined routes to walk through the a negative effect on NEINVER’s net turnover for 2020 outlet portfolio to perform well in the coming months. centre and marled waiting areas); and limiting or adapting and will also reduce operating costs. To minimise the NEINVER estimates that this situation will have a greater These certifications are part of the “Shop Safe, Stay Safe” some services to meet safety requirements. financial impact, NEINVER immediately started to focus operational and financial impact in Q2 2020 and will programme, an initiative NEINVER has launched across on short-term liquidity, reducing costs and negotiating gradually start to normalise from Q3 2020, with the its European portfolio to prioritise the health and safety The company has also provided support to tenants, so agreements with tenants. goal of returning to pre-epidemic sales volumes while of its customers and employees. The “Shop Safe, Stay their shops would comply with all guidelines established maintaining all sanitary requirements. Safe” commitment ensures compliance with the strictest by the authorities. SOCIAL MEASURES The centres in NEINVER’s portfolio have always taken For a company with a European footprint, managing an active role in the local communities to which they regulatory compliance regarding health and safety was an belong, helping to boost local economies and building all-hands issue. With the emerging pandemic, NEINVER long-term bonds with different stakeholders. In Spain, the had to embrace bold decisions to contain the spread of company has followed up closely with the communities COVID-19, adapting to a new way of operating in record to cooperate and contribute to local needs during the time, prioritising the health and safety of employees health crisis. NEINVER centres have made themselves and staff throughout the centres, as well as visitors. available to local councils and hospitals in the area to This includes incorporating health and safety measures facilitate contacts and procedures between different that go beyond those required by local authorities and entities, and centres have donated bottles of water and increasing flexibility so employees can work from home blankets to the closest hospitals. whilst also putting effort into preserving and returning to “business as usual” wherever possible. Getafe The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 8 Who we are (102-16) NEINVER mission, vision and values COMMITMENT TO CREATE LONG-TERM VALUE NEINVER is a Spanish multinational company specialised in Our mission Our vision managing, developing and investing in commercial property. To develop, acquire and manage commercial To be leaders in the European retail property assets that meet the expectations of sector and consolidate ourselves as an The leading outlet centre operator in Spain and Poland, and stakeholders, ensuring sustainable, longinternational reference for the quality and term growth that generates value for excellence of the projects developed and the second largest in Europe, has two commercial brands: society. services offered. The Style Outlets and FACTORY. Founded in 1969, NEINVER manages 18 outlet centres and 5 retail parks, including assets under development, and over 800 brands, in six European countries: France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Spain and the Netherlands. Pioneers Adaptability Our knowledge of the European market and experience in managing the entire property cycle—from location scouting Our values Team and Experience Talent to finance, development, leasing and asset management— have made us a strategic partner for commercial projects. Entrepreneurial Effort and This, along with the strength of our brands, our solid style Passion geographic diversification strategy and our thorough market Commitment Trust knowledge, ensures the viability and success of our projects. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 9 Our ESG Culture (102-16, 102-18, 102-20, 102-46) Acting responsibly and transparently towards all stakeholders and the environment is an integral part of NEINVER’s DNA and business strategy. In 2019, the company continued defining a strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) culture, permeating every business activity under the supervision of the corporate ESG committee, which sets and oversees the implementation of NEINVER’s ESG strategy. As part of its comprehensive approach to responsibility and transparent accounting, this report informs on the company’s leadership and internal organisation (chapter 2), the company results and our portfolio in 2019 (chapter 3), the progress of our business strategy (chapter 4), our social commitment to all our stakeholders (chapter 5), and our environmental milestones and performance (chapter 6). The company’s efforts to further strengthen its ESG culture are reflected in the GRESB benchmark report, which assesses property companies’ ESG performance, with almost 1,000 participants. In the 2019 report, we raised our overall score from 69 points in 2018 to 82 points out of 100, well above the peer group average of 72 points. We also increased our star score to 4 out of 5, which means that we are in the second highest percentile of companies participating in the assessment. We are excelling in terms of certifying our portfolio with sustainability standards -with 90% of our portfolio certified under BREEAM in-Use, implementing monitoring and energy management systems, and addressing risks and opportunities related to ESG. Moreover, thanks to the implementation of strict sustainability criteria in our asset management model, we scored above the average on environmental performance. The comprehensive approach of our ESG strategy was validated again in 2019 by the obtention of the GRESB Green Star, which recognises those entities with scores higher than 50 on both the Management & Policy and the Implementation & Measurement dimensions. In 2019, Neptune, our joint venture with Nuveen Real Estate, was shortlisted once again for the GRESB-BREEAM Award for responsible investment for large portfolios. The NEINVER ESG Committee is a cross-functional senior management committee comprising members of the Group’s Executive Committee and managers from the technical, legal and communications departments. It is responsible for (i) setting general ESG strategy, (ii) developing and implementing initiatives and policies based on that strategy, (iii) monitoring and assessing ESG developments, (iv) pursuing initiatives to promote ESG internally and externally and overseeing communications with stakeholders regarding ESG. The ESG Committee met four times in 2019 to review the ESG strategy and provide input on our approach to environmental targets, corporate governance and social properties. All the members of the ESG Committee have ESG factors included in their performance objectives. GRESB score BREEAM in 2019 in-Use in 82 90% Increased support to United Nations’ Sustainable Development points of our portfolio Goals 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 10 Roppenheim The Style Outlets, France Business model (102-2, 102-6) SPECIALISATION IN THE RETAIL SECTOR*1 NEINVER is a leading property company in the the sector, the company has strengthened its position over over development, investment and management of commercial assets, especially in the outlet sector. in Europe by signing strategic agreements with key partners to develop and/or manage its own, co-owned 23 18 540,000 1,600 800 Thanks to its long track record and specialisation in or third-party assets, diversifying its business model. retail of which m of GLA 2 *2*3 stores top centres*2 outlets brands Since it opened its first outlet centre in 1996, the the European outlet sector in terms of the surface area company’s growth strategy has focused on specialising managed, and the leader in Spain and Poland. in outlet assets, primarily under The Style Outlets and FACTORY brands. Over the years, both the number of visitors to the centres and brand turnover have registered sustained Building a mutually beneficial, long-term relationship growth, allowing brands and investors to continuously PROPERTY CYCLE SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT MAP with the brands at the centres and being able to adapt increase their profits. This growth has been inclusive, the assets and their offer to the needs of consumers, positively impacting on the local community through including an attractive commercial mix, exclusive job creation and infrastructure development, under services and a unique shopping environment, have strict sustainability standards throughout the entire been key to establish NEINVER as a leading operator in property cycle. Management Design Asset management Designing and developing innovative projects of Asset management is one of the the highest sustainability standards adapted to company’s main business areas, client and market needs. contributing to its long-term commitment to its assets and maximising value for investors, OUR OUTLET BRANDS brands and consumers. Investment management The excellent profits as a fund manager and investment manager, as well as the strategic partnerships with institutional investors, highlight the company’s ability to maximise the return on its investments. Development Leadership Extensive experience in developing a wide range of Experience logistical assets, business parks, offices, shopping Commitment and leisure parks, and outlet centres. Innovation Flexibility Sustainability Finance Managing the relationship with financial institutions to obtain funds, with the aim of financing new projects, as well Commercialisation The Style Outlets FACTORY as renovating and/or improving Confidence of over 800 brands with an existing ones. average asset occupancy percentage of 96%. *1 Last update: June 2020 *2 Includes centres under development *3 Gross Leasable Area 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 11 NEINVER in figures in 2019 (102-7) OIBDA MANAGED GLA VISITS € 26.9 M 540,000 m (= 2018) 2 68.2 M (+3.6% vs. 2018)*1 MANAGED NET TURNOVER PORTFOLIO VALUE OCCUPANCY RATE € 95.1 M 1,460 M 96% (-8% vs. 2018) (-2% vs. 2018) (= 2018) BRANDS’ SALES AT NEINVER’S NEINVER GROUP GROSS BANK DEBT PORTFOLIO EMPLOYEES € 371.1 M € 1,303 M (+6.1% vs. 2018)*1 288 (+3% vs. 2018) (+4% vs. 2018) *1 Like-for-like comparison, not including results for FACTORY Gliwice, opened in March 2019. Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets, Italy 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 12 International presence (102-4, 102-6) Poland Spain Nº. OF CENTRES 6+1 under development Nº. OF CENTRES 8 GLA 114,800 m 2 GLA 265,600 m 2 VISITORS 16.4 M VISITORS 40.1 M SALES € 273.3 M SALES € 553.8 M DIRECT EMPLOYEES 80 DIRECT EMPLOYEES 132 Germany France Nº. OF CENTRES 2 Nº. OF CENTRES 1+1 under development GLA 32,900 m 2 GLA 47,600 m 2 VISITORS 3.4 M VISITORS 1.9 M SALES € 118.8 M SALES € 119.7 M DIRECT EMPLOYEES 29 DIRECT EMPLOYEES 17 Italy Netherlands Nº. OF CENTRES 2 Nº. OF CENTRES 1 under development GLA 58,700 m 2 VISITORS 6.3 M LEASABLE 19,000 m 2 SALES € 244.6 M DIRECT JOBS 2 DIRECT EMPLOYEES 28 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 13 2019 Highlights The company laid the cornerstone of its first project in the Netherlands, Amsterdam The Style Outlets, which will feature 115 stores spread over 19,000 m² Among the sustainability milestones, the company of GLA. Located in one of the wealthiest and most obtained the AIS accessibility certification for Vicolungo The Style Outlets completed most of densely populated regions of Europe, the project is its entire Spanish portfolio and extended the ISO the refurbishment works started in 2018, including moving forward to open by the end of 2020.. 45001 certification across almost the entire portfolio a big new canopy, a new information point, a new lounge room and a new playground. In 2020, the in Europe. Moreover, it obtained the BREEAM refurbishment will be completed with the opening New Construction certification for Amsterdam NEINVER’s outlet portfolio sales grew by 7% of the Kinder+Sport Joy of Moving park, one of the The Style Outlets and started the renewal of its in 2019, totalling €1.047 billion. Moreover, the largest entertainment spaces ever created in an portfolio’s BREEAM in-Use certifications. centres operated by the company welcomed more than 45 million visitors over the course of the year, outlet centre. a 3% like-for-like increase compared to 2018. In line with NEINVER’s ESG strategy and its commitment to maximising the value generated for all NEINVER opened Silesia Outlet in Poland, its stakeholders, the company improved its GRESB jointly acquired with Nuveen Real Estate. The global environmental, social and governance (ESG) centre, with 12,000 m² of commercial space and benchmark for real estate assets score to 82/100, 60 shops featuring top domestic and international from 69/100 in 2019. brands, was rebranded as FACTORY Gliwice. NEINVER started refurbishment works at its two largest and most consolidated outlet centres in Spain: Getafe and San Sebastian de los NEINVER celebrated its 50th anniversary. Reyes The Style Outlets, located in Madrid. The NEINVER’s roots go back to 1969 in La Rioja refurbishment of both centres aimed to enhance the (Spain), where the company built and managed shopping experience and increase the commercial warehouses for famous La Rioja wine companies. offer by adding new stores and enlarging some of Industrial warehouses, logistic centres and turnkey the current units. Works at San Sebastian de los developments, including the first industrial park in Reyes centre were completed by the end of 2019, northern Spain, were the company’s main business while works at Getafe were completed in June focus during the first decades. NEINVER later 2020, adding a dozen new brands to the line up. entered the outlet business in the Nineties. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 14 02 Corporate Governance Our corporate governance structure and policies define strict levels of ethical and transparent guidance that permeate all company activity. Halle Leipzig The Style Outlets, Germany 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 15 Corporate governance structure (102-18, 102-19, 102-22, 102-25) NEINVER’s corporate governance policies define a clear The work of Daniel Losantos, NEINVER CEO, and commitment to transparency, reporting, compliance Carlos González, Managing Director of the company, and a focus on sustainability. These policies serve as together with the remaining Steering Committee a framework for the company’s values, management members, has been crucial for achieving sustained model and all business activity. growth and consolidating its leading position in the European outlet industry. NEINVER’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE NEINVER’s corporate governance structure is based on the following bodies: • The Steering Committee is the operational body, • The highest corporate body is the General whose main role is to strengthen the organisation’s Shareholders’ Meeting, comprising Losantos family different strategic focal points and to monitor representatives, to whom 100% of the share capital business activity. belongs. They are not involved in the day-to-day running of the company, but they do receive a • Lastly, NEINVER’s Corporate Governance structure periodic report from the management. is supplemented by an Advisory Council, formed of independent external professionals with a broad • The Board of Directors is the group’s highest executive expertise, whose role is to advise the company on body, responsible for long-term company strategy. certain strategic matters. BOARD OF DIRECTORS NEINVER’s top executive body. It takes responsibility for the company’s long-term strategy. ADVISORY BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Oversees the business from the perspective of each core area of the company. 66% 33% The governance bodies include directors from diverse diversity of thought and enabling the company to respond backgrounds with international experience, bringing a more quickly to changes in its markets. Carlos González MD y Daniel Losantos CEO 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 16 Risk management (102-30) Ethical conduct (102-12, 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 205-2, 206-1) The Code of Ethics is the main document guiding the protection policy, introducing clauses in tenant and actions of NEINVER employees, setting out the daysupplier contracts and in the contracts among the to-day principals of conduct, which employees are different Group companies. Moreover, the company expected to apply to their relationships with all company has adapted its Italian compliance model to the latest María de la Peña stakeholders. In this regard, many NEINVER employees regulatory changes. Legal Director are accredited by RICS (MRICS), an organisation which accredits property and construction sector experts, As a signatory of the 10 principles of the United Nations serving to ensure international compliance with ethical Global Compact since 2012, NEINVER’s commitment standards in the property sector. against corruption and fraud is unwavering. In 2016, the Criminal Compliance Scheme was introduced, a Regulatory compliance and respecting free competition criminal risk prevention protocol in line with criminal continue to be the cornerstones of the company’s legislative trends. The introduction of this scheme activity. Therefore, the legal department closely means that NEINVER has a confidential email address monitors the existing and future standards in each for complaints, queries and suggestions. In addition, country where the company has a presence. It is worth the company has a disciplinary system in the event of noting that there are no anticompetitive elements in non-compliance. its business relationships, such as radius clauses. In 2019, NEINVER continued to work on implementing This compliance system is based on a set of policies “The procedures the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulations, as well as to their legislative development and procedures, including: conflict of interest policy, confidentiality policy, “acceptable use” of computer and/ established by locally in each country where the company is based. This work has included adapting the employee data or electronic equipment policy, and Data Protection policy, among others. our robust risk management plan let us avoid potential threats and minimise their impact should their occur” NEINVER’s Steering Committee has continued to A manager has been assigned to monitor and define actively work on updating the Risk Map, which is a an action plan aimed at mitigating or even eliminating summary (COSO methodology) of the company’s main each of the risks considered as the most significant for strategic, operational, compliance and reporting risks the company. prioritised by impact and probability. This document provides a first-glance assessment of the company’s In addition, NEINVER has a crisis manual to deal with risk exposure. In 2019, an action plan was established potential emergencies at its assets, and to help define to mitigate or eliminate each one of the main risks to the different scenarios and action protocols in each crisis the company’s activity. situation. This manual was thoroughly updated in 2019. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 17 03 2019 Results NEINVER’s experience in the outlet industry and its market knowledge allow the company to continuously increase its assets’ value and operational results. Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets, Italy 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 18 Financial performance (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) NEINVER’S MAIN FINANCIAL FIGURES (million of euros) NET TURNOVER NEINVER Group has an OIBDA of €26.7 million for decline in net turnover, which fell by 7.7% to € 95.1 the 2019 financial year, representing an 8% decrease million in 2019. 2019 2018 2017 compared to the previous year, mainly due to lower revenues following the strategic disinvestments made Furthermore, staffing costs and other operating €95.1 €103.0 €88.6 in 2018. This reduction has been partially offset by expenses have fallen by 10.3% and 5.2% respectively, lower operating costs and higher rental incomes due to the cost reduction policy implemented by the from owned assets and management fees, given the Group and the fact that one-off expenses were incurred centres’ strong performance in 2019. The portfolio’s in 2018, which have not been repeated in 2019. increased rental incomes have also offset part of the OIBDA (Operating income before depreciation and amortisation) 2019 2018 2017 €26.9 €29.2 €30.2 Carlos González EBITDA (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) Managing Director 2019 2018 2017 €26.6 €39.6 €34.5 ASSETS “2019 was a 2019 2018 2017 solid year in both €742.2 €773.5 €913.6 operational and financial terms, with excellent GROSS BANK DEBT 2019 2018 2017 performances at our centres and better €371.1 €364.9 €466.4 results than the previous year, which exceeded company GROUP 1 GROSS BANK DEBT objectives” 2019 2018 2017 €90.9 €100.4 €176.8 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 19 * Bank debt excluding the non-recourse debt of proportionally consolidated corporate groups to NEINVER PILLARS OF NEINVER’S FINANCIAL STRATEGY Economic value distributed: €103,153 million (102-9, 102-15, 201-1) NEINVER’s financial strategy is based on the 4. Reducing bank debt by continuing to disinvest in following pillars: non-strategic assets. 1. Increasing recurring revenues and promoting 5. Increasing the value of its financial holdings, this double diversification, both functional (leasing being a store of value for the company. assets and providing management services) and geographical. The creation of shared value is reflected by distributing economic value among the different SHAREHOLDERS 2. Efficiency in its operating income statement by increasing revenues and controlling operational stakeholders: to suppliers through operating costs, to employees through salaries and social benefits, 19% expenses. to financial institutions through financial costs and to public administrations through taxes and licences. 3. Reducing finance costs. €19,575 M PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS 5% €5,268 M SUPPLIERS 49% € 103,153 M FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS € 50,652 M 9% € 9,280 M EMPLOYEES 18% €18,378 M Montabaur The Style Outlets, Germany 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 20 Strategic alliance to jointly invest in the outlet industry (102-2) Lorena Diez Soler Finance Director “Signing alliance In 2019, NEINVER and Nuveen Real Estate (on behalf France, Poland and the Netherlands). In addition of TIAA) strengthened their 2014 strategic alliance to being a co-investor, NEINVER is responsible for and partnership (Neptune) with the acquisition of Silesia Outlet in continuously analysing investment opportunities Poland, which was later rebranded FACTORY Gliwice. thanks to its market knowledge and expertise in centre agreements is part of The centre is Neptune’s sixth asset in Poland. management to maximise profits and value. Thus, the joint venture formed in 2014 to create a Amsterdam The Style Outlets is set to open at the leading outlet centre platform in Europe increased its portfolio to 15 assets – including the Amsterdam end of this year. Strategically located just 10 minutes from Schiphol Airport and with a catchment area of 13 the company’s growth The Style Outlets development with a gross value of c. €1.375 billion across five countries (Spain, Italy, million people, the centre will be the joint venture’s first outlet centre in the Netherlands. strategy. International investors value NEINVER’s experience in the outlet sector Neptune’s acquisition and development history and the company’s proven track Country 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL ASSETS record in increasing SPAIN Acquisition of Viladecans The Style Acquisition of Nassica, and three The Style Outlets 5 assets’ value and Outlets centres in Madrid* (Getafe, Las Rozas and San Sebastián de los Reyes) and opening of performance” Viladecans The Style Outlets FRANCE Acquisition of 50% of 1 Roppenheim The Style Outlets NEPTUNE’S KEY INDICATORS ITALY Vicolungo The Style Outlets* Castel Guelfo 2 The Style Outlets Creation of Gross Number of the fund Leasable Area (GLA): countries POLAND Acquisition of FACTORY Warsaw FACTORY Warsaw Ursus* FACTORY Gliwice 6 2014 331,420 m 2 5 * Annopol, FACTORY Krakow and Futura Park Krakow NETHERLANDS FACTORY Poznań* Amsterdam 1 Assets Market value (in millions) GLA (m2) Rents (in millions) The Style Outlets 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 *1 These assets belonged to the IRUS ERPF (European Retail Property Fund), which NEINVER wound up in 2017 with a 9% return. 14 assets + 1 13 assets + 1 €1,375 €1,302 € 331,420 €319,345 € 94.7 € 93.9 asset under asset under development development * Includes one asset currently under development, Amsterdam The Style Outlets. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 21 NEPTUNE’S GROSS ASSET VALUE BY COUNTRY 3% 15* 24% Under development NUMBER OF ASSETS NETHERLANDS POLAND 10% 13* OUTLETS 40% FRANCE ITALY SPAIN 23% 2 RETAIL PARKS * Includes one asset currently under development, Amsterdam The Style Outlets. NEPTUNE’S ASSET PERFORMANCE Annual sales Annual visitor increase increase +7% +4% Total brands’ Total footfall: 38 M sales: €903 M * Like-for-like growth (not including results for FACTORY Gliwice, opened in March 2020 and incorporated by Neptune in June 2020). Las Rozas The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 22 Leasing (102-6) Leasing activity in Poland was also high, influenced by the opening of FACTORY Gliwice in March 2019. Some of the major brands that signed new contracts in the Polish market included Marc O’ Polo, becoming one of the brand’s first stores of this kind worldwide. The team is responsible for bringing on board new and exciting food & beverage brands such as new gourmet format “Antonino, il banco Converse, Skechers, Jack Wolfskin, Reebok, Guess di Cannavacciuolo” and Saporè, in line with the Accessories and Geox. company’s commitment to develop an appealing In 2019, NEINVER signed and renewed 383 lease this represents a substantial increase. In terms of dining offer across the portfolio. agreements, a 11% increase compared to 2018. commercialised space, the 383 new contracts totalled In Italy, new contracts were signed in the context of Considering the challenges faced in the retail sector, 90,000 m2. the refurbishment of Vicolungo The Style Outlets. In France, Roppenheim The Style Outlets included Moreover, NEINVER has introduced Armani’s latest premium brands such as Estée Lauder, Façonnable, sustainable store in Vicolungo The Style Outlets, Hackett and Rebel Queen by Liu Jo. Number of contracts signed by country (2019) Evolution of number of contracts 2015-2019 Stephan Fickl Leasing Director 36 28 FRANCE NETHERLANDS 403 23 353 383 GERMANY 131 289 345 SPAIN “Our leasing team does 56 an outstanding job ITALY 109 working closely with POLAND 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 brands to help them develop their retail strategy and defining the Finally, in Germany, the commercialisation of In 2020, the company continues working on best commercial mix for Montabaur The Style Outlets stood out, diversifying commercialising Amsterdam The Style Outlets, which each centre. its dining options by renovating a large restaurant will open by the end of 2020 in the Netherlands. In space to make way for three different concepts: general, the growth will not be at the levels seen in Our philosophy is Starbucks, Dean & David and Pommes Freunde. The centre also incorporated new brands including 2019 due to the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. to support brands’ Puma, Geox, Petrol Jeans, Only and Thomas Sabo. expansion strategies based on flexibility, Commercialised area by country (m2) in 2019 alignment of goals and 8,982 portfolio-wide synergies” 4,889 FRANCE GERMANY 8,882 ITALY 44,762 The strong commercialisation activity, led by the space in some cases. The team also onboarded brands SPAIN Spanish market with the renovations of Getafe The such as US Polo, Marina Militare and Ecco, who joined Style Outlets, San Sebastian de los Reyes The Style The Style Outlets in 2019 to continue their international 20,400 POLAND Outlets and Megapark Barakaldo, brought a revamped expansion and enter the Spanish market for the first brand lineup. Brands such as Adidas, Nike, Inditex time. Moreover, The Style Outlets centres in A Coruña Group, Geographical Norway and Skechers, among and Viladecans, as well as Megapark Barakaldo and others, teamed up with NEINVER to enter new centres Alegra, registered record occupancy rates. 3,586 NETHERLANDS in Spain and expand their stores, tripling their retail 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 23 Brands’ sales and visitors to our portfolio Brands’ sales and footfall at NEINVER’s outlet portfolio In 2019, the main sales and foot traffic indicators grew in all the opening of Phase II in April 2018 and added ten new stores In the French market, sales and footfall at Roppenheim The continued recording solid growth in 2019. Sales across markets where NEINVER operates, with the strongest growth in 2019, including more diverse food and beverage options. Style Outlets rose by 8% and the number of visitors reached its 16 outlet centres totalled €1.047 billion, a 7% like-forperformance in Germany. Halle Leipzig and Montabaur The 2 million. like increase compared to the previous year. Moreover, the Style Outlets led the positive results with double-digit increases In Spain, the six outlet centres in Madrid, Barcelona, A Coruña centres operated by NEINVER welcomed more than 45 in sales and visits. Brands’ sales at both centres rose by 15% and Barakaldo increased sales by 9% and received over 21 In Poland, the five centres received over 12.3 million visitors million visitors over the course of the year, a 3% like-for-like and footfall increased by 10% to 3.4 million visitors. The Halle million visitors, representing a 7% increase. Additionally, the and like-for-like sales increased by 3%, despite the limitations increase compared to 2018. Leipzig centre continued to show outstanding results after the Spanish portfolio recorded a 62% increase in new leases. the Sunday trading ban, which limited trading Sundays to Viladecans The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 24 04Growth Strategy In 2019, we have continued strengthening our European portfolio and increasing the value we create for brands, visitors and investors, all of this in line with our responsible investment and management strategy. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 25 Leadership strategy Outlined by the Steering Committee, NEINVER’s • Incorporating ESG criteria throughout the entire leadership strategy is based on specialisation and value creation chain. growth in the outlet sector, innovation, geographical expansion, and diversification of its business model. • Consolidating strategic alliances to strengthen its These strategic pillars rest on the following four axes: capitalisation structure and support its expansion strategy. • Increasing the centres’ profits and value through intensive management. Together with the company’s ability to understand and adapt to market needs and choose strategic growth • Strategically implementing digital tools to increase opportunities, this leadership strategy has allowed it the value created for brands and consumers, to consolidate its position as a leader in the European and to improve the efficiency of the management outlet sector and as a key partner in developing, model. acquiring and managing new projects, continuously increasing its centres’ profits over recent years. Intensive management Digital platform Strategic alliances Geographic Specialisation Adaptation expansion in the outlet to market needs and business industry diversification ESG criteria 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 26 Turning challenges into New projects (102-10) opportunities (102-15) NEINVER is committed to continue growing its asset In 2019, NEINVER continued strengthening its leading CHALLENGE portfolio in Europe by managing and developing new position in the outlet sector through the incorporation properties, whether owned by NEINVER or under of FACTORY Gliwice, the progress of Amsterdam The partnership agreements, both in markets where we Style Outlets’ construction works and the renovation already operate and by expanding into new countries. of some of its most consolidated centres. Moreover, the company renovated an office building in Madrid to The company’s geographic expansion strategy focuses on growing in the outlet establish there its new headquarters. sector. Taking into account the limited opportunities and regulatory restrictions to develop new projects, our market knowledge and sector experience are key for Geographic assessing and designing successful ventures. expansion Country Sector Project Type GLA m2 Stores Poland Retail FACTORY Gliwice New development/ 12,000 m2 70 acquisition Consumer needs and expectations change quickly, pushing the retail sector to Netherlands Retail Amsterdam The Style Outlets New development 19,000 m2 115 reinvent itself and evolve to adapt to market needs. In this challenging context where shopping centres are no longer only seen as places to go shopping, NEINVER continues to strengthen its value proposition and the experience of Italy Retail Vicolungo The Style Outlets Renovation 34,200 m2 148 its centres by bringing together unique spaces, consumer-focused services and Shopping traditional elements of sectors such as hospitality and leisure. experience France Retail Alpes The Style Outlets New development 20,400 m2 96 Spain Retail Getafe The Style Outlets Renovation 20,000 m2 66 Spain Retail S. S. de los Reyes The Style Outlets Renovation 23,500 m2 99 The strategic long-term partnership with the brands at its centres, working closely with them every day, is key for understanding their needs in a complex Spain Offices Headquarters office building (Madrid) Renovation 3,700 m2 environment, supporting their strategies, and maximising the return and value of Partnerships the centres. Spain Retail Megapark Barakaldo Renovation 81,600 m2 87 with brands Today, the physical shopping process starts by searching for information online. In recent years, NEINVER has been working on introducing different technologies to offer a consistent shopping experience through any channel and make shopping at the centres more convenient, personalised and exciting. Digital transformation ESG criteria are an increasingly relevant factor for all company stakeholders. Within its solid ESG strategy, NEINVER is committed to maximising value creation for society, continuously reducing its environmental footprint and contributing to the Sustainable Development Objectives most relevant to its activity. Responsible investment and management 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 27 FACTORY GLIWICE VICOLUNGO THE STYLE OUTLETS In June 2019, NEINVER and Nuveen Real Estate The company has completed the renovation of Vicolungo The Style Outlets in Italy, near Milan. The €9 million upgrade led (Neptune) acquired FACTORY Gliwice in Poland. The by prestigious international architecture studio Chapman Taylor includes the renovation of the main square, information new acquisition became Neptune’s sixth Polish asset point, canopies and street furniture, among other items, and the introduction of a new lounge area and kids’ playground. and its fifteenth in Europe, including one project under The centre also signed an agreement with the Municipality of Vicolungo and Gruppo Ferrero to open the Kinder+Sport development. FACTORY Gliwice, initially named Silesia Joy of Moving Park in 2020, one of the largest entertainment spaces ever created at an outlet centre. Outlet, opened in March 2020 featuring 12,000m² and 60 stores of well-known local and international brands, with NEINVER in charge of managing the outlet centre since it opened. The centre is located in Gliwice, a city in the Silesia region in the south of the country, featuring a large catchment area of over 6.5 million residents. It is also in the immediate vicinity of the A4 motorway, which connects Krakow, the Silesian Agglomeration and Wroclaw – the largest economic centres in southern Poland. AMSTERDAM THE STYLE OUTLETS In 2019, NEINVER and Nuveen Real Estate (Neptune) laid the foundation stone for Amsterdam The Style Outlets, the first outlet centre in the Greater Amsterdam area and the joint venture’s first project in the Netherlands. The centre, which has obtained the BREEAM New Construction certification in the design phase, will feature 115 stores set across 19,000m² of GLA, including 1,000m² planned for leisure areas, restaurants with outdoor seating, and walkways and gardens. It is being developed in the Randstad area, one of Europe’s wealthiest and most densely populated regions, benefiting from a catchment area of 12 million people within a 90 minutes’ drive. Moreover, the centre will be located 10 minutes from Amsterdam Schiphol Airport, with easy access to the Dutch capital and Haarlem, including a railway station a four-minute walk away. Construction works are scheduled to be completed in the last quarter of 2020. ALPES THE STYLE OUTLETS Designed in a modern “Alpine village” layout with chaletstyle shops and outdoor dining, Alpes The Style Outlets will feature 20,400m² of GLA and around 93 units in a luxury setting. Located 25 minutes from Geneva, the centre will benefit from a catchment area of 5.3 million inhabitants with the second highest purchasing power in France. It will also have direct access to the A40 motorway, a vital transport link between France and Switzerland and to popular winter destinations. Furthermore, it will be easily accessible by high-speed trains connecting Paris to Geneva, with a TGV station just five minutes from the centre. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 28 SAN SEBASTIAN DE LOS REYES THE STYLE OUTLETS In 2019, NEINVER refurbished San Sebastián de Los Reyes The Style Outlets in Madrid. The refurbishment allowed the entrance of a dozen new brands, and also extended some of the stores. Eduardo Ceballos Asset Management Director Southern Europe and the Netherlands “In 2019, we focused on refurbishing and MEGAPARK BARAKALDO renovating some of our most consolidated NEINVER is carrying out the first total refurbishment of Megapark Barakaldo since the centre opened in 2004. schemes to continue Owned by Lar España and managed by NEINVER since 2016, Megapark Barakaldo includes an outlet increasing their value for centre and retail and leisure area. The first phase of the refurbishment, including the outlet centre and retail park, customers, brands and was completed in 2019. The company is now working on the second phase, which includes the leisure and dining investors” area, and is expected to be completed in 2020. OVERALL REFURBISHMENT OF NEINVER’S NEW HEADQUARTERS In 2019, NEINVER renovated an office building in Madrid (Avenida Pío XII) to establish its headquarters there. NEINVER’s team moved to the new building in July 2019, upon completion of the renovation works. The new headquarters offer greater technological potential and have been renovated in line with the criteria of the WELL and BREEAM New Construction certifications, which focuses on the health and wellness of its occupiers. In line with NEINVER’s environmental commitment, the company incorporated energy-saving measures such as LED lighting, a Building Management System (BMS) and water-saving systems. Moreover, the location benefits from excellent public transport connections, thus reducing the need of using private vehicles. GETAFE THE STYLE OUTLETS In 2019, NEINVER began renovating Getafe The Style Outlets in Madrid, completing by midd-2020. The refurbishment has provided new relaxation areas, increased natural light, and created new spaces that are more modern, comfortable and attractive for visitors. The centre has also increased its commercial offer by introducing new units and extending the stores of some top brands operating at the centre. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 29 Visitor experience (102-2, 103-1) NEINVER complements its outlet centres’ value adapted to each of the centres and attractive and proposition of top brands and discounted prices with diverse dining options. a much more upscale experience to keep aligned with shoppers’ expectations and demand. The company’s Furthermore, the company has focused on introducing strategy includes providing unique spaces to visitors, technological tools to enable the complete integration investing and transforming the centres through of digital channels and obtain better knowledge of renovations, and offering hospitality & customer the consumer, letting the company adapt its strategy services geared towards each visitor profile to make based on data, as well as target its communication to shopping more comfortable and memorable. All consumer preferences. this, combined with a commercial mix of top brands Sebastian Sommer Marketing and Retail Director NEINVER’S RANGE OF SERVICES OFFERED TO VISITORS We provide best-in-class amenities that deliver a unique shopping experience. Some examples are listed below. *1 “Our visitors enjoy a • • VIP Programme Free parking • • Lounges for parents with young children Children’s play areas community feeling in • Electric car recharge points • Child geolocation attractive spaces that • Motorcycle parking with helmet lockers • Reading and video books for children • Shuttle bus • Free kids’ amenities offer a combination • Bicycle rental locations and mini-bike sharing service • Lost teddy bear service • • of meaningful social • Car wash service Pushchair and wheelchair hire • Wi-Fi network App with customised discounts and offers interaction, exciting • Umbrella hire (in outdoor centres) • Mobile phone charging points and portable battery loan • • in-store brand • Book sharing service Secure storage of belongings (hands-free shopping) • Wide range of dining options Image consulting (personal shopper) engagement, and • Luggage storage • Gift card • • relaxing hospitality Tourist information services Nurse’s station and defibrillator • VAT refund service for travellers • Outdoor chill-out areas options” • Currency exchange • Group package • Cash machines • Support areas and water bowls at pet-friendly centres *1 Not all services are available at all centres. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 30 CUSTOMER RELATIONS In order to improve our customers’ experience, NEINVER to a queries section on the website, email accounts for has clear procedures and protocols in place for dealing the management of each centre and information points with customer issues, providing different channels for at the centres. The aim is to handle all complaints and handling customer complaints across our centres. suggestions in a prompt and efficient manner. In 2019, the These include incident and suggestion forms, access number of complaints and suggestions was 2,277. Complaints and suggestions received by NEINVER 2019 2,277 2018 2,256 2017 2,234 Suggestions + Complaints All the information gathered is used confidentially and allow the company to gather information on customer always receives a personalised response. Moreover, expectations and make improvements where needed. customer satisfaction is a top priority for the company The ratings given by centre visitors throughout 2019 and therefore, all centres offer questionnaires to monitor show very positive results. their customers satisfaction level. The findings also Customer satisfaction by country. Source: online surveys to visitors. GERMANY POLAND 4.3/5 4.5/5 FRANCE 4.2/5 ITALY 4.3/5 SPAIN 4.3/5 S. S. de los Reyes The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 31 SAFETY AND WELLNESS IN OUR CENTRES (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 416-1, GRI-CRE6) Guaranteeing the security of its stakeholders visitors, of NEINVER’s top priorities. To that end, the company The area of Facility Management is responsible for defining, Europe-, all of which are independently verified. This is tenants, investors and community in general is one focuses on four action areas: implementing, monitoring and evaluating the appropriate a multi-site integrated management system, which is measures to guarantee the maximum levels of security, implemented at all assets of the portfolio, representing an accessibility and wellness for all the assets’ occupiers. In incentive for NEINVER and its commitment to continuous line with its Certifications Policy, NEINVER has a certified improvement. Furthermore, for buildings that have Management System which conforms to the following operated for over two years, NEINVER works with the standards: ISO 9001 for quality management, ISO 14001 BREEAM In-Use methodology, for part 1 (construction) for environmental management, ISO 50001 for energy and part 2 (management) and requiring the same rating management and ISO 45001 for occupational health and (“Excellent”) as the newly constructed buildings. Main spheres of action for stakeholders’ safety and security safety -extended in 2019 for nearly its entire portfolio in In order to improve the security systems at its centres, NEINVER monitors the number of incidents and accidents: Health Security and comfort Incidents and accidents at NEINVER’s portfolio, 2019 • Action protocols to guarantee the security of visitors and their belongings • Specific action plans to prevent 123 • Theft prevention studies the most frequent accidents Accidents 166 • Panic alarms in centre shops • Defibrillators and qualified security • Security training for NEINVER staff staff to act in case of an emergency, and first aid at all centres 2018 • Renewal of security service contracts 288 with greater provisions • Defibrillator spare parts at all Incidents 341 2019 Spanish and French centres • Noise level, light condition and air quality monitoring and control Safety and security Ensuring customer well-being is a key commitment for support and enhance the health and well-being of its for stakethe company. For this reason, in line with BREEAM Inusers. Some of the measures in place are: holders Use requirements, NEINVER delivers buildings which Monitoring thermal Family Data protection comfort, regulating the Monitoring ventilation and air Microbial control distribution of heat and/ • Plurikids: children’s play areas with • NEINVER is governed by the or cold inside buildings quality (legionella) applicable law on personal data supervisors protection • Easy family shopping • Information system audits • Children’s play areas with specific maintenance contracts Inclusive design, creating safe pedestrian routes Rest areas with Enhance natural light to promote the safety of comfortable through skylights and children, adults and people furniture and Wi-Fi control the brightness. with reduced mobility 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 32 Increasing value for brands Services NEINVER’s main services to the brands can be divided into two areas focused on: Improving day-to-day operation Attracting • Business advice • Panic button in shops customers and • Cash centres for the immediate deposit shopping experience of takings and foreign exchange • Open days • Improving the in-store customer journey • Private security • Sales training and language skills targeting • Training seminars international customer service • Shoplifting prevention workshops • Marketing campaigns to attract more visitors • Physical and digital channels to improve customer services • Advertising and promotions launched from The Style Outlets and FACTORY platforms Detailed information One of NEINVER’s key focuses in order to create By personalising tools such as e-CRM, integrating the value for its brand partners is to provide them with geolocation systems at the centres, apps, sales data the best information about its business, based on the and other information on our visitors, we can obtain data provided by our proprietary Business Intelligence previously unavailable metrics. This, combined with tools. Moreover, this data can be segmented into local regular corporate, regional and local follow-up meetings information or give a holistic view of the most relevant with our tenants and brands, generates information that KPIs (footfall, sales, conversion, average ticket, units is of great value to meet customer needs. per ticket, etc.) on a daily, weekly and monthly basis. Sharing our environmental commitment As part of our sustainability work, we partner with retailers as increasing energy efficiency (providing tenants with to collaborate and assess opportunities that assist them technical construction and energy-saving practice guides) in achieving sustainability objectives. We continue to work or involving them in environmental awareness campaigns, with tenants on a variety of sustainability matters, such such as Earth Hour or the Energy Efficiency Day. Viladecans The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 33 Digitalisation CUSTOMER INTELLIGENCE IMPROVING THE INTERNAL DIGITAL ENVIRONMENT In the retail sector, knowledge of consumer behaviour behaviour and get a full picture of all the channels At the same time, in 2019 the company worked on headquarters to Madrid city centre and in this context and preferences is a key element for adapting to that are part of the shopping experience. Through improving its internal technological structure and the new office offered greater technological potential, their needs whilst supporting brand strategies. Over the centralised analysis of this data, the company can capabilities to increase its efficiency, including migrating allowing employees to embrace the latest capabilities the last few years, NEINVER has been working on adapt the centres’ management and experience, offer all its tools to the cloud with Microsoft Office 365 for working digitally and productively. implementing technological tools that allow it to obtain real-time personalised communication, and support collaborative system. Moreover, NEINVER moved its real-time fact-based knowledge of each consumer’s the brands’ needs even more. Sergio Jiménez Systems and New Technologies Director “Over the last years we have been working on implementing internal digital tools to increase the efficiency of our management model, including a CRM platform that we continue Real-time Full customer journey view 100% reliable data content Real-time data tailored strengthening every year content and a powerful business intelligence tool, among other developments” NEINVER has been effectively developing this strategy geolocation systems at the centres, consolidating all since 2015, continuously incorporating innovative consumer information obtained through any channel aspects and areas for improvement. Some examples into a single CRM system, and creating a new loyalty of these technological tools include implementing app with customised offers and content. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 34 Investment and sustainable management (102-12) For NEINVER, sustainability is a business approach. It is a key attribute for improving our competitiveness by Aware of the importance of protecting the planet and ensuring prosperity for all, NEINVER continues to ESG ROADMAP 2016-2020 ensuring that we always do business in the right way, support the implementation of the Agenda 2030. To adhering to ethical standards, enhancing relationships that end, in 2018, NEINVER identified and reported on In 2016, NEINVER drew a road map to 2020 to operating practices. In order to report on the progress with our stakeholders in the long term, as well as four Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and their improve year on year in the company’s sustainability of the measures set in this action plan, the following mitigating our environmental impact. That is why we related targets where our business has the greatest areas: (i) environment, (ii) corporate governance scorecard shows the status at the end of 2019. focus on embracing environmental, social and good ability to drive change within our markets. In 2019, we and CSR management, (iii) work practices and (iv) governance aspects in all areas of our activity and increased our commitment and outlined our support throughout the life cycle of our managed assets. for the SDGs related to clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, reduced inequality and responsible production and consumption. 1 ENVIRONMENT 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND CSR MANAGEMENT SDG 3. SDG 6. • Develop a Certifications and Green • Develop a company-wide CSR Policy. Energy Policy. HEALTH CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION • Roll out the Criminal Compliance AND WELL-BEING • Update the Sustainable Design Guide Programme. Making efficient use of water resources and develop a Sustainable Operations Guide. • Create a Management System and a The health and safety of workers, is a key aspect in the company’s environmental strategy. To ensure the appropriate • Train employees and contractors who Risk Committee. customers, tenants and suppliers is a priority for NEINVER. The company has introduced the ISO 45001 standard for use of this resource, NEINVER shares best practices have environmental responsibilities. • Revise the Risk Map to include Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems among its visitors, employees, tenants and suppliers. • Get tenants more involved in meeting components related to ESG* and to the across its entire portfolio. goals and in environmental reporting. supply chain. • Develop Waste Management Plans. • Promote innovation. • Improve calculation of the carbon • Conduct CSR training. SDG 7. SDG 8. footprint. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY QUALITY EMPLOYMENT AND ECONOMIC GROWTH • Increase monitoring of waste water. NEINVER continuously implements energy • Get tenants to sign up to NEINVER’s optimisation measures to reduce energy NEINVER increases its staff year green energy contracts. consumption at its centres. Moreover, all the electricity on year, creating quality employment. Conversely, • Establish long-term public environmental consumed, representing 100% of the total energy creating value for society (investors, suppliers and goals. consumed at the centres, comes from renewable sources. local communities) is a variable which is immersed in every decision taken by the organisation. • Improve internal reporting. SDG 10. SDG 11. REDUCED INEQUALITY SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES As part of its social commitment, the company has worked intensively to improve accessibility at its centres, in order to make The energy efficiency of NEINVER centres and its work to improve access and transport 3 LABOUR PRACTICES 4 OPERATIONAL PRACTICES them more comfortable and safer for people with to its centres is helping to create more sustainable reduced mobility. communities. The company has certified its entire • Prevent stress and promote a healthy • Review the framework for collaboration portfolio under the ISO 50001 standard for Energy lifestyle. with tenants on sustainability. Management Systems. • Gain certification of the Occupational • Develop a Responsible Procurement Health and Safety System for all of the Policy. company’s centres. (ISO 45001). • Review the supplier pre-screening SDG 12. SDG 13. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION questionnaires to better understand how CLIMATE ACTION they manage ESG* issues. NEINVER continuously implements new Reducing greenhouse gas emissions measures to reduce its environmental throughout the entire value cycle of its footprint, focusing on energy consumption, emissions, activity is one of the main characteristics that defines water management and waste management. NEINVER in terms of sustainability. An example of this commitment is buying green energy as an electricity source for its entire portfolio. Implemented In process Not begun 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 35 Sector participation (102-13) NEINVER’S PRESENCE AT SECTOR EVENTS IN 2019* NEINVER is a member of different sector associations and maximise value creation among all its stakeholders. MARCH and organisations, participating in sector forums to In 2019, the company was also recognised by various • Breakfast AECC (Spanish Association of Shopping Centres): Living retail in a digital era (Madrid) share best practices, discover the latest sector trends organisations for its work in different areas. • MIPIM (Cannes) APRIL THE MAIN ASSOCIATIONS OF WHICH NEINVER IS A MEMBER • XXVI Meeting of Shopping Centre Managers and Directors by AECC (Zaragoza) • Shopping Centre Forum – Spring edition (Warsaw) JUNE • SIEC (Paris) Royal Institution of Family Office Managers International Council of SEPTEMBER Chartered Surveyors Meetings (FOMM) Shopping Centers (ICSC) (RICS) • Shopping Centre Forum – Autumn edition OCTOBER • Spanish Congress of Retail Parks and Shopping Centres (Madrid) Red Europea de Facility Asociación Internacional Asociación de Usuarios de NOVEMBER Management (EUROFM) de Facility Management SAP en España (AUSAPE) (IFMA) • MAPIC (Cannes) COMPANY AWARDS IN 2019 Private Equity Real Urban Land Institute Spanish Association Estate (PERE/PEI) (ULI) of Shopping Centres Polish Council of Shopping German Council of Conseil National des centres Centers (PRCH) Shopping Places (GCSP) commerciaux (CNCC) Superbrands Superbrands PRCH Retail GRESB-BREEAM Poland 2019 Poland 2019 Awards (Polish award for Council of Responsible Real FACTORY (winner) NEINVER Poland Shopping Estate Investment (winner) Centres) Large portfolio FACTORY and (Shortlisted) NEINVER (winner) Consiglio Nazionale dei EHI Retail Institute Retail Institute Centri Commerciali (CNCC) 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 36 05 Our Social Commitment NEINVER’s social commitment aims to guarantee responsible business relationships with all its stakeholders. This includes building stable and quality relationships with its employees, creating value for local communities and working with partners and suppliers that share the same values as the company. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 37 Employees (102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 102-15) HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Our people are the framework of all business actions their satisfaction, respond to social challenges and and the driving force of our success. For NEINVER, guarantee future competitiveness. We focus on the managing its human capital is essential to ensure following key pillars: Luis Meseguer Human Resources Director Fundamental pillars of human resources management “Human capital is 1 Organisational 2 3 Culture 4 Internal the key driver of NEINVER’s success efficiency Talent and values communications and sustained competitive advantage. We WHY? WHY? WHY? WHY? Pride in belonging work to create stable and quality Effectiveness Development Alignment and and commitment and efficiency and retention shared values employment and HOW? HOW? HOW? HOW? continuously increase • Review of the evaluation • Talent map. • Definition of values and • Global intranet our employees’ system. • Training and behaviours. • E-mails from management team satisfaction and • Exit interviews. • Climate surveys. development plans. • Succession plans. • Tools to enable linkage to corporate values. • Daily mailing with news on the sector wellness” • Scorecard. • Quarterly newsletter • Internal social network NEINVER focused in 2019 in maintaining a quality facilitating their work, improving workplace well-being, To ensure results confidentiality and reliability, an of NEINVER employees from all organisational areas, work environment, fostering continual development of and continuing to shape the company’s future. The independent external consultant was entrusted with across all countries where the company operates. employees through training, creating talent retention survey included highly relevant aspects such as employee managing the survey, ensuring that the data and results incentives, and attracting new talent as the business commitment to the company, organisational support, were presented as an aggregate, without the possibility Since the last edition of the survey in 2014, several evolves, always based on a framework of equal collaboration, talent attraction and retention, confidence of accessing them individually upon examination. initiatives have been introduced at the company opportunities in all fields of work. in the management, development opportunities, to improve aspects such as knowledge exchange, compensation, performance management, customer The participation rate was 85%, which is considered a internal communications and induction programmes, The company also conducted a completely confidential focus, recognition, training, structure, resources and high figure and therefore representative of the opinion among others. work environment survey Global People Survey which processes. is a valuable tool for hearing the views of each employee, 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 38 EVOLUTION OF NEINVER’S WORKFORCE (102-41, 401-1) EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL EMPLOYEES (103-1, 405-1) NEINVER is committed to stable and quality due to the opening of FACTORY Gliwice in Poland. One of NEINVER’s priorities and commitments to its and 23 women in middle management. Moreover, the employment. Its global workforce continues to employees is promoting equal opportunities, as well professional team demonstrates our compliance with increase year after year through a demanding selection For its part, the turnover ratio fell to 15.28%, while the as non-discrimination, regardless of nationality or the equality and distribution criteria that governs the process, the aim of which is to hire the sector’s best percentage of employees under collective agreement gender, in all areas and profiles of the organisation. company in terms of age and sex. professionals. In 2019, NEINVER had 288 employees decreased slightly to 61%, due to the increase in In 2019, NEINVER had 4 women in managerial roles globally, of which 89% had full-time contracts and 93% employees in countries not covered by collective had permanent contracts. The slight staff increase was agreements. Staff evolution by country Breakdown of staff by gender and country 192 288 276 33% Men 96 132 133 84 80 70 62 48 29 27 28 30 17 15 Men 2 1 18 14 15 13 11 17 Germany Spain France Italy Netherlands Poland TOTAL 2019 2018 4 1 1 Women 67% Women Germany Spain France Italy Netherlands Poland TOTAL COMMITMENT TO LOCAL AND YOUTH EMPLOYMENT NEINVER promotes job creation in the communities where it operates and helps university students in their training and in joining the job market. NEINVER supports the development of young talent through its internships and collaboration with various universities through a scholarship programme for students and recent graduates. In 2019, NEINVER collaborated with ten Spanish universities and institutions offering post-graduate degrees, including some of the country’s top-ranked universities, such as Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, el CEU, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Universidad Pompeu Fabra, ESIC and Universidad Pontificia de Comillas (ICAI/ICADE). In this respect, 14 appendices to the different collaboration agreements with Spanish training institutions were signed, allowing 14 students to have internships at NEINVER, both at the head office and at the shopping centres. The main training areas were: Marketing, Retail, Digital, Sustainability and Facility Management. Furthermore, agreements were signed with different European universities for trainings in the centres across the portfolio in the fields of Marketing, International Trade and Tourism. Specifically, in 2019 the company collaborated in Italy with the University of Turin and the Università del Piemonte Orientale di Novara, hosting 5 students who did their internships at NEINVER Italian outlet centres. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 39 PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND DEVELOPMENT (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-3) For NEINVER, improving its employees’ professional multicultural company. In order to improve language skills and capabilities is a core value for the company’s skills, employees attend courses in the languages development, as well as for job satisfaction, which is spoken at the company (English, Spanish, Italian, why it is continuously investing in staff training. French and German). This training tool is highly valued by the NEINVER team. NEINVER offers its employees a training programme, allowing them to better deal with the challenges they In 2019, the company also invested in advanced face every day, evolve with the company, keep their training and development programmes at prestigious technical and managerial knowledge up-to-date, and business schools which, together with the coaching invest in their personal and professional development. programme, has contributed to management In 2019, a training plan was created, including internal development. and external on-site courses, online courses, and mixed courses. Training was very diverse, including: During the first quarter of 2019, the “1 hour with the leisure and catering, retail, dashboards, electronic Managers” internal training initiative took place. These invoicing, visual merchandising, data protection sessions with the heads of each department aimed certification, Office 365 management, advanced Excel, to offer employees the opportunity to gain a better negotiation skills, time management, digital, security understanding of NEINVER’s activities and latest news management, emergencies, firefighting, first aid, from the company’s managers and each team. BREEAM certification requirements, environment, and facility management. In 2019, the company provided each employee with an average of 46.32 hours of training, which was divided As languages are a basic tool for work and interpersonal equally between male and female employees. This relationships, they are valued in both the selection figure represents a slight decrease, mainly due to the processes and annual training plan. Having employees decrease in those participating in language learning. At who can communicate in several languages to adapt the same time, there was a slight increase in economic to the needs of their colleagues, customers, suppliers investment in training compared to 2018 due to the and other stakeholders is key in a multinational and provision of several advanced programmes. NEINVER offers a “welcome programme” to new In order to increase employee motivation and improve employees within the onboarding process. It provides work performance, NEINVER is developing an annual detailed knowledge of the company, how it is structured, performance evaluation process for all employees, the various organisational areas, and the people who following the same criteria in all countries and integrating Investment and average hours of training at NEINVER form it, complemented by information to help acquire it directly into the definition of each person’s training global knowledge of the sector, the competition, clients plan and the variable component of their remuneration. and investment partners. Average hours of training per employee Investment in training Performance Evaluation Process Stages 1 2 3 2019 46.32 h 2019 € 146,868 2018 57.01 h 2018 € 143,031 2017 59.57 h 2017 € 136,594 Definition Meeting predefined Closure of the 2016 77.90 h 2016 € 148,935 of corporate objectives. process in a oneand operational on-one meeting objectives and between each employee-specific professional and objectives. their manager. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 40 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FAIR COMPENSATION (102-36, 401-2) NEINVER’s remuneration policy is based on international The factors that influence employee remuneration are the standards, in line with the compensation offered by the workers’ professional category, performance level and sector. Since 2016, the company has been updating degree of responsibility. NEINVER makes no distinction the market salary information with the existing band in the remuneration of its staff, as the company bases it system, in order to ensure equity and the use of on its Equality and Non-Discrimination Policy. objective criteria in the definition of salary increases. The company also employs a remuneration policy for the highest level of management, in order to encourage their commitment to the organisation through different Average salary by category, men compared action programmes. to women NEINVER provides a range of social benefits to its 2019 2018 Variation employees, in addition to their salary compensation. These include medical insurance, which is available to all Governance Body 0% employees and their immediate family; life insurance, and accident insurance taken out for all staff in all countries, Managerial 1.22 0.76 61% even though it is not compulsory. Middle management 1.21 1.20 1% In Spain, NEINVER has a flexible compensation scheme in place for its employees that each worker can choose Technical 1.05 1.01 4% according to their needs, which creates a tax benefit and includes restaurant vouchers, childcare vouchers, travel Administrative 1.27 1.31 -3% cards, insurance upgrades or training expenses. HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 403-2) As a company committed to creating a healthy work company has a mandatory manual for new employees environment, NEINVER puts the focus on the wellon best ergonomic practices and workplace accident being of its workforce. Proof of this are the excellent prevention. All of which is reinforced through an results recorded in recent years in terms of health Improvement Communication Model, which acts as a and safety. In 2019, the rate of work absenteeism communication channel for queries and improvements unrelated to professional performance decreased with regards to occupational risk prevention. slightly, with only one workplace accident recorded and no occupational illnesses. The company also organised in 2019 the Health Week to promote healthy habits among its employees, and The company’s positive results year after year are the is in process of earning the WELL certification the result of training delivered by NEINVER on occupational first rating system to focus exclusively on the impacts risks and preventive management, together with an of buildings on health and wellnessfor its new annual risk assessment per workplace. Furthermore, the headquarters in Madrid. INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS As we continue to build on a collaborative workplace and In the context of the Criminal Compliance Programme, employee engagement, internal communications play the internal mailbox for complaints, queries and Health and safety indicators a key role in this context. Our internal communications suggestions is hosted on this platform, providing an channels aim to strengthen the bonds between workers, anonymous channel to report irregular behaviour and promote values such as commitment and teamwork, send suggestions to improve the working environment. and create a unique collaborative business culture. The company also uses the following tools to Absence from work Accidents at work Occupational illnesses Days lost communicate and encourage engagement: an internal The main tool is the intranet, which has been improved daily mailing to inform employees of the company’s year after year to boost information flows and to share current affairs and sector news, a comprehensive 3.05% 4.03% 0.03% 0.03% 0% 0% 0% 0% initiatives which may be replicated in the different quarterly newsletter with department, employee and countries. In 2019, the company has worked to best practice news, and an internal social network to develop a brand new more collaborative and usershare personal and professional news. 2019 2018 friendly intranet to strengthen internal communication among its employees. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 41 Local Communities (102-15, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1) Promoting economic growth and well-being Shopping centres and outlet centres support economic growth, including local business development and promotion of In NEINVER’s commitment to create value for all its Moreover, we are completely committed to creating shopping tourism. The centres help to expand the commercial market and improve the infrastructure in the surrounding stakeholders, engaging with and being responsible positive social and economic impacts where we areas, revitalising the neighbourhoods, for instance the promotion of public transport, clean-up activities or the creation to the communities where it operates is essential. operate by promoting local employment and economic of new parking spaces. This contributes positively to the economic growth of the areas where the centre operates. Therefore, before developing a project, we analyse growth in the centres’ surrounding areas, and Furthermore, commercial assets enhance the quality of life of communities as they are spaces for visitors to shop, eat, the potential implications and implement mechanisms continuously implementing social and environmental socialise and share experiences with family and friends. to mitigate any negative aspects that it could cause. awareness initiatives. Bożena Gierszewska Contributing to local employment Asset Management Director in Central Europe For NEINVER, creating employment in the areas where it operates is crucial. In 2019, several of our centres -namely Megapark Barakaldo and The Style Outlets centres in Roppenheim, Halle Leipzig and Montabaurorganised job fairs in coordination with brands and local authorities to boost the recruitment of people in their areas. The company has also signed an agreement with different economic players in Bellegarde to promote local employment in its future Alpes The Style Outlets centre, which will create around 500 direct jobs. This type of activity demonstrates NEINVER’s commitment “Creating an enduring to promoting local employment in the places where the company develops its business activities. value in the communities where we operate is a major priority for the company and a Community engagement initiatives necessary element to guarantee a sustainable NEINVER’s centres organise several social initiatives to support the communities where the company operates. These initiatives are adapted locally to maximise the value for the specific needs of each community. For example, in 2019 leadership position. Our Halle Leipzig The Style Outlets carried out an initiative to raise funds for a children’s cancer charity. In Italy on Women’s Day, NEINVER’s Italian centres donated space to LILT, a non-profit organisation focused on fighting breast cancer. LILT comprehensive approach corners informed visitors through educational activities and by distributing information in the centres. Moreover, some centres organise charity days to donate used clothes to NGOs, and they also sponsor marathons to promote a healthy starts with the analysis of lifestyle. the economic and social NEINVER is also committed to promoting local culture by supporting different activities, including local art expositions or impact of a new project festivals, and the company’s centres in Italy even have points where visitors can share books free of charge. and goes all the way to the daily management of the centres” Promoting environmental values All NEINVER’s centres collaborate on Earth Hour, an international initiative promoted by WWF, which has become a symbol of the fight against climate change. BIOSPHERE certification. In 2019, Viladecans The Style Outlets renewed the “Biosphere In 2019, NEINVER’s centres continued organising several initiatives to promote environmental values among their Commitment to Sustainable Tourism” label, awarded by the Responsible stakeholders. For example, the FACTORY centres ran a special promotion in which customers could use a free bike Tourism Institute. The centre obtained the certification in 2018 for the service for purchases over PLN 200 to promote alternative and green transport among customers. Nassica Retail first time, becoming the first commercial establishment to gain this label & Leisure Park organised a waste management programme consisting of individual talks with tenants to share best on an international level. practices on this aspect. In Poland, FACTORY Ursus organised a fair to promote solar energy systems and connect people and businesses interested in this topic. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 42 Accessibility in our centres Centre name Viladecans The Style Outlets AIS Score **** Certification period 2017-2020 Coruña The Style Outlets *** 2019-2022 Alegra *** 2019-2022 NEINVER’s social responsibility strategy includes certification for Viladecans The Style Outlets in 2017, a broad concept of what accessibility means at its the company obtained the certification for all its Spanish San Sebastián de los Reyes The Style Outlets *** 2019-2022 centres. Therefore, it does not limit itself to only portfolio, reflecting its commitment to making it possible removing architectural barriers for people with physical for anyone to move through the centres in a comfortable Rozas The Style Outlets *** 2019-2022 disabilities, but also includes other groups who may and safe way. This was an important accomplishment, need help getting around the centres. This includes especially since the adaptations were made after the Getafe The Style Outlets *** 2019-2022 older people, children and pregnant women. Over recent centres were built and not during the design phase. In years, the company has worked intensively to improve 2020, the company plans to extend this certification to Nassica Getafe *** 2019-2022 accessibility at its centres in order to make them more its French and Italian centres. comfortable and safer for people with reduced mobility. The degree of accessibility achieved by NEINVER Following the obtention of the AIS accessibility includes: Guillermo Montis Technical Manager ENTRANCES: MOBILITY: WC: SIGNAGE: Adapted and Full. Adapted. High contrast and accessible. bimodal. “In 2019, we achieved a key milestone in our COMMUNICATION: Human facilitator LIFT: Accessible with FURNITURE: Accessible. EXTERIORS: Accessible and social commitment with and understandable capacity for with colour contrast the certification of all our signage with wheelchairs, signage. pictograms. handrails and Spanish centres under accessible push buttons (inside the AIS accessibility and outside) and certification” bimodal signage. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 43 Responsible partner (103-3, 205-2) As an upright and responsible partner, NEINVER commits accordance with its principles and values. To this end, to fulfil its partners’ expectations whilst ensuring that its the company has established a compliance structure partners operate responsibly and execute projects in through various actions: Specific anti-corruption and anti-bribery clauses.These clauses include procedures against fraudulent invoicing, procedures to prevent serious crimes against the Treasury, and procedures against tenant invoicing corruption. In case of default, the contract is terminated. Compliance questionnaires. Strict compliance with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FACTA), American standard, whereby FACTA the American government aims to prevent tax evasion, and which includes rules that apply to economic activities outside the United States. NEINVER’s partners in 2019 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 44 Responsible supply chain (102-9, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT CONTRACTING The ongoing assessment phase focuses on evaluating are assessed: compliance with the requirements and the the performance and the relationships of suppliers with quality of the product or service, capacity to respond and SUPPLIER EVALUATION the company. In this second phase, the following aspects handle to our needs and requirements, and best practices. NEINVER carries out an approval and selection process • Evidence of commitment to quality standards of its suppliers, which evaluates the impact of both the including, including ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001 products and the services of new or existing suppliers. and ISO 450001. Furthermore, it certifies their proper suitability for the company’s quality, productivity and competitiveness standards. By using this procedure, it aims to standardise • Compliance with the data protection law and antimoney laundering or anti-bribery policies. Suppliers assesment process the recruitment processes with its various suppliers; a complex task, given the business structure. • The quality of the tender, including resource efficiency, internal and external references, and compliance with The evaluation process, defined by the CSR/Sustainability, good work practices. Risk Management/ Legal, IT and Administration areas of the company, includes both a new approval process and These requirements are assessed and rated positively Phase 1 Phase 2 a ongoing assessment of suppliers. In 2019, NEINVER when selecting a particular supplier. This new initial completed the extension of the new approval process to all the countries where the company operates. assessment process for suppliers and contractors is integrated into NEINVER’s business management 1 Initial 2 Ongoing system. Furthermore, training workshops have been assessment assessment In the initial phase, a series of criteria and requirements are provided throughout the year to employees involved in its established regarding: implementation. WHAT IS EVALUATED? WHAT IS EVALUATED? QUALITY OF THE TENDER QUALITY OF THE PRODUCT/SERVICE Slawomir Madlewski • Ability to address issues such as • Evaluation of product/service quality to meet management capacity and experience. expectations such as quality of materials and Technical Manager reliability. • Development of technology, processes and upgrades related to quality. PRICE DELIVERY MANAGEMENT • Reasonable price given the quality of the • Degree of compliance with deadlines and product or service and given average market punctuality. prices. • Timely resolution of incidents, ease of contact in case of complaints. “Ensuring your suppliers INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL REFERENCES FULFILLING REQUIREMENTS share our priorities and • Degree of compliance with internal • The supplier’s references, both internal procedures and with the required information. references and those from clients, partners or values is key to create other suppliers. • Supplier’s reputation in the market. greater value for our products and services CERTIFICATIONS AND COMPLIANCE but also to minimise • Certifications for quality, the environment, risks in our supply chain” health and safety, and other issues related to the relevant business. • Degree of compliance with regulatory policies and with other possible agreements. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 45 In addition to the initial and ongoing assessments, NEINVER has a series of tools and procedures in order 3. It carries out annual audits of the tenders to guarantee compliance with the defined criteria and SUPPORTING LOCAL SUPPLIERS to guarantee responsible and transparent contracting: transparency in the entire selection process. 1. It includes environmental, social and good 4. All company employees have signed the Conflict NEINVER’s activity contributes to local employment, These purchases are mainly made for facility governance (ESG) clauses concerning labour of Interests Policy and the Ethics Code, which this being its main indicator in terms of its contribution management services (maintenance, repairs, cleaning, regulations, health and safety and environmental regulates aspects such accepting gifts, preventing to the community. To that end, the company promotes gardening, security, supplies, consulting), marketing matters in the contracting phase. conflicts of interest in contracting, and generally local purchases to boost direct employment and the (agencies, signage, advertising, etc.), legal and tax carrying out any contracting procedure according growth of its suppliers. advice, accounting services, travel agencies, property 2. It regulates the minimum number of tenders to objective ethical criteria. These tools allow the intermediation services, insurance brokerage and office required, the departments and managers company to identify potential crimes and apply NEINVER has an extensive network of local suppliers lease agreements. involved in their assessment, and the type of preventive measures. so that practically all of its purchases are made in the obligatory controls and procedures to prevent countries where the centres are located. In terms of purchases on a corporate scale, Spain and fraud linked to the supplier selection in the tender Poland are the countries where the majority are made. processes. SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT From a legal point of view, and in the interest of Conversely, as the training of suppliers is relevant for improving supplier knowledge and control, NEINVER NEINVER, it provides different activities, such as sharing distributes the “Know your Client” (KYC) questionnaire best environmental and energy practices, continuous to all suppliers. Particular emphasis is given to the personalised advice and constructive feedback on the requirement of suppliers to establish internal measures approval processes, and an evaluation of the quality to prevent money laundering and terrorism financing. level of the service provided. NEINVER’s supply chain. Types of suppliers*: • Architectural surveys • Builders Technical • Security • Maintenance • Cleaning • Head-hunters • Gardening HR Facility • Supplies • Training • Waste management • Sustainability • Licences • Authorisations Marketing Digital and Business Communication • Advertising agencies • Digital environment • Media agencies developers • Market and Satisfaction Surveys * This chart includes only the main suppliers of the company. It does not include all the suppliers. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 46 06 Our Environmental Commitment Environmental sustainability is part of our DNA. We incorporate strict sustainability criteria throughout the design, construction, renovation and management of all our schemes in order to maximise their value for all our stakeholders and to minimise our environmental footprint. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 47 Key environmental milestones in 2019 -0.5% -14.6% CO2 Energy Consumption Emissions vs. 2018 vs. 2018 Renewal of -21.5% BREEAM In-Use Water consumption Certification in our vs. 2018 entire portfolio Obtention of Close to BREEAM New Construction € 2,200,000 for Amsterdam The Style Outlets Investment in environmental (design phase) initiatives across our portfolio Viladecans The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 48 Sustainability throughout SUSTAINABLE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT MILESTONES FOR NEW PROJECTS IN 2019 the life cycle of our projects (102-11, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, GRI-CRE8) Amsterdam The Style Outlets SUSTAINABILITY IN ASSET DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION Amsterdam The Style Outlets obtained the BREEAM New Construction certification in the design phase. The Dutch AND RENOVATION outlet centre, whose foundation stone was laid in June to open by the end of 2020, is implementing high sustainability standards in line with NEINVER’s commitment to developing environmentally responsible and efficient projects. Sustainability measures at the centre are focused on providing easy access by public transport, guaranteeing efficiency The company’s commitment to sustainability begins The company extends its environmental commitment in energy and water usage, and ensuring the conscientious choice of construction materials. in the design and construction phase of new projects. to all stakeholders involved in designing and developing The Project Management department is responsible new projects, especially contractors, suppliers and for designing and developing new projects and major tenants. In the construction phase, NEINVER includes renovations that comply with strict energy efficiency and sustainability criteria in both the pre-selection and final environmental criteria. selection of contractors. Some examples of these criteria include specific requirements about the type Established in 2011, NEINVER’s certifications policy of materials used by contractors, the energy efficiency includes carrying out all new developments and renovations of the installed equipment, and the management of in line with BREEAM international methodology criteria, waste generated during the works. Likewise, NEINVER which assesses a project’s degree of sustainability. In the provides tenants with guidelines on designing and design phase of new developments, NEINVER requires installing retail and catering premises, in order to the technical project to comply with all BREEAM New comply with the company’s sustainability standards Construction environmental requirements, in addition to the established for each centre. regulations, demanding a minimum rating of “Very Good”. DESIGN PHASE CONSTRUCTION PHASE • Environmental requirements during • Sustainability criteria inplicit in: development • Technical project must comply with: • Green clauses for contractor • Necessary permits selection • Materials used Getafe The Style Outlets • All BREEAM certification • Equipment installed requirements • Waste management In 2019, NEINVER began renovating Getafe The Style Outlets in Spain. Renovation works at the centre have included • Overall execution of the works improvements in sustainability to continue increasing the centre’s energy efficiency and boost employee and visitor wellbeing. Thus, air conditioning systems have been replaced with more efficient models, LED lighting systems have been installed, natural landscaping has been added inside the centre, water saving devices have been installed in the new toilets, and the roof has been renovated, improving insulation and therefore reducing energy demand. S. S. de los Reyes The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 49 SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT CERTIFICATION THROUGHOUT THE PORTFOLIO In 2019, NEINVER renewed the BREEAM In-Use for more than two years, at all its centres in Spain, Italy, certification, which assesses both the sustainable Poland and France. construction and management of buildings operating Centre name Asset Building perfomance management Certification PART 1 PART 2 period Leticia Tejada SPAIN Sustainability Manager Las Rozas The Style Outlets Excellent Excellent 2019-2022 Getafe The Style Outlets Excellent Excellent 2019-2022 San Sebastián de los Reyes The Style Outlets Excellent Outstanding 2019-2022 “In addition to the Alegra Very Good Very Good 2018-2021 company’s commitment Coruña The Style Outlets Excellent Outstanding 2019-2022 to the sustainable Megapark Barakaldo Very Good Very Good 2017-2020 certification of its entire Nassica Getafe Excellent Outstanding 2019-2022 portfolio, NEINVER Viladecans The Style Outlets Excellent Excellent 2019-2022 continued increasing POLAND the environmental FACTORY Warsaw Ursus Excellent Excellent 2020-2023 performance score at FACTORY Warsaw Annopol Excellent Excellent 2020-2023 Futura Park + FACTORY Kraków Very Good Excellent 2020-2023 all assets by constantly FACTORY Poznan Very Good Excellent 2020-2023 implementing measures ITALY to decrease their Vicolungo The Style Outlets Very Good Very Good 2020-2023 environmental impact Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets Very Good Excellent 2020-2023 and to continue FRANCE increasing their longRoppenheim The Style Outlets Excellent Excellent 2019-2022 term value” Possible ratings: Unclasified (<10%) Pass** (25-<40%) Very Good**** (55-<70%) Outstanding****** (>=85%) Acceptable* (10-<25%) Good*** (40-<55%) Excellent***** (>70-<85%) Viladecans The Style Outlets obtained the certificate NEINVER continued increasing the score at all assets by for the first time, with an “Excellent” score in both parts investing in new measures to continuously decrease their of the assessment. The Barcelona centre thus renewed environmental impact. These include introducing water its commitment to sustainability, following its design and recycling systems, reducing light pollution, improving construction certification in 2016. biodiversity, studying sustainable drainage measures and implementing new energy saving measures. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 50 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES BY COUNTRY FRANCE • Water and energy efficiency improvements in the toilettes and breastfeeding rooms of Roppenheim The Style Outlets. POLAND • Renovation of the greenery of Roppenheim The Style Outlets. • Maintenance of bee hives at FACTORY • Installation of subcounters for energy Krakow and FACTORY Ursus. reporting. • Installation of shelters for bats at • Promotion of shared mobility options FACTORY Krakow and FACTORY among Roppenheim The Style Outlets’ Annopol. employees. • Installation of the gas metres connected to the BMS at FACTORY Ursus. • Installation of insect hotels at FACTORY Annopol and Poznan. • New containers for segregated waste at FACTORY Poznan. SPAIN • Ecological reports at FACTORY Krakow, Ursus, Annopol and Poznan. • Agreement with electrical company for the installation of electric car chargers in Spanish centres. • New rooftops at Getafe The Style Outlets to improve temperature and comfort in main access with lower energy consumption. • Installation of a water metre in Getafe The Style Outlets, integrated into the BMS to optimise water consumption. • Adaptation of photovoltaic installation at Coruña The Style Outlets to allow self-consumption. • Replacement of the fluorescent lighting systems of Coruña The Style Outlets with LED systems. • Enlargement of greenery at Viladecans The Style ITALY Outlets. • Studies for photovoltaic installations in Nassica and Getafe The Style Outlets • Water and energy efficiency improvements in one of the four toilettes blocks at Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets. • BMS system upgrade at Vicolungo The Style Outlets. • Environmental improvements during the renovation of Vicolungo The Style Outlets, including the installation of LED lighting systems and new greenery. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 51 COLLABORATION WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS (102-11) It is important for NEINVER to promote awareness and In this regard, NEINVER holds awareness raising days in improving environmental performance at the centres by collaboration with these stakeholders and continuously involving the suppliers, contractors and tenants in the improves collaboration and communication systems, so company’s sustainability standards framework. that they are increasingly more efficient. Promoting environmental improvement with stakeholders SUPPLIERS TENANTS Environmental • Be aware of NEINVER’s environmental, energy • Comply with clauses that include environmental efficiency, quality, and health and safety policy. management and efficiency requirements in requirements • Answer a pre-screening questionnaire that leasing contracts. evaluates environmental certifications. • Comply with the requirements of the Technical • Sign “green clauses” in contracts that include Guides for the premises, which are to be followed best environmental, energy efficiency and health when designing, building and managing their and safety practices. stores. • Work according to the Service Level Agreements • Best environmental and energy efficiency practice established in contracts, on which their guide for tenants. performance is assessed. • Comply with environmental legislation and use best practices. • Correctly manage the health and safety of their professionals and facilities. • Properly manage waste, especially in the case of hazardous waste. Awareness • Organisation of biannual store manager meetings where centre management meets with all store managers to present the centre’s most relevant data and remind them of environmental aspects, such as and the importance of recycling, location of bins, etc. collaboration • Ongoing training on NEINVER’s procedures and policies, as well as on specific issues considered points tools for improvement at the centre. • Action guidelines in case of emergency, for contractors and tenants. • Regular performance meetings between the person responsible for the contract and the supplier to evaluate improvements and critical points. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 52 2030 Agenda (102-15, 201-2) 2019 objectives AREA OBJECTIVE PROGRESS Obtaining the BREEAM In-Use Certify Viladecans as “Very good” in Obtained, with an “Excellent” rating in certification at Viladecans for the first time, sustainable construction and management. both parts. and renewing it in the rest of Neptune’s At the rest of Neptune’s assets it has ENERGY portfolio (NEINVER and NUVEEN joint venture) At the other assets, maintain the level and improve it where feasible. been renewed in both parts, with better scores than standard and a level up in at least one of the two parts. Achieve a base target of 100 kWh per year/m². 100% green electricity. 100% LED lighting in the whole portfolio. Certifications at NEINVER’s new Obtain the final BREEAM New Construction We have worked with these headquarters and WELL certificates after completing premises throughout the project and the works, at Excellent and Gold level, construction phase, hoping to receive respectively. the certifications in 2020. WATER Making the transition from OHSAS Carry out the transition audit from OHSAS The whole portfolio is successfully Achieve a target limit of 4.43 m3 of drinking water consumption per person/year in new18001 to ISO 45001 18001 to ISO 45001 standard at the Spanish certified in ISO 45001. and expanding the scope to the rest of centres and certify this scheme at the other construction commercial buildings. Rainwater recycling for irrigation and cleaning. centres in NEINVER’s portfolio without health the centres without OHS certification. and safety certifications. Improvements relating to occupational Implement a new tool to speed up The tool has been implemented, MATERIALS risk prevention Coordination of Business Activities procedures in Spain. and the meetings are held regularly, both internally and externally with Management system Improve the thermal insulation of new-construction buildings to 10% above the target given in Establish coordination meetings regarding contracts. ORP with all usual contracts, by centre, on an national standards. annual basis. Promote employee participation and consultation by setting up quarterly meetings between ORP managers at centre level. TRANSPORT Reviewing legal requirements Outsource reviewing the company’s legal A legal control tool has been requirements to a specialised legal consultant implemented and regular newsletters Electric car charging points in 100% of our portfolio. Mobility plans for the centres. Promoting to obtain a double check (internal and are received with the legislative news public transport where is possible and carpooling. external) for any environmental, industrial of each country. safety, risk prevention, energy efficiency requirements, etc. Create quarterly newsletters summarising legislative developments by country. WASTE Predictive maintenance Implement a predictive maintenance system The system has been implemented Establish a comprehensive waste management policy throughout the company’s value chain, based on big data at the Spanish centres and is operational. to include tracking and assessing each type of waste generated. Continuing to develop Install air conditioning frequency converters at Done energy efficiency the San Sebastian de los Reyes outlet centre. measures Introduce a new Energy Manager in POLLUTION Roppenheim The Style Outlets and expand those at the Vicolungo and Castel Guelfo outlets Use of green contracts when outsourcing services or establishing relationships with suppliers, to avoid the risk of emissions or spills of toxic substances into the environment. Photovoltaic energy analysis Carry out a detailed photovoltaic energy study The study has been completed with a in order to determine the investment viability favourable outcome and is expected at each centre. to be carried out during 2020. HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Tracking air quality in the closed centres, car parks and offices, taking special attention to Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emission levels, to ensure indoor air quality. 2020 objectives AREA OBJECTIVE MANAGEMENT BREEAM In-Use maintenance in the whole portfolio. ISO 5001 update Renew the ISO 50001 certification, adapted to its new 2018 version BREEAM In-Use Renew the BREEAM In-Use certification at Fashion Outlet Barakaldo and expand the certificate to the leisure and dining area following the renovations. LAND USE AND ECOLOGY Mobility studies Start carrying out mobility studies at the Spanish centres in order to assess alternative transport to private vehicles. Assess the proposed measures intended to improve the biodiversity of the places where the company operates (bird nests, bat boxes, bee hives, local flora, etc) Photovoltaic power Introduce photovoltaic power generation systems at two Spanish centres. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 53 Environmental performance (102-15, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) To measure its environmental performance, NEINVER order to keep improving in terms of energy efficiency and has continued working with the Carbon Desktop tool in basing its decision-making on objective data.* ENERGY CONSUMPTION (302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, GRI-CRE1) All centres in NEINVER’s portfolio have the ISO 50001 The reduction in consumption was due to the company’s certification for energy management. In 2019, the work on energy efficiency, including the installation of LED portfolio’s energy consumption fell by 6.4%. According lighting and highly efficient equipment, thermal control, to energy type, gas consumption reduced by 13.2%, among other things. All the electricity consumed at the heating energy fell by 18% and electricity by 5.1%. By centres comes from renewable sources. Furthermore, the country, the best reductions in energy consumption were company has other energy optimisation projects under recorded in Spain (-8.7%), followed by Poland (-5.1%) way for 2020, such as installing photovoltaic systems at and France (-1.2%). some centres. The results will be analysed to evaluate extending them to the rest of the portfolio in 2021. Total energy consumption (GJ) per source 66,398 GJ 8,999 GJ 1,633 GJ 2017 77,030 GJ 66,670 GJ 9,802 GJ 1,494 GJ 2018 77,967 GJ 63,251 GJ 8,512 GJ 1,225 GJ 2019 72,988 GJ Electricity Consumption Gas/Fuel Oil Consumption District heating consumption The energy use intensity per visitor and gross leasable area (GLA) continued decreasing by 4.1% and 0.25% respectively. Centre energy use intensity per visitor (GJ/visitor) 0.00219 0.00209 0.00130 Energy intensity (GJ/visitor) 2017 2018 2019 * Indicators on page 68 Coruña The Style Outlets, Spain 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 54 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Transport emissions (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, GRI-CRE3, GRI-CRE4) Greenhouse gas emissions fell by 14.6% in 2019. portfolio’s total energy consumption. In line with its commitment to reduce the carbon footprint as much as possible and promoting the use of sustainable Emissions from electric consumption were zero, as 100% of visitor and employee transport, NEINVER is carrying modes of transport. Some of its main measures include: of the electricity used at the company’s centres comes The rest of the energy consumed corresponds to natural out a range of measures aimed at preventing emissions from renewable sources. This is very significant, since gas (12% of total energy consumption) and district electricity consumption represents 87% of the company heating (2% of total energy consumption). Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2eq) 1,578 tCO2eq 1,477 tCO2eq 1,261 tCO2eq Scope 2 emissions (district heating), tCO2eq Electric vehicles Bicycle transport Public transport Carpooling/car-sharing Scope 2 emissions solutions (electricity), tCO2eq Recharge points at 70% Parking for bikes at Free transport services Service already of the portfolio. 100% of the portfolio. to the centre. introduced in Poland Scope 1 emissions and France. (natural gas), tCO2eq 2017 2018 2019 With regards to the centres’ emission intensity per visitor, the figure decreased to 0.0563 tCO2eq. To reduce employee transport emissions, the company In 2019, business trip emissions were reduced by 38% promotes the use of video conferencing instead of facecompared to the previous year. By mode of transport, to-face meetings. Furthermore, in 2019, NEINVER moved there was a significant reduction in air travel (32% less its head office in Madrid to a more central location with than 2018), which has a major impact on the company’s better public transport links, thus contributing to reducing overall carbon footprint calculation. Train travel emissions emissions caused by the daily commute to the office. were also reduced (by 21%), as were hire vehicle Centre emission intensity per visitor (tCO2eq/visitor) emissions (by 5%) and hotel stay emissions (by 32%). Greenhouse gas emissions from employee travel (tCO2eq)* 365.32 tCO2eq 0.0632 tCO2eq 0.0625 tCO2eq 0.0563 tCO2eq Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (tCO2eq/visitor) 249.47 tCO2eq 2017 2018 2019 Emissions from Emissions from Emissions from Emissions domestic and rail travel car travel from hotel stays international *1 The GHG Protocol is the most recognised international methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. This standard classifies 2018 2019 flights emissions in three scopes (1,2 and 3). The emissions calculated by NEINVER correspond to Scope 1 (Direct consumption of natural gas in the company’s boilers) and Scope 2 (emissions from electricity consumption and the importation of heat from district heating systems). 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 55 WATER CONSUMPTION (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 303-5, GRI-CRE2) WASTE (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 306-2) In 2019, a 20% reduction in water consumption was strategy. It therefore promotes efficient water use in all NEINVER is committed to properly managing waste at Waste management increased by 5.5% in 2019 due to recorded following the adoption of various measures, its processes through different actions and plans. The all its centres by encouraging waste minimisation and the increase in recyclable waste. The generation of nonsuch as installing rainwater collection tanks for gardening, company encourages best water consumption practices promoting improved segregation. In order to achieve recyclable waste reduced by 2.3% compared to the low-consumption taps and toilets, dry urinals, etc. among all its visitors, employees, suppliers and tenants this, the company involves all its stakeholders by raising previous financial year. The company sends all previously through signage and by including the concept in guides awareness and installing containers that help correctly classified recoverable fractions (cardboard, plastic, glass, For NEINVER, streamlining the use of water is a aimed at suppliers and tenants. separate waste. Since 2016, clauses have been included wood, metals, etc.) to recycling plants, so that they may key element in its environmental footprint reduction in the contract with the waste manager that have enabled be subsequently treated and reused as new materials. better waste management and treatment. NEINVER’s best water management practices Waste production (t) at centres managed by NEINVER ING METHODS SAV ER AT W 1,994 t 367 t 2,293 t Installing dry urinals. 2017 4,656 t Paper/cardboard 1,919 t 403 t 2,818 t Plastic Replacing conventional taps 2018 5,141 t with ones that improve efficiency Organic in consumption. 2,164 t 508 t 2,753 t 2019 5,426 t Introducing rainwater collection systems. Improved irrigation systems. AIR QUALITY AND FUGITIVE EMISSIONS Introducing a bacteriological wastewater treatment that ensures compliance with environmental regulations NEINVER continuously monitors CO2 emissions inside In addition, NEINVER undergoes annual specialised while extending the lifetime of its centres, if they are enclosed buildings, and in covered indoor air quality audits and measures the noise IMPR sanitation facilities and minimising car parks. These emissions are controlled through the associated with its activity, introducing the appropriate the cleaning frequency. BMS tool, which has temperature and humidity probes measures if emission limits are exceeded. Regarding OV that automatically activate recirculation or ventilation if Legionella control, NEINVER has specialised companies ED necessary according to the established parameters. that undertake cleaning, disinfection and regular reviews FF E LU at centres with risk facilities. EN TQ UALITY Total water consumption (m³) at NEINVER’s centres 2017 235,325 m3 2018 238,765 m3 Total water consumption (m³) 2019 186,899 m3 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 56 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND TRAINING BIODIVERSITY Environmental awareness is essential for maintaining NEINVER has also strengthened the environmental NEINVER has continued implementing the Biodiversity on biodiversity caused by the centres occupying the a sustainable environment for current and future communication aimed at tenants and users of all Spanish Management Plan designed and launched in 2016, with land, and to compensate by introducing measures for generations. Therefore, NEINVER holds annual internal centres by designing and disseminating environmental the aim of reducing as much as possible the impact improvement. and external training sessions on energy efficiency, waste awareness campaigns. Likewise, NEINVER continues management or certification systems. promoting campaigns and involving its tenants in initiatives such as “Earth Hour” or “Energy Efficiency Day”. Biodiversity Management Plan scope of work Planting shrubby plants Improving the management Planting key plant Establishing drip with fruits for the guidelines for nesting birds, species for the habitats irrigation in landscaped sustenance of the fauna. especially migratory and surrounding the centres. areas. protected birds. Best practices to ensure Best practices to ensure that Installation of beehives the use of ecological invasive species are not and nests. fertilisers and introduced into garden areas. pesticides. € ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENSES AND INVESTMENTS ENVIROMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COUNTRY COSTS INVESTMENTS Spain €662,477 €196,000€ Italy €318,604 €272,500 Poland €1,133,633 €125,524 France €208,982 €1,590,000 Germany €403,007 TOTAL €2,726,703 €2,184,024 Educational activites with children to raise awareness on the importance of increasing biodiverstiy. Beehives at Roppenheim The Style Outlets, France. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 57 Evolution of environmental management by country ENERGY CONSUMPTION POLAND TOTAL: 29,644 GJ -5.1% vs. 2018 TOTAL NEINVER 76,632 GJ 0.52% FRANCE TOTAL: 2,066 GJ vs. 2018 -1.2% vs. 2018 ITALY TOTAL: 3,546 GJ +6.4% vs. 2018 SPAIN TOTAL: 37,728 GJ -8.7% vs. 2018 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 58 GREENHOUSE HOUSE EMISSIONS POLAND TOTAL: 963 tCO2e -12.4% vs. 2018 TOTAL NEINVER 1,261 tCO2e 14.6% FRANCE TOTAL: 0 tCO2e vs. 2018 0% vs. 2018 ITALY TOTAL: 4.42 tCO2e +1.6% vs. 2018 SPAIN TOTAL: 292 tCO2e -21.5% vs. 2018 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 59 WATER CONSUMPTION POLAND TOTAL: 44,599 m3 +4.25% vs. 2018 TOTAL NEINVER 181,348 m3 24.05% FRANCE TOTAL: 9,995 m3 vs. 2018 -8.37% vs. 2018 ITALY TOTAL: 53,231 m3 -42.85% vs. 2018 SPAIN TOTAL: 69,480 m3 -12.55% vs. 2018 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 60 WASTE PRODUCTION POLAND TOTAL: 1,184 t +6.1% vs. 2018 TOTAL NEINVER 5,426 t + 5.5% FRANCE TOTAL: 552 t vs. 2018 +0.4% vs. 2018 ITALY TOTAL: 352 t +8.7% vs. 2018 SPAIN TOTAL: 3,337 t +14% vs. 2018 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 61 07 Appendixes FACTORY Krakow. Poland 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 62 Materiality Analysis and stakeholder relationships (102-15, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47) + FINANCIAL ASPECTOS ENVIRONMENASPECTOS ASPECTOS SOCIAL GOBERNANCE ECONÓMICOS ASPECTS AMBIENTALES TAL ASPECTS ASPECTS SOCIALES ASPECTS Legal compliance Financial Ethical ESG performance conduct Strategy Local Medium and Communities long-term Customer strategy experience and Operational satisfaction (Based on analysis of news and on consultation processes with interested parties) performance Transparency Indirect economic Adaptation Responsible impact to market Governance needs use of Employment body Economic resources Emissions Stability New proyects and INFLUENCE OF THE ASPECT Payements acquisitions Energy Stable efficiency Anticorruption, Equal channel bribery and Water opportunities for brands management fraud Commerciafol all Data lisation and employees protection centres’ brand mix Internal Health, safety CommuniAccesibility Economic and wellness of Waste visitors and cations management value Resilence Financing distribution employees ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS Unfair Mobility Strategic Competition alliances Risls and opportunities management Auditing and Compliance Responsible certifications Fair supply chain compensation Value creation Mailbox Sector through asset participation management Renewable Climate change International energy Biodiversity Professional presence production development Responsible use of lands Talent atraction and retention IMPACT ON/FROM THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS (Based on internal interviews and analysis of reports) + 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 63 TRANSPARENCY AND RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS (102-15, 102-40, 102-43, 102-44) Stakeholders Aspects of the company that interest them Communication channels • Economic, operational and sustainability performance, of both the centres and the company. • Annual reports. Investors and • Marketing and Communication Plans. • Periodic reports to partners and joint ventures about the performance of shared centres. strategic partners • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • A totally transparent process, with GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) and investors jointly • Risk, opportunity and reputation management. assessing the good governance, environmental and social aspects (ESG) of the Neptune property portfolio. • Cost and investment optimisation and increased asset value. • Periodic meetings with senior company management and with centre managers. • Certification of the centres and their management according to sustainability standards. • Website and media. • Strategy, new projects and organisational changes. • Internal memos and visual communication in offices. Employees • Training and development opportunities. • Personal interviews, briefings between management and teams. • Working environment and satisfaction in the workplace. • Intranet. • Comfortable work conditions which boost productivity. • Quarterly internal newsletter • Better work-life balance and flexibility. • Periodic air quality surveys in offices • Improved health and well-being in head office (WELL certification) • Centre results and management performance. • Reports on tenants’ progress. Tenants • Company management model. • Satisfaction surveys. • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • Regular competitions. • Actions for boosting sales. • Promoting training. • In-store efficiency measures. • Regular contact at centre and corporate level. • Bulletin boards and extranet. • Complaints and claims system. • Mystery shopper • New services, promotions and activities at the centres. • Newsletters on services, promotions and activities at the centres. Consumers • Attractive mix of brands • Satisfaction surveys • Shopping experience. • Customer service systems and mechanisms for receiving suggestions (in situ and on-line). • Social actions. • Operational screens (MUPI). • Social networks and mobile applications. • Media information. • Employment and wealth creation in the surrounding area. • Creation of direct and indirect employment. Community • Development of infrastructure and services which can be enjoyed by the whole community. • Development and improvement of infrastructure. • Collaboration agreements with institutions. • Meetings with the main socio-economic players in each area. • Support for social projects. • Collaboration and sponsorship at cultural activities and events. • Participation in cultural activities and events. • Social networks, media and information points at the centres. • Social networks, media and information points at the centres. • Channels for sharing queries and suggestions. • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • Permanent links with local and regional authorities. Institutions • Promotion of employment in groups with special difficulties. • Common action plans. • Training opportunities and first work experience for young people. • Collaboration with local employment offices. • Sustainability in the development and management of the centres. • Regulatory inspections. • Signing conservation agreements for public spaces. • Participation in events and meetings. • Actions to promote the attraction of tourism. • Collaboration Agreements with the regional or local authorities to support community social and economic development through joint programmes. • Information about the activity of the company and sector. • Meetings and interviews with managers. Media • Innovative projects or other activities at the centres (sustainability, renovations, extensions, etc.) • Participation in forums and presentations. • Publication of press articles and reports. • Website and social media. • Regular contact through one to one meetings. • General information about the company. • Participation in national and international sector conferences, events, and fairs. Sector • Promotion of best commercial practices. • Presence in the steering committees of sector organisations. • Experience exchange and business networking. • Visibility with brands and investors. Suppliers • Security and comfort to carry out their work. • On-line occupational risk prevention platform for suppliers. • Coordination meetings. • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • Periodic reports and annual accounts. Financial bodies $ • Current situation of the company. • Face-to-face meetings. • Performance of the financed assets. • Future strategy and forecasts. 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 64 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed. (201-1) Breakdown of staff by employee category, gender, and age range. (405-1) In thousands of euros 2019 2018 2017 2018 2017 Economic value generated 94,796 113,568 92,973 Employment category Age Male Female Total Age Male Female Total (Clients) Net receipts 95,070 102,998 88,609 GOVERNANCE TEAM <30 0 30-50 0 Sale of (fixed) assets -274 -9.530 4,364 30-50 1 1 1 1 >50 1 1 >50 1 1 Sale of financial assets 0 20,100 0 Total 2 0 2 Total 2 0 2 Other items (Specify) 0 0 0 SENIOR MANAGEMENT <30 0 30-50 0 30-50 6 4 10 8 4 12 Economic value distributed -103,153 -95,559 -71,719 >50 2 2 >50 1 1 Suppliers (Operating costs) -50,652 -53,301 -46,350 Total 8 4 12 Total 9 4 13 Employees (Salaries/Benefits) -18,378 -20,485 -17,400 MIDDLE MANAGEMENT <30 0 30-50 1 1 30-50 13 19 32 13 21 34 Financial Institutions (Payments to providers of capital) -9,280 -13,025 -15,497 >50 2 4 6 >50 2 4 6 Public Agencies (Payment to governments) -5,268 -5,248 7,528 Total 15 23 38 Total 16 25 41 TECHNICIANS <30 1 1 <30 2 1 3 Shareholders (Dividends) -19,575 -3,500 0 30-50 23 22 45 30-50 23 19 42 Other items (Specify) 0 0 0 >50 3 3 6 >50 4 3 7 Economic value retained -8,357 18,009 21,254 Total 26 26 52 Total 29 23 52 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF <30 10 30 40 <30 11 37 48 30-50 32 102 134 30-50 29 86 115 >50 4 7 11 >50 1 6 7 Total 46 139 185 Total 41 129 170 Employment Breakdown by contract type. (102-8) Employee training by gender, category and country. (404-1) Breakdown by contract type, 2019 2018 2017 2016 % variation causes employees covered by collective Hours of training by gender, bargaining agreements, and number 2019 2018 2017 % variation compared to the average of voluntary departures MALE 40.60 48.21 46.26 -16% Percentage of employees who are full time 89% 88% 90% 90% 1% FEMALE 49.18 61.70 66.09 -20% Percentage of employees with open-ended 93% 88% 93% 94% 6% contracts AVERAGE 46.32 57.01 59.57 -19% Percentage of employees covered by 61% 64% 61% 58% -5% Aumenta la plantilla collective bargaining agreements en los países con Convenio Voluntary departures 10% 14% 9% 14% -26% 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 65 Hours of training by employee category, 2019 2018 2017 % variation Causes compared to the average GOVERNANCE TEAM 0 0 21.00 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 36.67 27.47 40.73 33% Master Programme MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 73.68 61.94 53.68 19% Master Programme TECHNICIANS 46.09 50.84 59.46 -9% ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF 41.65 60.28 62.73 -31% Hours of training by country, compared to the average 2019 2018 2017 % variation Causes GERMANY 10.97 18.33 8.50 -40% Reduction of language lessons SPAIN 42.91 35.91 35.66 19% Master Programmes FRANCE 5.71 9.87 29.82 -42% Reduction of language lessons ITALY 20.50 26.30 33.70 -22% Reduction of language lessons POLONIA 83.60 136.07 128.21 -39% Reduction of language lessons Detailed information on parental leave. (401-3) 2019 2018 Took leave Returned Took leave Returned LEAVES M F M F M F M F GERMANY 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 SPAIN 1 3 1 4 3 7 3 6 FRANCE 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 ITALY 2 2 0 1 0 0 POLAND 4 7 0 7 0 3 TOTAL 1 12 1 15 4 15 4 9 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 66 FACTORY Annopol, Poland NEINVER Certifications ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 50001 ISO 45001 BREEAM In-Use BREEAM NEW CONSTRUCTION AIS POLAND FACTORY Poznan x x x x x FACTORY Warsaw Ursus x x x x x FACTORY Krakow x x x x x x Futura Park Krakow x x x x x x FACTORY Warsaw Annopol x x x x x x Poland Office x x x x ITALY Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets x x x x x Vicolungo The Style Outlets x x x x x FRANCE Roppenheim The Style Outlets x x x x x SPAIN San Sebastián de los Reyes The Style Outlets x x x x x x Getafe The Style Outlets x x x x x x Las Rozas The Style Outlets x x x x x x Coruña The Style Outlets x x x x x x x Nassica Retail & Leisure Park x x x x x x Viladecans The Style Outlets x x x x x x x Fashion Outlet Barakaldo x x x x x x Megapark Barakaldo x x x x x Alegra Retail & Leisure Park x x x x x x Spain Head Office x x x x x THE NETHERLANDS Amsterdam The Style Outlets x 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 67 Environmental Indicators POLAND ITALY FRANCE SPAIN ENERGY 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption Total energy (GJ) 30,129 29,196 29,644 3,577 3,426 3,548 2,137 2,083 2,066 41,188 41,927 37,728 Electricity (GJ) 24,464 24,052 25,178 3,501 3,346 3,470 2,137 2,083 2,066 36,296 35,310 32,535 District heating (GJ) 1,633 1,505 1,225 Natural gas (GJ) 4,031 3,639 3,240 75 80 78 4,893 6,616 5,193 Energy intensity Energy intensity (GJ/visitor) 0.00203 0.00203 0.00189 0.00056 0.00054 0.00054 0.00115 0.00113 0.00104 0.00146 0.00140 0.00126 Energy intensity (GJ/hour of operation) 0.332 0.315 0.278 0.060 0.057 0.058 0.0784 0.0762 0.0760 0.206 0.190 0.186 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (tCO2eq) 1,238 1,136 963 4.2 4.1 4.4 276 373 293 Scope 1 emissions (tCO2eq) 227 205 206 4.2 4.5 4.4 276 373 293 Scope 2 emissions (tCO2eq) 1,010 931 757 Emissions intensity Emissions intensity (kg/visitor) 0.093752 0.091849 0.070000 0.04854 0.04444 0.00070 0.01675 0.0218 0.0700 Emissions intensity (kg/hour of operation) 16.10987 14.50531 10.15000 0.0678 0.0744 0.0706 2.88495 3.86982 4.38000 WATER 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Water consumption Water consumption (m3) 39,915 44,248 4,599 109,021 92,877 53,231 11,198 10,878 9,995 72,057 78,981 69,480 Water intensity Water intensity (m³/visitor) 0.00287 0.00319 0.00330 0.01644 0.01501 0.0086 0.00604 0.00588 0.00500 0.00287 0.00330 0.00260 Water intensity (m³/hour of operation) 0.4783 0.5011 0.4500 1.798 1.575 0.91 0.4110 0.3978 0.3700 0.3994 0.4278 0.3500 WASTE 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Waste production Total waste production (t) 890 669 1,184 504 548 352 540 530 552 2.639 2.933 3,337 Waste production intensity Waste production intensity (kg/visitor) 0.05250 0.04999 0.07690 0.0975 0.1071 0.0667 0.2915 0.2864 0.1315 0.0924 0.0991 0.1047 Waste production intensity (kg/hour of operation) 8.2046 7.8840 12.1910 10.206 10.701 6.775 19.831 19.383 11.548 12.3303 12.9346 14.6340 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 68 About this report MATERIAL TOPICS MATERIAL SUBTOPICS COVERAGE (102-21, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-54) Organisation Outside the organisation Financial Performance Operational performance X Economic value distribution Resilience Commercialisation Company Strategy Business model X X SCOPE OF THE INFORMATION AND STANDARDS USED ESG strategy Medium and long term strategy IN THE REPORT Adaptation to market needs Stable channel for brands Value creation through asset management This report has been prepared in accordance with the Following these guidelines guarantees that the Good governance Governance body X X GRI Standards: Core option, as specified in point 102information contained in this report is reliable, complete, Legal compliance 54 of the GRI content index. balanced and clear. Furthermore, additional content Anticorruption, bribery and fraud from the GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Transparency This report has been created in accordance with the Supplement has been included in this report. Ethical conduct reporting principles listed in the 101 GRI Standard. Risk and opportunities management Fair competition Internasionalisation International presence X of operations New projects and acquisitions Financing Strategic alliances X Customer experience Customer services X STAKEHOLDERS IDENTIFICATION PROCESS and satisfaction Customer relations Health, safety and wellness of visitors Accessibility NEINVER considers as stakeholders all institutions expectations and requirements. Therefore, NEINVER Employment Workforce evolution X or individuals that may be affected by the risks and focuses on maintaining an insightful and constructive Equal opportunities for all employees opportunities deriving from its activities and services. relationship through communications channels Health, safety and wellness of employees In order to increase the value it creates for all its specifically made available for this purpose (page 64). Fair compensation stakeholders, NEINVER takes into consideration their Professional development Talent attraction and retention Supply chain Implementation of ESG criteria in the X X supply chain Environmental Environmental agenda X X performance Energy efficiency Emissions MATERIAL TOPICS IDENTIFICATION AND PRIORISATION Water management Waste management Biodiversity Mobility Auditing and certifications The process to identify the material topics most relevant 3. Validation of the information to be disclosed on the Responsible use of resources for the company and its stakeholders has three phases: material topics, in accordance with the principle Responsible use of lands of completeness and balance defined by GRI Renewable energy production 1. Identification and prioritisation of stakeholders. Standards. Indirect economic Local communities X X impact 2. Identification of material topics and their prioritisation Of all the material topics that appear in the materiality according to their importance for stakeholders and matrix, the report gives a wider coverage to those Data protection X their impact on our activities (page 63). situated in the upper quadrant. All material topics are listed on the following table. Sector participation X If you require any additional clarification regarding the information included in this document, or about the company’s sustainability performance, you can contact NEINVER by writing to the following email address: communication@neinver.com (201-1) 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 69 GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures Services, GRI Services has reviewed that the GRI content index is clear, and that the references for Contents 102-40 to 102-49 correspond to the indicated sections of the report. DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 69 GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 environmental and social topics GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 16 and its committees Organisational profile 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Board in 2019 was not an executive officer, 102-1 Name of the organisation NEINVER S.A.U. as Daniel Losantos was named CEO in late 2015 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6, 11, 21, 30 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 16 102-3 Location of headquarters Avenida Pío XII, 2ª planta, 28016, Madrid (Spain) purpose, values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance The company continually assesses the need to improve knowledge 102-4 Location of operations 13 body among its governance bodies, and in all cases promotes the most advisable initiatives 102-5 Ownership and legal form NEINVER is a corporation (sociedad anónima unipersonal) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s There is no independent performance evaluation of NEINVER’s performance highest governance body 102-6 Markets served 11, 13, 23 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environThe Management Committee and other advisory bodies promptly 102-7 Scale of the organisation 12 mental and social impacts inform the highest governance body about the most important management issues in the company, and that highest body gives 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 38, 65 its opinion and makes decisions about the most relevant issues 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 17 The Management Committee informs the highest governance body about the main identified risks and about the steps to take 102-9 Supply chain 20, 45 to manage them 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its 6, 27 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social At all its meetings, the highest governance body analyses any new supply chain topics impacts, risks and opportunities of high relevance to the company 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 49, 52 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainabiManagement Committee 102-12 External initiatives 17, 35 lity reporting 102-13 Membership of associations 36 102-33 Communicating critical concerns The Management Committee and other advisory bodies promptly inform the highest governance body about the most important Strategy management issues in the company, and that highest body gives its opinion and makes decisions about the most relevant issues 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 41 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 20, 27, 38, 42, 53, 54, 63, 64 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Stakeholders’ opinions are not solicited for this section. 61% of NEINVER’s employees are subject to Collective Bargaining, where Ethics and integrity the remuneration in its various concepts is determined. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 9, 10, 17 Stakeholder engagement behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 17 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 64 ethics 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 39 Governance 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders NEINVER defines its list of stakeholders as including all organisa102-18 Governance structure 10, 16 tions/groups that are critical to the company’s operations or are influenced by its operations 102-19 Delegating authority 16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 63, 64 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 10 environmental and social topics 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 63, 64, 69 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 70 DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS Reporting practice GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial data taken from the Group’s annual consolidated GRI 103: Management approach 2016 statements financial statement. Its scope includes NEINVER, S.A. and all its subsidiary companies 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 45,46 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 4,10, 69 103-2 The management approach and its components 45,46 102-47 List of material topics 69 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45,46 102-48 Restatements of information There are no restatements of information GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 102-49 Changes in reporting This annual report has increased its coverage on NEINVER’s Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 95% on average strategy, in line with the material topics most important for its stakeholders GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period is the year 2019, although the report also includes a brief outlook of the year 2020. GRI 103: Management approach 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report The most recent edition of the report was published last 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17 year, in 2019, with content corresponding to the year 2018 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Criminal compliance procedures to be audited every year 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report communication@neinver.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 69 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 Standards Standards: Core option 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 17, 44 102-55 GRI content index 69-73 policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no known cases of corruption during the 102-56 External assurance No external assurance was obtained for the annual report. reporting period All indicators included in it come from the company’s own annually audited management systems GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 19 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Ethical code has a specific section for Conflicts of interest, number 3.4, and it is signed by all the 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 employees. A Conflicts of Interest Policy is available for all the employees through out intranet 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Criminal compliance procedures to be audited every year GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20, 65 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 17 anti-trust and monopoly practices 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportu53 Actions related to energy are key to fighting climate nities due to climate change change, which can have various effects on the assets the company manages: water shortages, changes in energy GRI 302: Energy 2016 prices, changes in flooding patterns, and impacts on the supply chain, for example GRI 103: Management approach 2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retireThere is no benefit plan in the organisation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 54 ment plans 103-2 The management approach and its components 54 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 54 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 54 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 302-3 Energy intensity 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 54 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 54 and services 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 42 supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 42 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 71 DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 56 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 45 103-2 The management approach and its components 56 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56 NEINVER’s portfolio and headquarters are certified 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 under ISO 14001 standard, environmental management system, with external audits on a yearly basis GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assesment 2016 GRI 303: Water 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 56 The company evaluates all its suppliers. 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 56 All NEINVER centres use the municipal water environmental criteria supply GRI 401: Employment 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal No water sources were significantly affected by of water the company’s withdrawal of water GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 103-2 The management approach and its components 55 GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 39 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 41 not provided to temporary or part-time employees 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 55 401-3 Parental leave 66 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 55 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 55 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 55 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 55 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 57 403-2 Types and frequency of accidents, occupational 41 103-2 The management approach and its components 57 diseases, missed days, absenteeism and number of deaths caused by occupational accidents or 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach NEINVER’s portfolio and headquarters are certified diseases under ISO 14001 standard, environmental management system, with external audits on a yearly basis GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 57 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills. 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 40, 65 103-2 The management approach and its components 49, 50 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 40 performance and career development reviews 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and NEINVER received no such sanctions in 2019 regulations 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 72 DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS DISCLOSURES PAGE REMARKS GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 39 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17, 32 103-2 The management approach and its components 39,41 Our Ethical Code has a specific section for Fair Remunera103-2 The management approach and its components Security management system tion, number 4.3, and it is sgned by all the employees 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Advicing and periodical external audits with external 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 65 specialists GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 39, 65 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of To date, the company has received no complaints about customer privacy and losses of customer data non-compliance in this area or requests for data deletion GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 Fullfilment with the American regulation Foreign Account GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Tax Compliance Act (FACTA), as well as local legislation in each location 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 42 NEINVER conducts this type of evaluation for all impact assessments and development programs properties GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential When developing new properties, none of the socio-eco419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the The company has not received any significant sanction in the negative impacts on local communities nomic impact studies found any severe negative impacts social and economic area last year in this area GRI construction and real estate sector GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 49 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32 103-2 The management approach and its components 49, 50 103-2 The management approach and its components 32 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32 GRI: Construction and Real Estate GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Sector 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 32 NEINVER evaluates the health and safety impacts of all the CRE-1 Building energy intensity 54 product and service categories outlet and retail centres that it manages 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health There were no cases of non-compliance in this regard CRE-2 Building energy intensity 56 and safety impacts of products and services CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings 55 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 CRE-4 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse 55 for new buildings construction and renovation GRI 103: Management approach 2016 activities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30 CRE-6 Percentage of the organisation operating in verified 32 103-2 The management approach and its components Marketing procedures in ISO 9001 scope, quality managecompliance with an internationally recognised ment system: PM-01, PM-02, PM-03, PM-04, PM-05, PM-06 health and safety management system y PM-07 CRE-7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily The company’s projects have not displaced any populations displaced and/or resettled by development, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach NEINVER’s portfolio and headquarters are certified under ISO broken down by project 9001 standard, quality management system, with external audits on a yearly basis CRE-8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating 49, 50 and labelling schemes for new construction, GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 management, occupation and redevelopment 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and There were no cases of non-compliance in this regard service information and labelling 2019 ANNUAL REPORT_ 73
