CONTENTS A Welcome from Our Chairman and 02 Chief Executive Officer Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited 03 Our Approach | Key Highlights Marketplace 10 Our Approach | Key Highlights | FY19 Targets and Progress People 16 Our Approach | Key Highlights | FY19 Targets and Progress | People Data | Safety Environment 27 Our Approach | Key Highlights | FY19 Targets and Progress | Environment Data Responsible Sourcing 36 Our Approach | Key Highlights | FY19 Targets and Progress Philanthropy and Community Investment 41 Our Approach | Key Highlights | FY19 Targets and Progress About this Report 46 WELCOME MESSAGE A welcome from our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer Since our founding in 1862, Bacardi has built a legacy of doing business the right and responsible way. And when launching our new BEST10 corporate strategy in 2019, we set a goal to make the next 10 years the best years at Bacardi. We believe that objective would be impossible without corporate responsibility. That’s why one of the five key foundations to successfully deliver upon our strategy was designated, “Do the Right Thing.” What is the right thing to do? That’s a question kept at the core of every decision we make. At Bacardi, being corporately responsible in every aspect of our business is being Good Spirited. Thus, we are proud to share more of what that means in this Good Spirited Corporate Responsibility Report for Fiscal Year 2019 (April 1, 2018 March 31, 2019). It highlights our efforts around the globe to drive progress on our five Good Spirited global goals: 1. Reduce the harmful use of alcohol 2. Care for and support our people, and reflect the diversity of our global operations 3. Return to the environment at least as much as we take away 4. Source our materials responsibly 5. Take care of our communities Behind these efforts are our cultural pillars and backbone of Bacardi: The ability to be Fearless and empowered to challenge the norm and innovate; as a Family company, we will take care of each other and our communities; and our employees tackling every day with a Founder’s Mentality, always doing what is right and taking accountability to ensure the sustainability of our organization. As a family-owned company with 157 years under our belt, we don’t just think about the present day. We think about what we have contributed to the past, the long-term impact of what we are doing today, and the legacy we will leave for future generations. We are pleased to share these results and look forward to continuing the progress for the next 10 years and beyond. Facundo L. Bacardi Mahesh Madhavan Chairman CEO 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi “Celebrating moments that matter, one drink at a time.” Our Purpose Doing the right thing has been core to Bacardi since its foundation more than 150 years ago in Cuba as a single rum brand. Today, family-owned Bacardi is the world’s largest privately held spirits company in the world with a portfolio of premium brands that includes BACARDÍ® rum, GREY GOOSE® vodka, PATRÓN® tequila, DEWAR’S® Blended Scotch whisky, BOMBAY SAPPHIRE® gin, and MARTINI® vermouth and sparkling wines. While our business has grown, who we are and what we stand for remains the same after seven generations. Since its early days in Santiago de Cuba, Bacardi has been committed to giving back to communities, alcohol consumption in the 1930s in Mexico with the marketing responsibly, operating sustainably, taking wording (in Spanish), “Bacardi wants to sell, but it does care of our people, and doing the right thing. not want the money you should use to buy bread.” In From establishing schools and libraries to building the 1970s, Bacardi developed the advertising campaign, orphanages and hospitals and to even opening the “Bacardi mixes with everything. Except driving.” first museum in Cuba, the Bacardi family has set a precedent of giving back. Since then, there have been Doing the right thing drives everything that we do, many examples of corporate responsibility efforts, and we’re proud to set the bar high in developing an including an awareness campaign against excessive integrated and values-driven corporate responsibility platform we call Good Spirited. Our efforts are embedded across our business, starting with the very foundation of the company strategy and reaching the very top through the company’s purpose statement. The company strategy BEST10 was launched in March of 2019 and promises to deliver the next best 10 years at Bacardi. In BEST10, Bacardi designated “Do the Right Thing” as one of the five foundations of the strategy. It also established, “Celebrate moments that matter, one drink at a time” as the Bacardi purpose statement. With a strong foundation and clear purpose, corporate responsibility touches all facets of the business and is part of the role of all Bacardi people. 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Good Spirited Global Goals The Bacardi Good Spirited Global Goals start with our As one of the largest producers of distilled spirits in the responsibility in the marketplace. As a beverage alcohol world selling in more than 170 countries, operating producer, we know some people can misuse our more than 20 production facilities in 12 countries, and products in a harmful way, and we want to do our part employing more than 6,000 people, who are referred to reduce the misuse. Our commitment to responsible to as Primos (the Spanish word for cousin), we take drinking can be found in the purpose statement of our our responsibility seriously. From the ways we target company, “Celebrate moments that matter, one drink our marketing only to adults who choose to drink, at a time.” Encouraging responsible drinking, reducing to how we source our ingredients and the quality of the harmful use of alcohol, and preventing underage materials used to make our premium products, to our drinking are commitments that start from the top. commitment to support and care for our employees and the communities in which we live and work, Our aim is to deliver Corporate Responsibility Bacardi is committed to doing the right thing. That’s programs that make a difference and are responsive why we have a total of five Good Spirited Global Goals to stakeholder expectations. We work together with that guide our efforts across the company: other stakeholders across the industry to maximize our impact and ensure our efforts are aligned with changes and developments in the marketplace and beyond. We are active members of the organizations such as the International Association for Responsible Drinking and the Foundation for Alcohol Responsibility, and why we aligned our Good Spirited Global Goals with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (see page 7). GOOD SPIRITED GLOBAL GOALS MARKETPLACE RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 1 Reduce the harmful use of alcohol 4 Source our materials responsibly PEOPLE PHILANTHROPY AND 2 Care for and support our people, and reflect the diversity of our global operations 5 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Take care of our communities ENVIRONMENT 3 Return to the environment at least as much as we take away 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Throughout this report for fiscal year 2019 (FY19), • Bacardi aims to be an industry leader in you’ll find highlights of our commitment to environmental performance, and we continued to corporate responsibility, such as: make progress on our bold goals in 2019. With our Zero Waste to Landfill goal, we achieved 99.6% of • Bacardi celebrated being named once again waste diversion. We reduced our greenhouse gas among the most reputable companies in the emissions from our operations by 20% and our water world, as part of the annual Global RepTrak® 100 consumption by almost 10%. Overall, we were able to list compiled by the Reputation Institute (RI) and utilize our assets more efficiently even with increases in published in Forbes. Ranked at #87, Bacardi climbed production. two spots and has made the annual global list seven consecutive times. • Back in 2013, we set an initial target of sourcing from 100% sustainable sources for our sugarcane-derived products used in our BACARDÍ premium rums by FY23. By the end of FY19, we have already achieved 98.4% sustainable suppliers through working with Bonsucro and aim to reach 100% by the of FY20. • Bacardi is supporting the long-term recovery and resilience of Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria devasted • Bacardi is committed to marketing our products the area in the 2017. In FY19, Bacardi and our partner responsibly to adults who choose to drink, including Mercy Corps, a global humanitarian and development on digital channels. In this rapidly changing field, organization, provided financial grants, business CEOs of signatory companies, including Bacardi, training, and marketing support to 128 businesses and committed to standards which include five their employees in Puerto Rico. By supporting local safeguards to prevent minors from seeing alcohol businesses, the storm-affected communities get the marketing online. Bacardi brand marketing teams economic support they urgently need. worked hard to implement the safeguards, and Bacardi achieved 79% compliance in the markets audited by a third party and aims to achieve 100% by 2020. • We call Bacardi employees Primos, the Spanish word for cousin. As a family-owned company, the term carries with it the family spirit of Bacardi and reflects how connected we are to each other. We measure our performance on how well we take care of each other through our Primo Engagement Survey. In 2019, 92% of Primos shared their feedback and the results were best-in-class. 85% of our people would recommend Bacardi as a great place to work (an increase of 21% since 2017) and 89% feel proud to work for Bacardi. 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Our Approach in Context • World Health Organization’s Global Strategy Our Good Spirited Corporate Responsibility to Reduce Harmful Use of Alcohol approach is guided by the world in which we live • United Nations Framework Convention on and work. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Climate Change we commit to their principles and communicate on our progress every year. We are also mindful of other We are proud of the quality and heritage of our global standards and work in partnership with other company and our brands, and Corporate Responsibility companies, governments, and civil society to align is an integral component of our business. We invite you our targets with their goals to make a larger impact, to learn more about our work in each of our priority including: areas and our goals for the future. • UN Sustainable Development Goals For information on Bacardi CR governance, • The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code stakeholders and materiality, and our Impacts, please • The United Nations Universal Declaration visit the “Corporate Responsibility” section on of Human Rights www.BacardiLimited.com. • The Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor Organization • UN Convention on Biological Diversity 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The 2015 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) were adopted by countries to address social, economic, and environmental issues, with each goal having specific targets to be achieved by 2030. These targets provide benchmarks for measurement, and we believe that through partnerships with governments, other companies in the private sector, and civil society, we can have a positive impact on many of the goals. To support 10 of the UN SDGs that Bacardi can impact, we have set five goals with multiple corresponding targets with an end date of 2025. The new Good Spirited global goals build on past successes and look holistically at our product value chain. When setting these goals, we looked to international standards and benchmarks to ensure our targets were ambitious and meaningful. GOAL LONG-TERM TARGETS ALIGNED SDGS Support the global strategy to • Increase support of responsible drinking initiatives and reduce the harmful use of alcohol partnerships in the top 80% of Bacardi markets • Carry responsible drinking messaging and website designation on 100% of brand labels • Make available to the consumer nutrition information for all core brands • Lead efforts, along with other industry members and partners, to put in place measures and standards to ensure digital marketing messages are targeted to adults of legal drinking age only Care for and support our people, • Less than 1 Lost Time Accident per 1,000,000 worked and reflect the diversity of our hours (previously set to achieve by 2023) global operations. • Support equal opportunity and leadership for women at all levels by having at least 45% female workforce and an increase in women in leadership positions • 90% of employees participate in Bacardi’s innovative training and development programs 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED GOAL LONG TERM TARGETS Return to the environment at least • 25% reduction of water consumed (focusing on water not as much as we take away returned to original source) at our operations* • 50% replenishment of water incorporated into final product* • Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 50% and reduce absolute value chain GHG emissions (scopes 1, ALIGNED SDGS 2 and 3) 20% (approved by the Science Based Targets initiative)* • Zero Waste-to-Landfill at all manufacturing sites (previously set to achieve by 2022) • Eliminate one billion single-use plastic straws in collaboration with others (by end of 2020) • Analyze and develop single-use plastic reduction initiatives across operations and supply chain Source our materials responsibly • 100% of key raw materials sourced from sustainablycertified suppliers • 100% paper and board used for shipping and labels sustainably-certified • 100% of product packaging to be recyclable • 40% recycled content of product packaging materials Take care of our communities • 95% of Bacardi offices and manufacturing sites participate in at least one CR activity annually in partnership with local organizations • 90% of employees volunteer one work day to a personal cause or organization (My InSpirit Day) *As compared to 2015 baseline (using earliest operartions and supply chain data available). 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED United Nations Global Compact Principles UNGC PRINCIPLE BACARDI CR STRATEGY Human Rights (Principles 1 & 2) Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing Standards, which were developed Businesses should support in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which commit our suppliers and respect the protection of to comply with human rights principles. Through our Responsible Sourcing process, internationally proclaimed human in connection with Sedex, suppliers undergo self-assessments and on-site audits. In addition, our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, is in compliance with the rights; and make sure that they UK Modern Slavery Act. are not complicit in human rights abuses.. Labor (Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6) Through our People Strategy and Responsible Sourcing Standards, we respect the right Businesses should uphold the to freedom of association among all of our employees, require our suppliers to respect freedom of association and the freedom of association, and the right to collective bargaining. In addition, we do not use effective recognition of the right to forced or child labor in any of our operations. Our company Code of Conduct, which collective bargaining; the elimination applies to all our employees and third parties approved to do business with Bacardi, of all forms of forced and compulsory includes a commitment to equal opportunity and non-discrimination. labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination Our Responsible Sourcing Standards, Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking statement, and Sedex self-assessments and audits set out the same requirements for our suppliers. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment (Principles 7, 8, & 9) Our group-wide environmental strategy and policy adheres to the precautionary Businesses should support a principle. We aim to drive continuous improvement in our facilities’ performance precautionary approach to through a management systems approach. environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater Our commitment to environmental sustainability is reflected in our goals in sourcing, environmental responsibility; and packaging and operations with a focus on energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water, and encourage the development and waste. diffusion of environmentally friendly Through our Vendor Qualification Process and Responsible Sourcing Standards, our technologies. suppliers are required to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) Our company Code of Conduct details the behaviors we expect from our people and it Businesses should work against addresses issues of conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Responsible Sourcing Standards state that bribery and corruption are not tolerated. 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Marketplace at Bacardi Limited Many people drink moderately and as part of a healthy lifestyle. However, we recognize that alcohol, if abused or misused, can cause harm. As a producer of beverage alcohol, we recognize we have along with our industry partners, has supported efforts a responsibility to market our brands in such a way as to to promote responsible consumption in the countries ensure we do not target those under the legal drinking where we operate, implementing responsible drinking age and to encourage all those who choose to drink, to initiatives at the local level with the partnership of social do so responsibly. aspect organizations. Today, we continue to prioritize our Marketplace pillar and our commitment to responsible At Bacardi, we believe we have a role to play in reducing marketing and responsible drinking. the harmful use of alcohol. For almost 30 years, Bacardi, Good Spirited Global Goal: Reduce the harmful use of alcohol Increase support of Carry responsible Make available to the Lead efforts, along with other industry responsible drinking drinking messaging and consumer nutrition members and partners, to put in place initiatives and website designation on information for all measures and standards to ensure digital partnerships in the top 100% of brand labels brands marketing messages are targeted to 80% of Bacardi markets adults of legal drinking age only In 2012, Bacardi along with 10 other leading industry members, made a commitment to build on longstanding efforts to reduce harmful drinking through the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments. Bacardi and other producers came together to support international efforts to improve health and social outcomes for individuals, families and communities through a set of Five Commitments over five years. Investments were made in education, partnerships, and other programs to combat harmful drinking. Although the five-year period has come to an end, Bacardi remains committed to continuing the efforts of the Five Commitments and the 10 action areas. More information on the industry’s commitment to alcohol responsibility can be found on the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking website at ResponsibleDrinking.org. 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Bacardi is committed to marketing our products responsibly to adults who choose to drink. In FY19, the Bacardi Global Marketing Principles were reviewed and updated to ensure our internal code reflects the external marketplace and is consistent with the current global alcohol codes. It was especially critical that our code reflects the constant evolution of the digital landscape to help ensure that our marketing teams are communicating responsibly to legal drinking age consumers across social media channels. This not only includes treating the digital environment in the same way we would with all other media but taking particular care to ensure we disclose any commercial relationships with Influencers to our consumers by iLife always being open, honest, and transparent. In FY19, #Bacard Bacardi achieved 79% compliance with the safeguards to ensure responsible digital marketing. More on our When it comes to responsible drinking, Responsible Marketing performance in the digital space most can agree that it has to start with each one of us. We can make the right decisions and use our spirit of responsibility to change can be found in the Key Highlights of this section. opinion and culture. Here’s how you can start: + Enjoy responsibly and know when to stop. + Make a plan before going out, and be or use a designated driver. In FY19, Bacardi continued to have 100% compliance + Respect the choice/decision of others not to drink. + Respect the legal drinking age. with ensuring all advertising contracts include LOOK OUT FOR OUR PRIMOS. accordance to responsible alcohol advertising codes. LEAVE A GOOD IMPRESSION. ResponsibleDrinking.org MAKE RESPONSIBLE DRINKING CHOICES. Of our total volume of products produced for our priority markets, 100% contain a responsible drinking messaging, logo, or website on its label. All relevant marketing Primos, along with our third-party agencies information and tools needed to make mindful, will be trained yearly with our new online module to responsible, and healthy choices for themselves and ensure compliance to our principles. their families. More details on the campaigns can be found in the Key Highlights of this section. Bacardi, in partnership with other industry members and through local social aspect organizations, was Our efforts to reduce the harmful use of alcohol involved in more than 100 Responsible Drinking are integrated with the United Nations Sustainable campaigns across the world in FY19. From reducing Development Goals number 3: Good Health and Wellexcessive consumption to preventing underage Being. We believe we can help make progress on Target drinking to discouraging drinking and driving, these 3.5: “strengthening prevention…. to reduce the harmful campaigns reached millions of individuals with the use of alcohol,” and are taking an active role to do so. 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Key Highlights Responsible Marketing in a Digital Age These safeguards are only as effective as they are followed Since 2012, Bacardi has been committed to responsible by the industry. To ensure compliance with the digital marketing practices on digital platforms through safeguards, an audit was conducted in 2018 by the our partnership with the International Alliance for World Federation of Advertisers (WFA) and IARD. Bacardi Responsible Drinking (IARD). In this rapidly changing brand marketing teams worked hard to implement the field, it is critical that measures and standards are safeguards of the Digital Guiding Principles, and Bacardi in place to ensure our advertising and marketing achieved 79% compliance in the markets audited. While messages target adults of legal drinking age who 14 markets were audited*, we are actively striving for choose to drink. Robust responsible marketing similar performance in all commercially active markets. standards for digital channels were developed to Next year, we are aiming to achieve 100% compliance. promote best practices. CEOs of signatory companies, Together we are committed to doing our part to help including Bacardi, committed to these standards which reduce the harmful use of alcohol. include five safeguards to prevent minors from seeing alcohol marketing online: * The 14 markets audited were Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Digital Guiding Principles: 5 Safeguards South Africa, Spain, The Netherlands, and UK. 1. Include an age affirmation mechanism for all social media sites to ensure marketing communications only engage adults over the legal drinking age 2. Implement a Forward Advice Notice (FAN) stating that all content should not be forwarded to anyone under the legal drinking age 3. Promote responsible consumption, including a responsible drinking message 4. Secure transparency statement / official statement authenticating accounts 5. Make available Community guidelines on User Generated Content (UGC) policy 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Nutrition Transparency As part of the Bacardi commitment to alcohol Avtotrezvost has also gone beyond driving schools to responsibility, we believe consumers should have reach another audience in the bars. This campaign was access to the nutritional information about their rolled out on Russia’s Driver’s Day and utilized a creative product choices. Consumers interested in knowing the approach to capture the consumer’s attention. A pair calories, fat, carbohydrates, sugar, protein, salt, caffeine, of coasters, one for “drinking” and one for “driving” was and allergens of Bacardi products need visibility developed with magnets inside. When a consumer tried to that information. That is why we launched the to put the two coasters together, “drinking” and “driving” Bacardi nutrition website last year with information on physically bounced off each other. Over 7000 interactive products available in the USA, United Kingdom, France coasters highlighting that alcohol and driving are and Spain. We want more consumers around the world incompatible were distributed to consumers. to know the nutrition of their beverage choices and have continued to add more products and countries. Reducing Underage The most recent countries added to the nutrition site Drinking in Portugal were Germany, Russia, and Belgium. Details on the Following original success in site are listed by recommended serving size for each Spain, the campaign “Menores product, according to country standards. Learn more Nem Uma Gota,” (translated to on the nutrition section of “Minors Not a Single Drop,”) was https://www.bacardilimited.com/. rolled out in Portugal in 2018 with the Portuguese industry Preventing Drinking and Driving in Russia association, ANEBE (Associação Alongside other industry members in Russia, Bacardi Nacional de Empresas de Bebidas participates in the drunk driving prevention program, Espirituosas). “Avtotrezvost.” This ongoing social project to prevent drinking and driving aims to decrease the number of With the aim to reduce alcohol consumption by alcohol-related driving accidents in Russia by targeting minors by 2020, the campaign mobilizes well-known students in driving school. Developed by the Moscow voices, social organizations, and public and private State Automobile and Road Technical University, the institutions to increase the average age of beginning to educational module includes training on the influence drink by two years. In 13 schools across Portugal so far, of alcohol on the body, the laws and statistics around trainings were held to inform underage individuals of the drunk driving, and alternatives to drinking and driving. physical and mental health risks related to early drinking. With the slogan, “Not a single sip while driving,” the The trainings are designed to change perception around program is designed to promote, “a clear mind and underage drinking to make it socially unacceptable and vision while driving.” Avtotrezvost has reached 230 to help parents set clear boundaries for their children. driving schools and more than 20,000 students across The campaign doesn’t stop its reach at schools. Wider 14 regions in Russia as of 2018. audiences can access the messages and information through online videos, radio shows, and more. Watch the videos and learn more at https://menoresnemumagota.pt/. 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Encouraging “Slow Drinking” in France and Beyond The Bacardi purpose statement, “Celebrating moments that matter, one drink at time,” comes to life in the popular campaign: “Slow Drinking.” First developed by Bacardi back in 2011 in France, Slow Drinking quickly expanded to Italy and Spain to promote responsible consumption by transforming a drink into the art of tasting. Many people who drink do so in a way that enhances their enjoyment of life and sociability of enjoying a drink with others. But there are others who may drink irresponsibly – occasionally or regularly – and create health and social problems for themselves and others. That’s why risk is not just a result of how much you drink, but also of when and how you drink. The campaign helps consumers slow down by encouraging them to rediscover pleasures packed with sensations, to think about tastes, to listen to their senses and better satisfy them. It offers tips and guidance for celebrating moments that matter by taking the time to prepare, share, and savor one drink at a time. By focusing on quality and slowness, the program elevates the concept of mindful drinking. Today, Slow Drinking is a platform in many countries in Europe that delivers responsible drinking messages all year long. Through the digital channels, it fosters a community of people who are interested in mindful drinking. The community can access resources such as Top Tips the 10 slow drinking tips (listed to the right). Beyond the digital world, in 2018 the campaign has also been activated in retail stores so that the Slow Drinking messaging can be found where consumers purchase Bacardi products. More information can be found at www.slowdrinking.com. 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress FY19 MARKETPLACE TARGETS FY19 MARKETPLACE PROGRESS Maintain percentage of active priority country In FY19, we supported responsible drinking initiatives in responsible drinking initiatives and increase robustness 89% of priority countries such as the United States, France, of these initiatives. and Spain. Provide consumers access to product nutrition Nutrition information for more brands and countries information in more countries continues to be added on an ongoing basis, including most recently for Germany, Russia and Belgium Launch marketing compliance e-learning module to All new Primos in Marketing receive responsible marketing enhance training experience training during onboarding. To improve the training, marketing compliance e-learning module was developed and will be launched in 2020. Launch and communicate the New Global Marketing The 4th edition of the Global Marketing Principles was Principles to all company employees. launched with strengthened digital marketing guidelines and communicated to all marketing teams. 100% of marketing agency contracts in compliance with 100% of marketing agency contracts are in compliance with the Producers’ Commitments. the Producers’ Commitments. 100% of traditional and digital media placements have As calculated by our media agency partner, we continued at least 70% minimum legal drinking age audience. to place 100% of traditional and digital advertising in mediums with at least a 70% minimum legal drinking age audience. Often, these numbers are more than 90% for both traditional and digital advertising. Ensure all five safeguards of IARD’s Digital Guiding Achieved 79% compliance in active markets audited and Principles are in place on brand-owned social media aiming to achieve 100% compliance in 2020. channels and websites across all active markets. 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE People at Bacardi Limited Bacardi was built with a sense of being Fearless, a Founders mentality and with Family and heritage at its core. These cultural pillars of Fearless, Family, and Founders, our organization and help us realize our full potential, we underpin everything we do at Bacardi. It sets the tone ignite our culture by dialing up the distinctive aspects of for a culture that supports innovation, community the three F’s. That’s why Fearless, Family, and Founders and entrepreneurship. To unleash the power within guide our long-term goals in our People pillar: Good Spirited Global Goal: Care for and support our people, and reflect the diversity of our global operations We help our employees connect We treat each other, and our We all play a role in making with their own values and purpose; communities, like family… Bacardi ‘the place we want to be’ empowering them to grow, always. We respond as a global and we’ve earned the right to be perform and bring their authentic family and take into account local recognized externally for the way selves to work every day. uniqueness. And like a family, we engage our employees. everyone is appreciated because of their differences. 90% of employees to participate in Support equal opportunity and Engagement Index (a global Bacardi’s innovative training and leadership for women at all levels HR measure that companies development programs. by having at least 45% female use to assess four key elements workforce and an increase in of employee engagement: women in leadership positions. satisfaction, pride, retention, and advocacy) increases to best-in-class level 80% as measured through our bi-annual employee survey. 16 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE In addition, we recognize the importance of, and We measure our performance to know where we align our standards to, the UN Global Compact, the stand on how we take care of Primos, put Bacardi UN Declaration for Human Rights, and Fundamental first, and work together to enhance the legacy of Conventions of the Internal Labor Organization (ILO). the company. The 2019 Primo Engagement Survey Our Primos, whether direct employees or as members of yielded an Engagement Index, (a global HR measure our supply chain, are our greatest asset and our Code of that companies use to assess four key elements of Conduct and Responsible Sourcing Standards exemplify employee engagement: satisfaction, pride, retention, this commitment. and advocacy) of 79% with 92% of our Primos participating. This level of participation exceeds In our hiring strategy, we also recognize the importance industry benchmarks and is the highest yet for us at of globally reflecting the diversity of our operations Bacardi. It was 3% higher than our participation rate among our employees. In our two largest regions, we are from 2017 and the Engagement Index increased by closing the gender gap with 44% of our North America 10 points over the same period. Beyond participation and 40% of our Europe workforces being female in FY19. and the Engagement Index, we received best-in-class Women in Leadership is one of four key pillars of the results that speak to what makes Bacardi so special. company’s Global Reflections strategy which is about having a workforce that reflects our communities. As • 85% of Primos would recommend Bacardi as a part of the initiative, locally led programs showcase great place to work, an increase of +21% since 2017 female leaders, attract multi-generational talent, organize • 83% of Primos are satisfied with Bacardi as a great disability awareness days and work toward marketing place to work, an increase of +13% since 2017 our products to multi-cultural audiences. We are setting • 89% of Primos feel proud to work for Bacardi, bold ambitions towards balancing our population’s an increase of +3% since 2017 diversity of gender, geography and generations, with special focus on leadership positions. Post Survey, our Primos then got involved in local action planning to understand the results and look to how we maintain our strengths and work on areas of opportunity. 17 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Key Highlights Creating a Diverse Workforce & Stirring Up Conversations About Equality We believe in the inherent value that can be created when you bring together a diverse and inclusive community and workplace. Helping female talent at Bacardi, and within our community, is among the causes championed by the company through its Women in Leadership initiative. For a third year in a row, Bacardi hosted an all-day Summit open to more than 500 people across the South Florida community who came together to hear personal and professional stories from changemakers. For the first time, the Summit was Sparking an Innovation Culture replicated in London with a similar agenda that covered We have a bold ambition to make the next 10 years gender equality, diversity and inclusivity. A smaller, more the best yet. To achieve this ambition, we need intimate event designed specifically for females within to push the boundaries, embrace disruption and the hospitality industry concluded a U.S. tour across five encourage an innovative mindset within Bacardi. cities to help empower, inspire and support participants. The Next Gen Idea Lab is supporting this mission. Internally, our mentorship program expanded to more This global strategic program allows us to identify than 250 Primos across markets matching female future growth engines and build the skills needed mentees with both men and women across the business. for the next 10 years. We believe in democratizing innovation and giving all our Primos the platform to lean in, co-create and disrupt by finding new solutions to old problems. This year we have received 700 ideas from 570 Primos around the world. Out of which we have selected 10 ideas to be tested by the creators and their partners. 28 Primos came together, learned new capabilities, prototyped their concepts and piloted their proposition using USD $10,000. At the finale they pitched their idea to the Global Leadership Team and three of them received additional funds and a green light to launch their idea. Those respective three launches will be deployed next year. 18 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Providing Primos Tools for Success The office houses three corporate bars, beautifully In FY19 we continued to rollout our core Primo decorated meeting rooms that inspire creativity, a development programs globally: Coaching To Win, free cafeteria with family-style seating, an outdoor Leading at the Edge, and Shaping Your Career. Our terrace that doubles as the perfect work and lounge core programs run across geographies, generations, space year-round, and a fully staffed gym with fitness functions, and leadership levels. These are key programs classes. And for that mid-morning snack craving? A to accelerate the knowledge, skills, and capabilities every juice cart comes around the building with a fresh Primo needs to master in order to bring their best selves juice of the day while the gym trainer leads a stretch to Bacardi, every day. break – all part of Bacardi efforts to encourage wellness at work. Since the kickoff, more than 500 Bacardi leaders have participated in our ‘Coaching To Win’ workshop to Attracting and Supporting Talent strengthen their coaching skills and ability to bring out We continue to refine and enhance the experience the best in their Primos. ‘Leading at the Edge’ equipped of internal and external talent through our Bacardi more than 1,000 Primos with tools and resources to Applicant Tracking and Candidate Relationship become significantly more effective in areas that matter System – BATS Avature. Talent can now sign up for most to them, personally and professionally. Our ‘Shaping job alerts to stay updated on the latest opportunities Your Career’ workshop, where Primos spend a whole day across Bacardi including internally on Next Move, our reflecting and shaping their career trajectory in line with careers site. We launched our employer branding their purpose and ambition, has seen more than 1,000 philosophy #morethanwork ‘when you join Primos participating. Our programs provoke mindsets, Bacardi you join the family and get so much more change habits and put new behaviors in practice that than a job’. Our focus on ‘breaking the script’ and grow and accelerate our business performance. creating a positive and memorable experience for candidates features across all of our work and has Creating a ‘Great Place to Work’ inspired the creation of the BATPacks for Potential The Bacardi culture and investment in the Primo Primos a valuable resource to set Potential Primos experience has earned Bacardi U.S.A., Inc., the Great up for success as they start to Interview with Bacardi Place to Work-Certified™ designation for the second year giving them the download on our culture and in a row. The certification was achieved as a result of brands. BATPacks for Potential Primos are currently programs offered in the workplace and positive survey being adapted across functions and regions to results, including 96% of employees stating it’s a great ensure a personal and tailored approach. place to work and 98% saying that when you join the company, you feel at home. As a family-owned business for more than 157 years, that sense of welcome is a unique differentiator. The survey also indicated that 97% employees report that Bacardi facilities contribute to a good working environment. The North America regional office was even named one of the Top 10 “Coolest Offices in South Florida” by the South Florida Business Journal. 19 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress FY19 PEOPLE TARGETS FY19 PEOPLE PROGRESS Increase Primo participation in Bacardi training and 1996 Primos participated in training and development programs: development programs Leading at the Edge, Shaping Your Career, and Coaching to Win Support equal opportunity and leadership for women 38% of the total organization is female and 37% of managerial at all levels and work towards having at least 45% and executive leadership roles are filled by women female workforce and an increase in women in leadership positions Improve employee engagement, as measured by the Achieved an Engagement Index score of 79% with 92% Engagement Index of the employee survey, to 80% participation, considered as best in class 20 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE People Scorecard Total number of permanent Primos by employment contract, employment type, region & gender. *These numbers do not reflect the PATRÓN acquisition. At the end of FY19, our total workforce was comprised of 5,731 employees and 301 supervised workers. Total Workforce Employees by Type of Employment Contract Employees Supervised Workers Full Time Part Time 301 119 5,731 5,306 Permanent Employees by Employment Type Workforce by Region North America Europe Permanent Temporary Middle East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 323 650 872 3,119 5,391 1,014 76 21 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Total number and rates of new Primos hired and Primo turnover by age group, gender and region. 999 new Primos joined the business in FY19, and 790 Primos left the company, representing a turnover rate of 13.8%. There were 484 promotions and 248 lateral moves (for a combined promotion/mover rate of 13%). New Hires by Gender New Hires by Region Female Male North America Europe Middle East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 133 190 430 129 544 12 535 Employees Turnover by Gender Employees Turnover by Region Female Male North America Europe Middle East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 91 103 324 150 462 441 5 Employees Turnover by Age New Hires by Age Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 92 193 455 506 495 38 22 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Percentage of total Primos covered by collective bargaining agreements. In FY19, 38% of Primos were covered by collective bargaining agreements. 2,155 Employees Coverd by Collective Bargaining Agreements: Covered Not Covered 3,576 Composition of Board Members Total Employees governance and Female Male Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 ethics bodies and breakdown of Primos per employee category according to 2 895 gender and age group. 1,265 3,571 12 Male: 3,492 Female: 2,192 23 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Safety At Bacardi, safety is more than a priority. It is a value sites and offices around the world, the safety of embedded in our culture. We want to ensure that our Primos always comes first. This safety culture is every day, every Primo returns home safely and embedded into our Bacardi cultural pillars of Fearless, without an injury. We believe production should Family, and Founders. never come before safety, and at our manufacturing • Stand and Stop, when something is not right Fearless • Ask why • Relentless look for the real root cause • Protect all our Primos Family • Guardians of our products • Care for the environment in which we and our families live • Look for better ways to do what we do Founders • Proud of what is produced in my factory • Don’t look for excuses, but for reasons and learnings Furthering our safety culture and strengthening our performance is an ongoing journey, and we continue to bolster it with foundational elements and breakthrough programs. Bacardi built an in-house, robust safety program called, “Safety First,” a fiveyear program to raise our safety culture, designed with four levels: Foundation (Bacardi mandatory minimum standards), Bronze (safety practices right above mandatory), Silver (advanced safety practices), and Gold (‘best practice’ safety practices according to top external benchmarks ). The program has already allowed us to reduce our average Lost Time Accident Rate (LTA). In FY19 we achieved a rate of 1.2, a reduction of 37% vs FY18, back on track with our global glidepath. Each year we work towards our global goal of less than 1 Lost Time Accident (LTA) per 1,000,000 worked hours (by 2023). 24 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE In FY19, we also launched an extensive safety leadership reinforce safe behaviors at work. 100% of our Primos in training program at the local level that will be fully manufacturing sites were trained in FY18 to conduct completed in FY20. We are investing in people as the B-Safe Observations. After training, all Primos at our solution, developing their capability to anticipate and manufacturing sites can conduct B-safe Observations, adapt to risks and make things go right. In FY19, we and in FY19 our observation rate improved by 32%. We held 13 Safety Days at manufacturing sites around delivered our best performance in terms of Recordable the world, with more than 1,500 Primos engaged Incidents frequency rate in our manufacturing sites in in learning and sharing best practices in our safety FY19. culture. One way Primos engage is through our B-Safe Observations. B-Safe Observations are behavioral Out of 23 manufacturing sites operating at end of FY19, based safety observations and feedback, based on best 11 were accident-free for more than one year. practice Behavioral Based Safety programs, to positively Total Recordable Incident Rate (Manufacturing Sites) Per Million of Worked Hours 7.0 6.0 5.0 6.4 6.6 6.9 4.0 5.3 3.0 4.9 2.0 1.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of LTAs LTA rate Manufacturing NonManufacturing Total FY15 1.1 8 6 14 FY16 1.5 10 9 19 FY17 1.2 9 6 15 FY18 2.0 17 7 24 FY19 1.2 10 5 15 25 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress FY19 SAFETY TARGETS FY19 SAFETY PROGRESS Improve overall B-Safe Observations rate by 10% vs B-Safe Observations rate was improved by 32% in FY19 FY18. Our FY19 target of 10% increase is more focused vs FY18. This rate corresponds to the completion of an on consolidating the practices and delivering good average of 6 B-Safe Observations per primo during in all our quality B-Safe Observations. manufacturing sites. Overall Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate of less than 1 per million of worked hours by 2022 (FY23). Overall LTA rate is 1.2 per million of worked hours, improved by 37% vs FY18. At our manufacturing sites, we improved by 32% vs FY18 with an LTA rate of 2.6. We launched a safety Leadership training program and rolledout our 10 Life-Saving rules to reach our overall safety goal of having less than 1 LTA per million of worked hours by FY23. Safety First program – achieving first step to Gold Gold level year one was achieved in all active Bacardi plants, standards by FY19 in all plants excluding the most recently acquired sites. 26 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Environment at Bacardi Limited We aspire to be the world’s most environmentally responsible global spirits company. When Bacardi founder Don Facundo Bacardí Massó Waste: effluents and waste from our operations started his business in 1862, he accepted the Spanish need to be kept to a minimum as well as the use government’s challenge to reduce surplus amounts of of our materials in bottling and packaging to reduce the molasses in Cuba, leading to the crafting of BACARDÍ® overall impact on the environment. rum. Repurposing old whisky barrels to age his rum was also part of his original plan, a practice still in use Single-use plastics: removing single use today. Our environmental sustainability commitment plastic from our value chain, starting from has grown over the past 157 years, and we are proud of our secondary packaging and point of sales Items, the voluntary actions we have taken to be an industry focusing on replacing It with durable Items made with leader in environmental performance in our operations. sustainable materials, recyclable or biodegradable. Our goal is to be the world’s most environmentally responsible global spirits company. Back in 2014, we began an ambitious environmental sustainability initiative with specific goals in sourcing, We are committed to continuously reducing the packaging, and operations to be achieved by 2017 and environmental impact of producing our products, 2022. The vision was to return to the environment at especially in the following key areas: least as much as we take away. By end of 2017, we were able to achieve a reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Water use: clean water is fundamental to our intensity from manufacturing by 59%, equivalent to business and we recognize the importance of taking 15,000 cars off the road each year or reducing water conservation. oil use by 165,000 barrels annually. In water, we also achieved a reduction of water use in manufacturing by Climate change: the fossil fuels we consume 50%, equal to the volume of more than 1,000 Olympic in our value chain process to operate our facilities, pools, and only 0.4% of our total waste generated was manufacture our products, and transport them to our diverted to landfill. (The achievements are based on our customers, create greenhouse gases that contribute to original baseline data year of 2006). climate change. 27 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT We decided as a company to go even further. In October 2018, we renewed our commitment and launched the new phase of our program, called Good Spirited 2.0. Our new targets, measured towards a baseline updated to our results from 2015, are the following: Good Spirited Global Goal: Return to the environment at least as much as we take away 25% reduction of water 50% replenishment of water Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 50% and consumed (focusing on water incorporated into final product* reduce absolute value chain GHG emissions (scopes 1, not returned to original source) 2 and 3) 20% (approved by the Science Based Targets at our operations* initiative the globally accepted approach to determine meaningful and impactful GHG goals)** Zero Waste-to-Landfill at all Eliminate one billion single-use Analyze and develop single-use plastic manufacturing sites (previously plastic straws in collaboration reduction across operations and supply chain set to achieve by 2022) with others (by 2020) *By 2025, as measured against a 2015 baseline (using earliest reliable data available) **Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. To achieve these targets, we are working with partners to identify opportunities to protect watersheds and provide access to potable water in high-risk manufacturing site countries, work with our suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions and invest in renewable electricity and continue to focus on the reuse and reduction of waste. We also engage Primos across the company to advance these goals through the annual Bacardi Limited Good Spirited Environmental Sustainability Awards. Launched in 2014, the awards recognize the employees, teams and facilities across the company’s global network that developed the best environmental programs across five different categories: Production Facility, Brand Innovation, Sustainable Office, Green Champions or Partnerships. Through these awards, we spotlight how the efforts of Bacardi Primos are closely aligned to the company’s environmental goals. Find some of this year’s winners in the Key Highlights section! 28 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Key Highlights Renewable Energy in Mexico Packaging Innovation for MARTINI Good Spirited Award Winner! Good Spirited Honorable Mention! Bacardi in Mexico guaranteed that electrical By working on slight changes on diameter and neck consumption in Arandas and Tultitlán facilities come profile not visible to the final customer, the MARTINI from 100% renewable resources, specifically from wind team at the home of the brand in Pessione, Italy farms. With the supply of electricity from renewable significantly decreased the weight of a new bottle design sources, the two facilities eliminated their indirect for the MARTINI Royale Ready-to-Serve (RTS). The weight CO2 emissions, avoiding the emission of 2,795 tons reduction signifies less energy required to produce and of CO2, equivalent to the emissions generated by 417 transport the containers from the manufacturer then to compact cars for one year. Bacardi in Mexico has been the consumer. known as an example of environmental leadership. In 2015, the Arandas facility installed a biomass boiler Planting White Oak Trees in Kentucky achieving a reduction of more than 80% of CO2 Bourbon must legally be aged in new oak barrels, but emissions. Now in 2019, Bacardi in Mexico is proud each white oak tree (the most commonly used tree for to report that 100% of indirect CO2 emissions were North American bourbons) yields between one and eliminated by using renewable electricity. three barrels and takes about 70 years to mature. To raise awareness for the increased need for healthy white oak Water Reuse at PATRÓN trees, ANGEL’S ENVY conducts its annual initiative, “Toast Good Spirited Award Winner! the Trees.” ANGEL ENVY pledges each year to plant one Hacienda PATRÓN dedicated their efforts to the white oak tree for every photo of an ANGEL’S ENVY drink reuse of water. Initiating smarter practices across four or bottle posted throughout the month of September platforms, tequila production, liquors production, on social media using the hashtag #ToastTheTrees. In garden maintenance, and treatment wastewater, the 2018, ANGEL’S ENVY’s “Toast the Trees” initiative garnered team was able to reuse 10,108 cubic meters of water 20,724 hashtags that resulted in 20,724 new white in the last year. oak trees planted in spring 2019. Since the program’s inception, ANGEL’S ENVY has planted more than 45,000 Sustainable Office in Switzerland new white oak trees throughout eastern Kentucky and Good Spirited Award Winner! the surrounding Appalachian areas with the Arbor Day Driven by the Green Team in Geneva, office Foundation and Green Forests Work. enhancements set the standard to make a positive impact on the environment. Among actions including LED tube installation, temperature set point reduction, and no more usage of plastic cups office-wide, the car sharing program for commuters to both the Geneva office and to the Pessione site in Italy, reigned the most visible and impactful. 29 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Increasing Recycling in Mexico City Bars and Restaurants Bacardi, in partnership with the social aspect organization, FISAC, established an agreement to collect solid waste from the main bars and restaurants of Mexico City in order to reintegrate them into a productive cycle through recycling, reducing the amount of waste that reaches a landfill. At this time, 56 bars and restaurants are in the program recycling 130 tons of glass, 45 tons of cardboard, 4.5 tons of PET and 0.8 tons of aluminum. The program aims to expand to at least 250 bars and restaurants so that 850 tons of glass, 430 tons of cardboard, 50 tons of PET and 10.5 tons of aluminum can be recycled instead of trashed. The Future Doesn’t Suck Since 2016, Bacardi has been on a mission to eradicate single-use plastic straws from cocktail experiences. In collaboration with Lonely Whale, a non-profit dedicated to bringing forward courageous ideas that positively impact the health of our ocean, Bacardi has been engaging consumers, customers and the bartending community to be part of the movement to eliminate 1 billion plastic straws by the end of 2020 as part of #TheFutureDoesntSuck. Participating accounts received a Bacardi No Straws Efforts began in the US and UK where BACARDÍ rum award to showcase their commitment to guests music festivals served plastic straw free cocktails and ordering at the bar. Within a month, this China No Straws asked concertgoers to make a personal pledge to campaign had nearly 6.35 million impressions and stop using single-use plastic straws by visiting www. successfully onboarded large hotel chains and restaurants thefuturedoesntsuck.org. Art installations at Life is to the movement. This No Straws campaign also won the Beautiful in Las Vegas called out the impact of plastic first Sustainability Year presented at The DRiNK Magazine to our oceans and offered an Instagrammable moment Bar Awards 2018. These efforts were recognized by the to help spread the word and drive sign ups. In Miami inaugural Sustainability Award at the DRiNK Magazine Bar and New York City, our rum aficionados invited top Awards in China. mixologists to beach clean ups and talks about sustainability. At Tales of the Cocktail®, the world’s To keep the conversation going on social, a digital premier cocktail festival, BACARDÍ rum hosted National campaign featuring comedian and activist Daniel Daiquiri Day where guests were asked to sign the Franzese requested the removal of plastic straws from the pledge and join a New Orleans style procession to drive soda cup and cocktail emojis. To date, two emoji makers awareness. have removed plastic straws from designs. The hope is that by removing plastic straws from digital usage, The collaboration has since extended across seven cultural norms around drinking with single-use plastic countries, including China where a kickoff event straws will shift altogether. brought together media and industry leads such as Cachet Hospitality Group, to promote the movement. Bacardi continues to work with national account partners to help them find alternate solutions to plastic straws and to train bartenders about how to make the shift while still delighting consumers at the bar. 30 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Targets and Progress FY19 ENVIRONMENT TARGETS FY19 ENVIRONMENT PROGRESS Reduce by 2025 the water consumption at our 9.2% reduction of water consumption from our facilities by 25%, compared with FY15 baseline. operations achieved in FY19. Intermediate target for FY19 of 12% Recently acquired PATRÓN operations are under evaluation to be included in future revision of baseline and targets Reduce by 2025 our total GHG emissions from 20% reduction of GHG emissions from our operations operations by 50% and by 25% from our overall value achieved in FY19. chain, compared with FY15 baseline. Intermediate target for FY19 of 8% from operations Recently acquired PATRÓN operations are under evaluation to be included in future revision of baseline and targets Continue with the implementation of required waste More than 99.6% of the waste generated from our stream action plans, aiming to achieve our goal of factories is already diverted from landfill with dedicated Zero Waste to Landfill of all sites by 2022. collection and recycling in place To achieve becoming plastic-free by 2030, remove Launched research to evaluate current plastic usage and plastic in secondary packaging and point of sale determine priority areas. materials by 2023; continue efforts to eliminate 1 billion single-use plastic straws Expanded collaboration with Lonely Whale beyond the U.S. to China, UK, and NZ to further efforts to eliminate plastic straws 31 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Scorecard How we measure our environmental performance Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute on the latest emission factors (e.g. International Energy totals and efficiency metrics. Absolute measures Agency). Data for previous financial years is sometimes are straightforward – for example, total quantity updated when corrections are identified. We have made of water used. Efficiency metrics normalize these some adjustments due to site acquisitions, divestures, absolute totals against an appropriate business and data correction. output – for example, water used per unit of product manufactured. Our targets are based on Absolute numbers in water use and GHG emissions improvements in our performance against our increased from FY18. This is due to a few manufacturing efficiency index from the baseline year (FY15). sites producing more liquid, which resulted in our Calculations are in accordance with protocols facilities operating for longer periods of time and established by the World Resources Institute, World using more water for cooling (though the water was Business Council for Sustainable Development, and returned to the original source with no impact). While Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER) absolute numbers increased, we were able to utilize our guidance documents. IIn addition, the emission assets more efficiently, resulting in the improvement in calculation for fuel and electricity Is calculated, based efficiency indexes. 32 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Water Water Use Water Used Our total water used in FY19, measured by the FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 efficiency index, was 2.4% better than FY18. This (per unit of production) 54.6 54.6 55.3 50.8 49.6 represents an overall improvement on our water use (Baseline FY06 100) efficiency index of 9.2% vs. FY15. Total Water Used (000 cubic meters) 2,916 3,608 3,014 3,359 3,555 * Data for previous financial years has been adjusted for site acquisitions, divestitures, and data correction. Water Discharge We manage used process water from our facilities in three ways: 1. Direct discharges of treated wastewater to local bodies of water following onsite treatment (72%) 2. Indirect discharges of treated wastewater to Changes in the production mix and manufacturing consolidations municipal treatment facilities (24%) in FY18 affected water discharge in the same way as water use. 3. Beneficial land application, including irrigation and fertilizer to improve crop production (in countries where it is permitted) (4%) Water Supply Of the total water released by our production facilities, 1,272,221 cubic meters was discharged as wastewater and 82,270 cubic meters was applied to cropland as a fertilizer or for irrigation. The water that is applied to land for beneficial reuse is returned to the crops that provide our raw feedstock to make spirits in countries where regulatory authorities permit. Water used includes non contact cooling water. 33 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Waste Waste Management In FY19: • Only 0.4% of total waste was sent to landfill (from manufacturing sites) • 11 manufacturing sites have achieved Zero Waste to Landfill Energy EN3: Energy Consumption within the Organization (TJ) FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Renewable Energy Heavy fuel oil 468 229 153 194 197 Natural Gas 421 439 390 659 450 In FY19, 44% of electricity was Total fuel from non-renewable sources 889 668 543 853 647 purchased through renewable Biogas 208 231 166 262 348 contracts and 46% of fuel was from Biomass 64 216 193 279 380 renewable sources. Total fuel from renewable sources 272 447 359 541 727 Grid Electricity 212 235 203 221 216 Wind Electricity 1 1 1 1 3 Total Electricity 213 236 204 222 219 Total Energy Consumption within Bacardi 1,374 1,351 1,106 1,615 1,593 Wind power includes only that from dedicated contract suppliers. Grid electricity includes all forms of renewable and non-renewable energy on the national grids. * Data for previous financial years has been adjusted for site acquisitions, divestitures, and data correction. 34 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Emissions For GHG, a 17% reduction on Absolute Emissions have been achieved vs. FY15. EN15: Direct GHG Emissions (Tons) (Scope 1) EN16: Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) (Market-based) FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Direct GHG Emissions (Tonnes) 56,062 30,043 30,981 37,200 36,860 Indirect GHG Emissions (Tonnes)*** 25,252 26,252 18,703 18,732 19,277 Production Process Emissions (Tonnes)* 500 500 560 620 1,207 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 TOTAL (Tonnes) 87,414 71,395 55,844 62,152 62,944 GHG Intensity Index (GHG Emissions per unit of production) 64.5 51.1 55.3 50.8 49.6 (Baseline FY 06 100%)** * Estimated figures. We are in the process of defining a more accurate way to track these emissions ** Intensity index doesn’t include estimations for production emissions and offices *** Scope 2 emissions are calculated using market-based emission factors. Our FY18 total indirect locationbased emissions were 26,872 tonnes. * Data for previous financial years has been adjusted for site acquisitions, divestitures, and data correction. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY2013 FY2014 SOx 728 302 134 163 147 NOx 92 55 40 47 50 Particulates 13 6 4 5 6 Total Air Emissions 833 362 178 215 203 35 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing at Bacardi Limited From agave to sugarcane, wheat, botanicals, and beyond, the quality of our raw materials is what makes the products in the Bacardi portfolio so special. That is why Bacardi is committed to protecting the long-term sustainability of our raw materials and sourcing all materials responsibly. We work with suppliers who commit to the highest Our Good Spirited Global Goal of sourcing our standards for labor and human rights, health and materials responsibly encompasses all our key raw safety, environmental protection, and business materials, paper, and board. integrity. Our Responsible Sourcing Standards apply to all suppliers providing goods and/or services to Bacardi. Good Spirited Global Goal: Source our materials responsibly 100% 100% 100% 40% of key raw materials paper and board used of product packaging recycled content of sourced from sustainablyfor shipping and labels to be recyclable product packaging certified suppliers sustainably certified materials To drive progress on these goals, we make responsible sourcing an integrated part of our procurement strategy which is to secure supply sustainably, to remove price volatility, and to drive value beyond price. The way that Bacardi achieves this strategy is by building long-term partnerships with our suppliers. When we develop long-term partnerships, we enable investments in sustainability, we honor and support brand heritage, and we build quality relationships that lead to quality products. We continuously review our supplier base, and in FY19 consolidated the number of suppliers to 2000 (from 3000) so that we could build the strongest possible relationships with our suppliers to ensure high sustainability and quality standards. 36 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Sourcing responsibly begins with choosing the right to join Sedex. Sedex is one of the largest collaborative suppliers. To become a Bacardi supplier, a vendor platforms in the world for buyers, suppliers, and auditors is required to go through the Vendor Qualification to store, share and report on information quickly and Process. Vendors must comply with the standards set easily. Through Sedex, suppliers can share information out in these documents and ensure their suppliers with us, and any other customers, on their relevant and subcontractors do likewise. We require the standards; and to take a similar approach with their agreement to and return of a satisfactorily completed suppliers, as we recognize there are risks further along our and executed copy of these documents for each supply chain. manufacturing facility used, including principal subcontractors (i.e. where main manufacturing is We request our suppliers to perform a Sedex Members outsourced). If a vendor does not qualify, Bacardi will Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) for each of their facilities that not work with them. deliver products to our manufacturing sites. SMETA is one of the most widely used ethical audit formats in the If a vendor is selected, then they go through an world and is compilation of good practice in ethical audit onboarding process that includes required training technique. SMETA methodology uses the Ethical Trading in the Good Spirited Global Goals and accompanying Initiative code and local law as the measurement tool. programs. To ensure continuous compliance to our It includes four modules that are assessed: health and standards and progress on goals, we ask our suppliers safety, labor standards, environment, and business ethics. Sedex Audit Management Service Process Customer/Buyer Supplier schedules Audit is completed Supplier sends Auditor uploads communicates to audit with chosen offline and report request to auditor report with audit Supplier Audit Audit Company produced by to upload report issues and this Requirements Audit Company on to the Sedex becomes visible to System customers Audit performance in Sedex is continuously reviewed At the end of FY19, 96% of our global direct spend by category managers to verify and track improvements was linked to Bacardi through Sedex, with 73% of in key areas such as water use and effluent reduction. If those linked audited. 100% of our global point of sale there is a gap between a supplier’s performance and our suppliers are linked to Bacardi through Sedex, with standards, corrective action is immediately requested, up-to-date audits. Through this approach, we work with and progress is then monitored. If a supplier cannot suppliers to ensure they meet the highest of ethical meet Bacardi standards, business would be discontinued. standards for labor, human rights, and environment and economic issues. 37 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Key Highlights Partnering for Environmental Goals on the social, environmental and economic pillars of Environmental sustainability is a key component sustainability of the wine sector) to develop a plan to for Responsible Sourcing. Aligning with the Bacardi implement their standards for our grape suppliers. Bacardi Good Spirited global sustainability goals, in FY19 is committed to working together with stakeholders to we defined a Global Raw Material base line in order develop solutions and improve standards. to drive further environmental impact reduction in our supply chain. We developed a long-term plan to Sourcing Sugarcane Sustainably reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and water Sugarcane-derived products are our most significant consumption by 25% by FY24. This will be executed agricultural supply, and we work with our suppliers and across our various raw materials suppliers. We took industry groups to ensure all suppliers are sustainable. To a partnership approach with our suppliers to build do so, we work with Bonsucro, a global multi-stakeholder a five-year action plan to achieve the Responsible nonprofit organization that promotes sustainable Sourcing targets. Suppliers provided their input and sugarcane production, processing and trade around gave their commitment to reduce water use and the world, covering human rights and labor conditions, greenhouse gas emissions. biodiversity, environmental, and economic viability of sugarcane producers. In FY13 we set up a plan to get For example: 100% of our sugarcane-derived products used to make • Water reduction: 10% on beet sugar and molasses our BACARDÍ Premium rums sourced from suppliers by FY24 certified by Bonsucro by FY23. In FY17 we decided to • GHG reduction: 5% wine, 15% grain neutral spirit, accelerate the plan and reached 86.3% at the end of FY18 10% light cane distillate and barley by FY24 and 98.4% at the end of FY19. We now have the objective to reach 100% by the end of FY20, three years ahead of Bacardi can’t achieve these goals alone, which is why the initial target. during FY19 we worked with the Prosecco and Asti Consortiums, and Equalitas (a standard which focuses Grains of Paradise 38 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Long-term Investment in Sustainable Grains Development Goals which advocates for the promotion Botanicals are key ingredients for BOMBAY SAPPHIRE® of sustained and inclusive economic growth and decent gin. In order to help develop a sustainable farming work for all. community and long-term, quality supply of Grains of Paradise, our botanicals team in Switzerland Sustainable Packaging partnered with the international NGO AIESEC to We are also working with all our board and paper help a village in Ghana learn to farm the botanical packaging suppliers to ensure they are sustainably sustainably. Through this partnership, 10 acres of certified. At the end of FY19, 93% of our corrugated land have been cultivated for the project. The plants packaging suppliers are Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)/ are thriving, and the community members involved Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification formed a formal cooperative and collaborated with (PEFC)/ Forestry Sustainable Initiative (FSI) certified. We an agronomist for additional support. The first harvest are working with our individual box and label suppliers is expected in 2020, and meanwhile, the village is on action plans to achieve FSC certification, currently operating well with a water pump installed both gathering baseline data suppliers. At the end of FY19, to nourish the plants and to provide fresh water for 93% of our individual box (board) and 84% of our label the village. Bacardi is proud to support this project (paper) suppliers are certified. which helps advance Goal 8 of the UN Sustainable 39 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress FY19 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FY19 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROGRESS Raw Materials Sustainability • Coriander, Cinnamon, Cubeb, Lemon peels and Almond have • Achieve ECOCERT certification for 50% of botanicals achieved ECOCERT certification, representing 50% of the botanicals for BOMBAY SAPPHIRE gin • 98.4% of our sugar cane derived products are sourced from • Source 95% of derived sugar cane products from Bonsucro certified sources/suppliers BONSCURO suppliers and complete the plan to reach 100% in FY20 • Banks Rum liquid supplier AE & Scheers achieved BONSUCRO Chain of Custody certification • Achieve BONSUCRO certification for BANKS Rum liquid supplier • Suppliers for white table wine in Spain have been audited and are on track • Achieve EQUALITAS gap assessment audit for White Table Wines • Identified Sedex as certification partners and CAZADORES 100% blue agave tequila suppliers have initiated the Sedex audit process • Identify Certification company and start the certification process for Agave Packaging • 93% of our corrugated and 84% of labels packaging suppliers are • 100% Paper & Board are sustainably sourced (FSC or Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)/Programme for the Endorsement PEFC or SFI) of Forest Certification/Sustainable Forest Initiative certified • Glass & Metal certification model to be determined • For Glass & Metal, ISO standard solution being studied with SGS (ISO 14021) on recycled content management Supplier Certification • 96% of direct materials suppliers are in Sedex and 73% have been • 95% of direct materials & external manufacturing audited spend are in the portal • 75% audited by end of FY19 40 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Philanthropy & Community Investment at Bacardi Limited The company and the Bacardi family established a legacy of supporting communities and charitable organizations from its inception in 1862. We are proud of this tradition that continues today, and Bacardi remains committed to fostering healthy and vibrant communities in which we live and work. Across the entire company, we aim to involve all Bacardi Primos in our philanthropy and community investment activities. We provide paid time off for volunteerism and encourage Primoss to volunteer their time in programs and activities to support local organizations. Through our engagement, we support many worthwhile charities working to better our communities. Our flagship global Corporate Responsibility volunteer initiative, Corporate Responsibility (CR) Month, is designed to engage Primos and work in a globally coordinated way to give back to our local communities. The program encourages all Bacardi conservation efforts while Primos in Hong Kong helped operations to hold initiatives that give back to their sort and pack food to support food waste and hunger communities. efforts. Primos in Florida built hygiene kits for veterans, and primos in Belgium participated in a local river waste In FY19, Bacardi Primos in more than 30 locations around clean-up effort. As these examples highlight, efforts the world, participated in CR Month volunteer activities. happened globally but focused on local needs. Primos in Great Britain worked on local habitat and wildlife 41 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT In FY19, we rolled out a new initiative under our Bacardi in the U.S. FY19 Charitable Gifts Good Spirited platform called My InSpirit Day. My Arts and Culture Education Environment Health and Social Services InSpirit day encourages all Primos to take one day a year to give back to the cause and organization that means the most them. This is another way that our Primos are making a difference in their local 9.9% communities around the world and leaving a legacy 5.6% that aligns with Bacardi family values and culture. In addition to time spent volunteering, Bacardi 4.9% supports local initiatives with charitable gifts and inkind donations in four broad areas: • Arts & Culture • Education 79.6% • Environment • Health & Social Services Bacardi in the United States, with our North America headquarters located in Coral Gables, Florida, takes our commitment to community very seriously. In FY19, Bacardi in the U.S. provided over $1 million in cash grants to charitable organizations and more affected. In addition to our community relief efforts than $350,000 in in-kind donations. and providing more than $3 million in charitable gifts to organizations helping with rebuilding efforts, Some of our offices and Primos were impacted by our Primos and partners from around the world natural disasters in FY18, including Hurricane Maria, contributed to an online fundraising campaign. All the which hit our Puerto Rico distillery in September money raised went to Primos directly affected to help 2017. While we were very lucky to have minimal get their lives back on track. The fifth of Bacardi’s Good damage to our facility and only a 10-day delay in Spirited global goals is to continue to take care of our production of our BACARDÍ premium rums, our communities. Two targets we will work towards and people and our community were significantly report on their progress moving forward include: Good Spirited Global Goal: Take Care of our Communities 95% 90% of Bacardi offices and manufacturing sites participate in at of Primos to volunteer for one work day to least one Corporate Responsibility employee engagement a personal cause or organization activity in partnership with local organizations 42 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Key Highlights Hurricane Disaster Relief Over the last year, we have directly impacted 243 In 2017, Hurricane María devastated Puerto Rico. individual businesses and their employees and several Immediately after the storm, Bacardi stepped up to help natural areas across Puerto Rico. Here are some examples the recovery efforts, committing more than $3 million for from our partnership. rebuilding efforts. Two years later, communities there are still working to recover. That’s why, in partnership with Business Recovery Highlight: global humanitarian and development organization, Donna Durán, Small Business Owner, Cayey Mercy Corps, Bacardi is supporting the long-term Donna owns Finca Eco-Sustentable Siempre Verde (Always recovery and resilience of the region. Green Farm) in Cayey. Finca Eco-Sustentable Siempre Verde has been in operation for thirty years. Like many Bacardi and Mercy Corps recognized that helping local farmers, after Hurricane Maria her crops were completely businesses bounce back and supporting natural habitat destroyed and starting over has been a slow and hard rehabilitation were key to Puerto Rico’s recovery. A threeprocess. Through the Mercy Corps – Bacardi program, pronged program was developed with the support of Donna is developing several innovative projects to help Bacardi’s $1.2 million investment: recover, including the use of her farm as an education center for community members with special needs. • Direct support for small businesses, including financial support, training, business boot camps, marketing support and mentoring • Natural area rehabilitation and recovery, including coral reef rehabilitation, beach and water cleanups, building new trails and more • Marketing and outreach to spread the word that Puerto Rico is open for business! 43 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Donna also offers tours to seniors for their enjoyment Natural Area Rehabilitation Highlight: of the farm lifestyle and offers a variety of natural Rompeolas Pier & Tamarindo Bay, Culebra products for purchase. Additionally, she is in the process Multiple species of sea turtles are known to nest in the area of opening a chocolate shop on the farm where surrounding Rompeolas Pier—enticing snorkelers and scuba people will be able to taste different kinds of chocolate divers alike—and they have been threatened by excessive products, as well as enjoy fresh, homemade breakfasts. debris and discarded fishing equipment. On October 13th, “The chocolate is a project that we are adding to our Mercy Corps organized the cleanup of Rompeolas Pier on farm to help make it completely sustainable, especially the small island of Vieques, in collaboration with Vieques economically [following Hurricane Maria],” Donna said. Conservation and Historical Trust, U.S. Fish and Wildlife “With help from Mercy Corps and the development of Service, and two local dive shops (Black Beard Sports and our social networks, we hope to be able to continue our Isla Nena Scuba). More than twenty volunteers participated farm’s recovery and stay on track.” in the cleanup and collected approximately 345 pounds of trash, helping the turtles and ecosystem recover. To date, Donna has participated in several of Mercy Corps’ training and workshops as well as an advanced Puerto Rico benefits from more than $1 billion in tourist social media course to learn how to market her farm and spending each year directly related to coral reefs. In all of her initiatives. She also received a business grant Tamarindo Bay, Culebra, the coral reef suffered significant that enabled her to purchase an industrial grinder in damage after Hurricane María. On December 1st, Mercy March. It will increase the efficiency and production of Corps partnered with Sociedad Ambiente Marino to support her packaged products, supporting the expansion and a clean-up event that drew thirty-three volunteers who sustainability of her livelihood. covered 1.3 miles of coast. Coral fragments were collected, stabilized, and successfully replanted throughout the reef. Mercy Corps anticipates its investments in this area— made possible by Bacardi—will not only contribute to environmental recovery, but also to the revitalization of local economies via smalland medium-businesses in the area. Looking Ahead The work doesn’t stop here. We are excited to continue our efforts to support business recovery and resilience in Puerto Rico, while also expanding our efforts into the US Virgin Islands and Sint Maarten, with the launch of an Innovation Challenge for small businesses, including mentoring and financial rewards for small businesses. Learn more at https://www.mercycorps.org/bacardi 44 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Targets and Progress FY19 PCI TARGETS FY19 PCI PROGRESS Roll out Charitable Donations Policy globally Full Training implemented on Charitable Donations Policy on though trainings, webinars, and other internal October 9, 2018 and additional trainings will be ongoing. communications tools to all Primos. 80% of CR Ambassadors to record employee 79.3% of CR Ambassadors submitted a CR Month activity in engagement in CR Month activity. our CR Database for FY19. 95% of the 40 Countries where Bacardi has Primos to 87.5% of the countries where Bacardi has Primos recorded participate in a CR Month or My InSpirit Day volunteer participation in a community volunteer activity. Over 2000 activity out in communities. Primos participated globally in various volunteer activities. Update financial systems to track all Bacardi Financial approval system in place and utilized to track Philanthropic giving. philanthropic giving. Charitable Donations Policy updated to give more flexibility to local offices. Implement disaster relief and island-wide outreach Approximately $1 million donated to Mercy Corps in FY19, campaign with Mercy Corps to promote the return of positively impacting 243 small businesses and 3 natural small businesses and natural habitat to Puerto Rico, habitat areas. with the goal of driving tourism and commerce. 45 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT About this Report This is the 12th annual Corporate Responsibility report produced by family-owned Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held spirits company in the world. It focuses on our work to manage the social and environmental impacts of our business. Reporting Content Any restatements of data are noted in the relevant This report relates to fiscal year 2019 (April 1, 2018 sections of this report. Data has been compiled to March 31, 2019). For comprehensive information following the GRI indicator protocols. Data regarding Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited, measurement techniques and assumptions are cited please visit our website www.BacardiLimited.com/ in the relevant sections of the report. The WRI/WBCSD corporate-responsibility. Greenhouse Gas Protocol was used to compile our GHG emissions data. Data There have been no significant changes in the scope or Boundary boundaries of the data we are reporting this year. Bacardi Limited refers to the Bacardi group of companies, including Bacardi International Limited. Any Data presented in the People and Philanthropy & reference to “Bacardi” as a company in this report refers Community Investment sections, as well as Safety data to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries or a group of from the People section, cover our offices and our Bacardi companies. For more information on Bacardi directly-owned and managed production facilities. Limited’s corporate structure, brand portfolio, and location of operations please visit Data on indirect GHG emissions cover our directlywww.BacardiLimited.com. owned and managed production facilities and large offices with 25 people or more. All other environmental Request for Feedback data cover our directly-owned and managed We would like to hear from our stakeholders on our production facilities. 2019 Corporate Responsibility report. Please email us at CorporateResponsibility@Bacardi.com. Performance data from our suppliers, outsourced bottlers, and co-packers are not included. Thank you. 46 BACARDI LIMITED | 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report
