G R O U P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N D E S G 2020 S U P P L E M E N TA RY R E P O R T START HERE About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix Cross reference tools CONTENTS ASSURED INFORMATION Denotes selected information has been externally assured, refer to the KPMG assurance report on pages 84 and 85 for details on the scope of 00 About Investec 1 the assurance 01 Sustainability at Investec 5 PAGE REFERENCES Refers readers to information elsewhere in this 02 Commitment to our people 18 report or to the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report 03 Commitment to our communities 30 WEBSITE 04 Commitment to the environment and climate change 43 Indicates that additional information is available on the Internet. Click on links in the report 05 Our business impact 59 REPORTING STANDARD Denotes our consideration of a reporting standard 06 Governance, risk and compliance 71 07 Appendix 83 Independent assurance statement Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Feedback (GRI Standards: core option) Policies and practices We value feedback and invite questions and comments Participation in industry initiatives and memberships on our reporting. To give feedback on this report, please Glossary contact our group sustainability division. For queries regarding information in this document Group sustainability Telephone: (27) 11 286 7000 E-mail: group.sustainability@investec.co.za www.investec.com/en_za/welcome-to-investec/corporateresponsibility.html About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix 2020 HIGHLIGHTS People Communities Environment Business Impact Governance £ Learning and development Achieved 2.3% (£9.8 mn) Achieved net-zero direct Fani Titi joined the UN CEO Constituted an ESG Executive spend as a % of staff costs is group community spend as a % carbon emissions for the Alliance on Global Investors for Committee in 2020 to 1.7% against our target of >1.5% of operating profit against our 2018/19 financial year and Sustainable Development coordinate ESG efforts across 2019: 1.7% target: > 1.0% committed to ongoing geographies and businesses 2019: 2.0%, £9.5 mn carbon neutrality Female Male Promaths contributed Maintained our Environmental World Index Reconstituted the DLC SEC 48% 52% 5% of South Africa’s national B rating in the CDP Autocall launched with over in 2020 with new members distinctions in maths and industry average: C R0.5 billion traded bringing relevant ESG 2019: 48% female, 52% male 6% in science experience 2019: 5% for both maths and science Increase in female senior 1 780 Arrival Education Disclosed a comprehensive Empowered South African 36% persons of colour managers to 37% learners supported in the UK fossil fuel policy. First bank in home owners by distributing (as defined by the Parker 2019: 36% in the past 12 years South Africa to include oil and 3 600 title deeds in Review) on the board 2019: 1 710 learners gas in the policy 15 townships and waived the underlying debt 69% of employees who 1 440 South African youth Achieved a 4 Star 1.3% fossil fuel exposure First bank in South Africa and progressed to fill new placed in jobs through Green Star Rating through as a % of gross credit and 8th in the UK financial services opportunities within the the YES initiative over the Green Building Council counterparty exposures of sector to sign up to the TCFD group were Black past two years of South African for which approximately half recommendations. Published Investec Sandton relates to natural gas our 1st TCFD report Prior year figures restated to exclude Investec Asset Management (Now Ninety One). ABOUT INVESTEC 1 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix ABOUT THIS SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT Reporting scope, boundary and framework This group sustainability and ESG supplementary report highlights Investec’s sustainability performance over the period 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. We incorporate material information from the main geographies in which we operate. All references in this report to Investec, the Investec group, or the group relate to the combined Investec DLC group comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited. This report is intended to serve the information needs of the stakeholder groups most affected by our business – clients, employees, investors, shareholders, sustainability rating agencies, government, regulatory bodies and environmental, social and governance (ESG) analysts who will use the content for Our DLC structure and main operating subsidiaries at 31 March 2020 an analysis of our sustainability performance. This report also focuses on the most material aspects of our business in relation to our sustainability strategy. Investec Limited Investec plc This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Our approach to LSE primary listing Sharing agreement JSE primary listing reporting has also followed the guidance from the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa JSE secondary listing NSX secondary listing (King IV). BSE secondary listing An index of the GRI Standards’ indicators, together with our response to each of them, can be found on pages 86 to 97 in this report. Non-Southern African Southern African operations operations Assurance Investec Internal Audit performed a limited assurance review of the quantitative and qualitative information contained in this report. KPMG has provided limited assurance over selected Investec Investec Investec Investec Bank Securities Property Group environmental, human resources and community spend key performance indicators. The Bank plc Limited (Pty) Ltd^ Holdings assurance statement can be found on pages 84 and 85 in this report. (Pty) Ltd Oversight Investec Wealth Operating activities key: Investec operates under a dual listed companies (DLC) structure. The Social and Ethics Committee & Investment Limited Wealth & Investment (DLC SEC), a sub-committee of the board, is responsible for monitoring the non-financial elements of group sustainability. The DLC SEC consists of the following board members: Specialist Banking RT Hon Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG (chairman) S Koseff* CA Carolus* KL Shuenyane*** ^ Houses the Wealth & Investment business. HJ du Toit** PRS Thomas**** B Kantor* F Titi We also have employees in each of the major geographies in which we operate, who drive our We include specific stakeholder interests on non-financial matters, including environmental and social sustainability objectives as well as various forums discussing these considerations. Feedback on impacts, in the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report. This group sustainability and ESG relevant sustainability issues is provided at board meetings. Three meetings were held during the supplementary report consolidates our material ESG considerations and provides additional disclosures reporting period. that are required by our numerous stakeholders, acting as a guide to support the information included in the * CA Carolus, B Kantor and S Koseff stepped down from the committee with effect from 8 August 2019. Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report. ** HJ du Toit stepped down from the committee with effect from 16 March 2020. *** KL Shuenyane was appointed to the committee with effect from 9 August 2019. **** PRS Thomas is a representative of Investec Bank Limited (IBL). ABOUT INVESTEC 2 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix ABOUT THE INVESTEC GROUP INVESTEC Our purpose Investec’s purpose is to create and manage wealth Our values and philosophies for all our stakeholders. Guided by our vision to Distinctive performance create and preserve sustained long-term wealth, – We employ talented people with passion, energy and stamina, who exercise common sense in we seek to build resilient profitable businesses that achieving effective performance in a high pressure, multi-task environment – We promote innovation and entrepreneurial freedom to operate within the context of risk support our clients to grow their businesses while consciousness, sound judgement and an obligation to do things properly contributing in a positive and responsible way to the – We show concern for people, support our colleagues and encourage growth and development. health of our economy, our people, our communities and the environment to ensure a prosperous future Client focus – We break china for the client, having the tenacity and confidence to challenge convention for all. – We thrive on change, continually challenging the status quo and recognising that success depends on flexibility, innovation and enthusiasm in meeting the needs of our changing environment. Our mission Cast-iron integrity We strive to be a distinctive bank and investment – We demand cast-iron integrity in all internal and external dealings, consistently and manager, driven by commitment to our core uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust. philosophies and values. Dedicated partnership – We believe that open and honest dialogue is the appropriate process to test decisions, seek We focus on delivering profitable, impactful and sustainable solutions consensus and accept responsibility to our clients in two core areas of activity, Banking and Wealth & – We are creative individuals who co-operate and collaborate unselfishly in pursuit of group Investment. performance – We respect the dignity and worth of the individual through encouraging openness and The Investec distinction is embodied in our entrepreneurial culture embracing difference and by the sincere, consistent and considerate manner in which we which is balanced by a strong risk management discipline, client-centric interact. approach and an ability to be nimble, flexible and innovative. We do not seek to be all things to all people and aim to build well-defined, value‑added businesses focused on serving the needs of select market niches where we can compete effectively. ABOUT INVESTEC 3 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix OUR ABOUT STRATEGIC INVESTECDIRECTION One Investec Our long-term commitment is to One Investec; a client-focused strategy Investec Distinction where, irrespective of CLIENT-FOCUSED APPROACH specialisation or geography, • Clients are at the core of our business • We strive to build business depth by deepening existing and creating new client relationships we commit to offering our • High-tech, high-touch approach • High level of service by being nimble, flexible and innovative. clients the full breadth SPECIALISED STRATEGY and scale of our products • Serving select market niches as a focused provider of tailored structured solutions and services. • Enhancing our existing position in principal businesses and geographies through organic growth and select bolt-on acquisitions. We are focused on delivering profitable, impactful and sustainable SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS solutions to our clients. • Contributing to society, macro-economic stability and the environment To deliver on One Investec, we focus on imperative collaboration • Well-established brand between the Banking and Wealth & Investment businesses and continue to invest in and support these franchises. This will position Investec for • Managing and positioning the group for the long term sustainable long-term growth. • Balancing operational risk with financial risk while creating value for shareholders • Cost and risk conscious. Our long-term strategic focus: • We are committed to delivering exceptional service to our clients, STRONG CULTURE creating long-term value for our shareholders and contributing meaningfully to our people, communities and the planet • Strong entrepreneurial culture that stimulates extraordinary performance • All relevant Investec resources and services are on offer in every • Passionate and talented people who are empowered and committed single client transaction • Depth of leadership • We aim to sustain our distinctive, out of the ordinary culture, • Strong risk awareness entrepreneurial spirit and freedom to operate, with the discipline and • Material employee ownership. obligation to do things properly for the whole of Investec. ABOUT INVESTEC 4 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 1 START HERE SU S TA IN A B I L I TY AT I N V E S TE C About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix MESSAGE FROM OUR EXECUTIVES “We will act to create financial value that also delivers social value in a sustainable and inclusive way.” Fani Titi Chief executive officer Our role in society Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance, made up Gender and diversity remain a priority across all regions. Group female senior of 30 leading corporate and financial institutions across the world. leadership, an area we have been focusing on for some time, increased to The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the fragility of our economic The alliance aims to accelerate action to better integrate the SDGs into 37% (2019: 36%) of total senior leadership. systems and revealed the underlying inequality gaps evident between core business; to scale up sustainable investment globally, especially to countries most in need; and to align investment with sustainable Good progress was made in terms of Investec Limited’s transformation countries and within societies. At the same time, it has sparked development activities. initiatives and we were nominated as one of the top empowered companies a renewed consciousness and willingness to respond to societal in our sector in the Top Empowerment Awards (Impumelelo). challenges. Sustainability matters were high on the corporate agenda The DLC Social and Ethics Committee (DLC SEC), a sub-committee of before the pandemic, but now the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable From a board perspective, we have a 25% representation of women the board, monitors our progress in terms of ESG matters and in terms Development is more relevant than ever before. on the board as at 31 March 2020, with a target of 33% in terms of the of advancing the UN Global Compact’s ten principles with respect to business and human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Hampton-Alexander Review by the end of 2020. In terms of ethnic diversity, Investec has been on this sustainability journey since inception. Over the past year, the committee focused strongly on staff as at 31 March 2020, we had five (36%) persons of colour, as defined by We published our first separate sustainability report (called ‘Our journey development, particularly on equity and inclusion, and strengthened the Parker Review, on the board. We recognise that more work needs to be to sustainability’) in 2002 and have been consistently improving our its terms of reference to include a greater focus on environment and done, particularly regarding the representation of women on the board, and sustainability efforts as the industry evolves and matures. Two of the climate-related issues. we remain committed to improving our diversity measures across the group. greatest challenges facing the world today are climate change and inequality. Corporations must work towards solutions with urgency. Transition to a cleaner world Post year-end, we established a Group ESG Executive Committee to If we fail, life as we know it will soon become fundamentally threatened. coordinate our efforts across geographies and businesses from both a The success of our business, therefore, requires a significantly more Stakeholders have significantly raised the spotlight on environment strategy and policy perspective, to develop a relevant framework that focused and deliberate approach to all sustainability considerations, and climate change. As part of our commitment to accelerate the aligns with our purpose and values, and help our businesses take up including our solid and active participation in the United Nations transition to a low-carbon world, we took the decision to purchase opportunities to make a difference in our world. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to address these issues in a carbon credits to neutralise the direct carbon impact of our operations socially cohesive and inclusive way. Belonging, inclusion and diversity for the 2018/19 financial year and agreed to ongoing carbon neutrality. The board and DLC SEC were also pleased to approve a public group Executive and board responsibility At the time of writing this report, there is a worldwide call for increased fossil fuel policy, addressing a key stakeholder concern. In terms of action and deep reflection on the inequalities in our societies around the this policy, we will only consider funding fossil fuels under the strictest Over the past year, the executive and the various Investec boards have world. These events reaffirm how important it is to stand as a leadership criteria, with careful consideration of various socio-economic factors to taken a deeper role in actively engaging on sustainability activities and and an organisation against injustices in all our geographies. We have support a just transition. opportunities. Marc Kahn, the global head of people and organisation, various processes to encourage dialogue on these issues and remain has assumed executive responsibility for driving sustainability across steadfast in our commitment to the values of equality, belonging, inclusion the organisation. Our CEO, Fani Titi, was invited to join the UN Global and diversity. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 6 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix MESSAGE FROM OUR EXECUTIVES (continued) “We must ensure we come back post-COVID-19 not only better and greener, but with a greater social conscience.” Marc Kahn Global head of people and organisation We agreed to disclose our fossil fuel exposures, which are 1.3% education programme in South Africa, Promaths, online to ensure The COVID-19 pandemic has brought a wide range of ESG factors of group credit and counterparty exposures, and published our continued learning throughout the pandemic and beyond. into sharp focus for corporates – including employee treatment and first separate Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures working conditions, access to healthcare, and environmental impacts. (TCFDs) report. Investec Limited was the first bank in South Africa Sustainability recognition COVID-19 has also made investment in the SDGs more urgent than to sign up to the TCFDs and Investec plc was the eighth bank in ever. Investment in sustainable, innovative and resilient infrastructure is the diversified financial sector to sign up in the UK. Besides limiting In terms of overall sustainability performance, we remain in the top critical to pave the way for an inclusive post-COVID economic recovery. fossil fuel exposures, Investec’s climate change strategy focuses on 15% in our industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Investment World Investec must play a positive and collaborative role to ensure we come working with clients and stakeholders to transition to a cleaner world. indices and top 6% in the financial services sector for the MSCI ESG back not only better and greener but with a greater social conscience, We continue to deliberately fund and promote renewable and cleaner rankings. We were winner of the Sustainability Award in the 17th Annual building on our deeply held belief that we live in society, not off it. energy solutions with 83% of the group’s total energy portfolio in clean National Business Awards for 2019 and the Best Investment Bank for The material information relating to our sustainability efforts is included energy and natural gas. Sustainable Finance in Africa in the 2020 Global Finance Awards. While throughout volume one of the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report. it makes us proud to receive this recognition, we are mindful that this is This supplementary report expands on the integrated report and provides Supporting our communities a journey and we continually need to strive for more when it comes to additional information as required by our many ESG stakeholders regarding our our ESG performance and socio-economic impact. performance and progress in terms of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, Our investment in communities continued to focus on the core areas how we are integrating ESG into our activities and the opportunities we are of education, entrepreneurship and job creation, with community Focus on action and opportunity finding in terms of the SDGs. spend comprising 2.3% of operating profit (2019: 2.0%) with a target of >1.0%. Towards the end of the period, the group’s In the year ahead, we expect to see further action taken to shift the leadership took swift action to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic sustainability focus from policies and process, to action on our priority and to care for employees and communities around the world. SDGs and business opportunities. As part of our business strategy to We committed £3.2 million (R70 million) to supporting COVID-19 relief create long-term value for stakeholders, we focus on offering profitable, for communities, particularly focusing on food security, healthcare, impactful and sustainable products and services. During the past year, Fani Titi Marc Kahn economic continuity and education. our asset finance business in the UK launched a sustainable energy Chief executive officer Global head of people finance arm to fund renewable energy assets, and in South Africa we In addition to funding screening, protective equipment, support for and organisation launched the first structured product issued in the country over an medical clients and building healthcare capacity, and preserving jobs, Environmental World Index and are piloting a solar solution for our 30 June 2020 we also provided food to hundreds of thousands of people across private bank clients. This is how we will continue to be a responsible South Africa, the UK, India and New York, supported by the generosity corporate, creating financial value that also delivers social value in a of our leadership and staff. As part of our focus to assist existing sustainable and inclusive way. community partners, we were proud to be able to take our flagship SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 7 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Investec recognises Our stakeholders How we engage Material topics that effective • Employees • Annual and interim reports The following material topics were identified and discussed by our communication • Investors and shareholders • Annual sustainability report stakeholders and stakeholder • Clients • Stock exchange announcements approved by relevant board • Impact of the political and economic environment and the engagement are • Rating agencies representation COVID-19 pandemic integral in building • Governments and regulatory • Two investor presentations and two pre-close investor briefing • Demerger and separate listing of Investec Asset Management calls presented by the CEO and CFO stakeholder value. bodies • Strategy execution • Investor roadshows and presentations We are committed • Equity and debt analysts • Shareholder dilution • Tailored presentations to providing • Communities and NGOs • Mandatory audit firm rotation • Ongoing engagement with regulators and industry bodies meaningful, • Suppliers • ESG performance • ESG analysts and climate • Regular and active participation in all related forums • Gender, diversity and transformation transparent, timely activists • Factsheets • Non-financial reporting and accurate • ESG and climate-related • Client events • Climate change financial and nonindustry bodies. • Meetings with executive management, senior management, • Executive remuneration. financial information group risk management and investor relations to all our primary • Comprehensive website stakeholders. • Comprehensive ESG disclosures • Regular face-to-face, email and telephone communication • Quarterly staff magazine • Extensive employee well-being communication. For detailed information on our stakeholder engagement refer to the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report volume one pages 22 to 26. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 8 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (continued) Stakeholder concerns How we responded Impact of the political and economic environment and the • Our businesses displayed resilience, delivering loan book growth, deposit growth and net inflows of funds under management, all COVID-19 pandemic underpinning client-driven revenues. This was offset by significantly lower investment and trading revenues, and higher than expected credit loss charges given the economic backdrop The resilience of our business model through varied economic cycles and sudden and extreme market dislocation resulting from COVID-19. • Refer to pages 17 to 22 in the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report volume two for the impact on our loan book and the changes to our macro-economic scenarios • Refer to page 56 in the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report volume one for a summary of the financial impact from COVID-19 response • Robust, agile transition into remote working, enabling a seamless continuation of service to our clients with approximately 95% of our employees across the world working from home • Provided COVID-19 relief to approximately 16 000 clients in the UK and 3 500 clients in South Africa • Supported communities through salary deductions from the global executive team and board members. The donations were made to charitable initiatives, including the Solidarity Fund in South Africa. Additionally, senior leaders and staff donated via salary deductions to various community initiatives focused on food security, economic continuity, healthcare and education. Demerger and separate listing of Investec Asset Management • The transaction was put to shareholder vote and passed with a 98% majority • On 13 March 2020, the group successfully completed the demerger of Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One), which was separately listed on 16 March 2020. Strategy execution • The board has overseen decisions taken by the group to make progress with its stated strategy to simplify and focus the business in pursuit of disciplined growth in the long term The progress the group is making in respect of the strategic • The group completed the demerger of the asset management business, executed various actions relating to the closure, sale and restructure objectives presented at our capital markets day in February 2019. of certain non-core and subscale businesses, reduced operating costs and delivered loan book growth and client acquisition ahead of budget in the UK Private Banking business. Shareholder dilution • Accordingly, these resolutions were not proposed at the group’s 2019 AGM held on 8 August 2019 • The last share issuance took place in July 2019 The board consulted with major shareholders after the 2018 AGM where the resolutions granting directors’ authority to allot shares were • At the group’s 2020 AGM, in light of the regulatory guidance issued in response to the COVID-19 pandemic which advises banks to conserve passed with a majority of less than 80%, given the concerns around regulatory capital, suspend share buybacks and restrict the payment of cash bonuses to senior staff (including all material risk takers), the the dilutive effect of the issuance of ordinary shares. board will be seeking authority to allot 15 million ordinary Investec plc shares (around two percent of Investec plc’s currently issued ordinary share capital), for the purposes of satisfying employee share awards. Further detail on this resolution can be found in Investec’s notices of AGMs. Mandatory audit firm rotation • The Investec Limited Audit Committee considered the views expressed by shareholders and decided to commence the process by rotating one of the joint auditors effective from the financial year commencing 1 April 2023, with the remaining firm rotating every two years thereafter At the 2019 AGM, the resolution to re-appoint KPMG Inc. as joint in compliance with the IRBA requirements auditors of Investec Limited passed with just below an 80% majority. • A competitive tender process has commenced to appoint the audit firm to be rotated for the financial year commencing 1 April 2023 • The conclusion of the tender process will be communicated publicly as soon as it is concluded. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 9 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (continued) Stakeholder concerns How we responded ESG performance • Fani Titi was appointed to the UN Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance • We increased our participation and collaboration in a number of industry-led bodies Our approach to climate change and climate disclosures from various stakeholders. • We have signed up to support the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) and will have access to international best practice and be actively involved in the formulation of financial carbon reporting methodology • Achieved net-zero direct carbon emissions for the 2018/19 financial year and committed to ongoing carbon neutrality. Gender diversity and transformation • We have a board diversity policy • Increase in female senior managers to 37% Progress was made on a number of diversity issues. In this regard a number of actions have been taken by the group. • In terms of ethnic diversity, as at 31 March 2020, there were five (36%) persons of colour (as defined by the Parker Review) on the board. Non-financial reporting • As a signatory of the TCFDs, we have enhanced our disclosures and our detailed TCFD disclosure is available on our website • Investec remains committed to the SDGs in building a more resilient and inclusive world, finding opportunities within our businesses to The recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s TCFDs maximise our impact, and continuing to report on our progress and performance continue to gain traction with various regulatory authorities demanding enhanced disclosures on climate-related risks and opportunities. • We are actively involved in many industry initiatives including the Banking Association South Africa (BASA) Positive Impact Finance committee. Climate engagement We proactively engaged with over 50 stakeholders across all jurisdictions to ascertain expectations and views on climate issues. How we are managing and mitigating climate consequences and if The following actions were taken: these risks are quantified within our disclosures. • The DLC board continues to take ultimate responsibility for climate-related issues, supported by a board-approved DLC SEC • Tanya dos Santos was appointed as Investec’s global head of sustainability on 4 June 2020 • We strengthened our climate change statement to make it clear that we align with the Paris Agreement goals and acknowledge the urgency and need to accelerate action • We developed our group fossil fuel policy and made it publicly available • We disclosed our fossil fuel exposures • We are actively engaging with our clients to assist in transitioning to a low-carbon economy • Our risk teams are analysing our climate positions across portfolios and will be assessing our exposure as the relevant climate scenarios and methodologies become available • Achieved net-zero direct carbon emissions for the 2018/19 financial year and committed to ongoing carbon neutrality. Executive remuneration We consulted again with shareholders in February and July 2019, where we received support to technically amend the performance measures and metrics due to the pending demerger of Investec Asset Management. How we remunerate our executives and overall quantum of pay. The following action was taken: • We further reduced total “at target” and “at stretch” remuneration for the CEO (and other executive directors) of the remaining Investec business at roughly 10% lower than the current remuneration scheme. We will engage again with our key shareholders ahead of our AGM in August 2020 where we will discuss key remuneration issues for the financial year ended 31 March 2020. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 10 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Our six priority SDGs We have six priority SDGs that are globally aligned yet locally relevant to our core geographies and which reflect our current business model and growth strategy. Focusing on the five SDGs below is vital for economic growth, skills development and job creation (SDG 8), which is also embedded in our business strategy to finance profitable, impactful and sustainable solutions. Investec plays a critical role in providing capital to fund a stable and sustainable economy. We have a strong focus on financing entrepreneurs who are critical in accelerating job creation and supporting sustained economic growth. Water is the source of all life. Access to clean energy is SDG 9 is critical in addressing We fund and develop By supporting quality, We fund water and sanitation vital for economic growth and socio-economic challenges. businesses, properties and inclusive education and skills infrastructure and storage the transition to a low-carbon We have strong infrastructure infrastructure solutions development; we contribute solutions that are critical economy. We finance and expertise and we finance that help build sustainable to a greater pool of talent for to help communities and develop solutions to promote industry, innovation and cities and promote resilient our own workforce and for businesses grow. clean and renewable energy. communication technologies. communities. the economy in general. The UN SDGs provide a solid framework for us to assess, align and prioritise business activities. The private sector, and in particular, the financial sector, have a pivotal role to play in their achievement. Our strategy is to harness the expertise in our various businesses and identify The greatest impact we can have opportunities to maximise impact. We partner with our on climate change and life on land is clients, investors and various stakeholders to support through our business contributions to SDG 6, SDG 7, SDG 9 and delivery of the SDGs and build a more resilient, inclusive SDG 11. and sustainable world. We regularly engage with a range of stakeholders including shareholders, ESG analysts and rating agencies on topics relating to the relevance of ESG issues for our business. We participate and collaborate actively in multiple industry-led bodies such as the Bankers Association South Africa (BASA), UN GISD, UN Global Compact, PCAF and others. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 11 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK We have a three-pronged approach for coordinating, assessing and reporting on the group’s progress in terms of our six SDG priorities. We evaluate each SDG with respect to how we are performing within our own operations; how we are supporting and promoting in terms of our business activities; and how we are contributing in terms of our communities. Below is a high-level summary of this framework with references to the relevant detail elsewhere in this report. Within our operations Within our business Within our communities • Provide staff bursaries • Contribute to a greater pool of talent and create • Fund educational programmes in South Africa (Promaths • Offer learning and development programmes to staff economic participants and bursaries) • Provide CA programme • Allocate 55% of Wealth & Investment philanthropy funds • Fund Arrival Education in the UK • Provide IT Grad programme to education • Support external learnership programmes. • Offer education benefits to staff’s family members. • Fund educational solutions. Refer to pages 18 to 29 for more information Refer to pages 18 to 29 and page 62 for more information Refer to pages 34 to 36 for more information • Responsible sourcing of water in all Investec offices • Established expertise in, and fund water infrastructure • Fund the installation of water storage that provides clean water • Innovative technology to reduce consumption and limit waste • Finance innovative water saving solutions to rural communities • Encourage behaviour that ensures conscious water usage. • Finance safe water storage. • Donate to assist water-scarce communities in times of drought. Refer to pages 47 to 52 for more information Refer to page 63 for more information Refer to pages 41 and 63 for more information • Minimise and manage energy consumption in all offices • Finance and develop renewable energy generation and • Assist communities with renewable energy options through innovative technologies transmission • Ensure renewable energy projects funded are able to supply • Draw from renewable sources where possible • Participate in renewable energy projects globally local communities where required. • Encourage behaviour to ensure responsible energy use. • Finance energy solutions for corporates and households. Refer to pages 47 to 52 for more information Refer to pages 64 and 65 for more information Refer to page 63 for more information • Publish HR, compliance and ESG policies, including a • Support youth employment through YES initiative code of conduct • Finance and advise clients, including entrepreneurs and • Support community entrepreneurship programmes SMMEs, enabling them to grow their businesses, employ more • Provide economic opportunities for 8 355 people (Nextwork Global Exposure Programme in SA; people and contribute to overall economic growth. • Enable internal mobility. Bromley by Bow in the UK). Refer to pages 18 to 29 and page 98 for more information Refer to page 66 for more information Refer to pages 37 to 39 for more information • Use of modern, resilient and efficient IT infrastructure across • Provide sophisticated digital platforms for corporate and all offices private clients • Provide financial and other support for digital learning in rural • Targeted investments in our AI capability • Fund critical infrastructure projects and disadvantaged communities. • Provide digital workplace support. • Finance innovative technologies and fintech businesses. Refer to pages 79 and 80 for more information Refer to pages 67 and 68 for more information Refer to page 40 for more information • Work with rural communities to conserve biodiversity and • Minimise and manage our carbon impact across all offices, • Fund sustainable transport systems support the economy of wildlife to limit urbanisation including waste and air quality • Fund sustainable and resilient property developments • Support local municipalities to become more waste and • Encourage alternatives to reduce transport emissions. • Fund affordable housing projects. energy efficient. Refer to pages 47 to 52 for more information Refer to page 69 for more information Refer to pages 40 and 41 for more information SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 12 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS IMPACT We believe that our most significant contribution to the SDGs will be achieved through financing innovative solutions that will address socio-economic issues and investing responsibly for a more sustainable future. Below are some of the innovative projects and products we finance across the world. The UK: Explore Learning – an The UK: Sustainable Energy Efficiency The United States: True Green Capital South Africa: DNAfit Life Sciences – online tutoring and learning platform Income Trust – solar energy UK genetics company South Africa: Invictus Education Group – quality The UK: Octopus Investments – Australia: Affordable housing education for occupations that are in demand in South Australia: Rugby Run – solar energy diversified renewables development Africa South Africa: Innovation Africa – solar water pumping Egypt: Lekela West Bakr – South Africa: Pele Ltd – concentrated Australia: Student accommodation for systems to 11 communities in rural South Africa wind energy solar energy Southern Cross University 38 countries including Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar, South Africa: AMP – an enterprise and The UK: Engenie – electric vehicle Central America, Middle East as well as across the African Australia: Infigen – wind energy supplier development initiative rapid charging continent: Abeco Tanks – hygienic storage of water South Africa: Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority – Australia: Lightsource BP – The UK: Coronavirus Business South Africa: Solar Photovoltaic plants adequate water storage and transfer capacity solar energy Interruption Loan Scheme – accreditation South Africa: The South African Future Australia: Lightsource BP – The UK: Sustainable energy finance business Trust – direct financial support to the South Africa: Futurespace solar energy employees of SMMEs Ghana: Ghana Infrastructure South Africa: 3 600 title deeds to The UK: Energy-from-waste and biomass plants Spain: Lightsource BP – solar energy Company Limited homeowners in Gauteng Mali: BxChange iMali in partnership with South Africa: The Environmental World Sub-saharan Africa: Revego Energy Africa Limited fund The UK: Gridserve – solar energy Crossfin Index Autocall For more information, please refer to pages 59 to 70 in our business impact chapter SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 13 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix VALUE CREATION THROUGH THE SIX CAPITALS Inputs Process Human capital Business model and strategy Strategic focus for the next year • We strive to be a distinctive bank and investment manager, driven • Managing liquidity, capital and balance sheet risk We invest significantly in our people to grow talent and leadership. We by commitment to our core philosophies and values • Cost control provide a safe and healthy work environment that values physical as well as psychosocial well-being. • We aim to create long-term value for all stakeholders • Monitoring credit exposures • Doing well and doing good, by delivering profitable, impactful and • Continued support of staff, clients and society sustainable solutions. • Integrating sustainability throughout our business Intellectual capital • Building for the long term. We leverage our expertise and specialist financial skills to provide Our long-term commitment is to One Investec; a client-focused strategy where, irrespective of specialisation or bespoke solutions for clients. We maintain a diversified portfolio of geography, we commit to offering our clients the full breadth and scale of our products and services. businesses to support performance through varying economic cycles. Corporate/Institutional/Government/Intermediary Private client (HNW/high income)/charities/trusts Social and relationship capital We leverage key stakeholder relationships to enhance our impact on Specialist Banking Wealth & Investment society and the macro-economy. We contribute to society through our community programmes and are committed to transformation and youth employment in South Africa. We have market-leading specialist client franchises Natural capital We provide a high level of client service enabled by leading digital platforms We support the transition to a low-carbon economy. We recognise the complexity and urgency of climate change and actively seek opportunities that have a meaningful impact in addressing climate We are a people business backed by our out of the ordinary culture, entrepreneurial spirit and freedom to operate change. In the short term, our objective is to simplify, focus and grow the business with discipline. Technological capital We leverage technology to modernise the business and create a digital, Supported connected workplace. We have digitalised client platforms and drive Informed by by strong risk innovation by partnering with fintechs. regular stakeholder management and engagement governance culture Refer to pages 8 Refer to DLC Vol 2 Financial capital to 10 pages 11 and 12 We create sustained long-term wealth by building resilience in earnings and growing our core businesses. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 14 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix VALUE CREATION THROUGH THE SIX CAPITALS (continued) Outputs Outcomes SDG Human capital • Staff participating in employee wellness initiatives • Safe and healthy work environment that values physical as well as psychosocial well-being • SA: 3 529 (79% of permanent employees) (2019: 70%); • Growth in talent and leadership • UK: In excess of 1 650 (2019: 785) • Retained and motivated staff through appropriate remuneration and rewards structures • Learning and development as a % of staff cost is 1.7% (2019: 1.7%) (target: >1.5%) • A values-driven culture supported by strong ethics and integrity • Total staff turnover • Diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging at all levels. • Southern Africa: 10.6% (2019: 9.4%); • UK: 13.7% (2019: 11.7%) • All employees participate in culture and values dialogues • 48% female employees and 37% females in senior management positions. Intellectual capital • Annuity income as a percentage of operating income is 77.2% (2019: 69.1%) • Diversified revenue streams that support long-term performance • Credit loss ratio of 0.52% due to COVID-19 related expected credit losses • Risk management expertise leveraged to protect value • Enhanced our ESG policies, processes and reporting. • Solid and responsible lending and investing activities. Social and relationship capital • Customer accounts up 2.9% (up 12.6% in neutral currency) • Deep durable relationships with our clients and created new client relationships • Wealth & Investment net inflows of £599 million • Invested in our distinctive brand and provided a high level of service by being nimble, flexible and innovative • 2.3% community spend as a % of operating profit of which 77% was on education, entrepreneurship • Contributed to society through our numerous community programmes and our SDG activities and job creation • Committed to transformation and youth employment in South Africa. • Voted one of South Africa’s top empowered companies in the Top Empowerment Awards (Impumelelo). Natural capital • 1.3% exposure to fossil fuels as a % of gross credit and counterparty exposures • Transition to a low-carbon economy through funding and participating in renewable energy • Achieved carbon neutral status in all our direct operations and committed to ongoing carbon neutrality • Limit our direct operational carbon impact • Reached 12.1 million people through four Investec Rhino Lifeline campaigns and raised R2 million • Protect biodiversity through various conservation activities in third party donations • Aligned with the Paris Agreement. • Enhanced reporting on TCFDs and Equator Principles. Technological capital • 18.9% of total operating costs relates to IT spend • International platform for clients with global access to products and services which is both high-tech and • One in every four staff members is an IT specialist high-touch • >95% of staff working from home during COVID-19 • Optimise our value chain and drive efficiencies • Made targeted investments in AI capabilities • Build an open banking platform as a channel to seamlessly integrate with fintechs. • New RPA technologies embedded to optimise operations • Launched a programmable bank account for developers in South Africa • Launched Investec IX, a corporate digital platform in the UK. Financial capital • Operating income down 7.5% to £1 806 million and adjusted earnings per share down 30.4% to 33.9p • Client franchises have shown resilience • Core loans up 9.2% in neutral currency, customer deposits up 2.9% and net inflows of £599 million • Strong balance sheet with robust capital and liquidity levels • Common equity Tier 1 ratio of 10.7% for Investec plc and 10.9% for Investec Limited • Increased provisioning levels and continue to monitor credit exposures • Credit loss ratio increased to 0.52% from 0.31% to cater for COVID-19 • Progress made on strategic initiatives. • Completed demerger and executed various actions relating to the closure, sale and restructure of certain non-core and subscale businesses. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 15 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix VALUE CREATION Value added statement Ratings and rankings in the sustainability indices 31 March 31 March We have maintained our inclusion in a number of world-leading indices. £’000 2020 2019^ Net income generated – total group Interest receivable 2 700 147 2 637 505 Other income 1 445 508 1 620 700 Interest payable (1 845 416) (1 815 173) Other operating expenditure and impairments on loans (394 729) (452 667) Financial impact of group restructures (pre tax) (114 982) (80 184) Gain on distribution of Ninety One shares (pre tax) 820 233 (6 690) 2 610 761 1 903 491 Top 15% in the global Top 30 in the FTSE/ Included in the 1 of 43 banks and Distributed as follows: diversified financial JSE Responsible FTSE UK 100 ESG financial services in the Employees: Salaries, wages and other benefits 722 085 718 607 services sector Investment Index Select Index (out of Global ESG Leaders 641 companies) (total of 439 components) Communities: Spend on community initiatives 10 789 9 862 Government: Corporation, deferred payroll and other taxes 657 815 604 176 Shareholders: 985 996 282 596 Dividends to ordinary shareholders 244 323 238 072 Dividends to perpetual preference and Other Additional Tier 1 security holders 43 819 44 524 Distribution to shareholders 697 854 – Retention for future expansion and growth: 234 076 288 250 Depreciation 35 886 33 782 Top 6% scoring AAA Score B against an Top 20% of globally Top 20% of the ISS ESG Retained income 198 190 254 468 in the financial services industry average of C assessed companies in global Universe and sector in the MSCI the Global Sustainability Top 14% of diversified Total 2 610 761 1 903 491 ESG Research Leaders Index financial services ^ Restated as detailed on page 59 of the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report volume one. Awards Best Investment Bank for Winner of the Winner of the Trialogue Sustainable Finance in Sustainability Award in Strategic CSI Award 2019 Africa in the 2020 Global the 17th Annual National for the Promaths Finance Awards Business Awards 2019 programme SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 16 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO COVID-19 RESPONSE Commitment to COVID-19 response Priorities Community • Prioritise employees • The group has committed £3.2 million to COVID-19 relief for Continue to • Ensure business continuity and support our clients. The support communities in our jurisdictions around the world pay all staff full given to clients and business is detailed throughout this report • The Global Executive Team and board members have donated from salaries during • Support existing CSI partners where we already have an investment their salaries with a portion going to the Solidarity Fund in South Africa lockdown • Focus on food security, education, healthcare and economic continuity • Senior leaders and staff across the world have donated to local initiatives via salary deductions. • Partner with staff and clients to maximise impact and help those most vulnerable. Food security Through our support of local credible NGOs in food security, Employees our offices are feeding hundreds of thousands of people across • Fully remunerate all staff during lockdown South Africa, the UK, India and New York. Enabled • Swiftly enabled >95% of staff across the world to work from home >95% of staff • Increased health and safety across all buildings including Economic continuity Investec donated R5.6 million to the Solidarity Fund (excluding to work from appropriate PPE and screening executive and board member personal donations) and continued home • Extensive well-being offering providing online support for staff in to pay all youth interns in learnerships in South Africa. We are terms of physical, mental, emotional, social and financial well-being also supporting a number of community SMME initiatives. • Investec Pulse conducts weekly monitoring of productivity, ability to Healthcare cope and extent of feeling supported We are funding screening, PPE, capacity building and support • Financial support for employees where required (salary advances, for healthcare workers and doctors around the world. payment holidays, debt consolidation). Committed Education Clients £3.2 mn to • P lease refer to page 66 in our business impact chapter on how we Investec, in partnership with Kutlwanong and Tuta-Me, launched Promaths Online to ensure continued learning for thousands of COVID-19 are supporting our clients and small businesses. students despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Investec is carrying relief for the cost of the data usage through a reverse billing arrangement with South Africa’s major network providers. communities Reaffirming Investec’s position that we exist within society, not off it, we acted decisively to support employees, suppliers, clients and communities through the COVID-19 pandemic. Please refer to our website for details on our group COVID-19 response to helping communities. SUSTAINABILITY AT INVESTEC 17 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 2 START HERE CO MMI TME N T TO OU R P E O PL E About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE People We employ passionate and Investec’s culture is positioned as a strategic differentiator. We have a flat talented people who are organisation structure, a respect for the individual and uphold an environment empowered and enabled to that encourages self-starters to drive their perform extraordinarily. careers in line with business objectives. Our commitment to our people includes: Our people strategy Talent attraction, development and retention Employee value proposition and workforce engagement Recognising and rewarding our people Performance management Employee well-being Family-friendly policies Flexible working policies and practices Belonging, inclusion and diversity Commitment to transformation Learning and development Through our commitment to our people, we contribute to the following SDGs: COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 19 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Our people strategy 8 355 permanently Our people are at the heart of our business. employed We invest significantly in opportunities for their 2019: 8 336 development and to enable current and future leaders across the group. L&D spend as a % of staff Our strategy is to: costs is 1.7% against our Attract the right people and inspire growth and target of >1.5% learning 2019: 1.7% • We invest significantly in learning opportunities for our people. We support them to build their skills and understanding of how they relate to one another, with the culture, with clients and our Rated level 1 under the communities “We focus enormous energy Financial Sector Code • We have numerous graduate programmes operating across our on finding the right people for 2019: Level 1 organisation sourcing and developing our talent pipeline our culture and put them in • Internal mobility is a valued mechanism for the development and retention of our people and enables further integration of business environments in which they can Female Male propositions for our clients flourish, because culture is our 48% 52% • We seek to craft a culture of inclusivity and belonging; an environment where diversity is embodied, and all people are given competitive edge.” 2019: 48% female, 52% male opportunities for growth and to perform. Marc Kahn, Global head of people and organisation Create an organisation in which all our people feel Increase in female senior valued for what they contribute and are celebrated for who they are managers to 37% • Our culture of open and honest dialogue promotes immediate and 2019: 36% direct performance-related feedback between the leader and the team, to deliver on strategic imperatives and development needs Internal mobility • Our performance management methodology focuses on aligning individual and team performance to commercial priorities, and SA: 8.5% supports continuous dialogue UK: 4.2% • We reward people meaningfully for performance and contribution 2019: 8.5% (SA); 2.1% (UK) within their teams. All figures above are restated to exclude Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 20 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Talent attraction, development and retention Investec has a national and international footprint with diverse Internal mobility1 119 people businesses and functions. Internal mobility is a valued mechanism SA: 8.5% (2019: 8.5%) participated in for the development and retention of individuals and enhances UK: 4.2% graduate programmes competitiveness. We enable internal mobility across teams, divisions, (2019: 2.1%) (2019: 107) regions and geographies. Where possible, we recruit laterally to address any identified gaps, capitalising on opportunities to attract outstanding talent. Our internal mobility relates to the number of internal transfers expressed as a percentage of average headcount. In South Africa, our internal mobility is 8.5% (2019: 8.5%) and in the UK it is 4.2% (2019: 2.1%). Investec Careers, in our geographical hubs Total staff in South Africa and the UK, forms an integral part of our broader talent management strategy and enables us to source externally and deploy turnover rate1 is Permanent internally. 10.6% for Southern headcount remains Africa2 (2019: 9.4%) Our graduate strategy has seen the attraction of exceptional and stable due to cost diverse talent across the business, and in the past year 119 graduates and 13.7% for the UK (2019: 11.7%) containment participated in our various graduate programmes across the group (2019: 107 graduates). We focus on employing graduates and working with them to build skilled, strategic thinkers and leaders. We have several graduate, internship and exposure programmes 1 2020 and 2019 figures exclude Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One) Includes Mauritius 2 available across our South African and UK businesses including the IT, Chartered Accountant (CA), analytics, investment banking, private banking, and corporate and investment banking graduate programmes. Headcount (including temporary staff and contractors) We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for developing and upskilling employees through bursaries, leadership development, skills Number of employees programmes, personal mastery, coaching and professional skills. 10 000 608 387 Our people and organisation teams play a critical role in assisting the 632 583 business to achieve its strategic objectives. They are also involved 8 000 467 4 480 4 483 in group-wide activities such as induction programmes for all new 469 409 474 421 4 258 6 000 436 3 728 4 031 employees, providing learning advice to individuals and facilitating the development of both group-wide and bespoke learning programmes. Voluntary staff turnover rate1 2 970 3 073 3 222 2 933 3 008 Southern Africa2: 8.6% (2019: 8.4%) 4 000 3 665 3 856 3 872 3 444 3 448 3 266 3 243 3 228 2 000 2 722 3 103 UK: 8.9% (2019: 7.8%) 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 1 2020 and 2019 figures exclude Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One) Temp staff and contractors Southern Africa UK and Other Includes Mauritius 2 COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 21 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Performance management In our culture, performance is best enabled by our flat organisation Continuous structure, in which high levels of relationship promote respectful, reciprocal, open and honest dialogue. The environment offers stretch, 7% of group performance review Wellness support, trust and discipline where individuals are given freedom to shares held by staff process. participation by staff operate and autonomy in pursuit of extraordinary performance. (excl. non-executive Greater sense of SA: 79% (2019: 70%) Our performance practice has moved beyond the annual individual directors’ holdings) shared accountability, UK: 1 650 staff review process to now being centered on the individual, the team and (2019: 5%) meaning and value (2019: 785 staff) the organisation. This is a continuous process designed to enhance creation the delivery of key strategic priorities of the organisation and create a greater sense of shared accountability, meaning and value creation. Expectations at all three levels are aligned and made explicit. The process adopted to enable high performance is built on a coaching methodology (both team coaching and leader as coach). Ownership and responsibility for performance lies with the individual, Employee value proposition and workforce •  Pulse Checks: provide a snapshot, in real time, of the feel, the team and the leader, and performance feedback is ongoing across engagement experience and engagement within the organisation. This recent pilot initiative allows us to track issues, imperatives and goals at multiple stakeholders. Investec positions itself as a culture-strong organisation where our regular and frequent intervals. We are therefore able to plot trends Employee well-being values and beliefs are widely shared and significantly influence people’s over time, respond as necessary and monitor how leaders are conduct and behaviour on the job. This is evidenced in our employee managing and living the culture. Our approach to well-being is all-encompassing and forms part of our value proposition, as well as other organisational structures and greater employee value proposition strategy. We value the physical, Our people and organisation consulting teams enable these and other processes. financial and psychosocial health, welfare and safety of our people. In mechanisms to form, with leaders and teams, a shared sense of our both major geographies, employees have access to a comprehensive Investec’s employee value proposition communicates Investec’s lived culture in relation to the values we espouse. All employees across employee well-being programme, which is an expression of our focus culture through artefacts and tools that demonstrate how we live in the the group participate in culture and values dialogues. on the care and concern for our employees and provides personalised organisation as well as the reciprocity required by the organisation of its employees. We have various mechanisms to monitor, gain a felt sense Recognising and rewarding our people interventions including face-to-face counselling and life coaching. These interventions are provided by a multi-disciplinary team of select of, and evaluate how people in the culture thrive as well as employees’ Our remuneration practices comply with local regulations and reward health and other professionals who are specialists in their fields. We alignment and adherence to our system of beliefs. These include: people meaningfully for performance and contribution. also host wellness days and well-being events to raise awareness and • Culture dialogues: assess the distinctive beliefs, behaviours entrench a practice of healthy living. Investec is supportive of a minimum living wage and ensures that all and practices of Investec against how they are perceived by our its employees globally are paid above the relevant minimum statutory Investec is committed to providing disabled employees with a employees wage. supportive and accommodating working environment. Our policies, •  Organisation climate reviews: identify how an individual, specific including leave entitlement, are regularly reviewed and adjusted to Our reward package supports an innovative and entrepreneurial work team, department or division is functioning against the cultural take into consideration the needs and well-being of our employees, environment that encourages and fosters extraordinary performance. In norms and requirements. Organisation climate reviews provide our employment obligations and local market practice. In the past line with our philosophy of employee ownership, all employees across leaders with signals as to the views, attitudes and sentiments of year, 79% of permanent staff in South Africa participated in one or the organisation participate in our staff share awards and have the their teams and functions, hence are an important indicator of more employee well-being interventions (2019: 70%). In the UK, more opportunity to participate in our long-term growth. In the past year, 7% employee sentiment than 1 650 staff participated in one or more employee well-being of Investec group’s shares were held by staff (excluding non-executive interventions (2019: 785). directors’ holdings) (2019: 5%). COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 22 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE The UK business launched its well-being offering, Investec Be, in 2019. Flexible working policies and practices During the year we established our well-being pillars: Be Healthy, Be Present, Be Connected, and Be You. Informed by needs identified by We endeavour to create a working environment which encourages our employees and insights from our well-being providers we focused high performance and innovation. In line with our commitment to our efforts on a few key interventions. We encouraged conversations equity in employment and recognition of the dignity and rights of each 31% of employees in around mental health, through the delivery of Staying Well sessions (led employee, we provide an environment that supports work-life balance. South Africa adopted by our clinical psychologist team) which were available to all employees Flexibility means different things to different people, often involving the flexible leave option and leaders in all our offices; Taboo sessions with round table adjustments to the timing, scope and/or place of work. We believe in the first year of it discussions for our people; and the provision of webinars and online that it is important to see flexibility in the context of the work itself, the being offered material through our well-being hub. Under our Be Healthy pillar, we team’s purpose and performance commitments, the needs of clients launched a series of externally led speaker events as well as internal and the lives of every individual in the team. discussions and resources around menopause and cancer awareness. Over the past year the South African business has successfully Our regional well-being champion network has been established, implemented a project that shifts employee and manager focus from where local events, speakers and initiatives are hosted. time-based value to output-based value as a lever to enable high In response to the lockdown protocols enacted as a result of the performance and enhance the employee value proposition. Teams COVID-19 pandemic, Investec launched a virtual well-being platform and leaders have been encouraged to incorporate more flexible ways which is available to all employees. This features experts covering of working into their specific areas. The project has impacted the a wide range of topics with useful physiological, financial, legal, constructs around working hours and staff leave with the introduction medical and nutritional advice for employees. It also includes online of a flexible leave option that allows employees to take the leave Launched fitness classes, biokinetic and ergotherapy counselling, the ability to they require without the constraint of a leave accrual, provided work an improved family host virtual therapy sessions for the management of stress, anxiety, obligations are up to date. In the past financial year, 31% of our staff in depression as well as confidential counselling spaces. South Africa adopted the flexible leave option. leave policy in the UK Family-friendly policies In the first quarter of 2019, in the UK banking businesses, we implemented a significant change to how we approach flexibility, In line with our commitment to equity in employment and in recognition signaling a new intent and openness to working in ways that enable of the dignity and rights of each employee, we provide an environment performance through engendering trust and reciprocity in teams. supportive of combining parenthood with a career. Our maternity This flexibility has stood the organisation in good stead in the current scheme provides enhanced benefits to parents irrespective of their COVID-19 pandemic where lockdown restrictions have necessitated a length of service. more flexible approach to working. In the UK, we launched our revised family leave policy, and have In line with the adoption of flexible working policies, Investec has created greater guidance for employees and leaders on family leave. empowered employees to make their own choices about what they We are helping to facilitate networks between parents and parents-toLaunched ‘dressing wear, through an initiative called ‘dressing for your day’. This is about be within all our offices. We are providing better support for returners, respecting individuality while still maintaining a professional image, for your day’. with processes that open channels for feedback which means we can which always, appropriately portrays our brand. Empowering employees continuously monitor the support we offer. We aim to hold bi-annual to choose what they wear events to support the well-being of all our family leavers and returners. while still maintaining a In South Africa, our parental leave exceeds the minimum prescribed by regulations. professional image COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 23 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Belonging, inclusion and diversity Employee gender composition – permanent employees* Our diversity and inclusion framework has a sense of belonging for all our people, irrespective of difference, Southern Africa UK and Other Total as its goal. We aim to make Investec a place where it is easy to be yourself. It is a responsibility we all share and is integral to our purpose and values as an organisation. Continually mindful of our biases and Male Female Total** Male Female Total** Male Female Total** consciously inclusive, we encourage each other to embrace opportunities for growth. We recognise that a diverse and inclusive workforce is essential to our ability to be an innovative organisation that can adapt and 31 March 2020 prosper in a fast-changing world. Executive directors on Our approach Investec DLC board 2 – 2 – – – 2 – 2 Investec’s approach is to recruit and develop based on aptitude and attitude, with the deliberate intention to Senior managers^ build a diverse workforce, which represents the population of the relevant jurisdiction and reflects its clients. Wealth & Investment 107 44 151 160 25 185 267 69 336 Our recruitment strategies actively seek to engage minority groups, female and disabled candidates. Specialist Banking 821 668 1 489 390 129 519 1 211 797 2 008 We do not tolerate any form of discrimination based on gender, gender reassignment, race, ethnicity, religion, Total senior belief, age, disability, nationality, political opinion, sensitive medical conditions, pregnancy, maternity, civil management 928 712 1 640 550 154 704 1 478 866 2 344 partnership and sexual preference. People with different abilities are an essential part of a diverse talent pool and every effort is made to facilitate an accessible environment for all. Rest of employees Wealth & Investment 65 155 220 597 598 1 195 662 753 1 415 Our diversity commitment Specialist Banking 1 065 1 556 2 621 1 144 829 1 973 2 209 2 385 4 594 • Investec is a member of the 30% Club in both the UK and South Africa Total rest of employees 1 130 1 711 2 841 1 741 1 427 3 168 2 871 3 138 6 009 • Our target for female board representatives remains 33% by the end of the 2020 calendar year • We report globally on our gender pay gap performance (please refer to Investec group’s 2020 intergated Total 2 060 2 423 4 483 2 291 1 581 3 872 4 351 4 004 8 355 annual report volume one, page 223) 31 March 2019 • Our UK businesses are signatories to the UK HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter and are on track to achieving 30% women in senior leadership roles by 2022 Executive directors on • We signed the CEO statement of support for the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. Investec DLC board 3 – 3 1 – 1 4 – 4 Senior managers^ Wealth & Investment 105 39 144 151 23 174 256 62 318 Our diversity principles 48% Specialist Banking 780 609 1 389 358 100 458 1 138 709 1 847 • We believe in the importance and benefits of diversity and strive female to foster a culture that is supportive and inclusive of different Total senior managers 885 648 1 533 509 123 632 1 394 771 2 165 employees perspectives and experiences Rest of employees • Our workforce aims to reflect the diversity of our client base and (2019: 48%) Wealth & Investment 64 152 216 633 604 1 237 697 756 1 453 the society within which we operate Specialist Banking 1 094 1 634 2 728 1 118 868 1 986 2 212 2 502 4 714 • We are progressing towards a working environment that is more inclusive, agile and responsive to the needs of all individuals, for Total rest of employees 1 158 1 786 2 944 1 751 1 472 3 223 2 909 3 258 6 167 example, flexible work arrangements 37% Total 2 046 2 434 4 480 2 261 1 595 3 856 4 307 4 029 8 336 • We work proactively to rebalance our organisation in line with the communities in which we operate through education and female senior Notes: entrepreneurship, and leveraging the value in our diversity managers * Investec Asset Management demerged from Investec on 16 March 2020. Headcount data for 31 March 2020 and 2019 in the table above has been shown excluding Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). • We will continue to measure and track progress annually and (2019: 36%) strive to achieve our targets through concrete actions. ** Headcount per region, per management level and per service line was externally assured. ^ The definition of senior management is different for Southern Africa and the UK and Other due to different regulatory guidelines of the respective geographies. The definition for senior management in the UK was reclassified according To read more about how we invest in our female employees, click here: to our commitment to the Women in Finance Charter. Southern Africa use the definition required by the Department of www.investec.com/en_za/welcome-to-investec/women-on-the-rise.html Labour and the Department of Trade and Industry as per our employment equity reporting. COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 24 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Employee age profile – permanent employees In the UK, our belonging, inclusion and diversity programme, Southern Africa UK and Other sponsored by senior executives, is enabled by our people and organisation function, which includes a dedicated BID lead. BID Male Female Total* Male Female Total* supports our key strategic priority of driving greater connectivity and is aligned to our value of embracing diversity. Our commitment to BID 31 March 2020 builds on our diversity principles with a focus on the following core Total number of employees under the age of 30 524 551 1 075 411 309 720 priorities: speaking up, learning initiatives, organisation flexibility, client and partnership focused inclusion, and inclusion and diversity targets Total number of employees between the ages of 30 and 50 1 347 1 648 2 995 1 440 988 2 428 and measures. These five priorities are supported by our employee-led Total number of employees above the age of 50 189 224 413 440 284 724 Inspire networks, which include the following affinity groups: Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME), gender balance, LGBT+, as well as Executive directors YoungMinds, a group of our younger colleagues, where the initiative is on DLC board Senior managers Rest of employees specifically aimed at building their networks as well as engaging with senior leadership. All our networks enable the exchange of knowledge, Male Female Total* Male Female Total* Male Female Total* experiences and innovative ideas to improve opportunities for career 31 March 2020 success. Total number of employees under the age of 30 – – – 34 19 53 901 841 1 742 We launched an internal coaching programme in the UK, Through Total number of employees between the ages of the Looking Glass, for emerging female leaders to develop a pipeline 30 and 50 1 – 1 1 138 725 1 863 1 648 1 911 3 559 for the organisation. We also offer a cross-industry, inter-company Total number of employees above the age of 50 1 – 1 306 122 428 322 386 708 mentoring programme for female mentees and mentors which provides exposure and insights to other industries. * Headcount per region, per management level and per service line was externally assured. In the past year, 265 staff attended our flagship Zebra Crossing Belonging, inclusion and diversity (BID) programmes We have several Women in Leadership initiatives where women and programme in the UK. This programme has been offered to various We have various processes to encourage dialogue and celebrate men at Investec participate in the conversation around gender. We regions across the UK to maximise reach and penetration of diversity the value of diversity and inclusion. Emerging and established invite our clients and external stakeholders to participate in these awareness at all levels. leaders participate in discussions around all issues related to talent events. These rich and informative dialogues help us to create an In the past year, 335 employees* participated in diversity events in management and inclusion. appropriate environment for women to thrive as leaders, employees South Africa (2019: 866 employees*) and 1 523* employees in the UK and entrepreneurs and serve as role models for the next generation. Our Zebra Crossing initiative in South Africa, aligned to our (2019: 2 256 employees*). We launched our Women on the Rise campaign in support of employment equity plan, aims to raise levels of multi-cultural empowering and developing women in business, education and sport * Some employees attended more than one event. awareness of staff at Investec, enable them to appreciate and and highlighting the power of partnerships to provide opportunities for celebrate the richness of our diverse population and take these insights women. back into the business. Let’s Talk about Race dialogues have been held with groups of employees in South Africa. These are unstructured We are building a Young Leaders Council and reverse mentorship discussions, facilitated by an organisation development representative, initiative in South Africa as we recognise the need to create spaces that where participants are encouraged to confront unconscious bias and enable young, aspirational talent to connect and learn with leaders. 66% 86% These initiatives will aim to marry innovation with experience, create misconceptions around any aspect of diversity. We ran a successful networking opportunities and harness the generational range within female employees of employees internal Pride awareness campaign, the main aim of which was to raise awareness around the LGBTQIA+ meaning and the community within, Investec. The councils will rotate annually and be mandated to engage between the ages of below the age demonstrating that Investec is truly inclusive, that our LGBTQIA+ on organisational challenges and topics set by the executives. Reverse 30 and 50 of 50 community has a voice and that, at Investec, everyone is empowered mentorship aims to open intergenerational pipelines of wisdom, such and encouraged to be their authentic selves. that generations can learn from each other. These employees will be mentors to leaders. COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 25 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Commitment to transformation in South Africa Investec recognises that economic growth and societal transformation Internal initiatives is vital to creating a sustainable future for all the communities in which it Internally, our transformation initiatives are driven through a number of We are committed to promoting internal mobility across the operates, and that as a financial services provider, it plays a critical role structures set up to debate and monitor our various activities. These group and have focused particularly on building current and in enabling this. future leadership with an emphasis on previously disadvantaged efforts are supported by the board and our group management forum or marginalised groups. Our approach in South Africa through the following committees: • Using our entrepreneurial expertise to foster the creation of new • Our Employment Equity Forum, a consultative body constituted black entrepreneurial platforms and partnerships through nominations, is representative of all designated groups, • Serving as a leading source of empowerment financing disabilities, business units and regions in the group. The chairperson of the forum has a seat on the group management forum • Investing significantly in learning and development opportunities for 69% of • O  ur Transformation Committee, a sub-committee of the executive both our employees as well as other South Africans team, ensures our overall transformation objectives are achieved employees who • Encouraging internal transformation by bringing about greater representivity in our workplace and that we maintain a reasonable rating in terms of the Financial progressed • Continually striving to achieve greater representation at all levels Sector Code. The transformation committee is chaired by our CEO, Fani Titi to fill new of the business through the effective implementation of our • Our DLC Social and Ethics Committee, chaired by Lord opportunities employment equity plan (refer to Investec Limited’s 2020 annual report, page 164 for our latest employment equity disclosures). Malloch-Brown, provides oversight of the group’s activities in the within the group fields of transformation, human capital and sustainability. were Black Refurbishment of Investec’s head office in Sandton Highlights Investec is currently carrying out a significant refurbishment of its • Rated level 1 under the Financial Sector Code (refer to our head office in Sandton, South Africa. Strict selection criteria from an website for additional information on our performance against empowerment credentials perspective have been put in place from each element of the Financial Sector Code) • Placed more than 1 400 youth in jobs with 11 of our partners the main contractor to all sub-contractors working on the project. We continue to monitor progress on procurement and are pleased to “Investec recognises that through the Youth Employment Service (YES) initiative. Approximately 50% of these youth found permanent work report that at present we have met all procurement targets as per the Financial Sector Code for this project. economic growth and societal on completion of their one year of work experience (refer to transformation is vital to page 38 for more detail) • Committed to creating additional work experience creating a sustainable future for opportunities for youth in South Africa over the next two years • Launched two learnership programmes for candidates that all the communities in which it successfully completed year one of the YES programme who wish to study further and obtain a formal qualification. operates, and that as a financial services provider, it plays a We remain committed to black economic empowerment (BEE) and critical role in enabling this.” the Financial Sector Code which commits its participants to actively promoting a transformed, vibrant and globally competitive financial Itumeleng Merafe, Head of the group EE forum sector that reflects the demographics of South Africa. COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 26 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE Learning and development (L&D) We invest significantly in a number of opportunities for the development Over the past year, we have enhanced our offering in the UK and As a learning community, we strive to ensure all learning opportunities and upskilling of our employees as well as leadership programmes to invested significantly in opportunities for developing and upskilling are aligned to the strategic objectives of the business. As such, we enable current and future leaders across the group. Employees are employees through leadership development, business coaching, have focused on building sales capability and enhancing internal encouraged to be the driving force behind their own development and personal mastery, technical and professional skills. We focus on product knowledge across all divisions to bring One Investec to our should be proactive in identifying and addressing development needs, developing well-rounded individuals who can self-direct their learning clients. allowing them to maximise learning opportunities most relevant to their and drive their careers in service of extraordinary performance. In order to continue to promote internal mobility and skills transfer, we unique requirements. launched an internal mentoring scheme where mentors and mentees We also help individuals to remain relevant by developing future-fit Our learning team is mandated to develop and retain people who skills. This includes open-enrolment programmes such as coding self-match in line with their experience, interests, and profiles. can perform extraordinarily in support of business objectives in a bootcamps, data science talks, data analytics tools, talks with All these opportunities provide a platform for our employees to connect manner consistent with Investec’s culture and values. To achieve this, entrepreneurs and academics as well as a group-wide hackathon and build relationships, which are fundamental to our relational culture we employ talented people and then enable their professional and attended by 300 employees across the UK. As much as possible, we and organisational ethos. We believe that individuals learn not just personal growth and development. The calibre of human resource try to leverage our internal talent to deliver learning opportunities that through formal programmes but also through connecting with others capability within the bank is a core long-term competitive advantage enable a developmental culture and engaged workforce. and working on challenging assignments. and Investec is committed to maximising the potential of employees by encouraging formal educational development. Group learning and development spend In the past year, our learning and development spend for the group as 31 March 2020 31 March 2019* a % of staff costs was 1.7%; £14.2 million (2019: 1.7%; £16.0 million) against our minimum target of 1.5%. Year ended £ R £ R External learning Southern Africa 9 886 637 185 698 215 11 414 831 205 910 900 Investec’s external learning includes public programmes, conferences, UK and Other 4 268 211 80 168 726 4 656 957 84 006 342 seminars and courses and provides employees with development Total group learning and development spend 14 154 848 265 866 941 16 071 788 289 917 242 opportunities to enable the acquisition of knowledge and skills necessary for career development within Investec. Our educational Total group learning and development spend as a % of staff costs 1.7% 1.7% bursary scheme provides employees in South Africa with focused * Restated to exclude Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). educational opportunities to enable the acquisition of qualifications. In the past year, 10% of employees in South Africa were granted bursaries (2019: 10%). Internal learning 20 qualified L&D spend as a % Our internal learning programmes include inductions, support for new CAs completed the CA of staff costs is leaders, personal and interpersonal skills, technical and professional 10% of employees programme and 11 1.7%; £14.2 mn skills, leadership programmes, mentoring and coaching as well as our in South Africa granted retained in the business learnerships and CA and IT trainee programmes in South Africa. In the (2019*: 1.7%; £16.0 mn) bursaries (2019: 10%) (2019: 22 CAs qualified; past year 20 qualified CAs completed the programme (2019: 22 CAs), against our minimum 17 retained in of which 11 were retained in the business (2019: 17 retained). target the business) A total of 13 IT students joined the IT graduate programme in the past of 1.5% year (2019: 17). 66% of the IT students have remained at Investec for at least one year after graduating from the IT graduate programme. In the UK, 34 students joined one of the UK graduate programmes in the past year, of which 14 completed their programme. * 2019 L&D spend restated to exclude Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 27 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE People dashboard 31 March 31 March 2020 2019 Commentary Reference Our people Code of conduct ✔ ✔ All employees sign the code of conduct on employment Human rights ✔ ✔ The Investec group remains committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption Refer to Freedom of association ✔ ✔ We fully support employees’ rights to freedom of association across all businesses and The way we geographies in which we operate. Investec upholds the constitutional rights of our employees do business on to freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the protection of employee our website representatives and the right to be a member of a trade union of their choice Anti-bribery and corruption policy ✔ ✔ Continuous training across all our offices on anti-bribery and corruption Total full time employees 8 355 8 336 Permanent headcount remained stable due to cost containment This report: page 24 Total staff turnover in the UK 13.7% 11.7% Total staff turnover in South Africa 10.6% 9.4% Voluntary staff turnover in the UK 8.9% 7.8% This report: page 21 Voluntary staff turnover in South Africa 8.6% 8.4% Internal mobility in the UK 4.2% 2.1% Internal mobility relates to the number of internal transfers expressed as a percentage of Internal mobility in South Africa 8.5% 8.5% average headcount Retrenchments 1.6% 0.7% Our retrenchment practice is more favourable than local statutory or regulatory requirements Number of whistle blowing incidents 2 3 We seek to protect all employees who disclose unlawful or irregular conduct by the company, its employees or other stakeholders. We have several channels that employees may use to raise concerns Occupational health and safety incidents 27 31 A group-wide formal health and safety programme identifies and manages all health and safety Refer to our website: risks and carries out regular safety audits. Minor incidents reported www.investec. Occupational health and safety fatalities – – com/en_za/legal/ Number of discrimination allegations 10 2 In accordance with Investec’s policies and practices, and relevant legislation, we strive to prevent hrregulatorydisclosures. and/or eliminate any form of discrimination whatsoever (which includes discrimination based on html gender, gender reassignment, race, ethnicity, religion, belief, age, disability, nationality, political opinion, sensitive medical conditions, pregnancy, maternity, civil partnership and sexual preference) Number of discrimination incidents – – There were no reported incidents of discrimination in the 2019 and 2020 financial years Formal grievance procedure ✔ ✔ COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 28 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE People dashboard (continued) 31 March 31 March 2020 2019 Commentary Reference Diversity Women as percentage of total workforce 48% 48% This report: pages 24 and 25 Women in leadership 37% 36% Age diversity published ✔ not disclosed Member of the 30% Club ✔ ✔ CEO statement of support for the UN Women’s ✔ ✔ Empowerment Principles Employee well-being Accessibility requirements and staff working from home 95% n/a Robust, agile transition into remote working, enabling a seamless continuation of service to our This report: during COVID-19 clients with approximately 95% of our employees across the world working from home pages 22 and 23 Addressing well-being ✔ ✔ Flexible leave 31% n/a Staff in South Africa taking up the flexible leave policy Flexible workplace arrangements ✔ ✔ Family-friendly policies ✔ ✔ Employees paid above the minimum wage 100% 100% Learning and development spend Learning and development spend as a % of staff costs 1.7% 1.7% Target maintained at >1.5% This report: pages 27 Actual spend on learning and development (£) 14 154 848 16 071 788 Decrease in spend due to cost containment For more information on our regulatory disclosures that includes human rights, freedom of association, whistle-blowing and protected disclosures, retrenchment, health and safety and discrimination and grievance resolution refer to www.investec.com/en_za/legal/hr-regulatory-disclosures.html COMMITMENT TO OUR PEOPLE 29 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 3 START HERE CO MMITME N T TO O U R CO MMU N ITI E S About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Communities Our strategy aims to support Our community initiatives the communities in which we are central to the group’s exist, with a particular focus on education, entrepreneurship and the values of making an unselfish environment. contribution to society, nurturing Wherever possible, we seek to collaborate with partners, to leverage an entrepreneurial spirit, resources and expertise that ensure a lasting impact as well as long-term valuing diversity and respecting sustainability for our projects. others, which all underpin Investec’s aim to be a responsible corporate organisation. Our commitment to our communities includes: Staff volunteerism Education and learnerships Entrepreneurship and job creation Environment and other philanthropy. Through our commitment to our communities, we contribute to the following SDGs: COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 31 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Our approach Promaths contributed 5% In order to achieve our vision to create sustained long-term wealth, we of SA’s national distinctions need a thriving economy with active economic participants. To become economically active, people need to be educated and skilled in order to in maths and 6% in science be employed or create employment for themselves as entrepreneurs. 2019: 5% for both maths and science Those professionals and entrepreneurs become our clients and staff, and partner with us to create more wealth. In this way, we are able to address financial inclusion, create active economic participants and engage with communities in a meaningful way. 1 780 Arrival Education Our approach focuses on three categories of impact: learners supported • Education and learnerships (aligned to priority SDG 4: in the UK in the past 12 years quality education) 2019: 1 710 learners • Entrepreneurship and job creation (aligned to priority SDG 8: decent work and economic growth) • Environment and other philanthropy (aligned to priority SDG 6, 1 440 South African youth SDG 7, SDG 9 and SDG 11). “Our support of education is placed in jobs through the YES In keeping with our business model of independent, highly autonomous business units, supported by a strong centre, there is no single informed by the desire to make initiative over the past two years overriding approach to social investment within the group, although clear commonalities exist. Each region has pursued social investment a meaningful contribution in as deemed appropriate to their circumstances, and where they are in the evolution of their business. communities within which we 154 entrepreneurs provided operate. Through education, professional advice through Spend on community initiatives by category (%) people are better positioned to Bromley by Bow Centre become resourceful citizens of 2019: 119 entrepreneurs the world who not only become active economic participants, 28 900 children reached through Investec Rhino but also end up taking their Lifeline programme rightful places in their chosen 2019: 21 600 children sectors for the betterment of £9.8 million their own lives, those around 1 500 trees planted by 50% 27% Education and learnerships Entrepreneurship and job creation them and society at large.” staff in the UK 23% Environment and other philanthropy Setlogane Manchidi, Head of corporate social investment, 2019: >2 500 trees South Africa COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 32 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Spend on community initiatives as a Staff volunteering % of operating profit* Through our staff volunteering programme we support and possibly receive funding for projects in which they are actively involved. encourage staff participation and engagement. We believe that In the past financial year, we facilitated 17 staff volunteering events and Percentage far more can be achieved through our collective knowledge, eight community events for business units in our South African offices 3.0 expertise and influence than through cash donations alone. that replaced their traditional teambuilding events (2019: 18 staff 2.8 volunteering events; 11 community events). Over the past year, 2.5 Our people play a pivotal role in our staff volunteering programmes, 2.5 1 046 staff in South Africa volunteered 2 878 hours (2019: 674 staff; 2.3 giving selflessly of their time, money, goods and skills to support our 2 930 hours). 2.0 communities. We foster a culture of participation by offering staff 2.0 involvement opportunities, some of which are outlined below. We offer In the UK, our payroll giving programme, Give As You Earn, enables staff a payroll giving programme in our South African, UK and other staff to donate money to a charity of their choice. Staff fundraising 1.5 1.3 regional offices. endeavours are supported through employee charity funding while small grants are made to local charities within our focus areas. In 0.9 In South Africa, our Touch by Giving programme allows staff to donate 1.0 the UK, staff donated £331 029 to charity through payroll giving money on a monthly basis, or once off, to 14 pre-selected and vetted (2019: > £476 600). A further £120 238 (2019: £210 800) was raised charitable organisations, and financial resources permitting, Investec 0.5 by staff in the UK, Channel Islands, Ireland and the United States, matches staff contributions. In the past financial year, Investec including through Investec-sponsored events. All staff in the UK are matched all staff contributions. We also encourage staff to volunteer 0 also given two days paid leave to volunteer with our community in their own communities. Through the Cradle Project, staff have the Investec Limited Investec plc Investec group partners. In the UK, Channel Islands and Ireland, 555 of our staff opportunity to present charitable donation requests to a forum and 2019** 2020 Target volunteered 3 217 hours (2019: > 4 200). * Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests. ** Restated to exclude Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). Achieved 2.3% (£9.8 mn) group * Before goodwill, acquired community spend as a intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other % of operating profit* non‑controlling interests. against our ** Restated to exclude Investec Asset target: > 1.0% Management (now Ninety One). (2019**: 2.0%, £9.5 mn) COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 33 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Education and learnerships Education Within our communities, we create education and learnership opportunities, that Unleashing opportunities through mathematics and science equip and enable young people to become active economic participants in society. Through these opportunities we contribute to SDG 4 (quality education). Kabo joined the Promaths programme in 2017 and matriculated in 2019 with 94% in physical science and 92% in mathematics. Kabo is one of 3 900 learners in eight centres on the Investecfunded Promaths programme that provides extra tuition in mathematics and science to learners in grades 10 – 12 at selected schools across the country. South Africa Kabo describes how challenging it was being raised by a single, unemployed mother and her 89-yearWe aim to create opportunities for young people to become active participants in society. To old grandmother in the rural area of Makapanstad in the North West province. However, she did not achieve this, we recognise that there needs to be a continuum of initiatives, starting from high let these challenges hold her back. “It was really difficult financially, but I didn't let this get in the way school, moving to tertiary education and continuing through to young adult learning. of my studies. I made sure that I excelled at school so that I could pursue my dream. At first I didn't see why we had to go to school for so many extra lessons in maths and science, but when I saw the Our strategy can therefore be depicted in a progressive pipeline, spanning three stages of personal amazing improvements in my results, I knew this was a real opportunity to make my dreams become learning and growth. We are passionate about empowering talented, hardworking individuals so a reality.” that they may realise their potential. Since inception of our flagship programme, Promaths, 15 years ago, we have matriculated over 8 000 disadvantaged learners through the programme. In 2019, 222 034 learners wrote mathematics Promaths programme highlights: and 164 478 wrote science nationally. In the Promaths programme there were 224 distinctions in mathematics and 459 distinctions in science from 1 392 learners writing their final examinations, both of which contributed 5% and 6% of the country’s national distinctions in mathematics and science respectively. The programme seeks to supplement the role of mathematics and science educators in Winner of the schools to improve the performance of high-potential learners in these subjects. Contributed 5% of Trialogue Strategic the country’s national CSI award 2019 in distinctions in recognition of strategic Kabo is now studying mathematics and 6% in programmes that astrophysics at the University science respectively have both positive of Cape Town. “I want to work (2018*: 5% in both mathematics and science) developmental and for NASA. I would like to design business impact space programmes so that our economy can grow through Funded >8 000 investing in space science. My learners on the biggest wish is to train to be an Promaths programme astronaut and travel to space.” since inception Kabo Eva Tladi, Makapanstad, North West in 2005 * Academic year: January-December. COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 34 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Bursaries and alumni programmes We offer bursaries at a school and university level to learners and students who are both Learnerships academically and financially deserving. From learnerships to employment Investec supports three external learnerships, namely the Umuzi Academy, Afrika Tikkun and ORT SA CAPE. The Umuzi Academy offers one-year learnerships that produce high calibre, entry-level designers, copywriters, digital and multimedia 46 high school 125 university 2 585 Promaths professionals. The learnership includes nine months of on-the-job training R11.2 mn invested at Umuzi, and three months working at a leading employer gaining bursaries bursaries alumni students practical experience. During 2019, Investec funded 60 Umuzi learners; in Umuzi Academy, (2018*: 40 bursaries) (2018*: 133 bursaries) (2018*: 1 724 students) of which 58 completed the learnership. In 2020, nine of Umuzi’s digital Afrika Tikkun and learners will be based at Investec for their on-the-job training. ORT SA CAPE The Afrika Tikkun end-to-end learnership aids the empowerment of learnerships young job seekers by providing them with entry to mid-level jobs. During 2019, Investec funded 82 learners on the programme to study end-user * Academic year: January-December. computing and business administration. Some learners are placed in our regional offices with others at partner hosts. In January 2020, 62 learners Investec awards high school Post high school, Investec Investec supports Promaths graduated from the learnership. bursaries to learners in awards university alumni societies that grades 10 – 12 to access quality bursaries to students aim to connect, motivate and From January 2020 we combined our learnership model with our YES 82 learners education around the country. wishing to study towards empower previous Promaths commitment to create greater impact. 30 who graduated from the YES on the In 2019, Investec awarded 46 scarce skills-related degrees at high school learners who programme with one of our partners ORT SA Cape, started a new Afrika Tikkun high school bursaries, 22 of universities across the country. are now studying at tertiary 18-month learnership to become qualified teacher assistants. learnership whom matriculated in 2019 The 125 bursary students in institutions across the country. (2018: 40 high school bursaries). 2019 (2018: 133 bursaries) The programme has expanded Of the 46 bursary recipients, ranged from first year to honours in the past year with 2 585 36 of the learners are female. level. Of these, 18 were part of students on the programme in The bursaries cover tuition in the Promaths Bursary Fund, 2019 (2018: 1 724) in 16 alumni high performing private and awarded to learners who have societies (2018: 13 societies). government schools. been through the Promaths high school programme. 24 of the 125 bursary recipients completed To read about an their degrees at the end of 2019. alumnus of the Umuzi To read about Investec Academy, Tshepiso Promaths alumnus and Mabula and her budding Investec bursary recipient, career, click here: Mmane Boikanyo, now www.investec.com/ the TuksSport marketing en_za/welcome-to-investec/ manager, click here: women-on-the-rise/ www.investec.com/en_za/ tshepiso-mabula.html For information on our career guidance, work readiness, welcome-to-investec/women-onmentorship and teacher internship programmes, please the-rise/mmane-boikanyo.html visit www.investec.com/en_za/welcome-to-investec/corporateresponsibility/our-community.html COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 35 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES United Kingdom We aim to empower young people to achieve their goals in life through the education projects we support. While we recognise the importance of academics, our community partners also focus on employability and life and interpersonal skills. Partnership with Supported 1 780 Arrival Education Arrival Education shortlisted for the learners in the UK Education Financial Services in the past 12 years Encouraging social mobility Charity Partnership Faisal Islam was 16 years old when he got (2019: 1 710 learners) the opportunity to join the Arrival Education Award in 2020 programme. From the London Borough of Newham, Faisal joined the programme in October 2019 to learn new skills to help him secure a good job in the future. For information on our education and learnership programmes in the UK, please visit www.investec.com/en_gb/welcome-to-investec/corporate-responsibility/our-community/education.html Arrival Education is a social enterprise that focuses on supporting young people from challenging backgrounds and minority ethnic groups through programmes which encourage social mobility. Investec employees volunteered to be coaches Arrival Education aims to raise aspirations and to 14 students, having provided mentoring develop the mindsets and skills required for over a nine-month period. We also hosted students to achieve success in their lives. As a Invest for Success, an innovative six-month primary partner of Arrival Education, Investec programme designed for students wanting to hosts volunteer-led workshops and coaching succeed in the financial sector. Over the course sessions in our London office, as part of the of the programme, 50 students were taught the Access Network, for ambitious 16 – 18-year-olds principles of trading through a simulated stock interested in pursuing a career in business. portfolio game where they were given fictitious In the past financial year, we have supported 73 funds to invest in five stocks, whilst being students, many of whom have attended more supported by 24 Investec volunteers from the than one of the workshops we offer. We delivered London and Liverpool offices. six Access Network workshops, supported by When asked of his plans for the Investec volunteers, for 32 students to develop valuable employability skills and enhance future future, Faisal replies, “After We aim to empower career success. “I found the Networking for Success workshop the most useful,” says Faisal. completing my final year at young people to achieve college, I plan on doing an “It gave me an entirely new way of thinking and helped me connect with people working in apprenticeship in business.” their goals in life. corporate jobs,” he added. Faisal Islam, London Borough of Newham COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 36 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Entrepreneurship and job creation Entrepreneurship Investec’s roots are based in the spirit of entrepreneurship and we strive to nurture Providing global exposure to select entrepreneurs an entrepreneurial spirit from school-going age to working entrepreneurs. We aim to Investec’s Nextwork Global Exposure Programme, in provide job creation for youth through quality work experience placements. Through partnership with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust our various initiatives in entrepreneurship and job creation we are contributing to (EDT), takes aspiring entrepreneurs from different sectors on SDG 8 (decent work and economic growth). overseas trips to expose them to sector-leading countries. South Africa The trip itinerary is designed based on the entrepreneurs selected, as well as the sector focus, and includes visits In a country characterised by a high unemployment rate, especially amongst our youth, the to think tanks, universities, start-ups, venture capitalists, significance of entrepreneurship as a vehicle to facilitate economic inclusion should not be angel funders, leading companies, and thought leaders. underestimated. Our focus, aimed at stimulating both entrepreneurial thinking and activity, is It also provides formal and informal opportunities for the extended with the recognition and understanding that in the growth of emerging entrepreneurs lies entrepreneurs to network and showcase their businesses. the possible growth of many other people who will find employment and be in a position to support In the last year, our Nextwork Global Exposure Programme themselves and their families. hosted three international trips with a sector focus on the built environment, media, and food and beverage. “I am so thankful to Startup School 50 entrepreneurs were given global exposure in the past everyone who is part Startup School, in partnership with Investec, offers a 12-week year, of which more than 50% were women. of the Startup School online entrepreneurial learning programme for startup and scale-up Africa team as well as entrepreneurs in South Africa as well as Africa at large. The course There are over 300 South African entrepreneurs from a wide aims to bridge the gap between entrepreneurs who succeed and range of different sectors that are alumni of the Nextwork Investec for creating such those who do not. Students are supported by an experienced Global Exposure Programme. These alumni form the an incredibly insightful team of educational, coaching and entrepreneurial specialists. pipeline for the supporting developmental programmes course. The course The Startup School approach combines interactive learning, business within the Nextwork entrepreneurship umbrella. These gave me the tools to coaching and mentorship, to facilitate the development of a set of alumni programmes aim to provide the necessary support to add changes to my core behaviours that have been identified by research as critical develop the entrepreneurs’ businesses to ensure sustainable business and become a for sustained entrepreneurial success and the development of an growth for those who participate. confident and successful entrepreneur.” entrepreneurial mindset. In the past year, Startup School ran three presentations and 202 entrepreneurs completed the programme Ruth, Startup School student, (2018: 157 entrepreneurs). 2019 50 entrepreneurs 202 entrepreneurs given global exposure >300 global exposure To read about Startup completed through trips abroad, For more information School alumnus, Palesa programme alumni on our entrepreneurship Moloi, CEO and Co-founder Startup School of which more than programmes, please visit of ParkUpp, click here: 50% were women (2019: 266 alumni) www.investec.com/en_za/ (2019: 157 entrepreneurs) www.investec.com/en_za/ welcome-to-investec/corporatewelcome-to-investec/women(2019: 43 entrepreneurs) responsibility/our-community/ on-the-rise/palesa-moloi.html Entrepreneurship.html COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 37 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Job creation Creating quality work experiences for South African youth At the beginning of 2018 Khensani Mongwe was a young The success of the programme is highlighted by the fact that unemployed mother living in Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga. In approximately 50% of the first cohort have since been permanently March 2018, she responded to a Youth Employment Service employed, while others have returned to further their studies. Placed 1 440 50% of the (YES) advert for a one-year internship at the Sabi Sands Pfunanani of youth in jobs first cohort of In January 2020, Investec committed further funding towards a Trust (SSPT), close to where she lives. SSPT is responsible for the maintenance, daily running and protection of the world-renowned second cohort of YES interns. Furthermore, we have introduced through the YES interns received learnerships at two of our partner organisations involved in the initiative in the past permanent jobs Sabi Sands Game Reserve. Two weeks after starting her job, training of early childhood development teachers and artisans. Khensani travelled to Johannesburg together with 20 other interns These learnerships are open to interns that have outperformed two years in the past year from SSPT for the official launch of the YES programme. She in year one of YES and offers them the opportunity of obtaining was part of both Investec and the country’s first cohort of YES an accredited qualification and a higher chance of permanent interns. “The trip was such an adventure for me. I stayed in a employment on completion. hotel for the first time, watched a movie for the first time and met President Cyril Ramaphosa,” says Khensani. Excelling in her job as an environmental monitor, she was offered a permanent job at SSPT after her one-year work experience. “In November 2019, I was selected as one of the YES candidates to participate in the Committed Business is an Adventure event sponsored by Virgin Atlantic. I Spent >R75 mn with further funding flew on a plane for the first time and had a personal interview with 11 partners over the to the YES Richard Branson.” past two years initiative over the YES, a collaboration between government and the private sector, next two years was launched by President Cyril Ramaphosa in March 2018 in recognition of the crisis we face in our country with respect to youth unemployment. The main objective of YES is to create one million quality work experiences for South African youth (between the ages of 18-35) over three years. Stephen Koseff, former CEO of the Investec group, is a co-convenor of YES, with Investec being one of the first companies to sign up to the programme. In the two years, Investec partnered with 11 organisations across South Africa to host over 1 440 youth. Our partners were selected from sectors where South Africa currently has a shortage of skills, including tourism, early childhood development and artisans. Some of our partners include SSPT, Care for Wild Rhino Sanctuary, Artisan Development Academy, Click Foundation and ORT SA CAPE. The majority of Investec’s first cohort completed their year of work experience at the end of March 2020. Khensani Mongwe, Bushbuckridge, Mpumalanga COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 38 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Six social 154 entrepreneurs enterprises launched given advice in the in the past year past year with Investec’s seed funding and (2019: 119 entrepreneurs) professional advice United Kingdom Routes Collective (Routes) is one of the enterprises launched last Entrepreneurship year. Routes is a social enterprise that empowers female refugees Empowering people in local communities and asylum-seekers to improve spoken English and develop new The Bromley by Bow Centre focuses on socio-economic skills and social networks through one-on-one mentoring and regeneration in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets, one of theatre-based sessions. Investec helped launch Routes Collective the most deprived boroughs in the UK. In 2011, Investec became by giving them seed funding of £17 000 and one-on-one practical the sole funder of the centre’s Beyond Business programme, business support as well as continuous commercial advice to now known as Investec Beyond Business, a unique social ensure they succeed in the crucial early years of trading, and enterprise incubator providing seed funding and professional beyond. Deborah Sayagh, the Investec mentor for Routes, says advice to entrepreneurs looking to start their own social “Being a mentor for Routes has been such a learning process enterprise businesses. for me, in listening, understanding and knowing how, and when, to support.” Each year, Investec helps to launch five to six new social enterprises. The launched enterprises address a variety of social The business has had to adapt its model due to COVID-19. Razia  issues including youth unemployment, social exclusion, vulnerable families, community cohesion, homelessness, mental health, Nizamuddin, Investec sustainability programme manager for Investec Beyond Business, says: “With the current pandemic, refugee and “Being a mentor for Routes rehabilitation of ex-offenders and food poverty. Many of the entrepreneurs are female, black and of ethnic minority. asylum-seeking women are some of the most at risk of becoming isolated. To adhere with the social distancing rules, Routes had to has been such a learning Investec staff volunteer on the selection panel, to offer one-on-one change their programme format from in-person to online. Investec donated new laptops to support Routes to launch their online process for me, in listening, advice to shortlisted aspiring entrepreneurs and grant seed funding to the successful applicants. This year’s successful applicants were mentoring programme. Each refugee and asylum-seeking woman is paired with a business woman mentor whom Routes train in understanding and knowing how, and when, to support.” given over 65 hours of specialist advice by 25 Investec volunteers communication, coaching and leadership skills. The current pairs of in the areas of HR, legal, finance, project management, product women are working together virtually over the 10-week programme marketing and business development. to achieve their personal and professional goals.” Deborah Sayagh, Investec mentor for Routes COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 39 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Environment and other philanthropy Investec recognises that communities require Senzo Msibi, aged 12, plays in one of five Fairview and Moodies are two local schools a clean, resource-rich natural environment soccer teams in the New Consort Mine supported by Care for Wild, whose grade that supports the growth of business and the community that Care for Wild supports, by 5 pupils have enjoyed participating in economy. Through our environmental initiatives, cheering on the sidelines and with balls, kit the Coaching Conservation kids’ soccer we are preserving our communities, supporting the 28 900 children and regular meals for players and coaches. programme since 2017. These 540 children are part of a greater group of 20 000 children economy of wildlife and contributing to SDG 11 impacted through IRL During the COVID-19 pandemic, Care for Wild ensured all the families of these reached by Coaching Conservation since (sustainable cities and communities). (2019: 21 600 children) soccer-playing children received food packs IRL teamed up with them in 2013. Together South Africa when they left the mines to return to their with Good Work Foundation and their Open homes in Sheba, Fairview and Matsulu. Learning Academy, a total of 28 900 children Given Investec’s African heritage, we are passionate about Care for Wild also recruited local women to have been reached through IRL partners. ensuring the continued existence of a number of African species. We fund several biodiversity projects which help to ensure prepare hot food for the remaining children IRL has partnered with Care for Wild and the sustainable existence of South Africa’s rich wildlife. Our and their unemployed families living in the HESC in the protection of rhino orphaned or philanthropic donations recognise that there are many other extensive mine village bordering the reserve. injured by poaching since 2016, supporting needs and related causes that fall outside of our key focus areas. the rescue and rehabilitation of over 85 rhino Care for Wild were pleased to use a and release of 35 rhino back into the wild. Environment R200 000 donation from IRL to assist their Our partnership with Care for Wild has Investec Rhino Lifeline (IRL) surrounding communities whilst they were broadened from awareness and fundraising R5.5 mn donated via unable to work during the national lockdown. campaigns to sustainable environmental and Established in September 2012, IRL focuses on youth education and rhino rescue. We partner with specialists and support their efforts by raising IRL including 3rd The funds enabled Care for Wild to provide community projects. food parcels to 56 pensioners and their awareness, funds and donations. party funds in the families, hot food and packs for 35 families in We recognise the important role IRL plays in both community support and, past year the soccer feeding scheme and hot meals to Senzo Msibi, New Consort Mine village, more recently, in combatting illegal wildlife trade (IWT). Beyond project (2019: R4.1 mn) 100 staff daily during April and May. Mpumalanga, with Care for Wild’s Ferdi Terblanche support, raising awareness is critical to maintaining the cause in the public domain, increases goodwill and brand trust, and facilitates donations. In Care for Wild acknowledges the critical role the past year, we ran four campaigns, reaching 12.1 million people and neighbouring communities play in protecting raising R2 million in third party donations. their rhino and thus work closely with the communities on joint projects to educate, Notable campaigns included the release of two rhino rescued and employ and uplift them with conservation rehabilitated by the Hoedspruit Endangered Species Centre (HESC), and a and related skills. Care for Wild support local community trail run in Bushbuckridge called the Extra Mile, which involved schools’ projects, young adult conservation all our partners, and raised conservation awareness and R240 000 for the community. January 2020 saw a successful workshop on IWT, the first 12.1 mn people education programmes with Good Work of its kind in South Africa, hosted by United for Wildlife and Investec, and reached through four Foundation, employ and upskill youth through the YES initiative with Investec, and attended by the country’s top banks, law enforcement and NGOs. This awareness campaigns have embarked on an ambitious farming collaboration promises to significantly impact IWT and organised crime in South Africa and abroad. raising R2 mn in 3rd project with the Lomshiyo community, party donations planting 5ha of Macadamia and 25ha of Investec Rhino Lifeline’s partners are Care for Wild, HESC, Good Work vegetables, in which both Care for Wild Foundation and Coaching Conservation. and the community have an equal 50% To read about HESC’s release of two rhino orphaned from poaching, ownership and profit stake. click here: www.investec.com/en_za/focus/beyond-wealth/rescuerehabilitate-release-the-story-of-a-rhino-orphaned-by-poaching.html For more information on Investec Rhino Lifeline, please visit www.investecrhinolifeline.com COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 40 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Philanthropic Responding to climate-related disasters initiatives We donated R300 000 to Gift of the Givers Foundation in Understanding that there are many good causes that fall outside of our current key focus areas, we South Africa to support drought-stricken communities in the make available a budget for quarterly donations to charities and/or organisations that are not aligned to 71 ad hoc Eastern Cape. The funds were used to install two boreholes in local communities, one of which was erected at a school in our corporate social investment mandate and strategy. The budget is distributed in the form of smaller donations made to donations in response to requests received for assistance across South Africa. These donations cover Butterworth supporting both the school and the community. a range of sectors from early childhood development, environmental conservation, crime deterrence, the value of sports development, arts and culture, to health and welfare. One such donation included assisting with R1.7 mn the provision of a lecture hall and doctor’s lounge at the Prince Mshiyeni hospital, a teaching hospital in Umlazi, KwaZulu-Natal. In the last financial year we made 71 ad hoc donations across South Africa to the value of R1.7 million (2019: 99 ad hoc donations; R3 million). Environment Trees for Cities Planted Investec continues to partner with the charity Trees for Cities, offering a variety of volunteering opportunities to staff to plant trees in urban areas across the UK. Trees for Cities helps local 1 500 trees communities and schools to plant trees and shrubs, and to grow food, reconnecting urban areas and residents with nature. In the past year, 266 of our staff volunteered 1 330 hours of their time planting 1 500 trees, 530 bulbs, and three edible playgrounds (made of herbs, vegetables or fruit) in various schools. Philanthropic initiatives In the past financial year, we funded several philanthropic initiatives. One such initiative was the provision of 500 hot meals for the homeless through the social enterprise, the Canvas Café, one of Investec Beyond Business’s alumni. A second initiative was the donation of £3 000 to The Lord Mayors Appeal which brings together businesses, employees, neighbouring communities and charities to find solutions to some of London’s most pressing societal issues. The donations are used to support the ground-breaking work of their charity partners. In addition, Investec We donated AUD50 000 to Wildlife Information, Rescue UK’s donation committee provided over £72 000 to non-partner charities through employee charity funding and external charity project donations. and Education Service (WIRES) in response to the worst bushfires Australia has experienced in the past decade. Australian army reservists were called up to help fight the fires, among them were a number of our staff. For more information on our conservation efforts and our For more information on the many ways our regional offices contribution to Birdlife South Africa and the Endangered Wildlife are contributing to the community, please visit www.investec. Trust (EWT), please visit www.investec.com/en_za/welcome-tocom/en_za/welcome-to-investec/corporate-responsibility.html investec/corporate-responsibility/our-environment.html COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 41 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES Community dashboard 31 March 31 March 2020 2019* Commentary Reference Southern Africa community spend Education and learnerships 4 563 470 4 318 559 Entrepreneurship and job creation 2 334 749 2 536 044 Environment and other 1 141 810 1 161 564 Total Southern Africa community spend (£) 8 040 028 8 016 167 UK and Other community spend Education and learnerships 370 542 393 327 Entrepreneurship and job creation 307 568 397 161 Environment and other 1 086 586 732 627 Total UK and Other community spend (£) 1 764 696 1 523 115 Group community spend Education and learnerships 4 934 012 4 711 887 Entrepreneurship and job creation 2 642 317 2 933 205 Environment and other 2 228 396 1 894 191 Total group community spend (£) 9 804 725 9 539 283 UK and Other community spend according to LBG 1 825 799 1 810 805 The London Benchmark Group (LBG) is the global standard for measuring, This report: benchmarking and reporting on corporate community investment in the UK page 33 Group community spend according to LBG (£) 9 865 828 9 826 972 Spend as a % of operating profit 2.3% 2.0% Target maintained at >1.0% This report: pages 32 and 33 Percentage spend on education and entrepreneurship 77.3% 80.1% Contribution to the South African matric mathematics distinctions 5% 5% Impact measurement through our Promaths programme Contribution to the South African matric science distinctions 6% 5% Impact measurement This report: through our Promaths programme page 34 to 36 Number of high school bursaries granted in South Africa 46 40 Number of university bursaries granted in South Africa 125 133 Total volunteering hours 6 095 >7 100 Volunteering hours in South Africa 2 878 2 930 This report: Volunteering hours in the UK, 3 217 > 4 200 All staff in the UK are given two days paid leave to volunteer with our page 33 Channel Islands and Ireland community partners Children reached through Investec Rhino Lifeline since inception 28 900 21 600 This report: page 40 * Excluding Investec Assets Management (now Ninety One). COMMITMENT TO OUR COMMUNITIES 42 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 4 START HERE CO MMITME N T TO THE EN V IR O N ME N T A N D CL IMATE C H A N G E About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Introduction We are committed to supporting Investec plays a critical role in funding a sustainable economy that is cognisant of the world’s limited natural the transition to a clean and resources and promotes carbon reduction energy-efficient economy. We recognise the complexity and urgency of climate change and therefore committed to ongoing net-zero carbon emissions within our direct global operations Our commitment to the environment and climate change includes: We have a very small direct carbon impact due to our Our climate change position statement specialised business model that is not dependent on a Our climate change framework branch network Managing and mitigating climate change impact within our The greatest impact we can have is to partner with our operations (direct impact) clients to decarbonise their activities and to offer Addressing climate change risks within our business (ESG risks) products and services that help accelerate a cleaner, Addressing climate change within our supply chain. healthier world. Our approach to climate change supports the transition to a cleaner, more energy-efficient and sustainable global economy that is conscious of its use of limited natural resources. The greatest impact we can have on climate change (SDG 13) and life on land (SDG 15) is through our business contributions to SDG 6, SDG 7, SDG 9 and SDG 11. Through our commitment to our environment, we contribute to the following SDGs: COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 44 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Maintained our B rating in the CDP Achieved net-zero direct (industry average: C) carbon emissions for the 2018/19 financial year Disclosed a comprehensive and committed to ongoing fossil fuel policy. First bank carbon neutrality in South Africa to include oil and gas in the policy Zero transactions in nonEquator Principles designated countries in the Achieved a 4 Star Green past year Star Rating through Green Building Council of South Africa for Investec Sandton Our climate change position statement We recognise the complexity and urgency of climate change. Investec’s is not solely focused on the next decade but rather 20, 30 and 40 “The transition cannot be made in environmental policy considers the risks and opportunities that climate years ahead. Therefore when assessing our participation in all fossil change presents to the global economy. As a specialised financial fuel activities, we will ensure we consider a variety of financial, socioisolation from the realities of the services organisation, we have the opportunity to make a meaningful economic and environmental factors relevant to a local context, such impact in addressing climate change. as poverty, growth, unemployment and carbon impact. The transition communities in which we, and our cannot be made in isolation from the realities of the communities in We acknowledge the science behind climate change and support the clients, operate, and we welcome Paris Agreement’s aim of holding the increase in the global average which we, and our clients, operate, and we welcome the voice of all stakeholders as we make the move together to a cleaner, low-carbon temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and of the voice of all stakeholders as pursuing efforts towards limiting it to 1.5°C. world that is most responsible for all participants. we make the move together to a As such, we support the transition to a low-carbon economy whilst We also have an important role to play in terms of advocacy and collaboration and participate in a number of workshops and taskforce realising that this might take time due to socio-economic constraints. cleaner, low-carbon world that is We have a global business and operate in both the developed and groups internationally which share learnings and promote a cohesive approach for the financial sector. Our CEO, Fani Titi, is one of 30 CEOs inclusive of all participants.” developing world with varying economic, social and environmental contexts. Our businesses use their specialist skills in advisory, lending from around the world participating in the UN Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance. and investing to support clients and stakeholders to move as quickly and Tanya dos Santos, Global head of sustainability smoothly as possible towards a low-carbon economy. We need to find a We are mindful of the potential climate risks when the economy balance between the need for increasing energy access and economic restarts after COVID-19 and therefore stand firm in our commitment to growth, particularly in our South Africa business, and the urgency to clean energy investments as they will make the new economy a more reduce carbon emissions across all areas of operation. Consequently, sustainable one. we will be cautious and orderly in our approach to this transition, which COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 45 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change framework: transitioning to a low-carbon economy Strategy Governance Management Measurement We see climate change as both a Board of directors Compliance and screening • We have set emission business opportunity and a risk. • At the highest governance level, the board has the ultimate • We identify climate risks by integrating ESG considerations reduction targets Therefore, our strategy is based responsibility to monitor that the group is operating as a into our day-to-day operations • We have committed to an on the following: responsible organisation • We assess climate risks and follow the ‘do no harm’ principle ongoing net-zero direct • Support the Paris Climate • This includes considerations around climate-related risks and through screening to ensure responsible lending and investing. carbon footprint Agreement and acknowledge opportunities when reviewing the group strategy • We report in terms of the the urgency of climate change Risk management • The board is supported by the DLC SEC who are responsible recommendations set out by • Minimise our direct negative • We see climate risk as a material risk associated with rapidly the TCFDs for monitoring all the non-financial elements of sustainability. carbon impacts and commit changing weather events (physical risk) or market shifts as a Senior leadership result of regulatory and policy changes (transitional risk). • We disclose our full energy to ongoing carbon neutrality lending portfolio including • Invest in products, services • We have a newly constituted Group ESG Executive Environmental management (direct impact) fossil fuel exposures across and businesses that help Committee, which reports to the board and the DLC SEC and the group • We have an environmental management system to manage accelerate the transition global executive on various ESG and climate-specific matters. and limit our direct carbon impact • We include non-financial and • Support our clients as they Publicly available policies and statements • We ensure responsible sourcing of natural resources and ESG related targets within transition their business • Environmental policy and climate change statement encourage behaviour that supports our carbon neutral focus. executive remuneration with operations and offering click to view document a total weighting of 20% of Business opportunities (indirect impact) • Engage with stakeholders to short-term incentives and • We use our specialist skills in advisory, lending and investing to 25% of long-term incentives. inform our climate strategy as • Fossil fuel policy support clients’ sustainability ambitions it evolves click to view document • We have a deliberate focus on financing infrastructure • Actively participate in industry • Operational resilience statement. solutions that promote renewable and clean energy discussions to ensure an aligned and comprehensive click to view document • We partner with clients to finance water solutions approach. • Through our approach to the SDGs, we accelerate sustainable finance that supports a low-carbon transition.  efer to page 12 in the Investec group’s 2020 R integrated annual report volume two for our risk management framework and our TCFD report on our website. Refer to pages 59 and 60 for more information. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 46 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Managing and mitigating climate Breakdown of group emissions Group carbon footprint for the year Over the past six years, our intensity indicators have steadily declined. ended 31 March 2020*^ change within our operations In particular, the group has reduced electricity consumption because of energy reduction initiatives, even though our average headcount (direct impact) increased by 27.4% over the same period. Emissions per average headcount Emissions per average headcount We embrace our responsibility to tCO2e understand and manage our own tCO 10 2e 10 8.44 carbon footprint. 8 8.44 8.20 8.20 7.05 8 7.05 6.23 Key achievements in FY 2020 5.74 40 564 tCO2e 6 6.23 5.74 5.01 • Achieved carbon neutral status across our global direct 6 5.01 4.59 2% Scope 1 operations for emissions in the 2019 financial year 4.59 72% Scope 2 4 • Committed to ongoing carbon neutral emissions across all 4 26% Scope 3 direct operations • Achieved a 4 Star Green Rating through the Green Building 2 Council of South Africa for our head office in Sandton 2 Scope 1 (993 tCO2e emissions): There was a 41% reduction in our Scope 1 emissions due to the relocation of our UK head office in 2018 • We are monitoring progress in terms of procurement with the 0 refurbishment of our head office in Sandton. All procurement to more energy efficient offices, as well as the removal of all refrigerants 0 targets as per the Financial Sector Code for this project have 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 that have ozone depletion potential. 2015 Investec Including 2016Asset2017 2018(now 2019 Management Ninety One) 2020 been met as at 31 March 2020. Excluding InvestecAsset Including Investec Management(now AssetManagement (nowNinety NinetyOne) One) Scope 2 (29 151 tCO2e): There was a 10% increase in emissions due Emissions per m office space Excluding 2Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One) to the inclusion of our South African alternative disaster site energy Areas of focus for FY 2021 and beyond Emissions per m2 office space consumption and the increase in the South African energy emission factor. tCO2e • Evaluate sourcing operational energy requirements from renewable energy providers tCO2e 0.5 Scope 3 (10 420 tCO2e): There was a reduction in business travel 0.5 0.43 due to efforts to reduce the need to travel in our offices. These efforts • Review climate-related targets for executive remuneration. 0.41 0.43 0.39 have been further accelerated by the need to work remotely due to 0.4 0.41 0.39 0.36 0.35 COVID-19. The key focus areas to reduce our operational carbon footprint 0.4 0.36 0.35 0.30 include: * Resource consumption not reflected includes water of 91 346 kl 0.3 0.30 0.27 (2019: 90 872 kl) and 600 tonnes of waste recycled (2019: 565 tonnes). • Reducing energy consumption •  Increasing waste recycling rates 0.3 0.27 ^ Excludes Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). • Reducing water usage • Promoting sustainable travel 0.2 • Reducing overall waste • Reducing single-use plastic 0.2 •  Promoting sustainable Investec donated R600 000 to the Sabi Sand Pfunanani Trust in procurement. 0.1 South Africa. The funds were used to grow indigenous woody 0.1 Acknowledging that we cannot continue consuming natural resources trees and Spekboom in their nursery and assists Investec in at the current rate, we focus on ways to ensure the security of natural 0.0 reducing our historic carbon emissions. The trees were distributed resources in all operations, draw energy from renewable sources where 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 to surrounding communities within the Sabi Sands Reserve. possible, and source only from responsible suppliers. 2015 Investec Including 2016Asset2017 2018(now 2019 Ninety One) 2020 Management Excluding InvestecAsset Including Investec Management(now AssetManagement (nowNinety NinetyOne) One) Excluding Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One) COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 47 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Group carbon footprint 31 March 2020 31 March 2020 31 March 2019 Investec ex. Asset Management Our respective carbon footprints have been Investec group* Investec group* (now Ninety One) Variance calculated according to the international Consumption Tonnes Consumption Tonnes Consumption Tonnes tonnes Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol’s Corporate in unit of of CO2 in unit of of CO2 in unit of of CO2 of CO2 Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised Units measure equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent equivalent Notes edition). Our environmental data collection system allows us to track and manage our direct Scope 1 993 1 132 1 901 (40%) operational impact. This tool imports data from Energy Natural gas kWh 949 625 175 1 291 318 237 1 609 702 296 (20%) 1 various sources, consolidates the information and LPG stationary L 25 746 39 28 131 43 16 984 26 65% 2 calculates our carbon footprint. The implementation CO2 purchased kg 281 – 307 – 306 – 2% Diesel L 137 934 358 150 709 391 2 341 6 >100% 3 of this tool allows us to produce reliable emissions Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 186 287 203 313 843 1 361 (77%) 4 data, accurately build a history of our carbon Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 745 502 135 814 550 147 1 153 659 211 (30%) 5 footprint and assists in setting targets for future emissions. Every year we endeavour to improve Scope 2 29 151 32 396 29 598 9% the thoroughness of our data collection processes. Energy Electrical energy Within each geography, the environmental manager consumption kWh 33 207 457 29 151 38 150 060 32 396 39 048 367 29 598 9% is responsible for monitoring the GHG emissions. Scope 3 10 420 18 979 27 361 (31%) Paper Paper consumption t 283 272 347 335 388 380 (12%) Notes: Waste General waste t 330 178 370 196 47 19 >100% 6 1 Consumption decreased as our UK head office relocated to more resource efficient premises. Employee travel Rail travel km 2 992 773 122 3 169 720 126 1 865 186 79 59% 2 Increase due to increased number of kitchens at our Road business travel km 2 653 807 470 2 786 060 493 1 254 882 227 >100% 7 South African head office. Taxi km 121 168 18 180 805 29 215 981 35 (17%) 8 3 No diesel replenished in the previous year, and all Commercial airlines km 30 209 739 9 359 57 090 789 17 800 86 559 177 26 622 (33%) 9 reserves used and replenished during this financial year. Total emissions 40 564 52 507 58 860 (11%) 4 Investec is removing all refrigerants that have ozone depletion potential and continues to explore alternative No scope options to minimise global warming potential. Water Water consumption kl 91 346 102 531 103 450 Installation refinements have also reduced refrigerant Recycled waste Recycled waste t 600 774 895 10 leaks resulting in reduced consumption. Intensity 5 Investec ended its company car scheme which resulted in a number of vehicles being sold. This Emissions per average headcount 4.59** 5.01** 5.74** reduced kms in Scope 1, and increased road business Emissions per m² office space 0.27 0.30 0.35 travel in Scope 3. Water consumption per average 6 General waste increased as a result of enhanced data headcount kl 10.33** 9.79** 10.09** capturing, and the inclusion of additional sites. 7 Increased as a result of enhanced data capturing, and reporting of business travel in personal vehicles. Assessment parameters 8 Expected increase in next financial year as we enhance our reporting to include travel with Uber and Consolidation approach: Operational control similar services. Emission factor data source: DEFRA (2019), IEA, eGRID (for New York electricity) and Eskom (for South Africa electricity) 9 Decrease as a result of our continued effort to reduce the need to travel. Emissions per average headcount Intensity ratio: 10 Restated due to incorrect classification. Emissions per office space m2 * Investec group including Investec Asset Management Independent assurance: Limited assurance provided by KPMG for the years ended: 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2020 (now Ninety One). ** Includes permanent and temporary employees. Coverage: Coverage of environmental information covers > 95% of our business operations. Materiality set at 5% COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 48 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Environmental highlights for Southern Africa Our South African head office in Sandton, set an energy reduction Our head office received a 4 Star Green Star Rating through the target of 10% with 2014 as a base year. We achieved our 2020 Green Building Council South Africa (GBCSA). The building is target in 2018 and revised it to 14%. In the past year, we reached 15.2% more energy efficient than industry average, according to a 15.9% reduction in energy since 2014 in our South African head the GBCSA. This rating affirms Investec’s commitment to reducing office. our operational footprint. Our biggest energy consumption is still from air-conditioning systems (heating and cooling), lighting and information technology. We distributed 5 200 Spekboom plants to our staff in our During the last year, we spent approximately R500 000 on power South African offices as an awareness initiative around carbon, management equipment, and consolidation and modernisation since Spekboom is renowned for being one of the best carbon of electrical and air-conditioning infrastructure in our South sequestrators in the world. The awareness campaign contributed to African head office. In addition to the efficiencies gained through neutralising our carbon from the previous year. infrastructure improvements, consolidation and decommissioning activities in the data centre have resulted in further energy consumption reductions. As a result of these initiatives, the consumption figures for 2020 are 4.3% lower in our South African head office than 2019. Investec offices joined millions of people across the world who switched off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 28 March 2020 at 20:30, despite social containment measures. We achieved net-zero carbon emissions for the group in 2019 through the purchase of carbon credits and committed to ongoing carbon neutrality. Investec staff participate in an initiative called Tops and Tags The Investec environmental sustainability team manages the whereby staff collect plastic bottle tops and bread tags. group’s internal environmental initiatives in South Africa. In the past In the past year, we donated an additional three wheelchairs to year we ran awareness campaigns around recycling and waste, worthy recipients, bringing the total wheelchairs donated to 48. water and energy saving. As a result, we have prevented over 21 000kgs of plastic tags from polluting landfills. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 49 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Carbon footprint for Southern Africa 31 March 2020 31 March 2020 31 March 2019 Investec ex. Asset Management Investec Limited* Investec Limited* (now Ninety One) Variance Consumption Tonnes Consumption Tonnes Consumption Tonnes tonnes South African head office electricity in unit of of CO2 in unit of of CO2 in unit of of CO2 of CO2 reduction target Units measure equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent equivalent Notes Scope 1 818 894 1 604 (44%) 15.9% % change Energy LPG stationary L 25 746 39 28 131 43 16 984 26 65% 1 0 reduction CO2 purchased kg 281 – 307 – 306 – – -2 achieved Diesel L 137 934 358 150 709 391 2 091 5 >100% 2 Refrigerant Refrigerant kg 186 287 203 313 843 1 361 (77%) 3 -4 Employee travel Vehicle fleet km 745 502 135 814 550 147 1 153 659 211 (30%) 4 -6 Scope 2 27 114 29 625 25 986 14% -8 Energy Electrical energy -10 consumption kWh 26 220 371 27 114 28 648 886 29 625 27 415 342 25 986 14% 5 Scope 3 5 611 9 436 13 298 (29%) -12 Paper Paper consumption t 142 133 155 145 132 124 17% -14 Waste General waste t 295 173 322 189 22 13 >100% 6 -16 Employee travel Road business travel km 1 483 039 263 1 615 292 286 165 755 30 >100% 7 Commercial airlines km 17 677 304 5 042 29 765 573 8 816 47 313 203 13 130 (33%) 8 -18 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total emissions 33 543 39 955 40 887 (2%) Previous target for % reduction % reduction achieved No scope Revised target for % reduction Water Water consumption kl 81 148 88 664 82 273 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 158 173 170 9 Intensity Our South African head office in Sandton, set an Emissions per average headcount 6.96** 6.79** 7.19** energy reduction target of 10% with 2014 as a base Emissions per m² office space 0.32 0.35 0.36 year. We achieved our 2020 target in 2018 and revised Water consumption per average it to 14%. In the past year, we reached a 15.9% headcount kl 16.83** 15.07** 14.46** reduction in energy since 2014. Notes: 6 General waste for our Sandton head office has been included resulting in the 1 Increase due to increased number of kitchens at our South African head office. expected increase. 2 No diesel replenished in the previous year, and all reserves used and replenished 7 Increase due to the inclusion of business travel in personal vehicles. during this financial year. 8 Decrease as a result of our continued effort to reduce the need to travel. 3 Investec is aggressively removing all refrigerants that have ozone depletion potential 9 Restated due to incorrect classification. and continues to explore alternative options to minimise global warming potential. Installation refinements have also reduced refrigerant leaks resulting in reduced * Investec Limited including Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). consumption. ** Includes permanent and temporary employees. 4 Investec ended its company car scheme which resulted in a number of vehicles being sold. This reduced kms in Scope 1, and increased road business travel in Scope 3. 5 Investec’s alternative site has been included for completeness, which has resulted in an increase in kWhs. This, together with an increased Eskom emission factor, has resulted in an increased carbon output. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 50 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Environmental highlights for UK and Other Our UK head office’s Environment Management System (EMS) Team Green hosted a sustainable fashion week in September 2019, covering the operational aspects of our building, and the Energy which included a breakfast briefing, a panel discussion chaired Management System (EnMS), covering energy management by sustainable fashion experts, mend-and-repair kit giveaways in 23 of our UK, Channel Island and Ireland buildings, retained to colleagues, and clothing donations to local charities focused certification to the international environmental standards ISO 14001 on helping people get back to work. We collected a total of 860 and the international energy standard ISO 50001 respectively. clothing items from staff totaling 270kg of once-loved clothes to donate, most of which would have otherwise landed up in landfill. Investec was invited by the City of London Corporation to be one of four of their launch partners in their Plastic Free City Pledge as We won our 16th Platinum Award in the City of London’s Clean City a result of our long-established practices of replacing single use Award Scheme in 2019 for our waste management efforts. Since plastics with reusable alternatives in our operations. The Pledge we joined the scheme in 2005, we have won three Chairman’s responds to the major environmental problems associated with the Cups, 14 Platinum Awards, and one Gold Award. over-use of single-use plastics, including disposal. We retained the highest-level Platinum Pledge. Investec, in collaboration with the environment charity Hubbub, Kings College London and a host of other London businesses, Investec joined millions of people across the world who switched came together to push for public policy change in relation to air off their lights for Earth Hour on Saturday, 28 March 2020 at 20h30. quality in London. Conducted through a focused public awareness campaign, 3 000 members of the public were polled to gauge their understanding of air quality issues. In addition, Emily Bernstein Our Team Green ran a week-long sustainable food campaign in from our Private Bank was one of 10 Londoners who carried an air our London office in July 2019. We hosted a sustainable food pollution monitor for 10 consecutive days, collecting results which roadshow in our staff canteen, cooked up some healthy sustainable were used as part of a wider air pollution campaign, #AirWeShare. meals, and offered Investec-branded reusable takeaway cutlery to all staff. The campaign highlighted the benefits of buying local, seasonal, organic food; eating more plant-based food; reducing food waste; and refusing disposable food packaging. Our UK head office’s waste management system was first certified to the Carbon Trust Waste Standard in 2012. We continue to hold this certification that is awarded to organisations that demonstrate We continue to encourage active travel among our staff and achievement in managing and reducing waste output and implemented cycle-to-work schemes. improving resource efficiency. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 51 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Carbon footprint for UK and Other 31 March 2020 31 March 2020 31 March 2019 UK electricity reduction target Investec ex. Asset Management Investec plc* Investec plc* % change 35% (now Ninety One) Variance 0 reduction Consumption Tonnes Consumption Tonnes Consumption Tonnes tonnes achieved in unit of of CO2 in unit of of CO2 in unit of of CO2 of CO2 -5 Units measure equivalent measure equivalent measure equivalent equivalent Notes -10 Scope 1 175 237 297 (20%) -15 Energy Natural gas kWh 949 625 175 1 291 318 237 1 609 702 296 (20%) 1 -20 Diesel L – – – – – 1 – Scope 2 2 038 2 771 3 612 (23%) -25 Energy Electrical energy -30 consumption kWh 6 987 086 2 038 9 501 174 2 771 11 633 024 3 612 (23%) 1 -35 Scope 3 4 809 9 543 14 064 (32%) Paper Paper consumption t 141 139 192 189 256 256 (26%) 2 -40 Waste General waste t 35 5 48 7 25 6 23% 3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Employee travel Rail travel km 2 992 773 122 3 169 720 126 1 865 186 79 59% 4 Origional % target reduction Revised % target reduction % reduction acheived Road business travel km 1 170 768 207 1 170 768 207 1 089 127 197 5% Taxi km 121 168 18 180 805 29 215 981 35 (17%) Our UK head office, set an electricity reduction target of 35% by 2020, with 2008 as a base year. This target was achieved and Commercial airlines km 12 532 435 4 317 27 325 216 8 984 39 245 974 13 491 (33%) 4 with the move to our new premises this target will be reviewed. Total emissions 7 021 12 551 17 972 (30%) No scope UK gas reduction target Water Water consumption kl 10 198 13 867 21 177 Recycled waste Recycled waste t 442 601 725 % change 72% Intensity 0 reduction Emissions per average headcount 1.75** 2.74** 3.94** achieved Emissions per m² office space 0.15 0.20 0.33 -10 -20 Water consumption per average -30 headcount kl 2.54** 3.02** 4.64** -40 Data has been gathered in line with requirements of the UK government’s Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) framework. We use the operational control method to determine what is included in our scope of reporting. The UK’s GHG report is the same as our footprint report, and covers energy usage across our UK and Other offices. -50 -60 Notes: 1 Consumption decreased as our UK head office relocated to more resource efficient premises. -70 2 Less printing required due to an agile working environment. 3 More spaces being reported on with the Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One) move to new offices. -80 4 Increase in rail due to ordinary course of business and more rail used instead of commercial airlines. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 * Investec plc including Investec Asset Management (now Ninety One). Origional % target reduction Revised % target reduction ** Includes permanent and temporary employees. % reduction acheived Our UK head office, set a gas reduction target of 72% by 2020, with 2008 as a base year. This target was achieved and with the move to our new premises this target will be reviewed. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 52 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Addressing climate change risks Fossil fuel exposures The transition to a low-carbon world cannot be done in isolation from the realities of the communities in which we, and our clients, operate. When within our business (ESG risks) assessing our participation in fossil fuel activities, we consider a variety of financial, socio-economic and environmental factors relevant to a local context (for example poverty, growth, unemployment and carbon impact). We apply prudent due diligence to all fossil fuel activities (including extraction, power generation, infrastructure and industrial processes) which go through rigorous process and require senior decision-making Investec supports international approval. Investec’s appetite for this sector is reviewed annually at the executive risk appetite forum and the DLC SEC. best practice regarding the responsibilities of the financial sector in financing and investing 1.3% 7.0% transactions. Social, environmental Coal exposure as and ethical risk considerations are Fossil fuel exposure a % of total energy as a % of GCCE* implicit in our values, culture and lending portfolio code of conduct and are applied as part of our ESG risk framework. * Gross credit and counterparty exposure. Energy portfolio in our banking book The group supports the precautionary approach to ESG and Key achievements in FY 2020 strives to minimise and prevent investing in projects or dealing £’mn with counterparties where potential and unmitigated environmental 700 • Evaluated lending and investment portfolios for ESG risks degradation might occur. The group recognises that identifying and 602 • Evaluated lending and investment portfolios for climatequantifying environmental risk should be part of the normal process 600 related risks and opportunities of risk assessment and management within businesses. We engage 163 • Evaluated exposure to fossil fuels. 500 with our clients on sustainability issues in order to minimise the risks and require clients to meet appropriate technical, governance, 400 Total fossil fuels 86 transparency, social and environmental standards. For example: of £572 300 268 304 Areas of focus for FY 2021 and beyond • As part of our client on-boarding process, we assess, where 82 230 • Strengthen capabilities in ESG identification, screening, appropriate, potential clients for various types of risks including 200 measurement and reporting in risk management processes whether they are behaving responsibly in their business activities • Include climate metrics in risk appetite indicators. • ESG risks are identified and assessed as part of the transaction due 100 186 124 diligence processes 0 • Operational activities are assessed for compliance with relevant environmental, health and safety, and labour rights regulations Fossil fuels Natural gas Renewables (excl natural gas) • We regularly review sensitive sectors and activities prone to bearing Oil Coal Natural gas Wind energy Refer to our website for our group fossil fuel policy. environmental and social risks. Solar energy Biomass energy Energy from waste We follow the guidelines supplied by the IFC to categorise our general finance and lending activities into high, medium and low risk. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 53 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Investec plc banking book Investec Limited banking book The mix of the energy portfolio in our Investec plc banking book South Africa is significantly dependent on coal for its energy reflects the trajectory of the energy transition in developed countries. requirements, which makes it challenging to find a balance between We have a global power and infrastructure business operating across the need for increasing energy access and economic growth in the the UK, Europe, the United States and Australia with a deliberate focus country, and the urgency to reduce carbon emissions. The mix of our on financing solutions that promote renewable and clean energy. energy portfolio in South Africa reflects the trajectory of the country’s energy transition. We see natural gas as part of this transition in the Breakdown of total Investec plc energy portfolio: short-to-medium term as the country shifts away from coal and builds up renewable sources. • Coal: 2% • Oil and gas: 4% Breakdown of total Investec Limited energy portfolio: • Natural gas: 24% • Coal: 14% • Renewables: 70%. • Oil and gas: 32% • Natural gas: 28% • Renewables: 26%. Energy portfolio for Investec plc Energy portfolio for Investec Limited £’mn R’mn 500 475 6 000 Total fossil fuels of R8 085 400 163 5 000 5 014 In South Africa more than 4 000 1 496 half of the coal exposure relates to domestic power 300 86 3 071 3 000 2 821 Total fossil fuels 200 of £207 165 118 2 000 supply. A third of our coal 3 518 100 1 000 2 479 exposure relates to coal extraction counterparties 42 108 15 0 27 0 342 Fossil fuels (excl natural gas) Natural gas Renewables Fossil fuels (excl natural gas) Natural gas Renewables supplying 80% of their coal Oil Coal Solar energy Natural gas Biomass energy Wind energy Energy from waste Oil Coal Natural gas Wind energy Solar energy to the domestic market. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 54 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Equator Principles We fully support the key provisions of the Equator Principles (EP) • These trade-offs are a matter for local parties and • While the principles are adhered to, our however we are currently not a signatory to EP for the following their representatives. While we should remain current internal framework is robust and, on a reasons: aware of them, it is not our responsibility to project-by-project basis, in accordance with Zero pass judgement on such trade-offs. Key to this, World Bank standards as well as the standards • In the case of a number of large infrastructure and energy projects, however, is that we target transactions in countries of the legal and environmental frameworks transactions in there is potential conflict between larger, nationwide development imperatives (e.g. additional power generation or road transportation) with established laws that comply with World Bank of the countries in which the projects are non-designated standards and that have due processes that are undertaken. Furthermore, we have enhanced to enhance the socio-economic welfare of the region, and locally applied reasonably and effectively. If not, sponsors procedures to evaluate and actively avoid, countries in the affected parties whose quality of life stands to be adversely affected by relocation or job loss and suppliers are obliged to give undertakings and manage and mitigate the potential social past year comply with such standards and environmental impacts of the projects we support. Equator Principles disclosures: power and infrastructure portfolio for Investec group (including Investec Limited and Investec plc) 31 March 2020 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 Sector Category A Category B Category C Total Category A Category B Category C Total Category A Category B Category C Total Mining – – – – – – – – – – – – Infrastructure – – – – – 3 2 5 – – 2 2 Oil and gas – – – – – – – – – – – – Power – 5 3 8 – 14 3 17 – 6 2 8 Others – 1 8 9 – 3 1 4 – 1 2 3 Total – 6 11 17 – 20 6 26 – 7 6 13 Region Americas – 4 3 7 – 10 1 11 – 5 1 6 EMEA – 2 7 9 – 6 3 9 – 2 4 6 Asia Pacific – – 1 1 – 4 2 6 – – 1 1 Total – 6 11 17 – 20 6 26 – 7 6 13 Country designation Designated – 6 11 17 – 19 6 25 – 6 6 12 Non–designated – – – – – 1 – 1 – 1 – 1 Total – 6 11 17 – 20 6 26 – 7 6 13 Category A: Projects with potential significant adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented; Category B: Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures; and Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social risks and/or impacts. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 55 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Addressing climate change Identifying and quantifying environmental and social risk is part of the normal process of risk assessment and management within our We support the international agenda to abolish human trafficking, slavery, forced and child labour and support the UK Modern Slavery within our supply chain businesses. As part of our supplier onboarding process, we would assess potential suppliers for various types of risks, including whether Act 2015. Our philosophy as an organisation is to respect the dignity and worth of the individual. We recognise the potential for our they are behaving responsibly in their business activities. Our due procurement and supply chain practices to be agents for change We expect our counterparties diligence processes include the identification and assessment of relevant environmental and social risks. We remain committed to in respect of the different aspects of sustainability. We continue to engineer, within selected industries, changed outcomes across to operate and behave in an the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human economic, social and environmental fronts. In South Africa, we commit rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our culture and values to local sourcing where possible. environmentally and socially demonstrate our belief that as an organisation we can have a positive We aim to evaluate our supplier’s performance against our standards, appropriate and responsible manner impact on the success and well-being of local communities, the environment and overall macro-economic stability. as set out below, at least every three years. with the same high standards as ourselves. We engage with clients We aim to only engage with suppliers who: and suppliers to understand their • Operate in compliance with all applicable environmental, labour and anti-corruption laws and regulations of the countries in which • Treat their employees with respect and dignity and provide a work environment free of harassment, intimidation and bullying processes and policies and explore they operate, manufacture or conduct business • Provide a safe and healthy working environment in order to • Maintain an effective environmental policy and/or environmental prevent workplace accidents and injuries how any environmental and social management system that supports environmental protection • Do not engage in bribery, collusive practices or any other form of • Do not use any form of forced or involuntary labour corruption to obtain or retain business risks may be mitigated. • Do not employ children • Compensate their employees to meet basic living wage standards • Provide equal opportunity for all employees regardless of race, • Protect their employees from excessive overtime and compensate ethnicity, gender, nationality, age, disability, sexual orientation or their employees for overtime according to applicable national and Key achievements in FY 2020 religion international laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements • Strengthened our group procurement policy. • Respect the rights of their employees to freely associate and and individual employment agreements. collectively bargain within the boundaries of the applicable law Areas of focus for FY 2021 and beyond • Re-evaluate existing suppliers for environmental and social criteria according to our procurement policy. Our group procurement policy incorporates standards on human rights, labour rights, environmental and anti-corruption principles as set out in the UN Global Compact. COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 56 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Environment dashboard 31 March 31 March 2020 2019 Commentary Reference Fossil fuels and renewables in banking book (£’million) Total fossil fuel exposure 572 Not calculated We apply prudent due diligence to all fossil fuel activities (including extraction, power generation, Oil banking exposure 186 Not calculated infrastructure and industrial processes) which go through rigorous process and require senior decision-making approval. Investec’s appetite for this sector is reviewed annually at the executive This report: Coal banking exposure 82 Not calculated risk appetite forum and the DLC SEC pages 53 Natural Gas banking exposure 304 Not calculated and 54 Renewable banking exposure 602 Not calculated Total energy portfolio 1 174 Not calculated Renewables exposure as a % of the energy portfolio 51% Not calculated Coal as a % of the energy portfolio 7.0% Not calculated Oil and gas exposure s a % of the energy portfolio 16% Not calculated Natural gas exposure as a % of the energy portfolio 26% Not calculated This report: pages 53 Fossil fuels as a % of gross credit and counterparty exposures 1.3% Not calculated and 54 Percentage of natural gas in fossil fuel exposure 53% Not calculated Natural gas as a % of gross credit and counterparty exposures 0.7% Not calculated Renewables as a % of gross credit and counterparty exposures 1.4% Not calculated Carbon footprint Carbon neutral status in direct operations ✔ Based on 2019 emissions. Committed to ongoing carbon neutrality Emissions per average headcount 5.01 5.74 Emissions per average headcount (excluding IAM) 4.59 Not calculated Emissions per m2 office space 0.30 0.35 Emissions per m2 office space (excluding IAM) 0.27 Not calculated Water consumption per average employee 9.79 10.09 Water consumption per average employee (excluding IAM) 10.33 Not calculated Scope 1 emissions 1 132 1 901 This report: pages 53 Scope 1 emissions (excluding IAM) 993 Not calculated There was a 41% reduction in our Scope 1 emissions due to the relocation of our and 54 UK head office in 2018 to more energy efficient offices, as well as the removal of all refrigerants that have ozone depletion potential Scope 2 emissions 32 396 29 598 Scope 2 emissions (excluding IAM) 29 151 Not calculated There was a 10% increase in emissions due to the inclusion of our South African alternative disaster site energy consumption and the increase in the South African energy emission factor Scope 3 emissions 18 979 27 361 Scope 3 emissions (excluding IAM) 10 420 Not calculated There was a reduction in business travel due to efforts to reduce the need to travel in our offices. These efforts have been further accelerated by the need to work remotely due to COVID-19 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 57 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Environment dashboard (continued) 31 March 31 March 2020 2019 Commentary Reference Total emissions 52 507 58 860 Total emissions (excluding IAM) 40 564 Not calculated This report: pages 53 Total water consumption (kl) 102 531 103 450 and 54 Total water consumption (kl) (excluding IAM) 91 346 Not calculated Equator Principles Number of transactions non-designated countries – 1 As per the Equator Principles This report: page 55 COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE 58 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 5 START HERE OU R B U SI N E S S IMPAC T About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Business impact We have six priority Sustainable Our strategy is to harness the expertise in our various businesses Development Goals (SDGs) that and identify opportunities to are globally aligned yet locally maximise impact by partnering with relevant to our core geographies our clients, investors and various and which reflect our current stakeholders to support delivery of the SDGs and build a more resilient business model and growth and inclusive world. strategy. Our six priority SDGs are: Quality education (SDG 4) Clean water and sanitation (SDG 6) Affordable and clean energy (SDG 7) Decent work and economic growth (SDG 8) Industry innovation and infrastructure (SDG 9) Sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11) Additionally, we contribute to: Climate action (SDG 13) Partnership for the goals (SDG 17) Through our businesses we contribute to the following SDGs: BUSINESS IMPACT 60 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Launched Environmental World Index Autocall, through our structured products team, with over R0.5 billion traded The autocall provides a predefined enhanced return of 25% (non-compounded) per annum, in Rands in the event of flat or positive index performance on the automatic call dates Financed 11 projects with Received GRT Best an installed capacity of Deals 2020 Award for 3 924 MW of clean energy African Solutions to (2019: 14 projects; 1 863 MW) African Infrastructure Empowered South Investec’s Young Innovators African home owners by chosen to present at the distributing 3 600 title UN virtual leadership deeds in 15 townships and summit in June 2020 waived the underlying debt “The SDGs are a vital lens through which Investec, it’s customers Piloting a solar solution and communities may measure for private clients our contribution to a sustainable future and translate this into viable business solutions.” SDG Framework We recognise the risk of climate change and are committed to We believe that our most significant contribution to the SDGs will supporting the transition to a clean and energy-efficient global Chris Mitman,Head of Export & Agency Finance, UK be achieved through financing innovative solutions that will address economy through climate action (SDG 13) and protecting our socio-economic issues and investing responsibly for a more sustainable eco-system (SDG 15). future. We can achieve this through enabling access to clean water As a foundation to achieving our ambitious SDG goals, we address (SDG 6), affordable energy (SDG 7) as well as providing access to inequality (SDG 10) in everything we do. We will establish out of the quality education (SDG 4). These are all vital for economic growth and ordinary partnerships (SDG 17) with integrity, moral strength and strong job creation (SDG 8). At the same time, our business has established governance (SDG 16). expertise in building and supporting infrastructure solutions (SDG 9) and funding sustainable cities and stronger communities (SDG 11). Refer to page 12 for our SDG framework. BUSINESS IMPACT 61 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Benefits to society Benefits to business Quality education Education brings significant benefits to society, not only through By supporting quality education, we contribute to a greater pool Ensure inclusive and equitable quality higher employment opportunities and income, but also via of talent for our own workforce. Within our business activities we education and promote lifelong learning enhanced skills, improved social well-being and quality of life, actively finance and facilitate several educational and vocational and access to networks. businesses and partner with clients to enhance quality education opportunities for all through: and skills development in South Africa. SDG 4.4: Increasing the number of SDG 4.3: Equal access to education youth with relevant skills R16.4 mn of >20 000 >300 000 income from IW&I students enrolled learners tutored philanthropy in the Invictus through Explore funds allocated to Education Learning education Group Private Capital in the UK funded Explore Learning which is an online Our Wealth & Investment (IWI) philanthropy offering is strategic in Private Capital in South Africa is an equity partner in the Invictus tutoring and learning platform helping children to meet their educational nature, largely focusing on supporting long-term sustainable initiatives Education Group and are integrally involved in the business from a goals from home. The tuition is aligned to the UK school curriculum across South Africa, and managing foundation investments to the strategic perspective. With more than 20 000 learners, the Invictus and has 144 tuition centres across the UK. Explore Learning has a market value of R988 million. These funds have derived income Education Group is continually reinvesting in education systems, proven record of enabling children of all abilities to excel academically. for distribution to charities on behalf of our clients to the value of processes and technology, as a key strategy. The hotel school focuses With over 3 000 expert tutors they have delivered in excess of 100 000 approximately R29.8 million in the past year. This income is distributed on practical and theoretical training, with emphasis on the traditional lessons per month. Since 2001 they have tutored over 300 000 by Investec charitable trusts, in accordance with the decisions made values of service and hospitality. 93% of hotel school students are children, aged four to 14, to achieve their potential. Explore Learning by the respective foundation trustees. Of the funds allocated, 55% employed upon graduation. The programme is making a significant won the Education Investor award 2019 in the private tutoring category went to education, 29% to welfare and humanitarian, 4% to healthcare contribution to skills development in South Africa with more than as well as the winner of the business excellence awards 2019 for the and 12% to social justice initiatives. 1 000 learnerships each year. best after-school tuition provider in the UK. For more information visit For more information visit www.invictuseducation.co.za For more information visit www.explorelearning.com www.investec.com/en_za/investment/strategic-philanthropy.html BUSINESS IMPACT 62 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Benefits to society Benefits to business Clean water and sanitation Access to clean water and sanitation is a basic human right We have established expertise in funding and structuring Ensure availability and sustainable and is essential for reducing poverty and improving overall infrastructure projects. We also partner with our clients to management of water and sanitation for all well-being. Not only is it vital for agriculture, biodiversity and finance innovative water solutions which help communities and economic growth, but also keeps children in school and increases business growth. In our own operations, we continually look for through: opportunities for women and girls in rural areas. opportunities to reduce our consumption and usage of water. SDG 6.1: Safe and affordable drinking water Solar water Through our collaboration with the Entrepreneurship Development Trust (EDT), Innovation Africa provided solar water pumping systems to 11 communities in rural South Africa, in Mpumalanga and pumping systems Limpopo. Approximately 20 000 litres per day of clean water are distributed to at least 8 000 people provided to 11 rural per village. The community takes ownership of the project, allowing local residents to be employed in the construction and maintenance of the project, supporting skills development and enhancing future communities in employment prospects. South Africa For more information visit www.innoafrica.org Private Capital in South Africa is an equity partner in Abeco Tanks. Water is required for agriculture, SDG 6.4 Substantially increase water-use business, industry and mining which are the pillars of our continent’s developing economies. Abeco efficiency across all sectors Tanks provides hygienic storage of water through their cost-effective water tank storage solutions which include elements of safety, hygiene, quality and durability. These water tanks that address the South Africa is a water-scarce country, requiring a dedicated focus on need for a convenient and stable water supply, have been installed in over 38 countries including ensuring adequate water storage and transfer capacity. To this end, Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar, Central America, Middle East as well as across the entire African Water tanks Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority (TCTA), a state owned entity, designs continent. installed in >38 bankable projects, raises funding in capital markets, manages debt and implements infrastructure rollouts. Abeco Tanks supported municipalities across South Africa during the COVID-19 pandemic by countries providing 12 tanks valued at R5.4 million. The water tanks have enabled a reliable supply of water to Investec provided funding for TCTA, who also act as an agency of the communities to ensure that people are able to regularly wash their hands which plays a major role in National Department of Water and Sanitation, which is responsible for curbing the spread of COVID-19. the country’s water resources in respect of usage, equitable allocation For more information visit www.abecotanks.co.za and distribution. TCTA assists the government in ensuring water security for South Africa and universal access to this essential service for all citizens. For more information visit www.tcta.co.za BUSINESS IMPACT 63 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Benefits to society Benefits to business Affordable and clean energy We rely daily on energy to power our economies, drive industry We recognise the risk of climate change and are committed to supporting Ensure access to affordable, reliable, and transport, and provide light and warmth (or cooling) in the transition to a clean and energy-efficient global economy. We have sustainable and modern energy for all our homes. Access in rural communities to affordable energy international expertise in financing and developing energy generation and positively impacts education, health and learning. The increase transmission. We deliberately focus on financing infrastructure solutions that through: of renewable energy reduces greenhouse gas emissions and is promote renewable energy. We also help clients to reduce their emissions vital in the transition to a low-carbon economy. and encourage investment in renewables and divestment from fossil fuels. SDG 7.2: Increasing the share of renewable energy Financed Participated We require that all power and infrastructure-related projects comply 11 projects Leading the finance with applicable environmental, planning, labour and procurement laws in £1.0 bn of and do not fund nor invest in projects which do not have acceptable (2019: 14 projects) of energy from waste renewable energy environmental impact assessments, and either do or could reasonably be expected to breach acceptable behavioural, ethical or moral projects globally with installed and biomass plants standards. We target transactions in countries with established laws capacity of 3 924 MW in the UK that comply with World Bank standards and that have due processes (2019: £1.6 bn) that are applied reasonably and effectively. If not, sponsors and (2019: 1 863 MW) suppliers are obliged to give undertakings and comply with such standards. For more information on the renewable energy projects that we have participated in visit www.investec.com/en_za/welcome-to-investec/ Power and infrastructure energy portfolio Renewable energy financed corporate-responsibility.html Percentage Percentage 100 70 86% 61% 83% 60 80 50 60 40% 40 31% 29% 30 40 23% 20 16% 17% 20 14% 10 0 0 Clean energy Non-clean Wind Solar Other (including natural gas) energy renewables 2019 2020 2019 2020 BUSINESS IMPACT 64 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Launch of a Investec has a vital role to play in leveraging its capital and financing sustainable the transition to a low-carbon, more sustainable economy. Clean, Piloting a solar energy business affordable energy is particularly critical for South Africa. We are piloting a solar solution offering with 1 000 of our clients to either facilitate solution for private the installation of smart meters or finance a full solar installation facilitated through an energy advisor. clients Asset Finance launched a new sustainable energy finance business, helping UK companies to fund renewable energy assets such as solar panels, biomass boilers and onshore wind turbines. We have identified strong growth opportunities in this market as more of our customers seek to reduce their carbon footprint and increase the use of renewable energy to generate income as well as to create savings for their own businesses. For more information visit www.investec.com/en_gb/welcome-to-investec/ “We are mindful of Andre Wepener, the potential climate press/investec-asset-finance-launches-sustainable-energy-finance.html Head of power and infrastructure finance, Southern Africa risks when the Provided economy restarts a R1.25 bn after COVID-19 and bridging facility therefore stand firm in our commitment Investec is at the forefront of the drive to bring clean power to the to clean energy African continent and recognises the opportunity to play a role in funding and transforming the energy sector. We created an energy investments as fund, Revego Africa Energy Limited (RAEL), that is expected to list on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in the third quarter they will make the of 2020. We provided a R1.25 billion bridging facility which will allow Revego to continue funding its investment activity in acquiring a new economy a portfolio of operating renewable energy assets in sub-Saharan Africa, sustainable one.” ahead of its planned listing on the JSE. The proceeds of the facility will be used to acquire assets ahead of the listing, providing the early investors with certainty of the initial asset portfolio. For more information visit www.revegoenergy.com BUSINESS IMPACT 65 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Decent work and economic Benefits to society Benefits to business growth Inequality and poverty are inextricably linked to not having decent Our business plays a critical role in providing capital to fund a work and being an active economic participant. Entrepreneurship stable and sustainable economy. We use our specialist skills to Promote inclusive and sustainable economic and job creation are therefore key to ensuring sustained economic support our clients in growing their businesses. We have a strong growth, full and productive employment and growth, in addition to eradicating forced labour, child labour, focus on financing entrepreneurs who are critical in accelerating decent work for all through: slavery and human trafficking. job creation and supporting sustained economic growth. SDG 8.10: Strengthening the capacity of domestic financial institutions to SDG 8.5: Full and productive employment and decent work encourage and expand access to banking, insurance and financial services for all SMEs R21 mn benefit from contracts to loan support AMP tenants for COVID-19 losses Investec Property Fund (IPF) supports an enterprise and supplier development initiative known as AMP, Investec plc a collaboration between property entrepreneurs in a space that will grow their offerings, services and • We were approved as an accredited bank under the UK Government Coronavirus Business Interruption projects. AMP tenants are provided with skills, mentorship, training, unique collaborative spaces and Loan Scheme (CBILS) which provides banks with an 80% government guarantee on losses arising on procurement opportunities to enable them to thrive in their respective property sectors. This facilitates the loans to small businesses. For more information visit www.british-business-bank.co.uk/ourpartners/coronavirussuccess of their business and plays a major role in their societies and communities by creating jobs and business-interruption-loan-scheme-cbils-2/ accelerating skills development. Fifteen entrepreneurs are currently participating in the AMP programme and total contracts awarded to AMP tenants since inception in 2016 are in excess of R21 million. • We will be participating in the Coronavirus Large Business Interruption Loan Scheme (CLBILS) which is a similar 80% guarantee scheme aimed at lending to large companies and the UK Government’s Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBL) which provides banks with a 100% guarantee on losses that may arise on facilities provided to small businesses that were not given CBILS funding. Investec Limited • We are involved in the South African Future Trust (SAFT) extending direct financial support to the employees of SMMEs with turnover of <R25mn and the COVID-19 Loan Scheme offered to South African clients who have an annual turnover of <R300mn. For more information visit www.saft.africa South Africa’s cash investments business provides flexible cash management for SMEs. Over the last 12 months, we have partnered with sme.africa to deliver a podcast series called Making SMEs Matter, delivering content and expertise to SMEs that would not necessarily have access. Each episode is an entrepreneurial story, where entrepreneurs share their challenges and successes. For more information visit www.sme.africa BUSINESS IMPACT 66 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Industry innovation and Benefits to society Benefits to business infrastructure Building quality infrastructure and sustainable industrial development We have a proven track record and partner with the private sector and boosts productivity, incomes and standards of living, leading to better government for the delivery of infrastructure through the provision of expertise Build resilient infrastructure, promote health and education outcomes. Technology and innovation are vital to ensure the successful funding, implementation and development of sustainable industrialisation and in addressing environmental and economic challenges that come with projects. We see many opportunities to finance innovative technological or foster innovation through: industrial development and an increasing world population. digital solutions to solve various socio-economic challenges. SDG 9.1: Developing quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure SDG 9A: Facilitate sustainable and resilient infrastructure development in developing countries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support to African countries, least developed countries, landlocked developing countries and small island developing States $22.5 mn deal wins Best Deals 2020 Representing Award the International Chamber of Working with new Commerce (ICC) $300 mn impact Global Export debt fund, Acre Investec Private Capital’s innovative structuring of the $22.5 million road reconstruction and storm drainage Finance Banking Capital financing for Ghana Infrastructure Company Limited (GIC) Committee won the GRT Best Deals 2020 Award for African Solutions for African Infrastructure. The structure enabled GIC to win the bid, keeping a high level of local jobs in Ghana and growing GIC’s and Ghana’s capacity to deliver such projects domestically. Beyond employment creation, Our Export and Agency Finance team has established a working group The team is also working with a new impact debt fund, Acre Capital, the project’s effective drainage systems are essential in to identify commercial opportunities to maximise the socio-economic and a grant supported by The Rockefeller Foundation. This support is water management and ensuring no loss of life during the environmental impact and play a leading role in the fast‑developing to design an impact investment vehicle that leverages export credit heavy seasonal rainfalls in Ghana. Increased road access impact and SDG finance market. Chris Mitman represented the agency capital to fund social infrastructure projects in emerging also contributes to community development, improving International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Global Export Finance markets. This $300 million initial fund will launch in the second access to education and healthcare. The African project was Banking Committee in Paris at an OECD stakeholders meeting, quarter of 2020 and focuses on co-financing projects that meet SDG delivered through a combination of African partnerships, presenting the outcomes of a global survey of Export Credit Agencies objectives alongside export credit agencies. For every dollar the fund implemented by an African contractor, with finance (ECAs) and banks which highlighted this as a strategic priority area for invests it will release six times the amount in OECD export credit structured by an African bank and supported by an African the approximately $150 billion per annum industry. funded debt. export credit agency. For more information visit https://iccwbo.org/publication/icc-global-exportFor more information visit www.acrescap.com finance-committee For more information visit www.gtreview.com/magazine/ volume-18-issue-2/gtr-best-deals-2020/ BUSINESS IMPACT 67 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT SDG 9.5: Upgrading technological capabilities Devina Maharaj, Programme head of Investec business banking and Investec has partnered with some ground-breaking technology leaders: open banking, South Africa • Investec’s partnership with Crossfin funds early-stage African fintech start-ups. We identify, fund and support driven entrepreneurs with innovative ideas who develop solutions pointing to an inclusive high-growth future of financial products and services in Africa. This year the investment extended to BxChange iMali who developed an e-Wallet App called My-iMali, an affordable, easy-to-use and convenient digital wallet. The start-up provides approximately 5 000 lower-income consumers with the ability to transact anywhere in the world without paying any monthly fees, and gives businesses a more affordable, safe and convenient channel for salary disbursements. For more information visit www.my-imali.com 90 000 tech • Investec Life’s partnership with UK-based genetics company DNAfit Life Sciences, professionals and empowers our clients with personalised information to make better decisions regarding 1 400 companies use their personal health and wellness. As the first in Africa to offer this global innovation, we Offerzen banking are disrupting the sector by promoting precision medicine to further preventative health, platform by enabling our clients to use technology to maintain their health and well-being. This is testament to the innovation that lies at the heart of Investec Life. For more information visit www.dnafit.com • In 2019, Investec partnered with Offerzen to develop a banking proposition for software engineers and drive our open banking strategy. Offerzen is an online recruitment marketplace and the largest community of technology talent in South Africa, with over “In a post-COVID-19 world, we all 90 000 technology professionals and 1 400 companies using the platform. Investec and Offerzen believe that growth in the technology sector will contribute to significant live with a heightened sense of economic value in South Africa and aim to enable developers to access the world of programmable banking and open APIs. responsibility to make a meaningful For more information visit www.offerzen.com difference. At Investec, we see Within our private bank we continue to invest in the modernisation of our businesses, leveraging new technologies to enable our collaborations with technology flexibility, improve efficiencies and accelerate the launch of innovative products. Some of these technologies include the following: partners as a powerful way to • Launch of Investec IX in the UK, our corporate digital platform, as well as an online business savings account which enables seamless account opening and the ability to self-service reinvestment of our fixed-term product online, significantly enhancing exponentially scale our contribution our corporate retail deposits. • Extension of our open banking platform as a channel has enabled seamless integration with fintechs, other banks and to the economic development of investment managers and consequently provided access to new clients and markets. South Africa, its people, and the • Investment in our AI capability, ensuring the use of analytics and data to deliver differentiated and personalised solutions. • Simplifying our operating model and leveraging shared platforms and capabilities across our infrastructure globally world at large.” has delivered efficiencies and cost savings. This includes embedding new robotic process automation technologies to optimise some of our core operations, reduce operational risk and contain costs. BUSINESS IMPACT 68 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Sustainable cities and Benefits to society Benefits to business Meaningful sustainable development requires a significant Through our lending and investment activities, we are able to play communities transformation in the way we deal with rapid urbanisation. A more a meaningful role in building sustainable cities and communities. resilient and sustainable approach is required when building cities Our property business focuses on developments that bring value Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and to reduce vulnerability to various factors, such as natural disasters, to surrounding communities and invest in sustainable and resilient sustainable through: overcrowding and air pollution. This requires investment in safe and buildings. We also finance innovative technologies that can affordable housing, efficient public transport, green public spaces, contribute to more sustainable transport systems and safer, more and improving urban planning to be more inclusive. robust infrastructure solutions. SDG 11.1: Providing access for all to safe and SDG 11.2: Providing access to safe, affordable, SDG 11.C: Supporting sustainable and resilient affordable housing accessible and sustainable transport systems for all buildings Investec Australia’s infrastructure finance and investment team funded an affordable housing development in Adelaide which allowed key workers (for example nurses, police, council workers) a discounted rental rate for up to three years while they saved for a deposit to 1 500 rapid Solar PV purchase their home. The team in Australia continues to look for further opportunities to deliver new mixed communities where social housing chargers to plants rolled out blends in with private and affordable housing. reduce London on six property For more information visit https://youtu.be pollution rooftops In early 2020 Investec Australia Limited was appointed preferred bidder, alongside its partners UniLodge Australia and TLC Modular to build and operate student accommodation. The Consortium will develop circa 350 new beds providing important affordable Recognising the need for enabling cleaner transport and cleaner Investec Property Fund (IPF), managed by Investec Property and accommodation to students. cities, Investec has invested in a London-based company specialising 24.3% owned by Investec Limited, actively explores sustainable Investec contributed to the economic empowerment in South Africa in electric vehicle (EV) rapid charging. Engenie works in partnership business development, tracking and benchmarking consumption through the distribution of 3 600 title deeds to homeowners in with landowners to deliver fully funded and maintained rapid charging across the portfolio to identify energy efficiency opportunities and 15 townships around the Gauteng province. This enabled the severely units, powered exclusively by 100% renewable energy. Through our monitor improvements. In the last financial year, IPF implemented vulnerable population debt-free home ownership. The title deeds of the investment, 1 500 rapid chargers are being installed across London Photovoltaic (PV) projects on six of their building’s rooftops: Balfour properties were returned to the registered owners and the substantial and will significantly improve the pollution problem in the city. Mall, Newcastle Mall, Zevenwacht Mall, Kriel Mall, Dihlabeng Mall underlying debt was waived. This opportunity arose from a legacy and 30 Jellicoe, totalling 5.4 MW. This has reduced both the cost of For more information visit www.engenie.co.uk/ transaction. These families will all now have an asset that they can use electricity and the demand from the grid. IPF is exploring the continued in other life-changing transactions like starting a business or to better roll-out of solar PV plants across its retail, office and industrial property educate their children. For more information visit www.investec.com/en_za/ portfolios. focus/beyond-wealth/sa-has-3600-debt-free-home-owners.html For more information visit www.investecproperty.com Through a joint venture, Investec Property launched a third FutureSpace office initiative Launched to meet the ever-growing demand for premium shared workspaces. This workspace caters to a diverse base of start-ups, entrepreneurs, independent consultants and even FutureSpace large businesses that want to be close to innovators and networking opportunities. For more information visit www.futurespaceoffice.co.za/ BUSINESS IMPACT 69 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix BUSINESS IMPACT Benefits to society Benefits to business Partnership for the goals Effective partnerships create the opportunity to reduce inequality, Through strong and effective partnerships, core competencies Strengthen the means of implementation and end poverty, protect the environment, and promote justice and can be leveraged with a focused impact across a common set revitalise the global partnership for sustainable peace and improve livelihoods for all. of goals. development through: 17.9: Enhancing international support for implementing effective We engage regularly with a and targeted capacity building in developing countries to support 17.11: Significantly increasing the national plans to implement all the sustainable development goals exports of developing countries range of stakeholders including shareholders, ESG analysts and rating agencies on topics relating Featured in Three Investec to the relevance of ESG issues for young innovators Founding South Africa’s member of the ICC our business. We participate and to present at 2019 Voluntary the UN Global Export Finance collaborate actively in multiple National Review Committee Leaders Summit industry-led bodies such as Bankers Association of South Africa (BASA), UN GISD, UN Global Within the finance sector in South Africa, there is a collaborative effort to support the SDGs. Chris Mitman, founder and head of export and Compact, PCAF and others. The Positive Finance Working Group of BASA has representatives from the major financial agency finance, is a founding member of the institutions in South Africa, with deliverables to build a dashboard for the SDGs to showcase ICC Export Finance Committee, established collective and significant contribution aligned to the National Development Plan of South to represent the global export finance banking Africa. Priority SDGs provide a basis for enhanced collective action and impact, as well as industry in its engagement with the Berne communication of progress made within the finance sector towards supporting these chosen Union, regulators and the OECD. He is also coSDGs. For more information visit www.banking.org.za chair of the ICC Sustainability Working Group As members of the United for Wildlife’s Financial Taskforce, focused on growing the sustainable funding In June 2019, Investec hosted a round table on the biodiversity economy and inclusive we hosted the first South African financial sector workshop to activities of the export credit market. For more business around protected areas in South Africa, arranged by the Department of encourage cooperation between law enforcement and banks who information visit https://iccwbo.org Environment, Forestry and Fisheries and the World Bank. Participants included representatives will use their financial AML architecture to stop wildlife crime. from the government, private sector, NGOs and civil society organisations. To read more about how banks are taking up the Three of our employees are representing the UN SDG Young Innovators programme and challenge to combat illegal wildlife trade click here: were chosen to showcase their innovation at the UN Global Leaders Summit in June 2020. www.investec.com/en_za/focus/beyond-wealth/combatingFor more information visit www.investec.com/en_za/focus/beyond-wealth/will-covid19-strengthenillegal-wildlife-trade-banks-take-up-the-challenge.html business-commitment-to-sustainable-development.html Investec was chosen to feature as a case study in South Africa’s 2019 Voluntary National Review. The Voluntary National Review aims to facilitate the sharing of experiences, including successes, challenges and lessons learnt, with a view of accelerating the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. For more information visit https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/ documents/23402RSA_Voluntary_National_Review_Report__9_July_2019.pdf BUSINESS IMPACT 70 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 6 START HERE GO V E R N AN C E , R IS K AN D C O MPL I A N C E About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Introduction Sound corporate governance is Ethics and integrity implicit in our values, culture, Investec has a strong culture of entrenched values, which form the cornerstone of our processes, functions and behaviour towards stakeholders and against organisational structure. Our which we measure practices and activities to assess the characteristics of good governance. values require that directors and Directors and employees are required to conduct themselves with integrity, consistently and employees behave with integrity, uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and displaying consistent and behaviour that promotes trust. Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, uncompromised moral strength processes, functions, organisational structure, and the systems designed to formalise oversight in order to promote and maintain of all businesses and processes. trust. Our commitment to governance, risk and compliance: Board oversight for sustainability and climate Board composition Management’s role in sustainability and climate Operational resilience Compliance IT security and risk management Environmental risk management. Through our commitment to governance, risk and compliance, we contribute to the following SDGs: GOVERNANCE AND RISK 72 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE 36% persons of colour Reconstituted the DLC SEC in 2020 with new (as defined by the Parker members bringing relevant Review) on the board ESG experience First bank in South Africa Constituted an ESG and 8th in the UK financial Executive Committee in services sector to sign up to 2020 to coordinate ESG the TCFD recommendations. efforts across geographies Published our 1st TCFD and businesses report Board oversight for sustainability and climate “It is our duty and care to At the highest governance level, the board has the ultimate responsibility to monitor that the group ensure that the group is is operating as a responsible corporate organisation. This includes considerations around climatebehaving responsibly from related risks and opportunities when reviewing the group strategy. a commercial, social and Board oversight environmental perspective so At the highest governance level, the board (which meets at least six times a year, excluding the annual two-day board strategy session) has the ultimate responsibility to monitor that the group is operating as a responsible organisation. This includes considerations around climate-related we remain a sustainable and risks and opportunities when reviewing the group strategy. Principal and emerging risks are identified through robust assessments by the board and its various sub-committees. The board recognises that a balanced board is vital for sustainable value creation and are comfortable that climate ethical organisation.” competence skills are adequately represented within the board committee. Refer the Investec group’s 2020 integrated annual report volume one, pages 108 to 111 for the director biographies. Rt Hon Lord Mark Malloch-Brown KCMG, Chairperson of the DLC SEC GOVERNANCE AND RISK 73 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE DLC Social and Ethics Committee (DLC SEC) In addition to the board, the DLC Social and Ethics Committee Key achievements in FY 2020 A key topic of focus in the past year for the DLC SEC was the (DLC SEC) is a board-appointed committee that takes responsibility environment and climate change. We were pleased to see the group • Our CEO, Fani Titi, joined the UN Global Investors for achieve carbon neutral status and the committee was able to approve for monitoring the non-financial elements of corporate sustainability, Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance a public group fossil fuel policy, addressing a key stakeholder concern. specifically the group’s performance in terms of social, environmental (including climate change) and governance (ESG) indicators. • The DLC SEC was reconstituted with new members bringing The group continued to demonstrate commitment to the SDGs. Extreme events are assessed, and mitigating actions are considered relevant ESG experience within the risk appetite framework. These climate considerations • Members of the group executive team assumed executive are integrated into multidisciplinary, company-wide management responsibility for driving sustainability across the organisation processes throughout the group. The DLC SEC is also responsible for promoting the relevance and importance of sustainability, climate and • The DLC SEC committee terms of reference were Members of the group strengthened to include greater focus on environment and sustainable development. climate-related issues. executive team assumed The DLC SEC comprises seven independent directors, some of whom have extensive experience in sustainability and climate-related executive responsibility for issues due to their professional activity. The committee is chaired by driving sustainability across Rt Hon Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG. Lord Malloch-Brown has a wide Areas of focus for FY 2021 range of board experience and was previously a UK government minister, the United Nations Deputy Secretary-General, a vice president Review and monitor progress: the organisation. at the World Bank, and Head of the United Nations Development • with a focus on equality, with gender and diversity targets Programme. He also chaired the Business and Sustainable and performance Development Commission (BSDC). • in terms of business resilience and COVID-19 impacts on our people, clients and communities The DLC Remuneration Committee has included non-financial and • to integrate sustainability into group strategy and business ESG-related targets within executive remuneration with a total • in terms of climate and general ESG-related policies and weighting of 20% of short-term incentives and 25% of long-term disclosures incentives. Refer to pages 179 to 237 of the Investec group’s • on our priorities in terms of the SDGs, which are to enable 2020 integrated annual report volume one for the remuneration access to clean water and affordable energy, provide access disclosures. to quality education, support economic growth and job creation, build and support infrastructure solutions and fund sustainable cities and stronger communities • with sustainability products and services offered. Delivering against the SDGs Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. GOVERNANCE AND RISK 74 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Board composition Board diversity Board gender balance The group strives to prevent and eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual preference, political opinion, sensitive medical as at 31 March 2020 Board gender balance The board recognises that conditions, nationality or country of origin or any other form of discrimination. a balanced board is vital for We have a board diversity policy, setting out the targets for board composition in terms of gender and race. The board, cognisant of the Hampton-Alexander Review, set a target of sustainable value creation. 33% female representation on the board by the end of the 2020 calendar year. We had 25% female representation on the board as at 31 March 2020, however this declined The board composition is both to 23% as at the publish date of this report. We remain committed to the target of 33% over the medium term. The board recognises that more needs to be done to increase qualitatively and quantitatively the representation of women on the board. In terms of ethnic diversity, as at 31 March 2020, there were five persons of colour (36%), as defined by the Parker Review, who are balanced in terms of skills, board members. The group is also a signatory to the Women in Finance Charter in the demographics, gender, UK, pledging to promote gender diversity by having a senior executive team member responsible and accountable for gender diversity and inclusion, setting internal targets for nationality, experience, tenure gender diversity at senior management levels, publishing progress annually against these targets and linking the pay of senior executives to delivery against these gender diversity 75% Male and independence. targets. We are also a member of the 30% Club in South Africa and the UK. 25% Female Board tenure The average board tenure is five years. The board and the DLC Nominations and Directors’ Affairs Committee (DLC Nomdac) are mindful that there needs to be a balance resulting Average tenure for non-executive directors from the benefits brought on by new independent directors, versus retaining individuals with as at 31 Average tenure forMarch 2020 non-executive directors valuable skills, knowledge and an understanding of Investec’s unique culture. As identified, the DLC Nomdac considers the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the King IV Code when considering the independence of the non-executive directors, and follows a thorough process of assessing independence on an annual basis for each director. In accordance with directive 4/2018, as issued by the South African Delivering against the SDGs Prudential Authority, any director serving for more than nine years will not be deemed to be independent. Refer to page 115 of the group’s 2020 integrated annual report volume one Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for for more information on board independence. sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive Board effectiveness institutions at all levels The board regularly reviews its own effectiveness and therefore undertakes a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors annually. Achieve gender equality and empower all women In accordance with recognised codes of corporate governance, the evaluation of the board and girls is externally facilitated at least every three years. As the 2018 board effectiveness review 10% 0 – 3 years was externally facilitated by Professor Robert Goffee, the DLC Nomdac and the board 50% 3 – 6 years agreed that the board effectiveness review for 2019 would be internally facilitated, and take 20% 6 – 9 years the form of a self-assessment questionnaire, followed by one-on-one meetings with the 20% 9 years plus Chairman. The findings were collated and presented to the DLC Nomdac at the January Reduce inequality within and among countries 2020 meeting, prior to presentation to the board at the February 2020 meeting. Overall the board members were found to be satisfied with various aspects of board governance and functioning. The board effectiveness review identified that there had been an improvement to the overall effectiveness of the board, in particular, within the context of the significant changes to the executive leadership team and the governance framework. GOVERNANCE AND RISK 75 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Management’s role in sustainability and climate We have a newly constituted group ESG Executive Committee, a board subcommittee, reporting to the Group Executive and the DLC SEC on various ESG and climate specific matters. CEO responsibility Executive responsibility ESG Executive Committee Global head of sustainability For climate-related risks and opportunities, The board recently assigned executive The CEO is supported by the recently The global head of sustainability, Tanya dos our CEO, Fani Titi, takes ultimate responsibility to Marc Kahn, global head constituted ESG Executive Committee to Santos, is a member of the ESG Executive responsibility for all ESG issues. He has of people and organisation, for driving the coordinate ESG efforts across geographies Committee. The group sustainability team been appointed to the UN Global Investors sustainability agenda across the group. and businesses from both a strategy and reports to the global head of sustainability and for Sustainable Development (GISD) Kevin McKenna, chief risk officer for Investec policy perspective. This committee will is tasked with identifying environmental and Alliance, made up of 30 leading corporates plc, took up the senior management report to the group executive and the DLC climate-related risks that may have an impact and financial institutions across the world. position overseeing the responsibility for SEC. on the Group. They are also responsible for climate-related risk for Investec Bank plc defining sectoral policies aimed at limiting the and monitors the policies and processes ESG risks to which Investec may be exposed. around other sensitive industries. We follow the guidance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the King IV Code. Delivering against the SDGs Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels GOVERNANCE AND RISK 76 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Operational resilience Being resilient, enables us to Delivering against the SDGs anticipate, prepare for, respond Our resilience capability allows us to effectively respond to significant business disruptions. This capability is based Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice and adapt to incremental change on the following: for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels and sudden disruptions by having • Commitment and support by senior management • A dedicated team with robust governance processes operational procedures in place • Ability to understand and mitigate risk to reduce the with clear intent, coherence and impact of disruptions • `Fit for purpose’ and practical plans that include third appropriate resourcing. parties • The regular review, validation and updating of business continuity plans and strategies Our diversified and balanced business model ensures resilience through varying markets and economic cycles and that we are not • Embedded business continuity practices through Our diversified and balanced over-reliant on any one part of our business to sustain our activities. We ensure a resilient business model by applying a robust continuity awareness training and validation business model ensures • Adherence to effective policy and programme framework which is outlined in our viability statement. In addition, we also enhance our operational resilience through the identification management principles resilience through varying • Adherence to defined legal and regulatory requirements and management of risks associated with disruptive incidents, which may impact resources, premises, staff, equipment, systems and • Participation in regulatory and financial industry markets and economic cycles key business processes. Our comprehensive approach provides a framework for building organisational resilience to respond effectively to resilience activities to collaboratively minimise national systemic community risk and that we are not over-reliant disruptive events. This not only ensures continuity of our business but also safeguards the interests of key stakeholders, our reputation, brand • Continued enhancement of our operational resilience framework in line with regulatory developments and on any one part of our business and value-creating activities. Being resilient enables us to anticipate, prepare for, respond and adapt to incremental change and sudden international best practices. to sustain our activities. disruptions by having operational procedures in place with clear intent, coherence and appropriate resourcing. We maintain continuity through appropriate resilience strategies that cater for all disruptions, irrespective of the cause. These strategies include, but are not limited to, relocating the impacted business to alternate processing sites, the application of high availability technology solutions and ensuring physical solutions for critical infrastructure components. GOVERNANCE AND RISK 77 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Compliance training The way we do business Compliance Training is of paramount importance as the regulatory environment The Investec distinction is embodied in our entrepreneurial culture within which we operate imposes increasing obligations on Investec which is balanced by a strong risk management discipline, and its employees. client-centric approach and an ability to be nimble, flexible and Our businesses are subject to The consequence of non-compliance innovative. We do not seek to be all things to all people and aim to build well-defined, value-added businesses focused rigorous external regulation and makes it imperative to ensure that on serving the needs of select market niches where we can relevant employees are well trained supervision. and competent to comply with all their 98% of employees compete effectively. Investec has a strong culture of entrenched values, which form the cornerstone of our behaviour towards obligations. Investec regularly ensures that employees undertake appropriate enrolled in AML stakeholders and against which we measure practices and Compliance policies training passed activities to assess the characteristics of good governance. training to maintain the threshold of All employees have a duty to comply with acceptable standards competency and compliance required. with 80% or above Directors and employees are required to conduct themselves with of corporate governance and international best practice which We believe that well-trained employees integrity, as well as consistently and uncompromisingly display we adopt, taking into consideration: will minimise the risk of contravention moral strength and behaviour that promotes trust. • The legal requirements of the region in which they operate and non-compliance. Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions, organisational structure, and the structures • The code of corporate governance applicable in that jurisdiction designed to formalise oversight of all businesses and processes. • The standards of conduct and competence required of a financial We expect employees to adopt a responsible, open and service provider trustworthy approach to managing their behaviour within the • Ethical business practice, which includes fairness, accountability, organisation. Employees are encouraged to deal with issues responsibility and transparency. openly and honestly by sharing information directly and at any level that they feel appropriate. Please refer to our publicly available document, The way we do business, The way we do business document, publicly available on our that highlights elements of our code of conduct and positioning in terms of website, outlines our code of conduct and includes the following: various ESG activities. • Approach to risk management • Tax strategy • Anti-bribery and corruption • Conflicts of interest • Confidentiality of information • Anti-trust and anti-competitive behaviour Delivering against the SDGs • Anti-money laundering and terrorist financing Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for • Fraud sustainable development, provide access to • Sanctions justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels • Whistle-blowing policy and protective disclosures • Outside business interests and employee participation Strengthen the means of implementation and • Gifts and entertainment revitalise the global partnership for sustainable • Political donations. development GOVERNANCE AND RISK 78 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE IT security and risk management Our vision is to continuously deliver efficient and effective information Board oversight The board of directors regularly oversee the technology and technology that enables business and excellent client service, within cybersecurity strategies. There are governance structures in place acceptable risk tolerance. that meet regularly to review how technology and security risks are managed and report back to the board with relevant updates. Lyndon Subroyen, the global head of digital and technology, forms part of the We continue to build information security and technology risk management capabilities across the group. Our strategy supports business group executive team. In addition, Laurel Bowden, an independent resilience, protects information assets, and safeguards personal data by proactively identifying and mitigating risks to people, processes, systems non-executive director, has relevant enterprise software and fintech and data. This approach is underpinned by three core principles – defence in depth, security by design, and role-based access – with an emphasis expertise. Periodic directors’ training takes place to educate and on group-wide coordination and efficiency. enhance awareness around digital, technology and cybersecurity matters. Policies and procedures are in place, which govern the sound management of digital and technology resources. This includes comprehensive acceptable IT usage policies. Strategy Intelligent security and data loss prevention controls protect against system compromise and unauthorised access or disclosure of information. Investec recognises that information and technology resources are These are supported by data breach monitoring and response processes in line with privacy laws. critical business assets which need to be appropriately managed and secured. Strategic roadmaps enhance capacity, scalability, security, and reduce reliance on legacy systems. We continue to Key infrastructure-related Key business application-related drive innovation in line with business objectives – integrating people, developments developments processes, systems and information, and leveraging technology to Infrastructure-related developments aim to reduce our Our business application-related developments are focused sustain and enhance intellectual capital. environmental footprint whilst improving efficiency. During on consolidation and automation. During the 2020 financial Fundamental to this is monitoring appropriate response to the 2020 financial year we: year we: developments in the technology landscape, including the capturing of • Continued consolidating databases, reducing hardware • Continued to consolidate technology and support teams potential opportunities and the management of disruptive effects on footprint and power requirements across divisions and geographies the organisation. We strive to make ethical use of technology, protect • Adopted containerisation, resulting in less physical servers client and employee privacy, and responsibly dispose of obsolete • Standardised the use of security and service management infrastructure and data. required for business applications applications across the group • Accelerated digitalisation initiatives to reduce physical The key principles underpinning our IT strategy are: paper requirements • Increased the use of online software solutions that require • Migrated from traditional spinning disk to solid-state storage little to no local server resources • Aligned technology architecture across the group with lower power and cooling requirements • Drove automation through emerging technologies such as • Simplified application and data footprint • Adopted modern technologies, including energy efficient machine learning and robotics to improve efficiency. • Flexible and scalable technology environment laptops instead of PCs In addition to these developments, a strategic decision was • Increased adoption of cloud services to reduce the reliance on • Rapid delivery of new products and services made to reduce our building footprint in the UK operations. The on-premise data centres. • Strategic and responsible use of data. office space in which the central IT, information security, and networking teams were based was released. These teams were successfully moved into existing, energy-efficient offices. GOVERNANCE AND RISK 79 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Information security training Cybersecurity Information security training Security awareness is an ongoing activity and provided to all Cyber risk remains a board-level agenda item. Periodic updates to the employees to ensure high levels of vigilance. In the 2019 financial year, a modular information security awareness board keep them abreast of industry developments and informed on campaign was rolled out to all employees to educate staff about the group’s security position. Information security training provides insight into the risks of data the threats to our information, provide insight into the potential risks compromise, and arms staff with the knowledge they need to of data compromise, and arm them with the knowledge they need We maintain a risk-based strategy incorporating prediction, prevention, safeguard our data and their personal information. Awareness to safeguard our (and their) data. In the 2020 financial year, we detection and response capabilities. A mature security architecture, campaigns educate staff on potential threats and reinforce their continued to promote the existing training by enrolling all staff that research, and threat intelligence ensure the group is adequately responsibilities in protecting information. had joined Investec after the initial campaign had ended, to ensure protected against advanced attacks. The training, mandatory for all new starters and refreshed complete coverage. In addition, the security awareness training was Continual monitoring provides visibility and enables proactive response annually, covers a broad range of topics including: made mandatory for all new starters, who are automatically enrolled to evolving cyber threats. Cyber controls are stress tested through upon joining Investec and are required to complete the training security assessments and attack simulations, run both internally and in •  Data protection: The different classifications of information based within five weeks. conjunction with independent specialists. on confidentiality and business criticality, and the importance of protecting these assets We maintain active participation in the global cybersecurity industry to •  Cybersecurity: The dangers that are prevalent online, tricks and remain current and relevant. techniques used by cyber criminals, and how to guard against Testing of our cyber defences is complemented by desktop exercises these 76% of the involving the board and senior leadership, to evaluate and improve •  Mobile devices and social media: The risks associated with using cyber incident response and crisis management. 4 513 enrolled staff mobile devices and social media, and how to keep devices and personal data safe completed all five modules Targeted simulation attacks •  Beyond the office: The importance of being vigilant and how to protect information when out of the office, such as while working at (2019: 81%; Real-world cyberattack simulations are performed by external specialists to measure and improve our cyber defences. These are home, in public places, or travelling 3 945 enrolled staff) complemented by non-technical exercises involving the board and •  Security essentials: The fundamentals of information security, senior leadership to evaluate and improve cyber incident response social engineering, and secure use of technology resources to and crisis management. In the 2019 financial year, a target simulation safeguard both corporate and personal data. attack was performed by an independent cybersecurity firm to In addition to interactive security training, ad-hoc focused awareness assess the group’s defenses against potential cyber threats. In the takes place as needed through various channels including face-toSystems availability 2020 financial year, our focus was on addressing previously identified face, email, and the corporate intranet. weaknesses, and improving consistency and coverage of baseline Continuity capabilities are in place to maintain business cyber controls. We also enhanced our group-wide cyber maturity operations during adverse events, and to minimise impact to and incident coordination. In the year ahead, we aim to strengthen clients and the broader financial system. our cyber monitoring capabilities and automate incident response, to Fit-for-purpose resilience strategies are defined and tested per critical enhance our security visibility and resilience as a business. service and application. This includes relocation to alternate processing sites, implementation of high-availability technology solutions, and ensuring physical redundancy for critical infrastructure components. Delivering against the SDGs Recovery strategies are validated at least annually to ensure they remain effective and appropriate. Resilience is further enhanced Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for through alignment of security incident response, crisis management sustainable development, provide access to justice and business continuity processes. for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels GOVERNANCE AND RISK 80 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Precautionary approach Equator Principles Environmental risk The group supports the precautionary approach to environmental We fully support and report management management and strives to minimise and prevent investing in projects or dealing with counterparties where potential and unmitigated according to the key provisions environmental degradation might result. We expect our employees Identifying and quantifying environmental risk is embedded within of the Equator Principles (EP) and stakeholders to operate business risk assessments and management processes. although we are not signatories. For example: and behave in a socially and • As part of our client on-boarding process, we would assess, where • In the case of a number of large infrastructure and energy projects, there is potential conflict between larger, nationwide environmentally appropriate and appropriate, potential clients for various types of risks including whether they are behaving responsibly in their business activities development imperatives (e.g. additional power generation or road transportation) to enhance the socio-economic welfare responsible manner. • Environmental and social risks are identified and assessed as part of the region, and locally affected parties whose quality of life of transaction due diligence processes stands to be adversely affected by relocation or job loss In particular, the following factors are considered when a • Our operational activities are assessed for compliance with relevant • These trade-offs are a matter for local parties and their transaction is evaluated and approved or decline: environmental, health and safety, and labour rights regulations representatives. While we should remain aware of them, it is • Environmental considerations (including animal welfare and • We regularly review sensitive sectors and activities prone to bearing not our responsibility to pass judgement on such trade-offs. climate-related impacts) environmental and social risks. Key to this, however, is that we target transactions in countries • Social considerations (including human rights) with established laws that comply with World Bank standards The group will avoid exposures to any transactions that involve: and that have due processes that are applied reasonably and • Macro-economic considerations (including poverty, growth effectively. If not, sponsors and suppliers are obliged to give and unemployment). • Undue damage to high conservation and/or protected undertakings and comply with such standards environmental areas • While the principles are adhered to, our current internal • Forced labour or child labour Our commitment to sustainability recognises framework is robust and assessed on a project-by-project • The production and trade of controversial or military weapons basis, in accordance with World Bank standards as well as the the interconnected nature of our business, the or ammunitions standards of the legal and environmental frameworks of the economy, the environment and society. We live • The production or trade in any product or activity deemed illegal countries in which the projects are undertaken. Furthermore, in society, not off it. Part of this commitment under the country of operation’s laws and regulations. we have enhanced procedures to evaluate and actively avoid, involves integrating ESG considerations into manage and mitigate the potential social and environmental our day-to-day operations ensuring sustainable Any transactions with a corporate involved in transactions in impacts of the projects we support. management with a long-term vision. the following activities, requires stringent escalation to the For more information on our response to the equator principles, senior group policy forum, Group Risk Review and Reserved refer to page 55 Matters Forum: • The production and trade in radioactive materials Our environmental policies • The production of harmful or addictive substances • Group environmental policy and climate change statement • Activities that involve early drug testing on humans No transactions click to view document • Activities that involve any form of testing on animals. in non-designated We follow the guidelines supplied by the International Finance countries in the • Group fossil fuel policy Corporation (IFC) to categorise our general finance and lending past year click to view document activities into high, medium and low risk. GOVERNANCE AND RISK 81 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GOVERNANCE, RISK AND COMPLIANCE Governance, risk and compliance dashboard Reference to Investec group’s 2020 31 March 31 March integrated annual 2020 2019 Commentary report volume one Our board Independence Independent Chair ✔ ✔ Perry Crosthwaite Page 108 Independent Chair of Remuneration Committee ✔ ✔ Philip Hourquebie Page 109 Number of independent directors 10 10 The board considers the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the King IV Code, and directive Page 120 4/2018 as issued by the South African Prudential Authority, when considering the independence of board members Board diversity Women on board 25% 25% We have committed to 33% women on the board by the end of the 2020 calendar year Page 105 Board diversity policy ✔ ✔ The group strives to prevent and eliminate any form of discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, religion, age, Page 105 disability, sexual preference, political opinion, sensitive medical conditions, nationality or country of origin and any other form of discrimination Ethnic diversity on the board 36% According to the Parker Review Page 105 Other board requirements Average board tenure 5 years 6 years Page 118 Board committees, including responsibilities and ✔ ✔ Page 112 membership, outlined Board performance assessed ✔ ✔ Pages 105 and 106 Board effectiveness ✔ ✔ The board regularly reviews its own effectiveness and therefore undertakes a formal evaluation of its performance and Pages 105 and 106 that of its committees and individual directors annually Remuneration Comprehensive remuneration disclosures ✔ ✔ Pages 179 to 237 Risk management Board responsibility for sustainability and climate risk ✔ ✔ At the highest governance level, the board has the ultimate responsibility to monitor that the group is operating as a Pages 128 to 131 responsible corporate Social and Ethics Committee (DLC SEC) ✔ ✔ The DLC SEC is a board appointed committee and takes responsibility for monitoring the non-financial elements of Pages 128 to 131 corporate sustainability, specifically the group’s performance in terms of ESG (including climate change) indicators Independent chair of social and ethics committee ✔ ✔ Rt Hon Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG Page 128 ESG Executive Committee ✔ n/a The CEO is supported by the recently constituted ESG Executive Committee to coordinate ESG efforts across This report: page 76 geographies and businesses from both a strategy and policy perspective Materiality analysis ✔ ✔ This report: pages 8 to 10 Stakeholder engagement ✔ ✔ This report: pages 8 to 10 Political donations Political donations Investec Bank Limited (Rands) – 1.5mn Investec Bank Limited made no political donations in 2020 (2019: R1.5 million). Investec Bank Limited 2020 annual report: page 142 Political donations Investec plc – – Investec plc did not make any political donations in the financial year ended 31 March 2020 (2019: Nil) as its not Investec plc permissible under UK law to make political donations. 2020 annual report: page 171 GOVERNANCE AND RISK 82 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report 7 AP PE N D I X About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on selected key performance indicators We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on selected key performance indicators (KPIs), as described below, and presented in the 2020 Group Sustainability and ESG Supplementary Report of Investec Limited and Investec plc (Investec) for the year ended 31 March 2020 (the Report). This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including social, environmental, carbon and assurance specialists with relevant experience in sustainability reporting. Subject matter We have been engaged to provide a limited assurance conclusion in our report on the following selected KPIs, marked with an “i” on the relevant pages in the 2020 Group Sustainability and ESG Supplementary Report. The selected KPIs described below have been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Standards (“GRI Standards”) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard, supported by Investec’s internally developed guidelines, and collectively referred to as “Investec’s reporting criteria”. TABLE 1: SCOPE OF THE 2020 LIMITED ASSURANCE ENGAGEMENT Category Selected KPIs Scope of Coverage / reporting boundary Environmental Total gas consumption (Natural Gas (KWh), CO2 purchased (kg) and LPG stationary (L) Group, UK and Other and Southern African operations (refer to pages 48, 50 and 52) Total water consumption (kilolitres) Total paper consumption (tonnes) Total emissions (tonnes CO2 eq ) relating to: • Direct emissions (scope 1) – Natural gas, LPG stationary, CO2 purchased, Diesel, Refrigerants and Vehicle fleet • Indirect emissions (scope 2) – Electrical energy consumption • Other emissions (scope 3) – Paper consumption, Employee travel (including rail travel, road business travel, taxi and commercial airlines), and General waste Emissions per m² of office space Human Resources Group learning and development spend per region (Rands and Pounds Sterling) Group, UK and Other and Southern African operations (refer to pages 21, 24, 27 and 28) Total permanent employee headcount per region, per management level (Executive directors on Investec DLC board, Senior management, rest of employees) per service line (number) Employee headcount per region and temporary staff and contractor headcount (number) Number of discrimination incidents Community Spend Total group community spend (Pounds Sterling) Group, UK and Other and Southern African operations (refer to page 42) UK and Other Community Spend per category of spend (Pounds Sterling) UK and Other operations Southern Africa Community Spend per category of spend (Pounds Sterling) Southern African operations Directors’ Responsibilities The directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and presentation of the selected KPIs in accordance with Investec’s reporting criteria. This responsibility includes the identification of stakeholders and stakeholder requirements, material issues, commitments with respect to sustainability performance and design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Directors are also responsible for determining the appropriateness of the measurement and reporting criteria in view of the intended users of the selected KPIs and for ensuring that those criteria are publicly available to the Report users. APPENDIX 84 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT (continued) Inherent Limitations A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE Limited Assurance Conclusion 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 involves assessing the suitability in the GHG emission quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because circumstances of Investec’s use of its reporting criteria as the basis Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions of preparation for the selected KPIs, assessing the risks of material we have obtained and subject to the inherent limitations outlined factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases misstatement of the selected KPIs whether due to fraud or error, elsewhere in this report, nothing has come to our attention that and sources. responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, causes us to believe that the selected KPIs, as set out in the and evaluating the overall presentation of the selected KPIs. A limited table included in the Subject Matter paragraph above for the year Our Independence and Quality Control assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable ended 31 March 2020 are not prepared, in all material respects, in assurance engagement in relation to both risk assessment procedures, accordance with the Investec’s reporting criteria. We have complied with the independence and other ethical including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures requirements of Sections 290 and 291 of the Independent Regulatory performed in response to the assessed risks. Other Matters Board for Auditors’ Code of Professional Conduct for Registered Auditors (Revised January 2018) and parts 1 and 3 of the Independent The procedures we performed were based on our professional The maintenance and integrity of the Investec’s website is the Regulatory Board for Auditors’ Code of Professional Conduct for judgement and included inquiries, observation of processes followed, responsibility of Investec’s management. Our procedures did not Registered Auditors (Revised November 2018) (together the IRBA inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no Codes), which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and responsibility for any changes to either the information in the Report objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality agreeing and reconciling information with underlying records. or our independent limited assurance report that may have occurred and professional behaviour. The IRBA Codes are consistent with the since the initial date of its presentation on Investec’s Website. Given the circumstances of the engagement, the procedures corresponding sections of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants and the performed included the following: Restriction of Liability International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International • Conducted a series of planning meetings with various parties Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express a limited Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International involved in Investec’s reporting and management processes in order assurance conclusion on the selected KPIs to the Directors of Investec Independence Standards) respectively. to gain a general understanding of the processes. in accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no other KPMG Inc. applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1, • Tested the processes and systems at group level which generate, purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any party other and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control collate, aggregate, monitor and report selected KPIs. than Investec, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance have reached. • Inspected supporting documentation and performed analytical with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal procedures on a sample basis to evaluate the data generation and and regulatory requirements. KPMG Inc. reporting processes against the reporting criteria. Registered Auditor Our Responsibility • Evaluated whether the selected KPIs presented in the Report is consistent with our overall knowledge and experience of Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on sustainability management and performance at Investec. the selected sustainability KPIs based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary our assurance engagement in accordance with the International in nature and timing, and are less in extent than for a reasonable Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), assurance engagement. As a result the level of assurance obtained in a Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance Financial Information, and the carbon emission assurance portion that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable Per Neil Morris of our engagement in accordance with the International Standard assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable Chartered Accountant (SA) on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on assurance opinion about whether Investec’s selected KPIs have Registered Auditor Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Investec’s Director Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These standards require reporting criteria. KPMG Crescent that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance 85 Empire Road Parktown about whether the selected sustainability KPIs are free from material 2193 misstatement. 30 June 2020 APPENDIX 85 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GRI 101: FOUNDATION THIS REPORT, INSIDE COVER: SCOPE AND REPORTING FRAMEWORK GRI 102: General disclosures Organisational profile 102-1 Core Name of the organisation Investec. 102-2 Core Activities, brands, products, and services Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 6 to 11. This report: Pages 3 and 4. About the Investec group. 102-3 Core Location of headquarters Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 242. Our headquarters are in Johannesburg for our Southern African operations and in London for our UK and Other operations. 102-4 Core Location of operations Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 14. Our business at a glance. 102-5 Core Ownership and legal form Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 11. Operating structure. Volume one, pages 154 to 156. Shareholder analysis. 102-6 Core Markets served (including geographical breakdown, sectors and type of Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 9 and pages 14 and 15. Our business at a glance. customers) 102-7 Core Scale of the organisation Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 14 and 15. Our business at a glance. 102-8 Core Information on employees and other workers This report: Pages 21 to 25. Number of employees is shown by division, geography, seniority, gender and permanent versus temporary employees and contractors. 102-9 Core Supply chain Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 14 and 15. Our business at a glance. 102-10 Core Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 17 to 21. CEO and Chairman’s Report. 102-11 Core Precautionary principle or approach This report: page 81. Environmental risk management. 102-12 Core External initiatives This report: Page 99. Sustainability memberships. 102-13 Core Membership of associations This report: Page 99. Sustainability memberships. Strategy 102-14 Core Statement from senior decision-maker (CEO) Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 17 to 21. CEO and Chairman’s Report. This report: Pages 6 and 7. 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 30 to 37. Our principal risks. Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 78 to 82 and pages 94 to 102. Divisional questions and answers. This report: Pages 6 to 17. Corporate Sustainability at Investec. APPENDIX 86 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Ethics and integrity 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 6 and 7. Who are we. This report: Page 3. About the Investec group. 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics This report: Page 72. The Way We Do Business on our website. Governance 102-18 Core Governance structure Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 112. Corporate framework. 102-19 Delegating authority Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-20 Executive level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 to 29. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 112. Corporate framework. 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 149 to 153. Statement of compliance. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 124 to 127. DLC Nominations and Directors’ Affairs Committee (Nomdac). 102-25 Conflicts of interest Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 152. Conflicts of interest. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 113 to 123. Corporate governance. What we did. 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 108 to 111. Director biographies. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 105 to 106. Board effectiveness. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 14. Sustainability considerations. 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 to 29. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. APPENDIX 87 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Governance (continued) 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 128 to 131. DLC Social and Ethics Committee. 102-35 Remuneration policies Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 179 to 242. Remuneration report. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 179 to 242. Remuneration report. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 179 to 242. Remuneration outcomes for 2019. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 179 to 242. Remuneration report. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 179 to 242. Remuneration report. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 and 23. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-41 Core Collective bargaining agreements Refer to our website: www.investec.com/en_za/legal/hr-regulatory-disclosures.html 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting stakeholders Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 and 23. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder engagement Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 and 23. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Communication and stakeholder engagement. 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns raised Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 to 26. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 122. Feedback from board on good corporate citizenship. This report: Pages 8 to 10. Stakeholder engagement. Reporting practice 102-45 Core Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 11. Operational structure. 102-46 Core Defining report content and topic boundaries This report: Page 2. Reporting scope, boundary and framework. 102-47 Core List of material topics Integrated annual report. Volume one, pages 22 to 26. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 9 and 10. Stakeholder engagement. 102-48 Core Restatements of information Integrated annual report. Volume one, page 59. Restatements. 102-49 Core Changes in reporting Integrated annual report. Volume one, page 59. Restatements. 102-50 Core Reporting period 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. APPENDIX 88 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 102: General disclosures (continued) Reporting practice (continued) 102-51 Core Date of most recent previous report 31 March 2020. 102-52 Core Reporting cycle Annually. 102-53 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report This report: Inside cover page. Contact details. 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report: Page 2. About this supplementary report. 102-55 Core GRI content index This table. 102-56 Core External assurance This report: Page 2. About this supplementary report. This report: Pages 84 and 85. Independent assurance statement. GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 22 to 26. Stakeholder engagement and value creation. This report: Pages 2, 8 to 10. Materiality. 103-2 The management approach and its components This report: Pages 8 to 10. Stakeholder engagement. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach This report: Pages 14 to 16. Creating value for stakeholders. GRI 200: Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 27. Value creation. This report: Page 14 to 16. Value creation. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Refer to our TCFD report on our website. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Investec follows the defined contribution pension schemes. We have two small defined benefit plans which were inherited as part of legacy acquisitions and which have been closed to new contributions. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government No financial assistance was received from the government. Investec has never received financial assistance from the government, even during the financial crisis. GRI 202: Market presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum Standard entry level wage exceeds the local minimum wage in all geographies. wage This report: Page 22. Recognising and rewarding our people. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community We do not disclose this level of information. GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported This report: Pages 59 to 70. Our business impact. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 18 to 21. CEO and Chairman’s report. APPENDIX 89 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 200: Economic standards (continued) GRI 204: Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Not calculated. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Integrated annual report: Volume two, Pages 93 to 95. Operational risk. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures This report: Page 78. Governance, risk and compliance. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 93 to 95. Operational risk. Investec has an anti-money laundering (AML) policy as well as a compliance manual and handbook that explains the procedures to follow should there be incidents of corruption. Investec has established and maintains policies, procedures and controls to ensure that, in accordance with regulatory requirements, all staff report information or other matters which come to their attention in the course of their employment and which give reasonable grounds for knowledge or suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing activity. GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti‑trust, and monopoly practices No legal actions have been taken against Investec for anti-competitive behaviour, however, Investec Limited continues to cooperate with the Competition Commission Authorities in South Africa with respect to their ongoing investigation into alleged collusion in relation to foreign exchange. On June 1 2020, the Competition Commission filed its New Referral Complaint as required by the Competition Tribunal. Investec is presently preparing its response to the New Referral and will serve it on the Competition Commission when it is completed. GRI 207: Tax 207-1 Approach to tax Integrated annual report: Volume three page 50. Taxation and deferred taxation. 207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management Integrated annual report: Volume one pages 132 to 142. DLC Audit Committee. 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax Integrated annual report: Volume one pages 132 to 142. DLC Audit Committee. 207-4 Country-by-country reporting Integrated annual report: Volume three pages 72 to 74. Notes to the annual financial statements, Note 9, Taxation. GRI 300: Environmental standards GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 301-2 Recycled input materials used This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not relevant for Investec. APPENDIX 90 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Not applicable. As a niched specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 302-3 Energy intensity This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. GRI 303: Water and effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Not applicable. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 303-3 Water withdrawal This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact for details on initiatives to reduce water usage. Investec does not recycle water. 303-4 Water discharge Not applicable. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 303-5 Water consumption This report: Pages 47 to 52. Environment section: Direct operational impact. GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Not applicable for Investec which operates within urban locations where biodiversity impacts are minimal. and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity As a financial services provider we do not have a direct impact. However, though our project finance and property business we ensure that environment impact assessments are completed for transactions. This report: Page 81. Environmental risk management. 304-3 Habitats protected or restored This report: Pages 40 and 41. Environment and other philanthropy. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in There are no material impacts on biodiversity, therefore this is not relevant. areas affected by operations APPENDIX 91 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 300: Environmental standards (continued) GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 173. Direct operational impact. This report: Page 48. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 173. Direct operational impact. This report: Page 48. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 173. Direct operational impact. This report: Page 48. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 173. Direct operational impact. This report: Page 48. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 173. Direct operational impact. This report: Pages 47 and 48. Carbon footprint for the group. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-3 Significant spills Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 307: Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Not relevant. As a specialist financial services organisation with a small physical presence, this indicator is not applicable for Investec. GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria This report: Page 56. Procurement. Only screened in our South African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken This report: Page 56. Procurement. Only screened in our South African operations and we will look to extend this screening to the UK in the next financial year. APPENDIX 92 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 163. Commitment to our people. This report: Page 21. Commitment to our people. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 179 to 240. Remuneration report. Benefits are broken down by part-time employees gross remuneration, variable short-term incentives by division and variable long-term incentive plans. 401-3 Parental leave Investec is committed to principles of equality and has relevant employment policies and practices in place. This report: Page 23. Family-friendly policies. GRI 402: Labour/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes This report: Page 28. People dashboard. GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management systems This report: Page 28. Occupational health and safety. Refer to The way we do business document on our website. 403-2 Hazards identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Refer to The way we do business document on our website. 403-3 Occupational health services This report: Pages 22 and 23. Employee well-being. 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication on occupational health This report: Pages 22 and 23. Employee well-being. and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Refer to The Way We Do Our Business document on our website. 403-6 Promotion and worker health This report: Page 22 and 23. Employee well-being. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly Refer to The Way We Do Our Business on our website. linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Refer to The Way We Do Our Business on our website. 403-9 Work related injuries This report: Page 28. Health and Safety. While we recorded 27 occupational injuries in the past year these would be minor and unlikely to result in a significant loss of working days. 403-10 Work related ill health This report: Page 22 and 23. Employee well-being. APPENDIX 93 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards (continued) GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Employees are encouraged to be the driving force behind their development needs, allowing them to maximise learning opportunities most relevant to their unique requirements. This report: Page 27. Group learning and development spend. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 166. Learning and development (L&D). programmes This report: Page 27. Learning and development section. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career This report: Page 22. Performance management. development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 116. Diversity. This report: Pages 24 and 25. Employee gender composition. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Integrated annual report: Volume one, page 233. Gender pay gap figures. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken There were no confirmed incidents or allegations of discrimination for the reporting year ending 31 March 2020. This report: Page 28. People dashboard. GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Refer to our procurement statement on our website. collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Refer to our procurement statement on our website. GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Refer to our procurement statement on our website. labour GRI 410: Security practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Security personnel are trained on risk and interpersonal and communication skills as well as how to approach a situation when an incident takes place. Specific human rights training does not take place. GRI 411: Rights of indigenous peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No incidents relating to indigenous rights occurred during the reporting year. APPENDIX 94 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards (continued GRI 412: Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Refer to The Way We Do Business on our website. Human rights which covers 100% of our operations. assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures This report: Page 27. Learning and development. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights Refer to The Way We Do Business on our website. Human rights which covers 100% of our operations. clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 167 to 169. Commitment to our communities. development programmes This report: Pages 31 to 42. Commitment to our communities. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local Not relevant. As a financial services company with a limited physical presence, our operations have a very communities limited direct impact on local communities. However, we may indirectly have an impact through, for example, our property developments or project finance type transactions. In these instances, all required community impact assessments are done and community engagements are performed. GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Refer to our procurement statement on our website. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Refer to our procurement statement on our website. GRI 415: Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Investec Bank Limited made no political donations in 2020 (2019: R1.5 million). Investec Bank Limited 2020 annual report page 142. Political donations and expenditure. Investec plc made no political donations in 2019 or 2020 as this is prohibited under UK law. GRI 416: Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Not relevant given the services based nature of Investec’s offerings. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of Not relevant given the services based nature of Investec’s offerings. products and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling www.investec.com/en_za/legal/SA.html 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing labelling communications. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications There were no incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. APPENDIX 95 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) GRI 400: Social standards (continued GRI 418: Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses No complaints were received from regulatory bodies concerning breaches of customer privacy. of customer data GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Integrated annual report: Volume two, pages 93 and 95. There have been no incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Financial services sector specific disclosures Specific disclosure on management approach FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business This report: Page 98. Policies and practices. lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 15. Sustainability considerations. business lines This report: Page 81. Environmental and social risk management. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with Integrated annual report: Volume two, page 15. Sustainability considerations. environmental and social requirements included in agreements and transactions This report: Page 81. Environmental and social risk management. FS4 Process(es) for improving employee competency to implement the In South Africa, the local banking industry has developed training material to train staff on environmental and environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines social risks relating to the different business areas. Staff are encouraged to attend any training or development that is relevant for their area of business. We have also developed ESG guidelines for consultants to use to identify potential ESG issues. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners, regarding environmental This report: Pages 6 and 7. Message from our executives. and social risks and opportunities Sector specific performance indicators FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ Integrated annual report: Volume one, pages 14 and 15. Our business at a glance. SME/ large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social Not calculated. benefit for each business line broken down by purpose APPENDIX 96 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX (continued) Financial services sector specific disclosures (continued) Sector specific performance indicators (continued) FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental Internal Audit would monitor this in the ordinary course of business. and social policies and risk assessment procedures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with Refer to our approach to responsible investing on our website. which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social Refer to our approach to responsible investing on our website. screening FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which Refer to our approach to responsible investing on our website. the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting Product responsibility society performance indicators FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type This report: Pages 66 and 68. Decent work and economic growth. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people This report: Pages 66 and 68. Decent work and economic growth. Disclosure on management approach FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services All products and policies undergo significant reviews and authorisation by the Liability Product and Pricing forum which incorporates ethical requirements. Refer tour our webiste: www.investec.com/en_za/legal/SA.html Product responsibility performance indicators FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary This report: Pages 31 to 42. Commitment to our communities. APPENDIX 97 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix POLICIES AND PRACTICES HR policies and practices • Travel scheme – local • Operational resilience statement • Travel scheme – international • Order and best execution policy At Investec we believe in cast iron integrity in all internal and external dealings, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength • Whistle blowing and protected disclosures policy. • Outside business interests policy and behaviour which promotes trust. • Promotion of Access to Information Act (PAIA) manual The policies and business practices of Investec are outlined in BAWI Compliance policies • Personal account dealing policy (Becoming Acquainted with Investec) and in the compliance handbook. We have the following compliance policies in place: • Records retention policy They are intended to guide employee conduct and ensure that at all times employees actions and attitudes reflect the group’s values • Allocations policy • Sanctions policy and philosophies. We have also published a public document that is • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy • Senior managers handover policy called The way we do business that highlights elements of our code of conduct. • A  nti-money laundering and counter of terrorist financing policy • Remote trading policy and standard • Terms of reference policy (compliance function) Below is a list of some of the policies in this regard: • Breaches policy • Training and competency policy • AIDS policy • Business introducer policy • Vulnerable clients policy. • Cellphone scheme • CASS breaches and policy • Disability procedure • Chinese walls confidential information and wall crossing policy Environmental policies • Discrimination and harassment policy • Client communications and financial promotions policy We recognise that effective environmental management is an • Dressing for your day • Compliance framework essential part of embedding this philosophy into the organisation • Employee integrity policy and are therefore committed to operating an effective environmental • Compliance handbook management system compliant with King IV in South Africa and • FAIS – Rendering financial advisory intermediary services to clients • Complaints manual ISO 14001 in the UK head office. • Financial markets code of conduct • Compliance monitoring standard The management system is initially focused on the activities and • Flexible work practice policy • Compliance/dispute policy operations of supporting functions which have a direct environmental • Grievance resolution policy • Conduct risk policy impact. • Health and safety policy • Conflicts of interest and market abuse policy We have the following policies and statements in place: • IT acceptable usage policy • Data protection • Group environmental policy and climate change statement • Learning and development at Investec • Employee participation policy • Group procurement statement • Leave scheme • Fraud policy • Environmental and social risk practices in lending and financing • Maternity scheme • Gifts and entertainment (SA) policy activities policy • Motor vehicle scheme • Gift, hospitality and charitable spend policy (UK) • Environmental and social risk practices in investment • Motor accident claims practice • Guidelines to Investec policies activities policy • Other benefits granted to employees • Inducements policy • Group fossil fuel policy. • Retirement policy • Investment recommendation policy • Retrenchment policy • Market abuse policy • Security and access control policy • Market rumours policy • Substance abuse policy • Market sounding policy • Transfer policy – local • Media queries policy APPENDIX 98 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix PARTICIPATION IN INDUSTRY INITIATIVES AND MEMBERSHIPS Our commitment to sustainability and climate change is evident from the many organisations that we support and engage with. These include the following: • Participant of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption • Publicly support the recommendations of the TCFD and committed to enhancing our TCFD disclosures • Committed to the UN SDGs • Our CEO, Fani Titi was one of 30 CEOs from financial institutions around the world invited to join the UN GISD Alliance • Hosted members of 30 international banks and financial institutions who are driving the UN GISD Alliance agenda • Active participant in the GISD Alliance working groups • Participant in various climate committees including the Climate Risk Forum Steering Committee of BASA • Participant in the TCFD and Sustainable Finance Working Groups supporting the implementations released on Financing a Sustainable Economy by National Treasury • Member of the Sustainable Finance Committee of BASA • Member of the Positive Impact Finance Committee of BASA • Participant in the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) and involved in a PCAF working group on climate disclosure specific to financial institutions in South Africa (learning from European best practice) • Chosen to feature as a case study in South Africa’s 2019 Voluntary National Review on SDGs • Chris Mitman (founder and head of Export and Agency Finance, UK) is a founding member of the ICC Export Finance Committee which was established to represent the global export finance banking industry in its engagement with the Berne Union, regulators and the OECD. He is also co-chair of the ICC Sustainability Working Group focused on growing the sustainable funding activities of the export credit market • Signatory to United for Wildlife’s Financial Taskforce to combat illegal wildlife trade (part of the Royal Foundation). APPENDIX 99 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report About Investec Group sustainability People Communities Environment Business impact Governance and risk Appendix GLOSSARY The following abbreviations have been used throughout this report: AGM Annual general meeting ha hectare/s PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials AI Artificial intelligence HESC Hoedspruit Endangered Species Centre PCs Personal computers AML Anti-Money Laundering HNW High net worth PPE Personal Protective Equipment API Application Programming Interface HR Human Resources PRA Prudential Regulation Authority BAME Black, Asian and minority ethnic IAM Investec Asset Management PV Photovoltaic BASA The Banking Association South Africa IBL Investec Bank Limited RAEL Revego Africa Energy Limited BBB British Business Bank IBP Investec Bank plc ROE Return on equity BEE Black Economic Empowerment ICC International Chamber of Commerce RPA Robotic Process Automation BID Belonging, inclusion and diversity IFC International Finance Corporation SA South Africa BSDC Business and Sustainable Development IPF Investec Property Fund SAFT South African Future Trust Commission IRL Investec Rhino Lifeline SDG Sustainable Development Goals CA Chartered Accountant ISO International Standards Organization SECR Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting CBILS Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme IT Information Technology SME Small and medium-sized enterprises CEO Chief executive officer IW&I Investec Wealth & Investment SMME Small, medium & micro enterprises CFO Chief financial officer IWT Illegal wildlife trade SSPT Sabi Sands Pfunanani Trust CO2 emissions Carbon dioxide emissions JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange t Tonnes COVID-19 Corona Virus Disease kg Kilogram TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures CSI Corporate Social Investment kl Kilolitre tCO2e Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent DLC Dual listed company km Kilometer TCTA Trans-Caledon Tunnel Authority DLC Nomdac DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee kWh Kilowatt-hour UK United Kingdom DLC SEC DLC Social and Ethics Committee L Litre UN GISD United Nations Global Investors for Sustainable ECAs Export Credit Agencies L&D Learning and development Development EDT Entrepreneurship Development Trust LBG London Benchmark Group WIRES Wildlife Information, Rescue and Education Service EMS Environment Management System LGBT+ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender/Transsexual YES Youth Employment Service EnMS Energy Management System plus. The “plus” is inclusive of other groups, such EP Equator Principles as asexual, intersex, queer, questioning, etc. EPS Earnings per share LGBTQIA+ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender/Transexual, ESG Environmental, social and governance Questioning, Queer, Intersex, Ally, + represents EV Electric vehicle other sexual identities EWT Endangered Wildlife Trust LSE London Stock Exchange GBCSA Green Building Council of South Africa m2 Square metre GCCE Gross credit and counterparty exposure NGO Non-governmental organisation GHG Greenhouse Gas OD Organisation development GIC Ghana Infrastructure Company Limited OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and GRI Standards Global Reporting Initiative Standards Development GLOSSARY 100 2020 group sustainability and ESG supplementary report
