UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2020 Steelcase lnc. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Letter of Continued Support from Steelcase's Chief Executive Officer August 1,2020 Steelcase leads the way in creating great employee experiences by offering a range of architecture, furniture and technology products and services designed to help people reach their full potential. We drive sustainable social, economic and environmental change through our decisions and actions. Steelcase has been a United Nations (UN) Global Compact participant since 2009. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and dayto-day operations. We continue to engage in collaborative projects to advance corporate responsibility worldwide, and we map these activities to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Steelcase's annual lmpact Report provides detailed information about our performance. lt describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles and covers the UN GlobalCompact Communication on Progress requirements. We remain fully committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders. L James P. Keane President and Chief Executive Officer Steelcase lnc. Promise + Progress Impact Report 2019 Steelcase strives to bring value to all our stakeholders: customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment. We do this every day, in every location around the world by designing products and solutions which benefit workers and support wellbeing—delivering goods and good. We partner with customers to help them achieve their sustainability goals. We consult and collaborate with experts, pioneers and visionaries across disciplines. And we do this while living our most foundational values to tell the truth and treat people with dignity and respect. Promise + Progress 2 Steelcase Table of Contents Introduction 05 Welcome from Jim Keane 07 Our Vision 09 Our Sustainability Promise 11 Targets + Performance People 14 Culture of Opportunity 15 Social Innovation 17 Employee Wellbeing 19 Learning + Development 21 Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Promise + Progress 3 Steelcase Table of Contents Products 24 Discovering. Creating. Transforming. 26 Exploring New Opportunities Through Materials Innovation 27 Innovative Solutions + Services 29 Sustainable Procurement Strategies 31 Service Offerings Planet 33 38 Dealer Partners Constructing a Sustainable Partnership 35 Supplier Relationships 39 Climate + Energy 41 Waste + Water 43 Transportation + Packaging GRI 45 Global Reporting Initiative Index 4 Welcome Each year we report on the work do business in a way that elevates we’re doing to be good corporate all our stakeholders: customers, citizens. From the moment of our employees, suppliers, shareholders founding to the meetings that guide and the communities where we live current decision making, our focus and work. This inclusive, sustainable has always been — and remains — approach reaffirms our belief that on doing what is right. I recently business can be a force for good came across a speech our former in the world, and that we all have a CEO, Bob Pew, gave in the early part to play. 1970’s. It said, “Our corporate goal is spelled out in terms of people and We’ve acted on that thinking by what we, as an institution, can do for making progress in the following areas: those people.” Reading these words  e continue to invest in 100% W and seeing firsthand how we’ve renewable energy and drive toward lived out our values for more than a our operational goal of 25% century inspires us to work together reduction in our environmental Steelcase was founded on a and reach for more. footprint by 2020, with the following set of values that continue to improvements since 2010: guide our strategic choices, In that spirit, we were delighted to anchor innovation and take a public step to acknowledge Our water use has decreased inform the way we conduct the quiet, steady work we do by 15% our business. More broadly, every day. Along with 180 other O  ur energy and associated those values lead us to CEOs, I had the privilege of greenhouse gas emissions connect people with their representing Steelcase in signing have decreased by 32% potential, and we’re privileged the Business Roundtable’s to do that around the world Statement on the Purpose of a O  ur use of Volatile Organic for our employees, customers Corporation. This document is Compounds (VOCs) has and communities. consistent with our commitment to decreased by 84% Promise + Progress 5 Steelcase Welcome Our Social Innovation program industry issue, as legislation and is guided by the United Nations global events continue to impact our Sustainable Development Goals ability to dispose of waste. We’ve to directly impact the social, put together a task force aimed at environmental and economic solving this problem and are in active conditions of people around discussions with industry partners the world. to find a solution. We anticipate a significant reduction in our waste W  e repurpose waste through next year thanks to the hard work innovative initiatives like our and innovative solutions brought partnership with Trex, which forward by our people. converts plastic waste from our Grand Rapids Kentwood Plant into This is an exciting time for composite decking material. sustainability and social innovation.  e’ve expanded business model W We have the incredible opportunity growth with sustainability as a to explore new approaches and lens for innovation and lead in solutions, all the while reimagining the development of products and how we can work together to unlock materials designed human promise for more people, for for sustainability. years to come. The more progress we make, the more opportunity we see to continue pushing ahead. For James P. Keane example, waste reduction is a wider President and CEO Promise + Progress 6 Steelcase Our Vision Our Vision People are at the heart of everything we do and everything we create. This truth drives our approach to sustainability. With people at the center, we can deliver meaningful, lasting economic, environmental and social change through the choices we make and the behaviors and actions we demonstrate. Our Corporate Values We believe every team member, in every location, lives our shared Steelcase values. Act with integrity Tell the truth Keep commitments Excel Treat people with dignity and respect Promote positive relationships Protect the environment Promise + Progress 7 Steelcase Our Vision Accountable to Each While these formal governance We proudly share these Other and the World models provide structure and commitments with the world Our work is governed by three accountability, every Steelcase as a signatory of the UN Global key groups: team member is responsible for Compact, demonstrating our thinking and acting sustainably. public commitment to meet The Steelcase Board of From the smallest daily choices “fundamental responsibilities Directors, a hardworking team to the largest investments, our in the areas of human rights, of proven business leaders employees are empowered to labour, environment and anti(including some thirdand innovate. By working individually corruption,”1 and our alignment fourth generation founding and together, they act as stewards with the UN’s Sustainable family members), sets the tone of our shared resources and Development Goals. for our company’s future. contribute to an environment of safety and wellbeing for 1 United Nations Our Executive Leadership themselves, colleagues, https://www.unglobalcompact.org Team delivers long-term stakeholder value and enables communities and the world. sustainable business fitness through our mission of How do our initiatives align unlocking human promise. with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals? The Sustainability Steering See pp. 64-65 for a chart. Committee cultivates a culture of sustainable innovation by elevating the value of our sustainable business practices within the company. Promise + Progress 8 Steelcase Our Sustainability Promise Our Sustainability Promise We unlock human promise by transforming work, worker and workplace. Delivering on this promise takes continuous and coordinated efforts. We believe our actions help create the social, environmental and economic conditions that allow people and communities to thrive. We’re putting those beliefs into action. Promise + Progress 9 Steelcase Our Sustainability Promise Sustainability in Action At Steelcase we believe business can be a force for good, and by leveraging our scale and resources around the globe, we can make a real difference to our employees and in the communities where we live and work. Every day, we’re partnering with our customers, dealers and supplier partners to bring new products, new materials and new ways of working to market. Through all our actions, we’re striving to conserve resources, reduce waste and promote closed-loop business systems. Sustainability Beliefs By fully engaging every team member in our shared beliefs and sustainable business goals, we become an ever-stronger partner and an increasingly better-performing company. Together and through our individual actions, as part of Steelcase and our local and global communities, we live these beliefs: Solutions begin with finding — and sharing — the truth. We work hard to be transparent and authentic with others and with ourselves.  ustainability is a lens for S innovation and growth, contributing to the overall financial wellbeing of our company. Among the great design challenges is building a more sustainable, circular economy. It demands systems-level design thinking in all aspects of our business. Promise + Progress 10 Steelcase Targets + Performance Employee Growth + Retention FY2019 3,100+ New hires globally 84% 84.3% 93.5% Retention in Retention in Retention in the Americas Asia Pacific EMEA Gender Distribution FY2019 34% Female 66% Male Employee Volunteerism 100,000+ volunteer hours since 2015 Promise + Progress 11 Steelcase Targets + Performance Progress Towards Environmental Goals Water 15 % Waste 100% Energy 32% VOCs 84% CY2010 baseline Investments in renewable energy are equivalent to 100% of our global electricity use. Financial Overview $3.4 $126 $6.8 Billion in Revenue Million in Net Million in Monetary + In-Kind Donations Income Steelcase Inc. and Steelcase Foundation Stock performance (Indexed % Return) Steelcase S&P 500 Stock Index Peer Group 200 150 100 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Promise + Progress 12 Steelcase People People Culture of Opportunity With 104 million people Through an innovative corporate partnership, Steelcase worked with living in under-resourced Techo, a nonprofit that empowers families and transforms undercommunities in Latin resourced communities to thriving communities throughout Latin America, tackling housing America. Steelcase provided skills and leadership training to Techo security and access program participants and helped Techo families build not just a to clean water and private, safe and decent shelter — but a home. utilities is a challenging, The Steelcase Monterrey team complex issue. How can members have been hosting training sessions in a variety of a company that makes areas, including sustainability, Agile methodologies and community office furniture have building, intended to positively impact how Techo operates and an impact? serves its stakeholders. This past year, more than 30 Steelcase employees in Monterrey, Mexico, all from different functional areas, volunteered to build three houses for three different families that live in one of the areas of greatest need in the city. Working over weekends, recipient families provided the hard-working builders with home-cooked meals, an opportunity for connection and community through service. Promise + Progress 14 Steelcase People Social Innovation PROMISE At Steelcase we believe business Setting a New Foundation Together, we join forces can be a force for good, and by As we continue to assess with our employees to the landscape of social and share our time, skills leveraging our scale and resources environmental sustainability, our and resources to create around the globe, we can make a thinking around change-making positive change in has evolved and we’ve challenged real difference in the communities communities where we ourselves to do more. To align our live, work and serve. where we live and work. We aspire efforts with this comprehensive vision, to do more to create a ripple we’ve expanded our once localized, transactional approach to one that PROGRESS effect that is broad and deep and embraces change for the world Working toward profoundly inspiring. By helping through a three-pillared framework: scalable, systemic others reach their potential, we Employees: We believe in and sustainable social change with more fully realize our purpose to connecting people to their purpose and do this by empowering new initiatives around unlock human promise, and that’s employee-led programs and quality education, what social innovation is all about. community volunteerism from the reducing inequalities ground up. and sustainable communities. Company: We believe in building a culture of innovation that measures long-term, sustainable results in the lives we touch inside our company and around the globe. Community: We believe in transforming communities by investing in new ideas, applying our insights and activating a range of Steelcase resources to bring them to life for global impact. Promise + Progress 15 Steelcase People Social Innovation 267 Students From underprivileged backgrounds introduced to design thinking through a structured educational program Monetary + In-Kind Donations Charting a New Course Creating a Better Built around the United Nations’ Tomorrow with Sustainable Development Goals, Steelcase social innovation efforts Design Thinking $1.6 Million have moved us to something Steelcase partnered with the Public Steelcase Inc. more holistic and far-reaching. We’ve Agency initiative led by long-time identified the following goals as priorities for our work community partner, West Michigan Center for Arts + Technology $5.2 Million and continue to evaluate how we (WMCAT). Public Agency leverages Steelcase Foundation might better support equitable Steelcase support and design human advancement in each area. thinking methodology to help organizations across the United Quality Education: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education States creatively overcome systemic issues and cyclical $531,751 and promote lifelong learning Steelcase Foundation 2018 opportunities for all. problems barring economic employee and retiree matching gifts security and human growth Reducing Inequalities: Achieve and advancement. gender equality and empower all women and girls. Sustainable Communities and 96 Cities: Make cities inclusive, safe, External partners resilient and sustainable. Learn more about our around the world innovative partnership This is just a sampling of the work with Techo, and how we’re we’re doing to make lasting change working to deliver skills and a reality. With new partnerships training to create meaningful formed regularly and hundreds ways out of poverty on p. 14. of global projects in flight, we’re delighted to design equitable access to opportunity, accelerate progress and amplify impact for thousands. Together, we’re reinforcing our commitment, raising the bar and reimagining the future. Promise + Progress 16 Steelcase People Employee Innovative Wellbeing Services Supporting employee wellbeing extends beyond physical health: it Wellbeing also means supporting their social and emotional health. Our proactive programs make it easy to engage in positive behaviors with onsite, online and in-person services. Our offerings include: Physical health services, like ergonomics classes, access to dietitians and personal trainers, flu shots, virtual care visits and blood pressure checks. Mental and emotional health supports for significant life transitions, such as growing your family and caring for parents, and navigating tough spots, such as changes in relationships, financial challenges, addiction, PROMISE We’re committed to helping anxiety, depression or even Create and maintain our employees reach their full suicidal thoughts. a safe, healthy and enriching workplace. potential in and out of work through Financial wellbeing resources, Provide ongoing intentional programming. For including budgeting, investing, tax opportunities for all and estate planning and other ways Steelcase, this support includes to help employees stay fiscally fit. of our employees to improve their physical, traditional health benefit programs Fun and social events for cognitive, emotional and and innovative onsite wellbeing celebration, camaraderie financial wellbeing. services. We continuously refine and culture-building. Intentional focus on and enhance the way we support motivation, wellbeing Continuous Safety and safety through a our employees through critical Improvements wide variety of selffeedback loops, including surveys, Throughout our manufacturing serve and customizable focus groups, interviews and other facilities, Steelcase has implemented physical, social and emotional resources qualitative measures. a variety of measures to support and promote safe, positive behaviors and programs. and lower our injury and lost time rates. Using a continuous improvement PROGRESS philosophy, all employees are empowered to identify and report Continued to make a unsafe conditions and behaviors positive, sustainable before they become injuries. impact with expanded We’re proud to report that using benefits offerings and this approach, we’ve reduced our wellbeing services. workplace incidents by 40% over the past three years – with some having even better numbers. Promise + Progress 17 Steelcase People Employee Wellbeing 700+ Employees received massage therapy during the past year, including treatments to help individuals experiencing physical pain and sessions to maintain health for individuals in physically intensive jobs 160+ Employees certified in Mental Health First Aid Breast cancer is most A New Kind of treatable and curable First Responder when it is detected early. Annual mammograms are Nearly half of all adults will experience a mental health issue or an important preventative substance abuse crisis during their screening measure and Steelcase helps make lifetime. “Just as CPR helps [people] assist an individual having 88% those screenings more a heart attack, Mental Health Success rate by on-site athletic trainers accessible through a mobile First Aid helps assist someone for alleviating employee discomforts reported at our manufacturing facilities mammography unit. experiencing a mental health or substance use-related crisis.”1 Steelcase now offers a Mental Health For Steelcase employees First Aid program. Created by the National Council for Behavioral 10+ Vendor partners available to help expecting a new addition Health and Missouri Department of employees navigate and improve their to their family, the “Growing Mental Health, the course teaches physical, mental, and financial wellbeing Your Family” seminar can participants about mental health and substance-use issues and empowers provide insights into parental them to help identify, understand and leave, bonding time and effectively respond to a mental health other benefits. issue for themselves and others. 1 National Council for Behavioral Health, https://www.mentalhealthfirstaid.org/ take-a-course/what-you-learn/ Promise + Progress 18 Steelcase People Learning + Comprehensive Training Using sustainability as a design lens encourages us to turn inside first, to Development leverage and strengthen the value of our existing networks across the global enterprise through: Classes and online courses Social learning Speaker series Conferences Lunch and learn events Mentoring and coaching Career Coaching In an age of digital transformation, employees and teams must stay relevant. To help team members explore their purpose, understand PROMISE At Steelcase, we honor how their job may change in the Unlock the human the fact that everyone has future and the skills that might promise of our employees by something to share — their be needed, Steelcase offers an optional five-session career coaching continuing to improve perspective, lived experience, seminar. Participants leave with and expand innovative, knowledge and skills — and new insights, an action plan and empowering learning and that we are all living, learning connections to specific training development programs. and development opportunities. beings. Together, we explore PROGRESS how our diverse talents and Communities of Practice We’re reimagining the perspectives can help each Steelcase introduced a new peer-totools, processes, data employee, and Steelcase as a peer social learning initiative called and strategies needed Channels as part of Steelcase U. to enable employees whole, unlock human promise Channels are streams of content to take ownership of and reach our full potential. related to specific topics that allow their learning and help you to easily and quickly access themselves, and the informal learning such as videos, organization, grow in articles, screen captures, and the best ways possible. other content shared by peers and experts. Everyone has an opportunity to access or upload content. Future plans include forum discussions, Ask the Expert, coaching, mentoring and personal playlists, a curated collection of training and information based on your knowledge, skills and interests. Promise + Progress 19 Steelcase People Learning + Development Magnifying Employee Voices Steelcase introduced a quarterly survey to measure the critical workforce metric of employee engagement. Through this survey, employees have an opportunity to provide feedback to the organization in direct, measured ways. These interactions are voluntary and allow us to evaluate engagement levels and compare against industry benchmarks. We are pleased to report that Steelcase consistently 92% scores higher than benchmarks. Employees who report having a We estimate that 45% of employees Developing Leaders, performance conversation with their leader once per quarter, also report have a high level of engagement One Step at a Time having high levels of trust in their leader and 48% report an intermediate level of engagement. At Steelcase, we believe our leaders play a pivotal role in shaping our Replacing annual performance culture. They set the conditions reviews, Steelcase instituted impact for advancing our culture through coaching, a real-time, bi-directional clarifying purpose, creating Employee Engagement series of conversations that connections and driving progress. engages employees and leaders High 45% in frequent, purposeful dialogue to To help them be future-ready and inspire continuous achievement and comfortable connecting our core Intermediate 48% growth. It works. 92% of employees values to a behavioral ecosystem, who report having a performance we launched a pilot called Leaders conversation with their leader once in Action, which takes a new per quarter, also reporting having approach to leadership development. high levels of trust in their leader. This self-driven program uses the neuroscience of habit development to help participants pick one habit to Dedicated to Employee Applying Talents in New Ways change, build a plan around how to Development Last year, Steelcase launched Loop, change it, and help them celebrate Steelcase is dedicated to the learning a talent fluidity experiment designed when they succeed. and professional growth of every to help accelerate growth by employee, and we do that by: matching talent to opportunities. P  roviding competitive salaries and benefits Building on the idea of an “internal gig economy,” Loop empowers  ffering career counseling and O employees to share their crafts Steelcase U is a proprietary, professional training programs and passions, develop new skills online learning platform and learn about different areas of available to all employees Sharing profits with employees the business while supporting and dealers, that offers a Supporting wellbeing business growth. mix of formal and social learning opportunities. Creating the conditions that allow We found that projects are win-win: employees are more engaged and This new platform currently people and communities to reach have an opportunity to build stronger includes online courses, their full potential networks while the company can instructor-led offerings, experiment, iterate and launch webinars and videos. projects. Leadership skills are emerging organically and without the constraints of a direct leader. Promise + Progress 20 Steelcase People Diversity, Mobilize Champions We’re re-energizing our efforts by creating a collective ambition for Equity + inclusion. Our Business Inclusion Groups harness the power of people who care about, talk about and work toward building DEI at Steelcase Inclusion across teams and geographies. DEI Advisory Team The DEI Advisory team is a group of cross-functional, cross-cultural leaders who bring a unique perspective to more effectively guide Steelcase DEI efforts. The advisory team makes recommendations and provides insights and fresh perspectives on DEI topics. DEI Think Tank PROMISE Steelcase has always pursued DEI Think Tank gathers employees We aspire to create a path of diversity, equity with HR team members from across a culture of inclusion, helping employees and inclusion (DEI), but to be the globe every three months to have conversations about DEI topics, find meaning and truly transformative, DEI must understand what is happening in purpose at work and be part of a comprehensive different areas and regions, identify empowering them to bring their unique strategy that is woven into the opportunities for improvement and generate insights that can help strengths to serve our fabric of our culture and our everyone advance DEI progress customers, augment our performance and employee experience. This is at Steelcase. enable innovation. our commitment to enhancing wellbeing for everyone, regardless Mitigate Bias PROGRESS of age, gender, ethnicity, life We’re working to mitigate bias from the organizational fabric by New, actionable experience or skills. developing trustworthy governance initiatives to mitigate systems that identify effective bias, champion It starts with our core values — solutions and ensure all employees inclusion and grow promoting positive relationships, are treated equitably. Currently, our team by connecting acting with integrity and treating we’re preparing to launch an with more, and more evidence-based selection approach to diverse, talent streams. people with dignity and respect. create a more inclusive and diverse We are all responsible and talent pipeline. accountable for creating and supporting diverse, inclusive environments. We’ve designed a culture where all can belong, but we believe we can do more. Promise + Progress 21 Steelcase People Diversity, Equity + Inclusion Are You Biased? Total Average Age of We know that all brains are wired all Employees for bias, meaning we all have unconscious biases. Opening Global 41 our minds to unconscious bias Americas 42 allows us to grow personally and professionally. The Steelcase Asia 36 team offered a series of interactive EMEA 41 workshops to demonstrate how we can gain awareness of unconscious bias, as well as change behaviors to gain a more inclusive perspective when making decisions. In these workshops we learned about the Grow the Talent Pipeline “The talent landscape is science behind unconscious bias, The talent landscape is changing. changing. The skills gap as well as ways to empower people The skills gap is growing. And the is growing. And the reality to proactively reduce bias and reality is, that gap is only going to is, that gap is only going improve performance in problemincrease. According to AARP, 10,000 to increase. According solving, team integration, effective baby boomers are hitting retirement to AARP, 10,000 baby collaboration and work-life balance. age every single day, and this is boomers are hitting expected to continue into the 2030s. retirement age every single Job Description Analysis With these factors in mind, we are day, and this is expected to Research shows that the language seeking, hiring and promoting the best continue into the 2030's.” used in job descriptions can affect and most talented people available. the distribution of men and women The evidence-based selection who apply. The Steelcase team approach will help us to reduce analyzed our job postings using a bias in all recruitment, hiring and natural language processing tool advancement decisions. Additionally, Estimated U.S. called Textio that searches for we’re increasing our recruiting Minorities bias and recommends unbiased networks, and intentionally connecting alternative language. We learned that with diverse talent streams. too much bulleted content attracts more male applicants, and too little brings more women. The best chance of achieving gender equity is by having one-third of the material in the job description in bullet format. Even in small ways, we can make Hourly: 33% Salaried: 11% a big impact on equity. All U.S.: 22% See our Targets + Performance section for stats on employee volunteerism, gender distribution and employee retention. Promise + Progress 22 Steelcase Products As part of Digital Transformation Week, the resident Makers within the Innovation Management Office Maker Space helped the finance team super-charge their efficiency by automating standard, repeatable workflows and creating visualizations. The Makers taught participants Python, an open source scripting language. Then the participants applied their new learning in real-world scenarios, such as updating data in SAP from Excel or auto-entering data into visualization software. What used to take hours or days now happens automatically, and the finance team can focus on value-added analysis rather than manual data entry. Products Discovering. Creating. Transforming. This year, we’re celebrating the IMO and showcasing some of the innovative ways they help Steelcase be a safer, smarter, more sustainable business. Part technical gurus, part At the Grand Rapids, Michigan, plant, teachers, part cheerleaders, the IMO worked with operations to create a portable veneer classification the Innovation Management and measurement system to grade veneer at the mill, eliminating Office (IMO) team partners purchases that don’t meet with internal teams across specifications before they ever enter into our manufacturing process. Steelcase to create new, The IMO also helped deploy a “cobot” in the Athens, Georgia manufacturing business-advancing solutions. plant. A cobot is a robot that works If an internal team has a safely alongside humans in a production environment to improve new idea, a problem they’re efficiency and create a safer, more productive environment for the people struggling to solve, or a around it. Named Baxter II, this cobot can complete 180-degree turns and competency they need to repeat motions without the risk of developing repetitive stress injuries. develop, they can partner To help people explore new with the IMO to explore their technologies and empower them to prototype new ideas, the IMO launched ideas, try new technologies, a digital makerspace and concept shop in conjunction with our internal model or apply design thinking to shop. Co-located in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Cluj, Romania, these develop new approaches to spaces provide access to resources, including experimental printers that will their current work. print with recycled materials, materials to build IoT-connected devices and high-powered supercomputers to help with AI and data processing, and advanced technical support from onsite hardware and software engineers. Promise + Progress 24 Steelcase Products Not every material innovation is ready for its close up. On average, only 1% of all material opportunities make it through to use. Hundreds of new materials might be researched in any given year – but most aren’t ready for commercialization yet. The main goal is engagement: the Materials Innovation Exploration charter is to share new ideas and engage with internal teams about emerging possibilities. Products Exploring New Opportunities Through Materials Innovation Casper™ Casper Cloaking Technology was honored as a finalist in Fast Company’s 2018 Innovation By Design Awards. Casper is an architectural film applied to glass that provides two simultaneous viewing states: Steelcase was born from a user transparency and opacity. Anyone looking into the room from the insight answered with materials outside sees a black screen, while everyone in the room can work freely. innovation: a metal wastebasket It acts as a smart shield to ensure data privacy, while providing the was designed to reduce fires peace of mind to collaborate freely in any working environment. caused by ashes in wicker wastebaskets. Over our company’s history, smart fabrics and advanced innovative materials have always manufacturing, this entrepreneuriallybeen a key ingredient of our success. minded group works crossMany of those materials solutions functionally to provide product came from someone, somewhere, development teams with new asking, What if? materials ideas, technical feasibility studies, user desirability evaluations Today, those questions are often and commercial viability analyses. explored by the Materials Innovation Celliant® Collection Exploration (MIE) team. Working MIE works with internal partners Originally identified by the MIE team, cooperatively with individuals and from the research, supply chain, DesignTex launched the Celliant partners across the company, the procurement, engineering, product Collection, a mineral-embedded MIE team helps explore new material design and marketing teams to: backing that returns energy to the choices, develop new processes and user and increases circulation.  lign materials opportunities to user A applications, and promote innovation needs and market insight through material integration, ensuring A Celliant-backed upholstery can Steelcase continues to deliver Make materials opportunities ready provide benefits without aesthetic high value to our customers and and consumable by internal teams compromise: the backing can be maintains a leadership position in applied to many different materials, our category. Showcase opportunities for new including novelty yarns, textures materials that can significantly and even coated, faux leather Covering topics as far-ranging as impact Steelcase in tangible ways. vinyls, making them applicable for acoustics, lightweight materials, healthcare and many other markets. Promise + Progress 26 Steelcase Products Innovative Thoughtful Product Design Steelcase introduced the Steelcase Flex Collection, the first product suite Solutions + designed specifically to empower high-performing, collaborative teams. With the Steelcase Flex Collection, teams can create Services dynamic team neighborhoods that can be rearranged on demand, making it easy to shift from a brainstorm to a workshop, or from a daily stand-up to a sprint review, in an environment that supports their best work. Careful Materials Section Steelcase has over 100 products listed in the Mindful Materials library, helping customers make conscientious, informed product PROMISE At Steelcase, being sustainable choices. These product listings Offer an ecosystem provide another degree of is core to who we are and what transparency and empowerment of dynamic spaces and services designed we do, and nowhere is that more for our customers, helping them to support an evident than in how we think about make product selections that meet organization’s their overall environmental and our products from thoughtful sustainability goals. changing needs. design, careful materials selection, optimized lifecycle performance Benchmarking our PROGRESS Continued leadership and continuous improvement of Chemistry Footprint life extension and end-of-use Steelcase participated in the in designing products Chemical Footprint survey, which for a responsible, strategies. Our innovative use of provides benchmarking metrics sustainable economy through materials technology helps organizations for companies as they reduce the use of chemicals of high concern innovation, life cycle adapt their spaces to evolving and select safer alternatives. The performance and proof needs, maximizing their real estate survey evaluates companies and of performance through third-party certifications. investment and supporting employee their chemicals management policies based on four key pillars: engagement and wellbeing. management strategy, chemical inventory, footprint measurement, public disclosure and verification. This effort supports our consistent evaluation of our material portfolio, as well as dedicated partnerships to drive transparency and collaboration in this topic area. Continuous Product Innovations Product development teams eliminated the use of adhesive on the Steelcase Think chair to improve disassembly for end-of-life Promise + Progress 27 Steelcase Innovative Products Solutions + Services decommissioning and improving overall materials health. 50+ More than 50 products certified The Divisio™ acoustic screen offers under the Cradle to Cradle sound absorption that supports Certified™ Products Program worker wellbeing in an open office. Beyond its functional design and colorful materiality, this sound barrier product breaks barriers with its sustainable design. The 200+ BIFMA level® Certified products exterior fabric can be easily updated for changing office decor and assembles without any glue so components can be separated and completely recycled. 425+ SCS NeoCon: New Awards for Optimized Life Cycle Indoor Performance New Products Primary research, metrics from Advantage™ In 2019, the Steelcase family of products won awards for materiality, Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) and closed-loop design thinking help certificates product design and technology. For a full list of our partners, see Steelcase deliver value at every GRI Standards Indicator 102-12. Steelcase Flex Collection won Gold step of the product lifecycle — from in Best of NeoCon for Furniture product design and manufacturing Collections for Collaboration. to delivery, use and end-of-use Steelcase Roam® for the Microsoft Surface Hub 2S won Best of options. The insights we gain through this process are shared 50+ NeoCon Gold in the Technologywith partners, industry groups and Environmental Product other leading organizations. Declarations (EPDs) Integrated Solutions category and was an Honoree in the HiP Awards Technology category. This year, Steelcase developed a Life Cycle Assessment board Designtex won Best of NeoCon Gold for the Biophilia 2.0 Collection game with Quantis, a leading international environmental 42 in the Healthcare Fabrics and Global recycled content sheets: sustainability consultancy, to Textiles category. reports generated based on material help product development teams information from each product understand life cycle impacts and statement-of-line, providing recyclable  esigntex won Silver for the D create opportunities for dialogue information to fulfill certification needs Metallic Wallcovering Collection in and customer requests the Wall Treatments category. around improvement. The game asks the question, “What are the Steelcase Flex Collection, and the environmental and cost impacts Bauhaus Project by Designtex, are of one unit of seating?” Players also 2019 #MetropolisLikes Award explore the carbon footprint, winners, selected by Metropolis material resources and costs at editors. The award acknowledges each stage of a product’s lifecycle. top spaces, products and design solutions that are unexpected, useful and beautiful. Steelcase serves on the The Bauhaus Project also won the advisory board of the Green HiP Award for Workplace: Fabric Chemistry & Commerce and Textiles. Council (GC3), to encourage Coalesse Lagunitas® Focus the commercial adoption of Nook was recognized as a HiP green chemistry across Honoree for the Workplace: all industries. Furniture category. Promise + Progress 28 Steelcase Products Sustainable Procurement Strategies Materials Chemistry At Steelcase, our sustainability work begins with understanding what goes into our products, and we take an approach that’s both precautionary and proactive. As a leader in our industry, our materials chemistry practice assesses PROMISE At Steelcase, we believe that materials to understand their Help organizations potential impacts on human and providing the best solutions for achieve their environmental health. We are actively sustainability goals. our customers begins by ensuring working with our supply chain to they’re the best solutions for phase out materials of concern and develop suitable alternatives. PROGRESS people and the planet. Our work Ongoing partnerships begins long before we bring a Closed-Loop Designs with customers to product to market and extends ensure their human, At incremental stages of the product environmental and throughout the customer lifecycle, we design products to organizational health are lifecycle and beyond. We help optimize performance and avoid materials of concern. We perform supported by Steelcase our customers promote worker Life Cycle Assessments to measure products, performance metrics, certifications wellbeing and meet their own impacts on the environment and services. sustainability goals by providing and human health, from design and manufacturing to delivery, perspective, documentation and use and end-of-use strategies. We new insights into their initiatives. continuously improve performance outcomes, from the optimization of our materials’ chemical profiles to the ability for products to be reused and adapted over time. Recycling and Reuse Our products go beyond beauty and functionality: their industry-leading quality ensures they’ll meet people’s needs for a long time. Many products can be reconfigured to work in new ways as needs change. Several can also be disassembled with ease, allowing for part replacement or effective recycling. Promise + Progress 29 Steelcase Products Sustainable Procurement Strategies But when it’s time for something new, Steelcase continues to provide 547 value to clients. Every year, we Customized environmental metrics extend the useful life of thousands reports (EMRs) for companies spanning more than 20 industries of products. Through our end of use program, we help businesses dispose of surplus office furniture 11 in socially, economically and environmentally responsible ways. Together with our dealer partners, we Data points provided per product in present options that meet customer every EMR including sustainability goals, whether it’s income, landfill certifications, recycled content and potential for LEED contributions, diversion or charitable donation. empowering customers to track their own sustainability progress See the Service Offerings section on pp. 31-32 to learn more about our end-of-use strategies. Strategic Purchasing Building Certification We partner with our customers to help them meet the standards and 350+ Product Contributions specifications they require to achieve their sustainability goals, whether it’s Environmental We help customers leverage our product performance in the a certification, a material health list, a building standard or a more strategic Profiles certification of their buildings partner model. With our dealers, we Product Environmental Profiles (PEPs) through contributions to global and document the environmental attributes share our learnings and collaborate of a product, including recycled content, regional standards, including LEED® with customers to regularly review product recyclability information, green building rating system, WELL purchases against a variety of sustainability certifications and more. Building Standard™ and BREEAM®. sustainability objectives to ensure PEPs can be found on our website in the Design Resources page. Steelcase continues to meet their LEED Certification highest aspirations. Materials and resources Ergonomics Social equity in the supply chain Environmental Profiles and Declarations 20+ Cross-industry collaborations, including Innovation in design Our efforts to measure progress C2C Built Positive, World 50, GreenBuild, Low-emitting materials through life-cycle thinking Sustainable Brands, the CE100, GBEN has resulted in 350+ Product and Renewable Energy 100 WELL Building Standard Environmental Profiles and 50+ Environmental Product Air Declarations (EPDs). Light Fitness Product Environmental Profiles Comfort (PEPs) are environmental Nutrition declarations that answer questions Mind such as: the percentage of recycled content used in products, recyclability, potential for LEED BREEAM contribution and any certifications. Indoor air quality Acoustic performance Environmental Product Declarations Environmental impact of materials (EPDs) are standardized, Responsible sourcing of materials independently reviewed documents Material efficiency that provide a summary of the Waste management potential environmental impacts of a product system from raw materials through end-of-use. Promise + Progress 30 Steelcase Products Service Redefining the Ownership Experience Customers are increasingly exploring Offerings alternative models to ownership and we partner with facilities managers, real estate leaders and procurement professionals to craft solutions that help them take a more holistic approach to workplace flexibility. For some, this follows on larger consumer shifts away from ownership toward rental models or pre-owned buying experiences (think Netflix or CarMax). Today, customers can work with Steelcase to support premium event experiences with high performing settings that they use only for the duration of a particular business meeting or trade conference. As an innovative offering in an industry new to Steelcase, PROMISE Our furniture is used around these settings are maximizing the Offer an ecosystem of the world, for a world of different possibilities of in-person gatherings dynamic spaces and services designed to reasons: throughout the workplace, anywhere in the U.S. and Canada. support an organization’s in schools, hospitals and We champion the opportunity to changing needs. healthcare settings, at events, support customers with tailor-made solutions that combine new and to support growing nonprofits expanded value-added services, PROGRESS and more. financial arrangements, product Moving closer to a set of bundles and experiences that holistic, ever-more-circular All these uses help Steelcase simplify, engage and extend their services that support relationship with Steelcase. customers at every step take a comprehensive, holistic of the ownership and approach to supporting our product life cycles. Extending the Product customers — and our products — Lifecycle: Phase 2 while advancing our circular For Steelcase customers who economy solutions. are ready to transfer their owned products to the secondary market, our Phase 2 decommissioning program connects them with local dealer resources to evaluate inventory and offer options for reuse with a “zero landfill” goal. By offering one of the most competitive, longrunning decommissioning service in North America, Steelcase has been a pioneer in this field and continues to serve as an aggregator for sharing best practices, standard operating procedures and key performance indicators. Promise + Progress 31 Steelcase Products Service Offerings ReMarket™ Phase 2 Metrics The ReMarket program is the hub of the secondary furniture and materials market at Steelcase. From diverting furniture from landfills to promoting the flow of assets (product and 613.75 Metric tons diverted from landfills materials) through extended in FY2019 reuse, resale, redistribution, repair, refurbishment and material recovery, Steelcase redeploys assets throughout our dealer network, 1,714.45 making durable, high-quality furniture Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (Co2E) available to new customers and avoidance in FY2019 markets at affordable prices. Across the company, teams Steelcase Marketplace Seating Trade-Up Metric explore new ideas for the secondary furniture and materials markets, Steelcase Marketplace makes it including through our social easy to fully furnish an office with innovation partnerships. rugs, lighting, accessories and more. It connects designers with over 50 5,376 Task chairs deployed into the secondary future-forward, unique and leading market for reuse Seating Trade-Up brands from all over the world, all in Trade-Up is a value-add service one place. This unique offering offered with the purchase of helps customers create inspiration new Steelcase task chairs (Amia®, boards, explore a range of styles Eco’Services Leap®, Gesture®, Think®, SILQ® and price points, place orders with and Steelcase Series® 1). This one click and manage delivery on program gives customers an opportunity to receive a credit the same truck as the rest of their Steelcase furniture. 46 towards their new purchase while Circular Services projects completed in 2018 responsibly redeploying or properly disposing of all their office chairs, regardless of the manufacturer. Workstations Redeployed We work in tandem with our trusted broker network throughout the Eco'Services, a local U.S. to redeploy these assets with the highest environmental dealer and a Steelcase 10,000+ partner came together on a Since 2017 practices, appropriately. decommissioning project to redeploy surplus assets to Eco’Services Offered in French-speaking a local children's hospital in Paris, France. What began 65,000+ Since 2008 European markets, our Eco’Services as a one-time engagement asset recapture and redeployment has expanded to support the team continues to explore new, hospital’s needs across four Since the service began in sustainable pricing models and different operations. 2008, over 180,200m3 of incentives for the secondary furniture, or the equivalent market while empowering dealers to better serve their customers of over 72 Olympic pools, through responsible handling of has been redirected. end-of-life assets. Promise + Progress 32 Steelcase Products Dealer Premier Partners Each day, our dealer partners work hard to deliver a best-in-class Partners Steelcase experience to customers. All dealers meet high standards for quality and performance. The Steelcase Premier Partners program rewards those dealers that continuously strive to find new ways to grow and differentiate themselves. This designation, earned annually, recognizes quality and performance in seven areas: revenue growth, key strategic initiatives, financial stability, co-marketing, customer satisfaction, community impact and diversity, equity and inclusion programming. Dealer Digital Transformation Working closely with dealers to PROMISE We were the first to have a dealer create a best-in-category experience, Serve organizations Steelcase has embarked on a digital network in our industry, and today, transformation plan. This plan will around the world through a network of strong dealer our network has grown to over improve the user experience of partners and deliver 800 dealer locations worldwide. our order management system by work environments that upgrading the user interface, create Most Steelcase dealerships are an integration platform that allows promote the wellbeing of people, organizations and independent businesses, owned dealers to share data between order management and their other software the planet. and operated by people deeply systems and provide a portal for invested in the communities they dealer customers to monitor orders. PROGRESS serve. By providing effective, Strengthen dealer engaging workplaces, our dealers Talent Management businesses through and Inclusion actionable, data-driven create jobs that strengthen their As our primary partners, Steelcase insights, talent attraction local communities. These dealers dealers around the world deliver and retention strategies deliver products, spaces and a our global research and innovative and knowledge sharing. Recognize and celebrate range of value-added services products and services to local customers. To fulfill their mission in a our dealers for their including space planning, design, tight global talent market, Steelcase commitment to Steelcase installation, technology and offers training to help local dealers and their communities. audiovisual integration, moving attract and retain talent. Other targeted programs help dealers recruit from services and more. colleges and universities, use social media strategically and improve diversity and inclusion programming. Additionally, Steelcase helps support diverse dealers with securing minority council certifications, facilitating strategic alliances with minority and non-minority-owned dealers, recruiting women, veteran and other dealer candidates. Promise + Progress 33 Steelcase Products Dealer Partners Customer Experience Management Steelcase empowers its dealers through data-driven insights. The customer experience management program engages customers at key moments to gather local, quantitative data. Dealers use this data to gain insights and take action in ways most likely to grow their business. The program helps dealers understand which marketing programs move customers to action, 27% Steelcase U.S. dealers are minoritywhich sales efforts are most likely to owned, women-owned and veteranwin customers, which management owned businesses. activities have the greatest impact on China Dealers visit customers and profitability and where to improve efficiencies operationally. Munich LINC Last summer, the Munich LINC hosted Steelcase dealers from China. Dealer Product School While visiting Munich, they attended With thousands of industry-leading designand product-related training, products, dozens of partnerships shared dealer-specific insights and with internationally-renowned brands, had an opportunity to receive an and millions of product configuration economic briefing on the status options, how does a dealer sales of Foreign Direct Investments of person or designer get up to speed Chinese investors in Bavaria. quickly? Steelcase hosts Dealer Product School quarterly for North American dealer employees. Through the variety of experiences and planned Communities of Practice Dealer Diversity in fun, the dealers develop an emotional the United States connection with each other, the Communities of Practice make it Steelcase hosts, and to Steelcase. easy to connect dealers with their HUBzone WBE peers on topics that matter to their Sales and design start the week out together and then split into two business. They encourage people interested in a subject to come 2 18 tracks. Salespeople focus on product Veteran/DSVO MBE together to share tips and strategies. positioning, stories and broad product knowledge, learning through hands-on There are several dealer-specific and cross-functional communities 8 8 activities like product builds, tours, and of practice for sales leaders, dealer presentations. Designers have some principles, order management, similar experiences but do deeper operations, finance and more. dives into core product lines and how to specify these in CET. 800+ Dealer partner locations globally 97 Years Our oldest dealer partnership has been in place since 1922 Promise + Progress 34 Steelcase Products Supplier Digital Supplier Forum Steelcase shifted its Supplier Forum to a quarterly virtual format, allowing Relationships a greater range of participants across our supply chain. This shift provided an opportunity to connect with new individuals within our partner organizations and make connections across different organizations. Changing our approach also allows Steelcase and its partners to meet more frequently, and focus topics on different, audience-specific needs. Participants can ask questions, provide feedback and share opinions and best practices. Growing Partnerships Our partner network supports the changing preferences of people at PROMISE Steelcase works closely work: a demand for more informal, We work with our with its partners to create a authentic and inspiring spaces. This suppliers and partners throughout the supply frictionless and responsive year we were proud to announce several highly visible partnerships, chain to ensure the supply chain that helps the including Extremis, Moooi, Bolia and materials and services company meet evolving customer Uhuru Design. they provide meet our strict standards for need through inspiring solutions, We also continue to build quality, performance superior materials, innovative partnerships from A to (almost!) Z and sustainability. through the Steelcase Marketplace technology, proven expertise (see p. 31), from Aanchal to Viccarbe and reliable performance. and Wallace Sewell. PROGRESS Smarter sharing of We expect our partners to Building on our partnership with knowledge, tools and West Elm, Steelcase designers adhere to the highest standards worked in collaboration with West standards throughout our partner ecosystem, for safety, quality and sustainability, Elm designers to create new and ongoing cultivation and we work closely with them to solutions that paired West Elm’s of a diverse set of sleek modern style with Steelcase’s share expertise and build product development expertise and suppliers. trusted relationships. understanding of the workplace. Promise + Progress 35 Steelcase Products Supplier Relationships 10% Steelcase U.S. suppliers are minorityowned, women-owned and veteranowned businesses. 123 Diverse suppliers across 22 states Supplier Diversity Steelcase + Microsoft First-ofResiliency and success can only Steelcase and Microsoft have been partnering since 2017. This year, Its-Kind happen when we cultivate a diversity Steelcase extended our corporate of perspectives, experiences and we announced Steelcase Roam, a discount on renewable energy to our ideas. For more than 25 years, system of mobile stands and easy-to suppliers — believed to be the first install wall mounts co-developed program of its kind. the Steelcase supplier diversity program has focused on supporting with Microsoft for the new Surface Hub 2, giving teams the freedom to the growth and development of Building Better Business minority-owned, women-owned, collaborate anywhere. veteran-owned, service-disabled Through Associations veteran-owned and HUBzone and Advocacy businesses in the U.S. We work to We promote global Steelcase maintains relationships with diverse business associations, increase our investments in these understanding by as well as small business business relationships, which are maintaining our Code of associations, including: consistently exceeding 10% of U.S. Conduct in French, German supplier relationships. We emphasize National Minority Supplier and Spanish on countryDevelopment Council infrastructure and reporting, level Steelcase.com  ichigan Minority Supplier M communication, networking, supplier development and mentoring. supplier pages. Development Council (MMSDC) Michigan Chamber of Commerce Our Code of Conduct, and other Michigan Manufacturers Supplier Code of Conduct supplier resources, including our Association We communicate our global Environment, Health and Safety The Right Place standards for organizational Handbook and START manual, are governance, human rights, labor Inforum Michigan available online at steelcase.com/ practices, environmental stewardship our-suppliers/#resources. Business Leaders for Michigan and community involvement and The Grand Rapids Area Chamber development through our Supplier of Commerce Code of Conduct. Suppliers are National Veteran-Owned evaluated through questionnaires Business Association and select site visits. We partner with West Michigan Project One them to continuously improve their performance in areas outlined within The Grand Rapids-based Hispanic Chamber of Commerce the code. Building Bridges for Education Program Promise + Progress 36 Steelcase Planet Planet Constructing a Sustainable Partnership Steelcase has developed Rather than sending these materials to a landfill, they become feedstock a win-win relationship with for Trex decking products. This closed loop partnership started with Trex, the leading recycled a pilot at the Kentwood Plant in Michigan and evolved to include five materials manufacturer of more Steelcase locations. Working cooperatively with teams from wood-alternative decking, logistics, materials, sustainability and leadership, Steelcase successfully railings and other outdoor determined a process for separating and bagging excess material. items, to reuse materials like The results are impressive: shrink wrap, plastic wrap Steelcase has positively impacted its landfill diversion goals for 2020. and foam wrap that were Demonstrating the cost savings opportunities and ROI to internal otherwise not recyclable. teams made an even stronger case for future sustainability-related programs. There are plans in place to expand this partnership to other locations in North America. 45 tons of non-recyclable materials diverted from the landfill, and $40,000 saved in the first six months Promise + Progress 38 Steelcase Planet Climate + Multi-Pronged Approach to Combating Climate Change We are actively working to mitigate Energy the effects of climate change and exploring adaptation strategies. Our efforts include: Continuing our commitment to invest in renewable energy equivalent to 100% of our global electricity usage – an initiative in place since 2014. Establishing and implementing energy and renewable energy targets to accelerate the transition to a clean energy economy. Investigating science-based targets for greenhouse gas emissions as part of the global effort to limit warming to 1.5 degrees C. PROMISE We acknowledge humanReduce our global caused climate change and the greenhouse gas Working across multiple emissions and cut our responsibility to act, and are departments – including supply energy use by 25% by committed to identifying and chain management, finance, 20201, while continuing legal, environmental compliance, quantifying the risks of climate sustainability and risk management – to invest in 100% renewable energy change on our business. These we are developing a comprehensive climate change strategy for equivalent to our global are complex issues and we electricity consumption. the company. actively work to reduce or We are exploring science-based 1 Based on CY2010 baseline eliminate impacts. targets and broadening our greenhouse gas emissions goals to Our comprehensive energy include reductions in our Scope 3 PROGRESS Building a more holistic, optimization approach includes emissions. Over the next year, we'll take a closer look at our long-term scalable strategy to improving tracking systems, energy reduction goals. alleviate climate change refining efficiency efforts and impacts, achieving our We actively review relevant goals and providing investing in renewable energy. policies and proposed legislation to increase awareness and find support for continued This year, we performed a detailed opportunities to participate. This strategy implementation. analysis of our data systems, effort includes understanding the impacts of a potential carbon tax checking emissions factors to and supporting the December 2015 ensure we were representing Paris Climate Agreement. the true progress we’ve made in W  e are conducting a gap analysis of reducing emissions. Our energy current progress to determine where to prioritize and direct future efforts. and data experts confirmed that we’ve exceeded our goal, We are exploring on-site solar for some locations. reducing energy and greenhouse gas emissions by 32% since 2010. Promise + Progress 39 Steelcase Planet Climate + Energy Steelcase has invested in renewable energy equivalent to 100% of our global electricity usage since 2014. Advocating for Progress 2018 Total Energy Steelcase continues to advocate Consumption for positive progress in the fight to mitigate the effects of climate Fuel Type MWh change. We partner with leading -32% Natural Gas 249,193 advocacy groups, universities, Total Energy % Change Propane 3,237 consultants and government from 2010 to 2018 Electric Power 175,686 entities to help implement, Coal – advance and evolve our energy initiatives, including: Diesel 12,147 Business Climate Leaders (BCL), 150+ Gasoline (Petrol) 637 which engages American business We actively track the energy use of over 150 offices, showrooms, Liquefied 2,731 organizations in effective nonPetroleum manufacturing facilities and partisan climate advocacy. distribution centers worldwide. Gas (LPG) Jet Fuel 13,537 Center for Resource Solutions (CRS), (Jet A or A-1) a nationally recognized nonprofit Steam 557 that advocates for policy and market solutions to advance sustainable Total 457,727 energy. Steelcase works through their Green-e program to produce certified, reliable Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). Market-based and Location-based We partner with RE100, a global GHG Emissions initiative uniting more than 100 In accordance with updated reporting guidelines from the World influential businesses committed to Resources Institute, we’re sharing our GHG emissions using both market100% renewable electricity, working based and location-based methods. The market-based method reflects emissions from electricity purchased, and includes REC purchases. The to massively increase demand for, locationbased method relies on average emissions data for the local and delivery of, renewable energy. energy grids where electricity consumption occurs. We Are Still In. Steelcase is one of over 3,800 bi-partisan organizations SCOPES across the U.S. that has committed (tonnes CO2e) Market-based Location-based to honor their commitments to 2010 2018 2010 2018 reduce emissions and eliminate Scope 1 77,210 48,927 77,210 48,927 the causes of climate change. Scope 2 89,852 0 109,214 76,220 Total Scope 1 167,062 48,927 186,432 125,147 and Scope 2 % Change* -70% -32% *From base year Promise + Progress 40 Steelcase Planet Waste + New Metrics, New Approaches In our 2018 Report, Steelcase reported on an unexpected increase Water in our waste to landfill reporting due to loss of access to some facilities, particularly for our wood byproducts. Along with other market and industry factors, this has resulted in a second year of higher-than-anticipated waste output. However, we continue to work extremely hard to adapt and find innovative solutions to this challenge and are confident we will be within reach of our stated waste reduction goal by 2020. This effort builds upon ongoing initiatives to reduce waste in all facets of our business, which include activities such as: Engaging with upstream PROMISE Environmental responsibility is at suppliers to implement Measure, manage and the core of Steelcase’s business. returnable packaging solutions reduce our waste and and reduce incoming waste water use by 25% Our commitment to sustainability Conducting internal waste audits to by the year 20201, has led us to set goals of reducing establish reuse opportunities and meet or exceed our environmental footprint in all applicable codes, Improving bin placement and laws and regulations four key areas by 25% by the labeling to improve sorting and wherever we work. year 2020. While each year brings recycling efforts 1 Based on CY2010 baseline new progress and challenges, Implementing new solutions we continue to make meaningful for shrink wrap, cardboard and fabric to close the loop on PROGRESS advancement toward reaching these commodities and achieve By finding new, direct these goals from our 2010 cost savings ways to decrease baseline. Facilitating design thinking waste and consistently workshops to generate creative track water usage, solutions to reduce packaging we’re approaching our waste for our customers. 2020 goals in a way that equally promotes people, planet Solutions for Excess Materials and profit. We actively search for opportunities where our excess materials might become another person’s asset, building partnerships with local artists and community members. We donate quality scrap fabric, leather and wood to community partners and for-profit organizations including Public Thread, Grand Rapids Public Museum, Habitat for Humanity, Learning from Scratch, Green Giftz and West Michigan Center for Arts and Technology. Promise + Progress 41 Steelcase Planet Waste + Water Materials Recycled + Disposed (Tons) Recycling + Waste to Energy: Waste to Energy: Waste to Landfill: Waste to Landfill: Composting Non-Wood Wood Non-Wood Wood CY2018 15% CY2010 Reduction in water 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 use from 2010–2018 Complete Water Usage Portfolio Cardboard Recycling In 2018, we began to track water Program invoices directly in our global data platform, streamlining the process, Steelcase has established a new, gathering better data and tracking return-to-the-mill cardboard more data points as a result. Where recycling program that saved $40,000 in its first year. Our previously we had to periodically rely on best estimates of water use, we innovative team approach helped 84% now have a complete portfolio of define new ways to bale 100% of our Reduction in Volatile water usage. cardboard, including all the itty-bitty Organic Compounds pieces! Now, instead of paying for (VOCs) from 2010–2018 This has helped us find new, datathe cardboard to be recycled, we’re driven opportunities for improvements receiving rebate checks. In addition, and optimization. For instance, Steelcase is purchasing the renewed we had one site where we saw an unexpected jump in our water usage. cardboard directly from the mill for our own packaging needs, making 1,000+ Work surfaces donated to Habitat Because we were tracking the data this a truly circular solution. for Humanity closely, we could confidently say this was abnormal, and investigating Learn more about our innovative the data led us to discover what had partnership with Trex on p. 38. been an undetected leak. Thanks to our data experts tracking numbers 7,000+ and observing trends we are able to Worldwide, all our Pounds of fabric donated to local identify these opportunities, saving manufacturing facilities community partners water, resources and money. are ISO 14001 certified with new facilities from We have increased wetlands 2018-2019 acquisitions monitoring of our adjacent wetlands which influences in progress. 96,370,405 Gallons of water used in CY2018 decisions around materials Learn more about our Services for parking lots, drainage and on p. 31-32. retention of neighboring lots. Promise + Progress 42 Steelcase Planet Transportation + Packaging PROMISE We work diligently to provide Packaging Savings Highlights Deliver our products damage-free products with Our data-driven packaging strategies and our people safely to are thoroughly tested to ensure their destinations with exactly the right amount of quality and damage-free delivery intentional focus on packaging at every point while minimizing materials and efficiency and reducing waste. At every step, package within our supply chain. This our environmental materials are tested to higher-thanfootprint. commitment requires continuous industry standards. We also conduct effort and improvement from our dealer and customer surveys on packaging and waste. We visit PROGRESS research, logistics and packaging customer installations and dealers to Continuing efforts to teams – and valued input from our gather qualitative feedback on how refine product packaging customers. our packaging is performing. with new packaging combinations and Switching to a new polybag source that’s made from over 50% recycled constantly optimizing content (up from 0%) eliminated delivery routes. 100,000 pounds of polybags going to the landfill.  rojects at our Grand Rapids and P Reynosa facility – reusing supplier polybags and downgauging one of our higher volume polybags – will results in over 35,000 pounds of PE plastic reduction. Removing foam pouches on Ology® parts eliminates over 8,700 pounds of plastic. Promise + Progress 43 Steelcase Planet Transportation + Packaging 5,600+ Products In a one-month study, two dimensioning machines measured over 5,600 individual products, comprising over 970 different materials. In total, the machines enabled us to modify weight and volume for more than 1,200 different outbound deliveries resulting in more efficient transportation. Packaging Environmental Savings for the last three years: 1.7 million pounds of paper equates to saving 7.7 million gallons of water 265,000 pounds of plastic equates to saving 2,472 gallons of oil 1,400+ trailers equates to saving 8.4 million pounds of CO2 Packaging Engineering Transportation Sustainability Goals Our drivers are an integral extension We are working to use only of Steelcase in the field: they’re the 100% recycled, sustainable or last touchpoint between the order biodegradable materials in all and the dealer or customer. We Transportation KPIs our packaging by 2025, and make an impact on their wellbeing continue to partner closely with by ensuring they have adequate logistics to improve trailer and training, support and opportunities container efficiencies. for rest. 300+ Trucks We have set the following packaging We reduce transportation costs by Increase in cube utilization from 3,150 cubic feet to 3,250 cubic feet, translating sustainability goals for the end of fully packing trucks, driving in a to a 3% reduction in number of shipments 2022, including: straight line and optimizing delivery routes to minimize stops. Delivering Improve average recycled content in Grand Rapids is different than in our core packaging materials to: Corrugated 75%+ delivering in Atlanta, so truckloads are built to accommodate the 500,000 Pieces Honeycomb 50%+ peculiarities of each geography. of Furniture PE poly material 25%+ EPP, PP and EPS foams 25%+ Source all paper-based packaging Using blanket wrap for 97%+ from sustainably managed forests Steelcase Series 1 nesting On Time Delivery – Steelcase shipments (SFI or FSC certified) chairs eliminates 750,000 are 97%+ on time down to the minute pounds of paper. Explore use of n-pulp packaging in our Chinese packaging and suppliers Investigate programs to capture and reuse packaging from customer sites. Promise + Progress 44 Steelcase Global Reporting Initiative Index Every year Steelcase annually reports on its vision, goals and progress related to sustainability initiatives. The GRI Standards offer additional information about our sustainability strategy and progress. We use an approach of transparency and authenticity to underscore our reporting, and continue to refine our reporting practices to help stakeholders understand our goals, standards and objectives. We do this while remaining consistent with external guidelines and expectations. Promise + Progress 45 Steelcase Sustainability Prioritization Validation Materiality Overview Each potential material issue is Key internal senior decision Steelcase’s sustainability evaluated based on its influence makers validate the sustainability materiality assessment covers on external stakeholders’ materiality issues included within environmental, social and decisions and assessments this report. The sustainability governance issues. Areas and impact on the business. materiality assessment results identified as material are those and supporting research is which significantly impact our These evaluations are based on reviewed annually. These findings ability to meet strategic goals primary and secondary research inform future assessments and/or significantly influence including surveys, interviews and ensure alignment with the decisions and evaluations and workshops, many of which stakeholder expectations of stakeholders. The process have been conducted by and the business context. for identifying material issues third parties. The results are and defining reporting content plotted on a matrix to illustrate is outlined in the following the relationships of material sections. It generally follows issues to business impacts GRI guidelines and adheres to and influence on stakeholders’ the Principles for Defining decisions and assessments. Report content. Methods to engage with and collect input from internal and external stakeholders are Identification continually integrated into A list of potential material ongoing engagement activities. sustainability issues is The sustainability materiality maintained through internal and assessment is updated as external research, including additional research is benchmarking and reviewing conducted and new data and relevant reporting standards. The insights become available. Steelcase Sustainability Steering Committee validates this list, taking into account the business and sustainability strategy. Promise + Progress 46 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Strategy + Analysis (102-14 102-15) G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior Corporate Sustainability Report p. 5-6 decision-maker of the organization (such as (Welcome from Jim Keane) CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 1–10 and opportunities Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization. Steelcase Inc. 102-2 a. A description of the organization’s activities. Annual Report pp. 1-4 b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or services that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters. Steelcase is headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A. 102-4 Number of countries where the organization Annual Report pp. 3-5 operates, and the names of countries where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form. Steelcase Inc. (SCS) is a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange 102-6 a. Markets served, including: Annual Report pp. 1-5 i. G  eographic locations where products and services are offered; ii. Sectors served; iii. Types of customers and beneficiaries. 102-7 a. Scale of the organization, including: Annual Report Intro, pp. 6 & Tab 102-8 i. Total number of employees; ii. Total number of operations; iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); iv. Total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. Quantity of products or services provided. Promise + Progress 47 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-8 a. T  otal number of employees by employment TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER contract (permanent and temporary), Americas Asia (APAC) Europe (EMEA) Total by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment Female Dealer 64 64 contract (permanent and temporary), Female Employee 2,673 533 738 3,944 by region. Female Non-Employee 65 22 87 174 c. T  otal number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. Female Total 2,738 555 889 4,182 d. Whether a significant portion of the organiMale Dealer 83 83 zation’s activities are performed by workers Male Employee 5,326 877 1,449 7,652 who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of Male Non-Employee 68 16 207 291 work performed by workers who are Male Total 5,394 893 1,739 8,026 not employees. Grand Total 8,132 1,448 2,628 12,208 e. A  ny significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. 102-9 A description of the organization’s supply chain, Annual Report pp. 5 including its main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. 102-10 a. S  ignificant changes to the organization's Steelcase has acquired three companies, each with operations and logistics size, structure, ownership, or supply activities. Their facilities are located in the US and UK. All three have been chain, including: integrated into the Steelcase Environmental Management System. i. C  hanges in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. 102-11 Whether and how the organization applies the Steelcase takes a precautionary approach toward environmental management. Precautionary Principle or approach. We follow insights gained from decades of research, leverage partnerships with leading companies and organizations, and our experiences and feedback from customers, giving us valuable guidance and perspective. It is for these and many other reasons we have taken a leading role in finding creative and responsible ways to operate and design products and applications. Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 29 and 39 (Sustainable Procurement Strategies and Climate + Energy). Promise + Progress 48 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-12 A list of externally-developed economic, Steelcase participates in the following initiatives: environmental and social charters, principles • AFNOR NF Environment certification program or other initiatives to which the organization • BIFMA level® certification program subscribes, or which it endorses. • Blue Angel certification program • CDP • China Environmental Labeling Product • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Civic 50 • Cradle to Cradle® certification program • Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) • FEMB level certification program • Forestry Stewardship Council Chain of Custody certification • Furntech-AFRDI Green Tick • Global Reporting Initiative • ISO 14001 • ISO 26000 • LEED® certification program • OEKO-TEX® certification program • OHSAS 18001 • Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • SCS Indoor Advantage™ certification program • World 50 • U.S. EPA Green Power Partnership • UN Global Compact Promise + Progress 49 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or There are a number of organizations around the world that we are members and other associations, and national or international active partners in. Here are a few: advocacy organizations. • American Center for Life Cycle Assessment • Beyond Benign • Business and Industrial Furniture Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) • Business Climate Leaders • Business Leaders for Michigan • Business Roundtable • Circular Economy 100 (CE100) • Gilda’s Club, Leadership and Incubation • Grand Rapids Community College Diversity Speaker Series Sponsor • Greenbiz Executive Forum (GBEN) • Green Chemistry & Commerce Council • Michigan Manufacturing Association • Michigan Minority Supplier Development Council • National Civil Rights Museum • National Minority Supplier Development Council • Renewable Energy 100 (RE100) • Sustainable Chemistry Alliance • Student Advancement Foundation • Talent 2025 • United Way • University Prep Academy • We Are Still In • We Mean Business Coalition • West Michigan Center for Arts & Technology (WMCAT) • West Michigan Environmental Action Council • West Michigan Sustainable Business Forum • World Affairs Council For more information on our partnerships and commitments, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 35–36 (Supplier Relationships), and the Community Relations page on our website. 102-14 A statement from the most senior Corporate Sustainability Report pp. 5-6 (Welcome from Jim Keane) decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, Annual Report pp. 1-12 and opportunities. Promise + Progress 50 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures Ethics + Integrity 102-16 A description of the organization’s values, Steelcase has developed standards and codes that embody the fundamental principles, standards and norms of behavior. principles that govern our ethical and legal obligations. They pertain not only to conduct within our company, but also to conduct involving our customers, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. They include: • Steelcase Global Business Standards • Steelcase Code of Business Conduct • Steelcase Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior Financial Officers 102-17 a. A  description of internal and external In the Steelcase Global Business Standards document, a general procedure is mechanisms for: outlined for employees to follow when they have concerns about anything that i. S  eeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, might be considered unethical or unlawful. First, employees are encouraged to and organizational integrity; take their concerns to their manager or team leader. If they are unable to help, or if this is inappropriate, employees can use the Integrity Helpline. It ensures ii. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful employees can speak out about situations that have the potential to cause behavior, and organizational integrity. legal, safety, environmental or other problems at work. The purpose of the Integrity Helpline is to help resolve concerns. Every effort is made to keep this service confidential. The consultant employees speak with is not a Steelcase employee, no recording devices are used and, except where local law precludes anonymous reporting, employees are not required to give their name. If an employee chooses to file a report, they will be given a tracking number to check on the status of the report. Governance 102-18 a. G  overnance structure of the organization, See Steelcase Inc. Corporate Governance Overview including committees of the highest governance body. b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social topics. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by The stakeholder groups Steelcase engages with are global businesses the organization. and organizations (customers), the architectural and design community, employees, academic and research institutions, dealer partners, supplier partners, governmental agencies, industry organizations, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community partners, nonprofits, investors and media. Please see Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 9-10 (Our Sustainability Promise). Promise + Progress 51 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by Approximately 100 employees in the U.S. are covered by collective bargaining collective bargaining agreements. agreements. Outside of the U.S., 1,900 employees are represented by workers’ councils that operate to promote the interests of workers. Americas: Steelcase Transport 100% Designtex: 45 union employees vs. 250 total US employees = 18% Polyvision: 42 union employees out of 82 total US employees = 51% 130 Work Council employees in Genk out of a total of 135 EMEA/APAC employees = 96% France, Germany, Czech Republic, and Spain: 100% Mexico: 80% 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting Stakeholder groups were defined and identified based on their connection to stakeholders with whom to engage. Steelcase’s business. The degree of engagement depends on the potential impact each group has on the business. 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder Key Actions p. 9 engagement, including frequency of GRI Index Introduction pp. 45-46 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and in indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-44 a. K  ey topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: i. How the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting; ii. The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice 102-45 a. A  list of all entities included in the See Annual Report for more information organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Whether any entity included in the Not applicable organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. Promise + Progress 52 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-46 a. A  n explanation of the process for defining the See GRI Index 102-46 pp. 45-46 report content and the topic Boundaries. b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. 6.1 W  hen compiling the information specified in Disclosure 102-46, the reporting organization shall include an explanation of how the Materiality principle was applied to identify material topics, including any assumptions made. 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in the Business Integrity, Consumer Health + Safety, Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights, process for defining report content. Employee Wellbeing + Development, Energy + Emissions, Sustainable Business Integration, and Waste 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information There are no restatements of information provided in previous reports. given in previous reports, and the reasons for such statements. 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes. periods in the list of material topics and topic Boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. This report covers the calendar year 2018 (CY2018), spanning January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2018 and the company’s fiscal year 2019 (FY2019), spanning February 26, 2018 to February 25, 2019. Key environmental impact metrics (energy, GHG emissions, VOCs, water and waste) are tracked on a calendar year basis for 2018 (CY2018). 102-51 If applicable, the date of the most recent The previous Steelcase Corporate Sustainability Report was published in previous report. December 2018 and covered calendar year 2017 (CY2017) and Steelcase’s fiscal year 2018 (FY2018), February 25, 2017 to February 25, 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle. Steelcase publishes an annual Corporate Sustainability Report. 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the sustainability@steelcase.com report or its contents. 102-54 a. T  he claim made by the organization, if it has Steelcase is reporting at the “Core” level for the 2019 GRI report. prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’; ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. Promise + Progress 53 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures 102-55 a. T  he GRI content index, which specifies each We provide a complete GRI Standards content index in our Corporate of the GRI Standards used and lists all Sustainability Report, starting on p. 47. disclosures included in the report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. 6.3 W  hen reporting the GRI content index as specified in Disclosure 102-55, the reporting organization shall: 6.3.1 Include the words ‘GRI Content Index’ in the title; 6.3.2 P  resent the completed GRI content index in one location; 6.3.3 Include in the report a link or reference to the GRI content index, if it is not provided in the report itself; 6.3.4 F  or each GRI Standard used, include the title and publication year (e.g., GRI 102: General Disclosure 2016); 6.3.5 Include any additional material topics reported on which are not covered by the GRI Standards, including page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found. 102-56 a. A  description of the organization’s policy At this time, Steelcase does not utilize an external organization to assess and current practice with regard to seeking this report. external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Promise + Progress 54 Steelcase GRI Report General Standard Disclosures Management Approach 103-1 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. All material aspects apply to all Steelcase operations, the boundaries of which b. The Boundary for the material topic, which include all Steelcase owned and leased locations. includes a description of: As a part of our sustainability reporting and materiality assessment, Steelcase i. Where the impacts occur; considers a number of external entities, groups of entities and elements which ii. The organization’s involvement with the are likely to have a significant relationship with our material indicators. These impacts. For example, whether the relationships are considered wherever Steelcase has significant operations which organization has caused or contributed may impact stakeholders. to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. CUSTOMERS PARTNERS COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT Business c. A  ny specific limitation regarding the x x x x x Integrity topic Boundary. Consumer x x x x x Health + Safety Employee Wellbeing + x x x x Development Energy + x x x x Emissions Diversity, Inclusion + x x x x Equal Rights Sustainable Business x x x x x Integration Waste x x x x Promise + Progress 55 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Consumer Health + Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that and safety impacts of products and services regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and a. T  otal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning related to non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and the health and safety impacts of products or services. services within the reporting period, by: i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Promise + Progress 56 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Please see the Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 31-32 (Service Offerings) a. T  otal weight of hazardous waste, with a and pp. 41-42 (Waste + Water). breakdown by the following disposal methods Steelcase tracks and reports according to the following categories: landfill, where applicable: incineration, compost and recycle. i. Reuse csr.steelcase.com ii. Recycling iii. Composting Type Disposal Method TONS (2018) iv. Recovery, including energy recovery v. Incineration (mass burn) Trash incineration Incinerated 778 vi. Deep well injection Sawdust incineration Incinerated 1,104 vii. Landfill Wood incineration Incinerated 138 viii. On-site storage Steel recycled Recycled 13,147 ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) b.T  otal weight of non-hazardous waste, with a Non-steel recycled Recycled 14,942 breakdown by the following disposal methods Powder recycled Recycled 1,035 where applicable: Composting Composting 165 i. Reuse ii. Recycling Trash landfilled Landfilled 2,946 iii. Composting Coal Ash Landfilled 42 iv. Recovery, including energy recovery Hazardous and oil Landfilled 517 v. Incineration (mass burn) Sawdust landfilled Landfilled 658 vi. Deep well injection vii. Landfill Wood landfilled Landfilled 11,104 viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) c. H  ow the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor Promise + Progress 57 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Energy + Emissions 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Learn about Steelcase strategies in our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. a. Total ​ fuel consumption within the organization 39-40 (Climate + Energy). Additionally, Steelcase shares in-depth information from non-renewable sources, in joules or multirelated to our energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions in our annual CDP ples, including fuel types used. submission. Please see our 2018 CDP response for more information. ​b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. ​c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption ​d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold ​e. T  otal energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples. ​f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g. ​Source of the conversion factors used. 305-1 Energy intensity See 302-1. a. R  eport gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. ​b. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). c. R  eport biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. d. Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e. R  eport standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. ​f. Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. g. Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). Promise + Progress 58 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Diversity, Inclusion + Equal Rights 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Total average age of all employees: a. P  ercentage of individuals within the • Global: 40.6 organization’s governance bodies in each • Americas: 41.2 of the following diversity categories: • Asia: 36.2 • EMEA: 41 i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, Total gender breakdown globally: over 50 years old; • Male: 66% • Female: 34% iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). Estimated U.S. minority breakdown: b. P  ercentage of employees per employee • Salaried: 11.3% category in each of the following diversity • Hourly: 33.6% categories: • All U.S.: 22% i. Gender; ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Steelcase takes seriously its commitment to maintaining workplaces taken compliant with applicable anti-discrimination laws and free from any type a. T  otal number of incidents of discrimination of discrimination. All Steelcase employees are expected to follow Steelcase during the reporting period. Core Values and Global Business Standards which include commitments to treating all people with dignity and respect and creating a culture of inclusion B. S  tatus of the incidents and actions taken with and non-discrimination. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material reference to the following: issues occur related to incidents of discrimination or corrective actions taken. i. Incident reviewed by the organization; ii. Remediation plans being implemented; iii. Remediation plans that have been implemented, with results reviewed through routine internal management review processes; iv. Incident no longer subject to action 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Steelcase routinely assesses discrepancies in compensation with the intent of to men meeting both legal requirements and corporate values regarding equal pay. a. R  atio of the basic salary and remunieration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Promise + Progress 59 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Employee Wellbeing + Development 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Nearly 15 percent of our total workforce worldwide is represented in management-worker health and safety committees formal joint management-worker health, safety and wellness committees. a. T  he level at which each formal joint manageThese committees help monitor and advise on occupational health and ment-worker health and safety committee safety programs. typically operates within the organization. b. Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Approximate total new hires worldwide: 3,191. a. T  otal number and rate of new employee hire Approximate turnover rates by region: during the reporting period, by age group, • Americas: 16% gender and region. • Asia: 15.7% b. Total number and rate of employee turnover • EMEA: 6.5% during the reporting period, by age group, Approximate turnover rates by gender: gender and region. • Male: 15% • Female: 12% Approximate turnover rates by generation: • Boomers: 8% • Gen X: 9% • Gen Y: 18% 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, p. 19 transition assistance programs (Learning + Development) for more information. a. T  ype and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Promise + Progress 60 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures Business Integrity 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the It is a Steelcase Inc. policy to work in full cooperation with the agencies that social and economic area regulate our business to ensure that it is compliant with applicable laws and a. S  ignificant fines and non-monetary sanctions for regulations. In the current fiscal year, Steelcase had no material issues occur non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in related to non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the the social and economic area in terms of: health and safety impacts of products or services. i. total monetary value of significant fines; ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. T  he context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning During the fiscal year there were no instances identified of non-compliance marketing communications with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. a. T  otal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Promise + Progress 61 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Globally, all salaried and hourly employees are required to complete policy policies and procedures and compliance training regarding our Global Business Standards (GBS). a. T otal number and percentage of governance We have updated our GBS course materials and provide online training for body members that the organization’s antiGBS, Conflict of Interest and the Integrity Helpline. In addition, Foreign corruption policies and procedures have been Corrupt Practices Act training is provided for sales and other employees communicated to, broken down by region. where applicable. b. Total number and percentage of employees that About Steelcase the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. c. T otal number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to any other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. T otal number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Sustainable Business Innovation 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Some of the key materials Steelcase uses in products include steel, a. T otal weight or volume of materials that are petroleum-based products, aluminum, other metals, wood, particleboard used to produce and package the organization’s and other materials and components. Due to the complexity of manufacturing primary products and services during the Steelcase products, material weight and volume vary significantly by product reporting period, by: type and options selected. Steelcase calculates materials used by products on an individual basis. For more information on how Steelcase incorporates i. non-renewable materials used; sustainability in our materials, products and services, please see our ii. Renewable materials used. Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 27 (Innovative Solutions + Strategies). csr.steelcase.com Promise + Progress 62 Steelcase GRI Report Specific Standard Disclosures 301-2 Recycled input materials used Steelcase’s approach to embedding sustainability into its business systems is a. P  ercentage of recycled input materials used to holistic, research-based and measurable. Every step of the way—from design, manufacture the organization’s primary products manufacture, delivery and product life cycle—Steelcase considers the impact and services. of its products and processes on human and environmental health. For our operational initiatives and progress, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 27 (Innovative Solutions + Strategies). 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Designing products for disassembly and recyclability is an embedded a. P  ercentage of reclaimed products and their approach in Steelcase’s product development process. To explore our packaging materials for each product category. sustainability product design platforms, including our transportation and packaging strategies, please see our Corporate Sustainability Report, pp. 27 B. H ow the data for this disclosure have (Innovative Solutions + Strategies). been collected. Steelcase offers a convenient way for businesses to responsibly dispose of furniture and equipment, with options ranging from refurbishing and resale, to donation or recycling. For details on how we help our customers with end-ofuse strategies, please see pp. 31-32 (Service Offerings). csr.steelcase.com Promise + Progress 63 Steelcase 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report Sustainable Development Goals Index Sustainable Development Goal Corporate Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 1 No Poverty Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 2 Zero Hunger Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 3 Good Health + Well-Being Innovative Solutions + Services, pp. 27-28 306-2, p.57 Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 305-1, p.58 Employee Wellbeing, pp. 17-18 4 Quality Education Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 Learning + Development, pp. 19-20 5 Gender Equality Dealer Partners, pp. 33-34 405-1, p. 59 Supplier Relationships, pp. 35-36 405-2, p. 59 Diversity, Equity + Inclusion, pp. 21-22 406-1, p. 59 6 Clean Water + Sanitation Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 302-1, p. 58 Waste + Water, pp. 41-42 306-2, p. 57 7 Affordable + Clean Energy Climate + Energy, pp. 39-40 306-2, p. 57 8 Decent Work + Economic Growth Our Vision, pp. 7-8 102-8, p. 48 301-1, p. 62 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 9-10 102-41, p. 52 301-2, p. 63 Innovative Solutions + Services, pp. 27-28 405-1, p. 59 301-3, p. 63 Employee Wellbeing, pp. 17-18 405-2, p. 59 306-2, p. 57 Learning + Development, pp. 19-20 406-1, p. 59 403-1, p. 60 9 Industry, Innovation + Infrastructure Our Vision, pp. 7-8 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 9-10 Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 10 Reduced Inequalities Our Vision, pp. 7-8 405-2, p. 59 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 9-10 Learning + Development, pp.19-20 Diversity, Equity + Inclusion, pp. 21-22 Promise + Progress 64 Steelcase 11 S ustainable Cities + Communities Our Vision, pp. 7-8 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 9-10 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 29-30 Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 Climate + Energy, pp. 39-40 Waste + Water, pp. 41-42 12 Responsible Consumption + Production Innovative Solutions + Services, pp. 27-28 306-2, p. 57 301-2, p. 63 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 29-30 302-1, p. 58 301-1, p. 62 Service Offerings, pp. pp. 31-32 305-1, p. 58 Supplier Relationships, pp. 33-34 301-1, p. 62 Learning + Development, pp. 19-20 Climate + Energy, pp. 39-40 Waste + Water, pp. 41-42 Transportation + Packaging, pp. 43-44 13 Climate Action Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 29-30 302-1, p. 58 Learning + Development, pp. 19-20 305-1, p. 58 Climate + Energy, pp. 39-40 14 Life Below Water Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 305-1, p. 58 Waste + Water, pp. pp. 41-42 15 Life on Land Innovative Solutions + Services, pp. 27-28 305-1, p. 58 Sustainable Procurement Strategies, pp. 29-30 Supplier Relationships, pp. 35-36 Waste + Water, pp. 41-42 Transportation + Packaging, pp. 43-44 16 Peace, Justice + Strong Institutions Our Vision, pp. 7-8 102-16, p. 51 419-1, p. 61 Dealer Partners, pp. 32-33 102-17, p. 51 417-3, p. 61 Supplier Relationships,pp. 34-35 416-2, p. 56 205-2, p. 62 Social Innovation, pp. 15-16 406-1, p. 59 Learning + Development, pp. 19-20 17 Partnerships for Goals Our Vision, pp. 7-8 Our Sustainability Promise, pp. 9-10 Dealer Partners, pp. 33-34 Supplier Relationships, pp. 35-36 Learning + Development, pp. 19-20 Promise + Progress 65 Steelcase Thank You The end of this report is just the beginning of what we hope is an ongoing conversation. Please share your sustainability ideas with us at sustainability@steelcase.com. 20-0000023D ©2020 Steelcase Inc. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners. Cradle to Cradle Certified™ is a certification mark licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED® green building program is the preeminent program for the design, construction, maintenance and operations of highperformance green buildings. The WELL Building Standard™ is the first standard to integrate human health and wellness into the design, construction, maintenance and operations of buildings.
