FLUID MACHINERY & SYSTEMS BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL PLANTS BUSINESS PRECISION MACHINERY BUSINESS EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 EBARA Way Creation of New Value by Acting Based on the “EBARA Way” The EBARA Group’s beginnings were in answer to the calls of society, and we have continued to provide value to society through our business in addition to fulfilling our social responsibilities. In conjunction with the 100th anniversary of the Company’s founding in 2012, we reflected on the type of company we are and want to be and reorganized those fundamental values and ethics into the EBARA Group Business Ethics Framework, to support our ethical operation over the next 100 years. As part of this undertaking, we redefined the Group’s founding spirit, corporate philosophy, and CSR Policy as the “EBARA Way,” the transcendental value shared across the EBARA Group. By acting based on the “EBARA Way,” we will create new social, environmental, and economic value. 01 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 EBARA Group Business Ethics Framework Elements of the EBARA Way: Founding Spirit of Passion and Dedication Founding Spirit Both employees and the Company shall strive for (Passion and Dedication) growth with passion and dedication to bring forth ­originality and ingenuity, rather than simply fulfilling the task at hand. When working with passion and ­dedication, there is nothing that cannot be communiCorporate Philosophy cated to others. Corporate Philosophy CSR Policy We contribute to society through high-quality technologies and services relating to water, air, and the environment. Management Policy (Business Plan) CSR Policy We seek to foster trust with our valued stakeholders Company Regulations by conducting our business with a strong sense of ethics. Code of Conduct REFERENCE EBARA Group Business Ethics Framework https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ethics/corporate_ethics/index.html EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 02 Information Regarding Integrated Report 2019 Editorial Policy Company “EBARA” and “the Company” refer to EBARA CORPORAThe EBARA Group has issued this integrated report to provide stakeholders References TION while “the EBARA Group,” “the Group,”or “we,” refer with financial and non-financial information about its medium-to-long-term to EBARA CORPORATION and its domestic and overseas value creation activities. This report was created with reference to the Inter­ subsidiaries and affiliates national Integrated Reporting Council’s International Integrated Reporting Target Readers All stakeholders of the EBARA Group Framework; the Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and CompanyReporting Period The fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (January 1, Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation: ESG Integration, Non2018 to December 31, 2018) Financial Information Disclosure, and Intangible Assets into Investment (Notice will be provided when the period differs from (Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation) released by the Ministry of Economy, the above.) Trade and Industry; and the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. Scope of Reporting E  BARA CORPORATION and the 90 subsidiaries (of which The relationship between information in this report and the Guidance for 60 are consolidated) and six affiliates that collectively ­Collaborative Value Creation is described in the table of contents. A table comprise the EBARA Group (as of December 31, 2018). detailing the referenced Global Reporting Initiative standards is available on Notice will be provided when the scope of data collecthe Company’s corporate website. tion differs from the above. Japanese  eptember 2019 (2018 edition: November 2018; 2020 ediS Publication Date tion: June 2020 (tentative)) Values Information Regarding the Group Business model INTERNET Corporate Website https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/index.html Financial Information Non-Financial Information Sustainability / Growth BOOKLET PDF Integrated Report 2019 Strategy Compiles noteworthy information Performance and INTERNET INTERNET key performance indicators (KPIs) Information for investors and CSR information and ESG data shareholders https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/ https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ index.html index.html Governance PDF PDF Annual securities report Corporate governance report Cautionary Statement with Regard to Forward-Looking Statements Certain of the statements made in this integrated report are forward-looking statements, which involve certain To contact EBARA CORPORATION, please use the following. risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Readers are https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/contact/index.html cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are valid only as of the date thereof. EBARA undertakes no obligation to republish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date thereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Please share your opinions regarding this report at the following. https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/contact/qa/report/index.php?contact_group=Report 03 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 Guidance for Guidance for Contents Collaborative Value Collaborative Value Creation Creation 01 EBARA Way Enhancement of Management Capital POINT 03 Information Regarding Integrated Report 2019 This section explains measures for enhancing important management capital and illustrates progress toward targets through examples of Cover Story ­initiatives, direct communication from executives, POINT and a case study. This section reviews the EBARA Group’s history of growth and provides an overview of the strengths 31 Intellectual Capital and capitals that underpin its competitiveness and value creation process. 33 R&D Enhancement Case Study 05 Social Issues and EBARA’s History of 37 Human Capital Ambition 41 Natural Capital 07 Three Businesses and Four Areas of 43 Social and Relationship Capital Operation 09 The Evolution of EBARA’s Strengths and Business Strategies POINT Capitals In this section, we analyze each of EBARA’s three 11 Creation of Value Based on the “EBARA businesses’ operating environments, strengths, Way,” Together with Customers and business model characteristics while also examining their strategies and initiatives from both 13 Performance Highlights financial and non-financial perspectives. 15 Message from the President 45 At a Glance POINT Masao Asami, who became President in 47 Fluid Machinery & Systems Business March 2019, explains his thoughts on 53 Environmental Plants Business management, the current state of the Group, and its future. 57 Precision Machinery Business Corporate Value Improvement Foundations for Growth POINT Initiatives POINT The EBARA Group’s foundations for growth are built on our continuous effort to heighten the This section compiles the progress made effectiveness of corporate governance. We delve toward targets for financial (E-Plan 2019) and into this deeper with a special conversation non-financial key performance indicators between our two chairmen. (Material ESG issues). 61 Composition of the Board of Directors 19 Roadmap for Increasing Corporate Value 63 Board of Directors 21 Material ESG Issues, Action Policies, and Relationship with the Sustainable 65 Brief Personal History of Directors Development Goals 67 Discussion between the Chairman of the 23 Overview of KPIs and Progress toward Board of Directors and the Chairman of Targets the Company 25 Progress of E-Plan 2019 Medium-Term 71 Corporate Governance Management Plan 79 Risk Management 27 Financial Strategies as Explained by the 81 Compliance Executive in Charge of Finance 83 Executive Officers 29 Analysis of Business Results, Financial Position, and Cash Flows 85 11-Year Financial Summary 87 Consolidated Financial Statements 91 EBARA Group’s Global Network News Topics in the Fiscal Year Ended 93 December 31, 2018 94 Corporate Profile / Stock Information EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 04 COVER STORY Social Issues and EBARA’s History of Ambition EBARA’s Founding Spirit of “Netsu to Makoto” (Passion and Dedication) is a philosophy of engaging with work with passion and completing tasks with dedication. This Founding Spirit has continued to propel the Group forward throughout its history, driving it to fulfill 1986 its mission of contributing to society in the areas of water, air, and the environment since its Start of Japan’s bubble founding in 1912. The Group’s businesses support social and industrial infrastructure and economy through this, we have continued to grow while addressing the social issues of the given era. 1979 Oil shock 1973 Oil shock 1912 1960 1960 1970 1970 1980 1980 1912~ 1945~ 1980~ Development of the EBARA Group’s EBARA Technologies Responding to EBARA Technologies Permeating Foundations Social Demand Society EBARA was founded by Issey Hatakeyama with EBARA contributed to the stabilization of the lives It was during this time that the Group succeeded the goal of supplying products based on Dr. Ariya of people in Japan after World War II by massin developing and realizing practical application of Inokuty’s world-renowned volute pump research. producing pumps for increasing food production a gasification and ash melting furnace for use as In the years that followed, EBARA continued to and for farmland reclamation. In addition, we a next-generation waste treatment facility capable contribute to the modernization of Japan by prodelivered the first domestically produced feed of completely decomposing dioxins and recycling ducing the first domestically manufactured waterwater pump for supercritical pressure power residue. In addition, technologies accumulated works pumps, installing water infrastructure to plants to help address power shortages. At the thus far were applied to the development of dry prepare for natural disasters, developing the first same time, the Group began exporting plant vacuum pumps, resulting in the start of the Preciwater purifiers for waterworks manufactured in equipment and establishing overseas bases to lay sion Machinery Business. Japan, and undertaking other initiatives ahead of the groundwork for its overseas expansion. its time. Pressing Social Issues  Pressing Social Issues  Pressing Social Issues  Modernization of Japan Post-World War II Reconstruction and Development of the Information Society • Installation of water infrastructure Japanese Postwar Economic Miracle • Lack of waste disposal sites • Lack of arable land •L  ack of food and other basic necessities for people • Need to realize recycling-oriented society • Reconstruction after Great Kanto Earthquake of Japan • Growth of semiconductor market and increased • Widespread industrialization •P  ower shortages semiconductor demand •A  dvancement of heavy and chemical industries • Ozone depletion, desertification, and advancement • Increased construction of plants overseas of climate change 05 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 EBARA’s Three Businesses  Precision Machinery Business Number of support bases and overhaul bases worldwide More than 50 2000 Aggregate shipments of CMP systems 2,000 Collapse of IT bubble 2008 More than Global financial crisis  Environmental Plants Business 2017 Waste treatment facilities delivered Irregular nine-month in Japan accounting period More than 300 due to change in (in 46 prefectures) 1998 settlement date Number of waste treatment facilities under Start of IT bubble Precision Machinery Business contracted management More than 80  Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Environmental Plants Business Cryogenic pumps No. 1 global share Standard pumps No. 1 domestic share Compressors for oil and gas plants (downstream) Global share of approx. 30% Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Cooling towers No. 1 domestic share Note: Shares were calculated by EBARA. 90 90 1990 2000 2000 2000 2010 2010 2010 2018 2018 2018 Note: Graph is an approximate image of net sales over time. 2000~ 2010~ Frameworks for Future Growth Centennial Anniversary and Energy-efficient, high-efficiency pumps and chillPursuit of Future Growth ers were developed to help reduce environmental The Group succeeded in improving its financial base Over its century-long history, EBARA has impacts while pump technologies were created and building a robust business structure through the continued its quest to resolve social issues for urban rainwater drainage systems. The Group selection and concentration of businesses. The through business activities based on its also developed sophisticated, ultra-precise, highGroup then began investing in its global competitiveFounding Spirit of “Netsu to Makoto” productivity CMP and plating systems. ness by bolstering its overseas service and support ­(Passion and Dedication). These efforts (S&S) base network and introducing automated allowed the Group to accumulate distincassembly lines powered by Internet of Things (IoT) tive strengths and capitals while developing and artificial intelligence (AI) technologies. Our a unique value creation process. environmental, social, and governance (ESG)  management initiatives are also evolving as we COMPETITIVE ADVANTANGE strengthen corporate governance systems and implement a new human resource system. The Evolution of EBARA’s Strengths and Capitals Pressing Social Issues  Pressing Social Issues  →P.09–10 Search for Path to Sustainability Toward a More Diverse and  • Increased concern for environmental issues and Inclusive Society VALUE CREATION PROCESS acceleration of global warming countermeasures • Digitization driven by proliferation of IoT and AI technologies Creation of Value Based on the • Rising demand for energy-saving and highly efficient technologies • Social pressure for work style reforms “EBARA Way,” Together with • Extreme rain resulting from urban heat island • Increasing expectation for companies to contribute to Customers phenomenon realizing a sustainable society due to rising interest in →P.11–12 • Development of ICT and accelerated advancement climate change and ESG issues and the adoption of of semiconductor technologies the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 06 COVER STORY OUR BUSINESSES AND AREAS OF OPERATION Three Businesses and Four Areas of Operation The EBARA Group is a conglomerate comprised of three core businesses: the Fluid Machinery & Systems Business, which supplies pumps, compressors, and other rotating machinery; the ­Environmental Plants Business, which handles municipal solid waste treatment and resource ­recycling f­acilities; and the Precision Machinery Business, which produces equipment and devices related to semiconductor manufacturing. With these three businesses, we are helping resolve social issues and create value in our four areas of operation: water, air, the environment, and digital technologies. Three Businesses Four Areas of Operation Fluid Machinery & Systems Business r Ai Pumps Business te r Wa Compressors and Turbines Business Chillers Business s gie Environmental Plants Precision En o lo vir Business Machinery Business nm hn ec o en t ta lT Digi INTRODUCTION EBARA’s Three Businesses Three Businesses Supporting Social and Industrial Infrastructure Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Environmental Plants Business Net Sales Ratio 60% Net Sales Ratio 12% Supplies products and services that combine world-class techUses EBARA’s incinerator and gasification plant technologies to nological capabilities and extensive experience to address cushandle the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of tomer needs and support social and industrial infrastructure municipal solid waste incineration plants and other waste treataround the world. ment facilities. This business helps support sanitary cities and safe and secure lifestyles. Pumps Business Offers large-scale, high-pressure custom pumps for use in sewage facilities, rainwater drainage systems, petrochemical plants, and other facilities as well as standard pumps for use in high-rise buildings, condominiums, industrial facilities, Precision Machinery Business and others. Compressors and Turbines Business Provides compressors and turbines for oil refineries and petroNet Sales Ratio 26% chemical plants. Facilitates the realization of more convenient and comfortable Chillers Business societies by providing products that contribute to the manufacHandles chillers, cooling towers, and related systems for use turing processes of semiconductors, flat panel displays, and in the air-conditioning equipment of buildings and large-scale other devices indispensable to a super-smart society. The prodcommercial facilities. ucts we provide include plating systems, bevel polishing systems, dry vacuum pumps, chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) Other Businesses systems that can polish semiconductor wafers with nano-level Provides fans for use in applications such as tunnel ventilation precision, and other high-quality components. as well as electricity, telecommunications, and energy control equipment. EBARA’s Four Areas of Operation Areas in Which EBARA Creates Value Water Air We support water infrastructure We provide dry vacuum pumps that worldwide by providing a vast lineup create clean vacuums, gas abateof products, such as water supply ment systems for treating hazardous pumps for buildings and condominigases as well as greenhouse gases, ums, pumping stations that prevent chillers used for air conditioning, and flooding, and pumps for desalination tunnel ventilation fans to the global plants. market. Environment Digital Technologies We promote efficient resource Aiming to contribute to the realizause and stable energy supply by tion of a super-smart society in ­providing pumps and compressors which all things are interconnected, for energy-related facilities and we support the development of ­constructing and maintaining municcutting-edge technologies by supplyipal solid waste treatment facilities ing vacuum pumps and various types and biomass power generation of semiconductor manufacturing plants. In addition, we supply energyequipment, including CMP systems, efficient and resource-conserving that capitalize on the technologies products in all businesses. we have fostered in the areas of water, air, and the environment. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 08 COVER STORY COMPETITIVE ADVANTANGE The Evolution of EBARA’s Strengths and Capitals The EBARA Group has continued to adhere to its Founding Spirit of “Netsu to Makoto” (Passion and Dedication) throughout its century-long history. This spirit is the core from which our technological capabilities and reliability have grown from, and these strengths together enable us to respond to the needs of customers and society. Moreover, we strategically utilize and enhance our intellectual capital, human capital, and social and relationship capital while looking to reduce the burden we place on natural capital. In addition, we are reinforcing our manufacturing capital and financial capital, inputs that form the foundation of our operating activities. These different capitals all evolve after being infused with the core EBARA strengths, creating our competitive advantage and allowing us to serve our stakeholders while simultaneously creating distinctive value for society. EBARA’s Core Strengths and Significant Capitals tal Intel g Capi lec rin tua tu lC ac a uf al Capa logic l Ma n no bil pita iti ch Te es cial Capital C Human apital EBARA’s Competitive Passion and Advantage Dedication Finan R e l i ab i l i t y l N i ta at pC ap ur s hi al io n Ca ela t p i ta l S ocial an d R INTRODUCTION EBARA’s Capitals Significant Capitals which Heighten Competitiveness Intellectual Capital Human Capital Rigorous research and development underpinning efforts to Human resources with ambition, originality, and ingenuity that maximize investment efficiency and embody the “EBARA Way” bolster product competitiveness Number of patents held Number of employees worldwide +20.6% (in comparison to 2015) 16,556 See P.31–36 for more information on intellectual capital management. See P.37–40 for more information on human capital management. Social and Relationship Capital Natural Capital Strong partnerships for creating new value Environmental management advanced through concerted Groupwide efforts Ratio of top 200 tier 1 suppliers (domestic consolidated basis) aware of CSR Procurement Guidelines Scope of global environmental data collection 98% 88% See P.43–44 for more information on social and relationship capital management. See P.41–42 for more information on natural capital management. Financial Capital Manufacturing Capital Stable financial base Investment in manufacturing equipment that supports the Credit rating shift to next-generation technologies A Total capital expenditures (capital outflows) (Rating and Investment Information, Inc.) ¥ 19.3 billion See P.27–30 for more information on financial capital management. See P.50 and throughout the report for examples of investment in manufacturing capital. EBARA’s Core Strengths The Driving Force behind EBARA’s Creation of Distinctive Value Passion and Dedication “Netsu to Makoto” (Passion and Dedication) was the motto of EBARA founder Issey Hatakeyama, and he was constantly advocating these principles to employees. This spirit lives on in the EBARA Group of today, forming the foundation for attitudes toward the work ethic and behavior of our people. When we go about our work with passion, exercise originality and ingenuity, and maintain a dedication to completing the task at hand, our technological capabilities and reliability grow stronger. Technological Capabilities Reliability Since our founding, we have continued to act in accordance with our The passion and dedication all employees exercise in their work and philosophy of contributing to the resolution of social issues through the tenacity they exhibit in the face of adversity have won EBARA a our business activities providing the products and services desired by strong reputation for reliability among its customers. We continue to customers and society. Over our century-long history, we have accubuild upon this reputation of being a reliable and steadfast partner by mulated the technologies necessary to offer support across the remaining true to our spirit of passion and dedication and by proacentirety of our product lifecycles while broadening the scope of our tively solving issues customers may be facing. Strengthening our business. EBARA’s technologies are capable of realizing finely tuned trust-based relationships with customers and other stakeholders responses to customer needs and thus support the growth of our will unlock new possibilities for EBARA. business. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 10 COVER STORY VALUE CREATION PROCESS Creation of Value Based on the “EBARA Way,” Together with Customers The EBARA Group believes that improving its social value, environmental value, and economic value through its business activities is essential for improving its overall corporate value. We therefore engage in co-creation with valued partners aimed at developing products and services that contribute to the ­realization of a safer, more secure, and comfortable society as described in the Management Policy. Resolving Issues and Increasing Value Deciding on Issues to Be Addressed and Strategies Business Activities Competitive Advantage = Evolution of Core Strengths and Significant Capitals Issues the EBARA Group can Help Resolve tal Intel Material ESG g Capi lec rin tua Issues tu lC ac a uf Social and Community Issues (Action Policies) gical Capab EBARA Way olo Ma tal ilit pi hn n c i Te es cial Capital C Human apital Management Passion and Policy INPUT Dedication Finan R e l i ab i l i t y l N i ta Identification of Issues Medium-Term at ap C ur hip through Filter of the Management Plan al i o ns Ca ela t “EBARA Way” (E-Plan 2019) p i ta l S ocial an d R Corporate Governance 11 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 Social Issues Addressed in the Management Policy and Value Created by EBARA Group Social Issues Addressed in the Management Policy Value Created • Sustainable development of industries • Stable supplies of energy and water Effective utilization Social Value • Construction of resilient social infrastructure Optimization of energy use of water resources • Realization and development of a super-smart society • Provision of products that use less energy and Environmental fewer resources Realization of a super-smart Value • Recycling of resources Treatment of waste • Eco-friendly production activities society Economic Value • Realization of stable economic cycles Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Highly Relevant to Business Activities OUTCOME Business Process Planning / Consultation / Proposals Economic Value Value Created through Customers’ Products Development / Design Safer, More Secure, and Comfortable OUTPUT Society Business Activities (Realization of Management Policy) Manufacturing / Installation Environmental Social Value Value Service & Support Operation / Inspection / Repair / Modification EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 12 Performance Highlights Data coverage for financial indicators includes EBARA CORPORATION and consolidated subsidiaries (fiscal year ended March 31, 2014–fiscal year ended December 31, 2018). The occurrence of the irregular nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, is the result of a change in the settlement date used by the Company. Financial Indicators ROIC*1 / ROE*2 Operating Income / Operating Income to Sales Ratio % Billions of yen % 12 40 8.0 32.4 billion 10 6.4% 30 6.0 8 6.6% 6 20 4.0 4.9% 4 10 2.0 2 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 ROIC ROE Operating Income (left scale) Operating Income to Sales Ratio (right scale) P O I N T The Company has positioned return on invested capital (ROIC) as its most imporP O I N T E-Plan 2019 sets an operating income to sales ratio target of 9.0% or more. tant key management indicator and has set the target of achieving ROIC of 8.0% or more in Operating income levels have been down in recent years due to the persistence of sluggish the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. This target will be pursued by achieving a debt/ conditions in the oil and gas market. In the nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, a equity ratio of 0.40 times–0.60 times and return on equity (ROE) of 11.0%–13.0%. In the fiscal recovery trend emerged in the oil and gas market. Together with the benefits of profitability year ended December 31, 2018, ROIC was 4.9% while ROE was 6.6%. Improvements to profimprovement measures in all of our businesses, this recovery trend has been driving graditability are behind schedule centered on the Fluid Machinery & Systems Business, and we ual improvement in profitability. are projecting that we will be unable to meet the target for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization / R&D Expenses Dividends Per Share*3 / Total Return Ratio*4 Billions of yen Yen% 25 80 80.0 19.3 billion 60.5%*5 20 60 60 yen 60.0 15.2 billion 15 10.6 billion 40 40.0 10 20 20.0 5 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization Dividends Per Share (left scale) Total return ratio (right scale) R&D Expenses P O I N T Capital expenditures were up in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, due to P O I N T EBARA has been issuing consistent dividends over the past several years due to investments in the facilities of the Kumamoto Plant. We intend to continue aggressively improvements in its financial position. During the period of E-Plan 2019, we will target a investing in growth throughout the period of E-Plan 2019. Investments in the nine-month total return ratio of 30% or more. The targeted indicator for shareholder returns was period ended December 31, 2017, and forward have included those for the automation of changed from dividend payout ratio to total return ratio with the goal of allowing for flexible standard pump and dry vacuum pump assembly lines as well as for the construction of test capital policies while maintaining consistent dividends over the long term. development facilities for components to be supplied to the semiconductor market. Shareholders’ Equity*6 / Equity Ratio Interest-Bearing Debt / Debt/Equity Ratio Billions of yen % Billions of yen Times 300 279.6 billion 60.0 160 0.8 47.3% 120 0.6 200 40.0 79.1 billion 80 0.4 0.28 times 100 20.0 40 0.2 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 0 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 Shareholders’ Equity (left scale) Equity Ratio (right scale) Interest-Bearing Debt (left scale) Debt/Equity Ratio (right scale) P O I N T The accumulation of retained earnings drove increases in shareholders’ equity P O I N T Interest-bearing debt is on the decline following improvements in financial and the equity ratio. health. On December 31, 2018, the debt/equity ratio was 0.28 times, lower than the level of 0.40 times–0.60 times targeted over the period of E-Plan 2019. 13 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 Performance Highlights Non-Financial Indicators Ratio of Women Among New Hires Ratio of Non-Japanese New Hires Persons% Persons% 160 17.5% 20.0 160 40.0 120 15.0 120 30.0 20 14 100 80 10.0 80 20.0 94 12.3% 40 5.0 40 10.0 0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 Number of male new hires (left scale) Number of female new hires (left scale) Number of Japanese new hires (left scale) Ratio of women among new hires (right scale) Number of non-Japanese new hires (left scale) Ratio of non-Japanese new hires (right scale) P O I N T The ratio of women among new hires has been set as a key performance indicaP O I N T EBARA has been actively promoting the employment of non-Japanese individuals tor (KPI) with a target of 11% at EBARA in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. Various since 2011 based on the recognition that diversity is prerequisite to ongoing growth in the initiatives are being implemented to make EBARA an appealing place to work for women. global market. EBARA has also implemented a variety of measures focused on improving EBARA also supports initiatives aimed at recruiting more women into science, technology, non-Japanese employee retention. engineering, and mathematics fields. Number of Overseas Companies with EBARA Group Hotlines CO2 Emissions (Scope 1 & 2)*7 Number of companies Thousands of tons 16 15 50 38,800 tons 40 12 30 8 20 4 10 0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2017/12 2018/12 Reference figure P O I N T As part of the effort to reinforce anticorruption programs launched in 2016, we P O I N T Ongoing reductions of CO2 emissions are one of the EBARA Group’s FY2020 have been establishing compliance hotlines at overseas Group companies. In the fiscal year Environmental Targets. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, emissions were down ended December 31, 2018, we completed extending these hotlines to 15 overseas Group 4.0% from the reference figure for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2017. The companies, and we intend to promote use of these hotlines going forward. Company will continue efforts to minimize environmental impact as it grows its business in the future. Contributions to the Environment through Business Activities Energy-Efficient Standard Pumps Waste-to-Energy Generation in the Environmental Plants Business Environmental Benefits: Environmental Benefits: 6,789,600 kWh reduction in electricity use 718,345 MWh of electricity generated P O I N T KPIs regarding the electricity usage of several standard pump models have been P O I N T By generating power at municipal solid waste treatment facilities and returning set for Action Policy 1 for addressing EBARA’s material ESG issues. Based on a preliminary this power to the community, EBARA is helping create a sustainable society. Waste-tocalculation by the Company, the pumps that have been delivered to end-users have made energy generation volume has been set as a KPI for Action Policy 2 for addressing EBARA’s reductions in electricity use during operation of 6,789,600 kWh when compared to prior material ESG issues. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, we generated enough models, which equates to an annual reduction in CO2 emissions of around 3,400 tons. electricity to power approximately 240,000 households. We will continue to develop the most efficient pumps we can in order to lower the overall CO2 emissions of factories or buildings in which those pumps are used. *1 ROIC: Profit attributable to owners of parent / (Interest-bearing debt (Average between beginning and end of period) + Shareholders’ equity (Average between beginning and end of period)) *2 ROE: Profit attributable to owners of parent / Shareholders’ equity (Average between beginning and end of period) *3 EBARA conducted a consolidation of common shares at a rate of one share for every five shares with an effective date of October 1, 2016. Figures for dividends per share have been adjusted based on the assumption that this consolidation was conducted on April 1, 2014. *4 When the annual dividend of ¥36.00 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (including an interim dividend of ¥6.00), is converted after the consolidation of shares, it is equivalent to ¥60.00 per share, consisting of an interim dividend of ¥30.00 and a year-end dividend of ¥30.00. Accordingly, the total return ratio is calculated based on an annual dividend of ¥60.00 per share. *5 Share buybacks were conducted in amounts of ¥5.0 billion in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. *6 Shareholders’ equity: Total net assets – (Subscription rights to shares + Non-controlling interests) *7 Figures are on a consolidated basis combining Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the Company and domestic Group companies. The base year for emissions targets is the fiscal year ended March 31, 2001. The Company uses the emissions coefficient of 0.357 kg/kWh prescribed in the Order for Enforcement of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures in 2000. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 14 Message from the President “Technology. Passion. Support our Globe”—Our Commitment to Enriching People’s Lives Masao Asami President and Representative Executive Officer Vision for EBARA’s Corporate Culture EBARA’s Purpose and Vision Greetings. My name is Masao Asami, and I took up the The EBARA Group has continued to develop its busimantle of President and Representative Executive Offiness based on “Netsu to Makoto” (Passion and Dedicacer of EBARA CORPORATION in March 2019. After tion), the Founding Spirit that we have valued since our joining the Company in 1986, I spent the majority of my inception. Throughout our history of over 100 years, we career in the Precision Machinery Business, which have proceeded to hone our exceptional technological mainly caters to the semiconductor industry. The pace capabilities in order to deliver products and services of change in this industry is blinding, and the competithat support society, industry, and everyday life. This is tiveness of a company can be greatly diminished if it the purpose of EBARA’s existence, and this will not falls a minute, or even a second, behind. Over the change going forward. The heart of our technological years, I have continued to serve customers that opercapabilities is the Inokuty-type volute pump* principle. ate in this high-pressure industry, where they are conThis principle is a point of origin for our various fluid stantly pressed to make high-risk decisions. My daily and rotation technologies as well as for the related work was to examine various ways of helping our control technologies. Our unique research and devel­customers survive amid this fierce competition and opment activities aimed at elevating our core technolto produce as many viable ideas as possible. Rising to ogies to higher levels of performance have always this challenge spurred my own growth. Committing to been, and will always be, the driving force behind a perpetual cycle of addressing customer needs, ­EBARA’s growth. The Company’s ongoing existence is under any circumstances; searching for the necessary predicated on its ability to continue applying, evolving, solutions with tenacity and passion; and overcoming and combining its core technologies to create new the challenges that present themselves to satisfy cusproducts and solutions in response to the needs of tomers are what, I believe, drives the growth of people society and of local customers in any given era. and companies. The EBARA Group operates three In consideration of this, I believe we can summarize businesses—the Fluid Machinery & Systems Busithe EBARA Group’s mission into the words “Technolness, the Environmental Plants Business, and the ogy. Passion. Support our Globe.” Our present goal in Precision Machinery Business—each of which faces the current medium-term management plan, E-Plan different operating environments and organizational 2019, is to develop our businesses on a global basis speeds. Amid what is being called the Fourth Indusand grow continuously as a manufacturer of industrial trial Revolution, weathering the turbulent climate of machinery. The operating environment at the moment social change will require that every employee in each is plagued by political risks such as the trade war business remains receptive toward tackling arising between the United States and China, not to mention social challenges while approaching their work with the massive transformations taking place in the manan earnest dedication. ufacturing industry globally, making it difficult to forThe EBARA Group is home to those who are commulate an outlook for the future. Nevertheless, I am mitted to contributing to people, society, and the enviconfident that there will be many opportunities for ronment through its businesses. When all employees EBARA as technological progress changes society are able to exert their full effort to fulfill this commitand industries. We often speak of “ICAC5 technoloment, they will find pride and motivation in their work. gies,” a term which we use to refer to Internet of It is my mission to cultivate such a corporate culture, Things (IoT), technologies that will connect all and I am sure that accomplishing this mission will things; cloud technologies that will support IoT; artidrive the growth of the entire EBARA Group. ficial intelligence; car (automated driving) technologies; and 5G communications technologies boasting *T he Inokuty-type volute pump is a centrifugal pump based on the theory of Dr. Ariya Inokuty, who was an inspiration to founder Issey Hatakeyama. 15 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 16 Message from the President transmission speeds 100 times faster than those of initiatives. We approached this in 2017 by first identifycurrent technologies. We recognize that these teching the material ESG issues of the Group and setting nologies have great potential to enrich people’s lives KPIs for gauging our progress in addressing these while simultaneously contributing to the preservation issues. We then considered how relevant these initiaof the environment. The development of ICAC5 techtives were to each of the 169 targets of the SDGs. A nologies is dependent on the further development of year and a half has passed since the material ESG semiconductors, a core EBARA market. Figuring out issues were identified, and we are seeing progress on how to facilitate the creation of this smarter and more this front. Nevertheless, it is crucial that we develop a comfortable society, supported by ICAC5 technologies, clear understanding of the challenges we face in while also realizing the sustainable society so desired accomplishing the targets we set for the fiscal year by the entire world and growing our businesses, will ending December 31, 2019, and respond accordingly. require that we look even more closely at the true We must also constantly reevaluate our KPIs to deterneeds of the world and at what we can do to provide mine if they are truly the most ideal for our goals and even more appealing products and services. I want to thereby implement a PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle lead EBARA so that it will always be a company that for setting KPIs that are best suited to maximizing corapproaches this and every challenge with passion and porate value and to boosting employee motivation. dedication and a strong sense of purpose to support the world with its technologies. Review of the Current Medium-Term Management Plan, E-Plan 2019 EBARA’s Value Creation and KPIs In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, the The EBARA Group aspires to raise its overall corporate second year of E-Plan 2019, smooth progress was value by increasing the social value, environmental made in measures for all businesses. As a result, value, and economic value it creates through its busiorders in all three businesses exceeded those in the ness activities. Accordingly, return on invested capital first year of the plan. Net sales were also higher in (ROIC) and the operating income to sales ratio have the second year of E-Plan 2019, as growth in sales been identified as financial key performance indicators in the Fluid Machinery & Systems Business and the (KPIs) in E-Plan 2019. The nature of our business Precision Machinery Business was able to compenmeans that a large portion of our customer base is the sate for the decline in sales in the Environmental infrastructure sector. It is therefore important that we Plants Business. manufacture and supply our products through costHowever, we were unable to improve profitability competitive, eco-friendly processes while ensuring due to delayed recovery in the operating environments that these products deliver both energy efficiency and of these businesses as well as certain one-time interhigh-quality performance when used by customers. It nal detractors. As a result, consolidated ROIC was is also our responsibility to prevent halts to operations 4.9% while the operating income to sales ratio was from equipment failures and to offer service and sup6.4%. The most significant factor behind our failure to port (S&S), including parts exchanges and inspections, improve profitability was that the projected recovery in to guarantee that our products can continue operating plant investments in the oil and gas markets, which reliably over long periods of time. Meanwhile, there is primarily impacted the Fluid Machinery & Systems heightened interest in environmental, social, and govBusiness, was delayed and we were unable to furnish ernance (ESG) issues as well as in the set of shared an appropriate response to this situation. We are global targets that is the United Nations Sustainable committed to identifying the causes of this failure by Development Goals (SDGs). Given this interest, we reevaluating our market forecasts and measures, so must share information with our wide range of stakethat we can revise our approach and make up for this holders regarding the EBARA Group’s initiatives for delayed recovery in profitability to the greatest extent increasing its value and the progress of these possible in the final year of E-Plan 2019. EBARA must be a company that evolves together with society to continue contributing thereto. I will take the initiative in thinking and working together with employees to transform the EBARA Group. 17 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 The first commitment I made after becoming to embed sensors into pumps in order to remotely President and Representative Executive Officer was monitor and control operating status or to develop to thoroughly examine the issues all of our busisystems that create operating conditions based on nesses are facing to pinpoint the causes of our customer specifications or to help customers achieve decline in profitability and to formulate effective their energy conservation targets or other such plans. measures for addressing these causes. I will take a Evolving our products and services to the point that we hands-on approach toward this process, joining in may even be able to exceed our customers’ expectathe search and playing a central role in enacting tions regarding the levels of optimization in their operchange. Up until now, a great deal of authority for ations would in turn enable us to improve our managing the progress of business measures was profitability. Under the next medium-term managedelegated to the respective in-house company presment plan, I look to focus on expanding our S&S operidents. Each business acted in accordance with its ations from the customer’s perspective and to prepare own markets and as a result, each business has us to make proposals that go as far as to effect change developed different conceptions of reasonable timein customers’ business infrastructure. frames or what constitutes a sense of urgency. I I believe that each of our employees possesses a view bridging that gap between the businesses and desire to contribute to society through their work. To creating a united sense of urgency as a challenge help them give form to this desire, I will work to find that lies ahead. This has led me to start holding new business opportunities by fully leveraging meetings of all Executive Officers once a week, in EBARA’s technological capabilities. My search will not addition to follow-up one-on-one meetings when be limited to extensions of current operations, but will necessary. I believe that by doing this, I will be able rather seek new opportunities based on the society of to make better-informed management decisions the future. EBARA must be a company that evolves based on an overarching perspective gained from together with society to continue contributing thereto. the opinions of in-house company presidents and To accomplish this goal, I will take the initiative in Executive Officers. It will also enable me to maintain thinking and working together with employees to an up-to-date understanding of the conditions of transform the EBARA Group. each business to raise the speed of my responses and thus allow for prompt measures to be put in place at the earliest sign of an issue. Pursuit of Future Growth We are currently in the process of formulating E-Vision  Masao Asami 2030, which will lay out our vision for EBARA in 2030.  President and Representative Executive Officer We will be using a backcasting approach from E-Vision 2030 to prepare the next medium-term management plan in order to facilitate management that maximizes economic, social, and environmental value created by the EBARA Group as well as the Group’s profits. The EBARA Group is a signatory to the United Over the next 10 or 20 years, it is anticipated that Nations Global Compact (UNGC), endorses society, infrastructure, and people’s lives will become its Ten Principles, and is exercising these principles. more sophisticated, as symbolized by the ICAC5 technologies. The EBARA Group will respond to this trend by leveraging AI and IoT to make its products more sophisticated and to accelerate the automation of its production processes. For example, I see the potential EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 18 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Roadmap for Increasing Corporate Value Ongoing Growth through the Execution of E-Plan 2019 and Measures that Address Material ESG Issues Since its founding, the EBARA Group has continued to expand the scope of its operations, maintaining its focus on pumps and other rotating machinery while branching out to environmental plants and ­semiconductor manufacturing equipment and devices. Today, the Group has grown into a conglomerate— comprised of 90 subsidiaries around the world (60 consolidated) and six affiliates—that generates consolidated net sales of around ¥500 billion a year, more than 50% of which comes from outside of Japan. We are committed to advancing E-Plan 2019 and implementing initiatives for addressing the EBARA Group’s material environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues in order to achieve the growth objectives of our management policy and further increase corporate value. Underway Progress in the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Basic Policy Progress Highlights The EBARA Group will help develop more efficient and Environmental resilient social and industrial infrastructure through •P rovided products with reduced electricity product and service innovations in order to contribute consumption P.49, 59 to the realization of a sustainable society that offers • Achieved  waste-to-energy generation target P.55 comfortable and fulfilling lifestyles for people around Material ESG the world. Social Issues  he EBARA Group has identified eight material T • Accelerated diversity promotion initiatives P.37 (for the period of • Increased awareness of CSR Procurement Guideissues and six action policies for addressing these April 2017–December 2019) issues. Progress on these initiatives are monilines among suppliers P.44 tored through key performance indicators (KPIs) and related targets. Governance • Appointed an Independent Director as Chairman of the Board of Directors P.67–70 •E  stablished succession plan P.74–75 4.9% Slogan  Unlimited challenge toward growth ROIC Basic Policy Solidify the profit foundation of the Group so that it is Operating income to sales ratio 6.4% not influenced by market fluctuations, and aim for Operating income was down from the previous equivE-Plan 2019 further growth. alent period due to faltering earnings growth in the (for the period of  osition three-year period of E-Plan 2019 as P Fluid Machinery & Systems Business. Return on April 2017–December 2019) a period for focusing on income growth and invested capital (ROIC) in the fiscal year ended improving the profitability of all businesses. December 31, 2018, rose by 2.4 points, but this recovery was stifled by slumping operating income to sales ratios in all businesses. 19 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Roadmap for Increasing Corporate Value Targets for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2019 Management Policy Comprehensive Resolution of Eight Material Issues  Growth Objectives • Increase sales volumes of resource and energy • Develop business on a efficient products global basis • Expand S&S operations • Formulate FY2030 Environmental Targets • Grow continuously as a • Ensure thorough compliance and more ­manufacturer of industrial sophisticated risk management machinery • Promote employee diversity Relationship with Growth Society Strategies ROIC 8.0% or more Business Directives 9.0% or more for Accomplishing Operating income Addressing Objective to sales ratio  Environmental Technological Development Issues ROIC of 4.5% and an operating income to sales ratio of 5.6% are projected in the fiscal year ending DecemSecuring and ber 31, 2019. This performance will fall short of the Developing targets for E-Plan 2019, but the EBARA Group will Human continue to move forward with the measures of the Resources plan to drive growth in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020 and beyond. REFERENCE Management Policy https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/corporate/about/philosophy/ EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 20 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Material ESG Issues, Action Policies, and Relationship with the Sustainable Development Goals The EBARA Group’s Views on Materiality Identification of Material ESG Issues To guide the EBARA Group in its quest to continue growing with society and improving corporate value, we have identified eight ESG issues material to our sustainable development and determined six High action policies for initiatives pertaining to these issues. In addition, Material ESG we have set KPIs and targets to monitor and confirm the progress of issues Importance to stakeholders these policies. Initiatives pertaining to these issues will be revised based on their progress as we endeavor to increase corporate value. REFERENCE Process for Identifying Material ESG Issues https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ethics/materiality/index.html Eight Material ESG Issues and Six Action Policies The six action policies tackle the eight material ESG issues in a comprehensive manner. We have established KPIs and targets leading Relevance to business High up to 2019 for each action policy. Six Action Policies The six action policies address each of the eight material ESG issues. KPIs and targets have Action Policy 1 been set for each action policy Provide products and serEight Material Six Action in order to monitor progress vices that minimize the use SDGs of energy and resources ESG Issues Policies made in solving material issues.→P.23–24 Relationship with the SDGs Relevance High Medium Low Action Policy 1 Action Policy 2 Action Policy 3 Action Policy 4 Action Policy 5 Action Policy 6 21 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Material ESG Issues, Action Policies, and Relationship with the Sustainable Development Goals Relationship between Eight Material Issues and Six Action Policies Eight Material ESG Issues Six Action Policies Innovation in the areas of water, air, and the environment E S 1 2 Improvement of social infrastructure E S 1 2 Consideration for the environment E 1 2 3 Continuous improvement of governance G 5 Reliable product quality and responsible customer S 4 engagement Responsible supply chain E S 4 Secure talented human resources, foster their capabilities, S 6 and maximize value Risk management G 5 Action Policy 2 Action Policy 3 Action Policy 4 Action Policy 5 Action Policy 6 Expand the service and Minimize the amount of Fulfill social responsibilities Continuously improve govEnhance diversity, improve support (S&S) business, energy and resources used to supply chain, deliver reliernance structures, headed work environments to maximize product life, and in business activities able product quality by the Board of Directors, empower employees to minimize any product throughout the product’s practice thorough complidevelop to their full potendowntime life cycle, and achieve ance, and strengthen risk tial, and provide opportuniresponsible customer management ties to develop necessary engagement skills SDG Targets EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 22 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Overview of KPIs and Progress toward Targets Progress Action Policy 1 Provide products and services that minimize the use of energy and resources 0 25 50 75 100 Material ESG Issues Addressed  Innovation in the areas of water, air, and the environment / Improvement of social infrastructure / Consideration for the environment KPIs and targets have been set with regard to addressing climate change by creating energy-efficient products and ­conserving resources by reducing equipment weight, and steady progress is being made toward the accomplishment of these targets. Major KPIs and Results (Progress toward Target) Fluid Machinery & Systems Business P.49 Environmental Plants Business P.55 Precision Machinery Business P.59 • Applicable, delivered standard pump products • Waste-to-energy generation at Company• Chemical mechanical polishing systems and in-use energy reduction (68%) operated waste incineration plants (100%) dry vacuum pumps in-use energy reduction • Applicable, delivered custom pump products (81%) weight reduction (67%) Progress Action Policy 2 Expand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize product life, and minimize any product downtime 0 25 50 75 100 Material ESG Issues Addressed  Innovation in the areas of water, air, and the environment / Improvement of social infrastructure / Consideration for the environment KPIs and targets have been set for service and support (S&S) sales and base numbers and progress toward these targets has been steady. The EBARA Group is contributing to the development of resilient infrastructure through the reliable operation of social and industrial infrastructure. Major KPIs and Results (Progress toward Target) Fluid Machinery & Systems Business P.49 Environmental Plants Business P.55 Precision Machinery Business P.59 • S&S sales (93%) • Operation & Maintenance (O&M) contracting • S&S sales (96%) • Standard pump on-call processing time*1 (87%) facilities (80%) • Number of overhauls*2 performed (89%) •N  umber of countries with custom pump and • Companywide average on-time overhaul chillers S&S bases (86%) shipments (81%) *1 On-call processing time: The time required to document and relay requests to relevant divisions after conclusion of inquiry. *2 O  verhauls: Inspections and repairs involving disassembly. Action Policy 3 Minimize the amount of energy and resources used in business Targets to be set by activities December 31, 2019 Material ESG Issues Addressed  Consideration for the environment The scope of environmental performance data collection was expanded on a Groupwide and global basis to facilitate the formulation of targets for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2030. Major KPIs and Results  P.41–42 • Scope of Global data collection: 88% of consolidated net sales •G  reenhouse gas emissions: Down 4.0% from the period of January 1 to December 31, 2017 •M  aterial recycling rate: 96.3% 23 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Overview of KPIs and Progress toward Targets Progress Fulfill social responsibilities to supply chain, deliver reliable Action Policy 4 product quality throughout the product’s life cycle, and achieve responsible customer engagement 0 25 50 75 100 Material ESG Issues Addressed  Reliable product quality and responsible customer engagement / Responsible supply chain CSR procurement surveys have been contributing to higher awareness regarding the CSR Procurement Guidelines among suppliers. The EBARA Group will continue to issue these surveys while expanding the scope of surveyed ­suppliers going forward. Major KPIs and Results P.44 •C  SR procurement survey response rate: 72% • Rate of CSR Procurement Guidelines awareness among tier 1 top 200 domestic suppliers: 98% Progress*3 Continuously improve governance structures, headed by the Board Action Policy 5 of Directors, practice thorough compliance, and strengthen risk management 0 25 50 75 100 Material ESG Issues Addressed  Continuous improvement of governance / Risk management The high opinion of the Company’s corporate governance systems among external stakeholders was maintained, and we are making steady progress in the establishment and implementation of foundations for entrenching compliance. Major KPIs and Results  P.61–84 •N  umber of Independent Directors: 7 of 11 directors (as of March 28, 2019) • Rate of participation in training sessions conducted on the “EBARA Way” and the EBARA Group Code of Conduct: 90% • Number of companies administering compliance surveys: 15 in Japan, 10 overseas • Number of companies with compliance whistle-blowing hotlines enabling consultation with outside venues: 17 in Japan, 15 overseas • Number of companies that conducted compliance (anti-corruption) training: All 4 applicable companies *3 P  rogress bar based on number of training sessions conducted on the “EBARA Way” and the EBARA Group Code of Conduct, the only indicator for which a quantitative target has been set for Action Policy 5. Performance with regard to corporate governance indicators is disclosed, but targets are qualitative/immeasurable. Progress Enhance diversity, improve work environments to empower Action Policy 6 employees to develop to their full potential, and provide opportunities to develop necessary skills 0 25 50 75 100 Material ESG Issues Addressed  Secure talented human resources, foster their capabilities, and maximize value Steadfast progress has been made in promoting diversity, reducing work hours, preventing occupational accidents, and investing in human resource development. Major KPIs and Results (Progress toward Target) P.38 •R  ange of diversity indicators (92%) •W  ork hours (97%) • Workplace safety (94%) • Human resource development (100%) EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 24 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Progress of E-Plan 2019 Medium-Term Management Plan E-Plan 2019 is focused on profit, and it targets profitability improvements in all businesses. Particular emphasis in E-Plan 2019 is placed on improving the profit margin of the pumps business, the business on which EBARA was founded and which generates the largest amount of sales. Framework of Basic Group Policies Basic Policy 1 Solidify the profit foundation of the Group so that it is not influenced by market Basic policy to ensure results are produced during the period fluctuations, and aim for further growth of E-Plan 2019 Basic Policy 2 Basic Policy 3 Strengthen product competitiveness and improve Two more concrete policies for profitability by introducing innovative production Expand service & support (S&S) operations to improve supporting the accomplishprocesses and business processes with the and stabilize profitability ment of Basic Policy 1 fully-automated plant at the core Basic Policy 4 Utilize M&A as effective means for the purpose of increasing the Group’s share in overseas markets and enhancing its product lineup in businesses expected to generate stable growth Basic M&A policy and profits and for the purpose of expanding the domain of S&S operations in businesses that are highly susceptible to market fluctuations Basic Policy 5 Basic policy for corporate Reinforce corporate headquarters’ strategic functions and at the same time make Groupwide divisions tasked with supportefforts to consolidate ongoing operations and enhance their efficiency in order to shore up the ing business activities global expansion of each business REFERENCE E-Plan 2019 https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/information/management/index.html Basic Policy 3 S&S Sales by Business Smooth growth in S&S sales in the Precision Machinery Business and the compressors and turbines business was seen in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. E-Plan 2016 E-Plan 2019 Others Precision Machinery Business Environmental Plants Business Chillers Business Compressors and Turbines Business Pumps Business 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 Result Result Result Result Result Plan (Nine-month period) 25 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Progress of E-Plan 2019 Medium-Term Management Plan Basic Policy 1 Reinforcement of Profit Foundation ROIC / ROE / Debt/Equity Ratio ROIC 8.0% or more %Times 8.0 E-Plan 2019 target: ROIC 8.0% or more 8 0.8 6.6 5.8 6 5.6 0.6 4.9 4.5 0.41 4 0.4 0.36 3.5 Debt/Equity Ratio ROE (Efficiency) 2 2.5 0.28 0.28 0.2 (Stability) 11.0–13.0% 0.4–0.6 times 0 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 0 Plan ROIC (left scale) ROE (left scale) Debt/Equity Ratio (right scale) Operating income to sales ratio Operating Income to Sales Ratio 9.0% or more* % 10.0 E-Plan 2019 target: 9.0% or more Fluid Machinery & Systems Business 8.5% or more 7.5 6.3 6.4 Pumps Business 8.0% or more 5.6 Compressors and Turbines Business 11.0% or more 5.0 4.7 Chillers Business 7.0% or more 2.5 Environmental Plants Business 11.0% or more Precision Machinery Business 12.0% or more 0 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 Plan * On the assumption that consolidated net sales will amount to ¥500.0 billion or more Summary of Progress in Second Year of E-Plan 2019 ROIC improvement was stifled by slumping operating income to sales ratios in all businesses. Positive Occurrences Negative Occurrences External: S low energy market recovery, sluggish Chinese market, curtailing of capital investment among customers in semiconductor market Contributions to profit realized along with more or less smooth Internal: A  dditional costs in Fluid Machinery & Systems Business, loss associinitiative progress in all businesses ated with partial withdrawal from business of a Chinese manufacturing subsidiary in Environmental Plants Business Measures Approaching Final Year of E-Plan 2019 The accomplishment of targets will be delayed, but initiatives for improving ROIC will continue to be implemented to drive growth in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020, and beyond. Increase operating income to sales ratio • Solidify profit foundation to become more resilient to market fluctuations ROIC • Steadily implement and build upon E-Plan 2019 measures Improvement Measures Raise capital efficiency • Appropriately manage balance sheet • Continue reducing working capital EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 26 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Financial Strategies as Explained by the Executive in Charge of Finance To this end, our cash allocation policies for the three-year period of E-Plan 2019 will see us prioritizing growth investments for improving profitability, and we have earmarked ¥60.0 billion for capital investments, ¥35.0 billion for research and development (R&D), and ¥10.0 billion for M&A accordingly. These amounts are a reflection of our intent to conduct capital investments and M&A totaling more than one-third of profit attributable to owners of parent plus depreciation and amortizations and to invest 2% or more of annual net sales in R&D. In addition, more than one-third of profit is to be returned to shareholders each year, and we are thus targeting a consolidated total return ratio of 30% or more. Akihiko Nagamine The remaining one-third of profit will be retained to fund Executive Officer human resource investments in subsequent fiscal years. Such Division Executive, Finance & Accounting Division investments will include development programs, employee education, work systems and the creation of workplaces that supQ. Why has ROIC* been designated as the most important KPI? port diverse workstyles, and improvements in salary levels and A. The EBARA Group operates with capital borrowed from finanwelfare benefits. Through these investments, we aim to cultivate cial institutions and procured from corporate bond and equity a workplace environment that is conducive to innovation. markets. These funds are comprised of the precious savings Our business is such that there is a long period of time people have invested in stocks, pensions, securities, insurance, between the receipt of an order and the payment for said order. or investment trusts to enrich their lives or save for retirement. Also, as a supplier for products and services that support social Accordingly, one of the important obligations of a publicly listed and industrial infrastructure, we have an obligation to continue company is to generate the interest expected by bondholders our business even under extreme circumstances, such as after and profits in line with the returns anticipated by shareholders. large-scale natural disasters or during financial crises. In recogPublicly listed companies operate their businesses using socinition of these factors, we have a policy of maintaining roughly ety’s assets, and they are thus charged with a heavy responsibiltwo months of sales worth of cash and deposits, securing a little ity. In order to fulfill this obligation, we have chosen to set ROIC bit of leeway with regard to necessary working capital. as our most important KPI and target a level for this indicator The remaining funds will be allocated to the repayment of that exceeds the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). interest-bearing debt. Should funds be insufficient, the necessary amount will be procured. In addition, we will keep a level of Q. What are EBARA’s ROIC targets and the cash allocation shareholders’ equity that will enable us to maintain a R&I Credit policies for the period of E-Plan 2019? Rating of A in order to ensure that we can procure funds even A. Under the current medium-term management plan, E-Plan under extreme circumstances. 2019, we are targeting ROIC of 8.0% or more in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, the final year of the plan. This target Q. What is the progress with regard to these efforts? is meant to achieve a level of ROIC that exceeds the Company’s A. We have made smooth progress so far based on these poliWACC, which is estimated to be between 6% and 7%. We will cies, investing a total of ¥17.9 billion over the past two years in look to generate ROIC of 8.0% or more by accomplishing return R&D, equivalent to 2% of net sales, and deciding to invest more on equity (ROE) of between 11% and 13%, a debt/equity ratio of than ¥60.0 billion over a three-year period in capital investments 0.4 times to 0.6 times, and an operating income to sales ratio of such as fully automated plants. However, capital investments are at least 9.0%. slightly behind schedule and M&A have not been progressing as E-Plan 2019 Cash Allocation Policy E-Plan 2019 Targets Forecasts for E-Plan 2019 Period Total ¥105.0 billion ¥97.0 billion 1st Growth Investments Capital investments ¥60.0 billion More than ¥60.0 billion approved (fully automated plants, etc.) Investments for boosting product competitiveness R&D ¥35.0 billion ¥32.0 billion invested M&A ¥10.0 billion Less than ¥5.0 billion 2nd Shareholder Returns Consolidated total return ratio 30% or more 77%*1,2 3rd Interest-Bearing Debt Management of debt/equity ratio within Debt repayment ¥10.0 billion ¥25.0 billion*2 defined range *1 Figure includes share repurchases of ¥20.0 billion, making for a dividend payout ratio of 35%. *2 Following the accumulation of cash due to delays in payments for growth investments, share repurchases were conducted in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, and the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, and ¥25.0 billion worth of interest-bearing debt was repaid on December 31, 2018. 27 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Financial Strategies as Explained by the Executive in Charge of Finance Targeted Balance Sheet Going Forward C ash and deposits: Reduce through global cash December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 (Targets of Balance Sheet Control) management systems and target on-hand liquidity Total assets: ¥612.9 billion Total assets: ¥591.5 billion Total assets: Total asset turnover of 1.0 times equivalent to 2 months’ worth of sales R&I Credit Rating: A– R&I Credit Rating: A R&I Credit Rating: Consistent A rating N otes and accounts receivable-trade: Lower through contract condition improvement, overdue debt reduction, and turnover management Inventory assets: Lower through improved producNotes and accounts tion efficiency, shorter production lead times, Cash and deposits Cash and deposits payable-trade Cash and deposits Notes and accounts supply chain reinforcement, and turnover Notes and accounts 138.4 119.6 110.6 payable-trade payable-trade management 126.1 Interest-bearing Interest-bearing Notes and accounts O ther current assets: Reduce cross-shareholdings debt receivable-trade Notes and accounts debt Interest-bearing F ixed assets: Increase through growth investNotes and accounts 114.5 receivable-trade 79.1 debt ments (invest in cutting-edge production facilities, receivable-trade 175.3 Other liabilities 183.8 Other liabilities Inventories S&S bases, etc.) 93.9 99.5 Other liabilities Interest-bearing debt (debt/equity ratio): EffecInventories Other current assets tively utilize debt to maintain within range of 0.4– Inventories 0.6 times 109.5 122.6 Other current assets Other current assets S  hareholders’ equity: Target consolidated total 24.1 21.3 return ratio of 30% or more through shareholder Total net assets Total net assets Fixed assets returns Total net assets 284.7 286.7 Fixed assets E  quity ratio: Prioritize shareholder returns while Fixed assets 165.4 considering ratings to prepare for extreme 153.0 circumstances planned. For this reason, net cash used in investment activities inventories equates to 200 days’ worth of sales. We can cut was only ¥23.8 billion over the past two years, and we thus accuworking capital by ¥30.0 billion if we reduce this amount by 20 mulated a significant amount in cash and deposits. days. The resulting funds can then be allocated to growth investThis situation prompted us to repurchase ¥5.0 billion worth of ments. I believe that we must realize such reductions by boostshares and repay ¥25.0 billion of interest-bearing debt. As a ing the competitiveness of our business through improvements result, cash and deposits on December 31, 2018, decreased to contract conditions, product quality, and productivity as well ¥27.8 billion from the previous equivalent period, to ¥110.6 bilas through shorter lead times and the reinforcement of our lion, 2.6 months’ sales worth. In light of the high level of cash supply chain. and deposits, we have chosen to move forward with the acquisiGoing forward, we will invest in the development of cuttingtion of another ¥15.0 billion worth of share repurchases in the edge, fully automated plants as well as in the construction of fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. global S&S and sales networks that will enable us to achieve We are projecting a three-year total of more than ¥36.0 billion these objectives. Currently, only ¥150.0 billion, or one-fourth of in shareholder returns over the period of E-Plan 2019, making total assets are fixed assets. Given our equity ratio, I believe that for a total return ratio of over 75%. Conversely, profitability is we could have between 40% to 50% of assets represented by substantially less than targeted. The operating income to sales fixed assets without issue. For this reason, I am looking to lower ratio was a mere 6.4% in the fiscal year ended December 31, the amount of notes and accounts receivable-trade and inventory 2018, resulting in figures of 4.9% and 6.6%, respectively, for the assets and use the on-hand cash created by this reduction to efficiency indicators of ROIC and ROE. Improving profitability is a increase fixed assets through capital investments and M&A. I am pressing issue. aiming to build a strong balance sheet that will make future improvements in profitability possible, resulting in greater marQ. What financial approach will be adopted toward improving gins on the income statement. profitability? It is my intent to enhance our balance sheet through initiaA. In terms of finances, we need to place more emphasis on our tives for improving profitability and to thereby achieve a robust balance sheet if we are to improve profitability. This is because corporate constitution capable of driving ongoing growth. I plan the benefits of management initiatives for enhancing the income to achieve this through continuously managing KPIs such as bystatement appear first on the balance sheet. business receivable and inventory turnover periods, making For example, the Company has annual sales of ¥500.0 billion investment decisions while considering the hurdle rates based and total assets of ¥600.0 billion. This means we are not even on businessand country-specific WACC introduced in the fiscal producing an amount of sales equivalent to the assets we use to year ended December 31, 2018, augmenting our global cash generate those sales in a year. We need to use our assets more management systems, and reducing cross-shareholdings. efficiently in order to achieve sales that are on par with the scale *R OIC = of assets. Total asset turnover (net sales / total assets) is one Operating income / Net sales / Total assets / of the factors contributing to ROIC, our most important KPI. Net sales Total assets Shareholders’ equity × 1 / (1 + debt/equity ratio) I therefore aim to realize turnover of at least 1.0 in order to (Return on sales) (Total asset turnover) (Financial leverage) ­prevent this indicator from dragging down ROIC. Meanwhile, the combined total of notes and accounts receivable-trade and inventories exceeds ¥300.0 billion, making up half of total assets. At the same time, our annual sales of ¥500.0 billion translate to daily sales of about ¥1.5 billion, and as such the ¥300.0 billion in notes and accounts receivable-trade and EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 28 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Analysis of Business Results, Financial Position, and Cash Flows Business Results and Operating Environment Net sales increased ¥1.3 billion from the previous equivalent were favorable with regard to compressors and turbines and period, to ¥509.1 billion, due to higher sales in the Fluid standard pumps. However, operating income in the Fluid Machinery & Systems Business and the Precision Machinery Machinery & Systems Business was low as a result of several Business. one-time detractors from profit occurring in the second half of Cost of sales was ¥376.0 billion, making for a cost of sales the fiscal year. Specifically, these detractors included problems ratio of 73.8%, and gross profit was ¥133.1 billion accordingly. with specific models in the pumps business, intensified price Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled ¥100.6 competition in the compressors and turbines business, and billion and operating income decreased ¥4.1 billion from the delays in the integration of systems when consolidating factoprevious equivalent period, to ¥32.4 billion. ries in the chillers business. Non-operating income and non-operating expenses made In the Environmental Plants Business, orders were ¥106.9 for a net expense of ¥1.2 billion, largely due to the recording of billion, up ¥41.8 billion from the previous equivalent period; net ¥1.5 billion in interest expenses leading to ordinary income sales were ¥62.8 billion, down ¥7.1 billion; and operating decreasing ¥4.2 billion from the previous equivalent period, to income was ¥4.9 billion, relatively unchanged from the previous ¥31.2 billion. equivalent period. Extraordinary income and extraordinary loss combined In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, the Environresulted in a net loss of ¥3.9 billion primarily attributable to mental Plants Business was successful in capturing several impairment loss of ¥2.6 billion. Due to this factor, income large-scale orders, contributing to an exceptionally high level before income taxes was ¥27.3 billion. of orders and an increase of ¥41.8 billion. Conversely, operating The combined total of income taxes-current and income income decreased slightly as a result of a decrease in net sales taxes-deferred was ¥7.6 billion, resulting in profit attributable centered on engineering, procurement, and construction to non-controlling interests of ¥1.4 billion. The aforementioned orders, and the recording of a provision for loss on the partial factors led profit attributable to owners of parent to decrease withdrawal from the business of a Chinese manufacturing ¥4.5 billion from the previous equivalent period, to ¥18.2 billion. subsidiary, which occurred in the second half of the fiscal year. In the Precision Machinery Business, orders were ¥140.6 Segment Performance billion, up ¥10.3 billion from the previous equivalent period; net In the Fluid Machinery & Systems Business, orders were sales were ¥135.7 billion, up ¥3.6 billion; and operating income ¥326.2 billion, up ¥17.3 billion from the previous equivalent was ¥18.5 billion, up ¥1.1 billion. period; net sales were ¥308.9 billion, up ¥4.8 billion; and operOrders, net sales, and operating income all broke records ating income was ¥8.7 billion, down ¥5.3 billion. due to the brisk capital investments seen in the semiconductor Recovery was seen in capital investment in the downstream market, particularly in memory-related sectors. However, perareas of the oil and gas market that are the primary targets for formance growth slowed heading into the second half of the deliveries of our compressors and turbines and custom fiscal year as customers began to curtail investments. pumps. Against this backdrop, orders increased ¥19.3 billion Note: T  he previous fiscal period was a nine-month period beginning April 1, 2017, and from the previous equivalent period centered on the products ending December 31, 2017. Comparisons with the previous equivalent period compare performance between the period from January 1 to December 31, 2017, and the fiscal of the compressors and turbines business. The full-fledged year ended December 31, 2018. recovery of custom pumps orders is expected to be delayed until the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, as the lead time for these items are shorter than for compressors and turbines, resulting in orders being made at later times. Net sales Consolidated Statements of Income (Billions of yen) January 1– Fiscal year ended Change Notes December 31, 2017 December 31, 2018 Orders 506.0 575.5 +69.4 Increase centered on Environmental Plants Business Increase centered on Fluid Machinery & Systems Business and Net sales 507.8 509.1 +1.3 Precision Machinery Business Cost of sales — 376.0 — Cost of sales ratio: 73.8% Gross profit — 133.1 — Gross profit to sales ratio: 26.1% Selling, general and administrative expenses — 100.6 — SG&A expenses to sales ratio: 19.8% Operating income 36.6 32.4 (4.1) Decrease centered on Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Ordinary income 35.4 31.2 (4.2) Interest expenses of ¥1.5 billion Income before income taxes — 27.3 — Impairment loss of ¥2.6 billion Total of income taxes-current and income taxes-deferred of Profit attributable to owners of parent 22.7 18.2 (4.5) ¥7.6 billion 29 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 CORPORATE VALUE IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES Analysis of Business Results, Financial Position, and Cash Flows Financial Position Total assets as of December 31, 2018, stood at ¥591.5 billion, bonds. Interest-bearing debt decreased ¥35.4 billion, to ¥79.1 down ¥21.3 billion from the previous fiscal year-end. Increases billion, and the debt/equity ratio decreased from 0.41 times on of ¥8.5 billion in notes and accounts receivable-trade and ¥13.1 December 31, 2017, to 0.28 times on December 31, 2018, folbillion in inventories were outweighed by decreases of ¥27.8 lowing the repayment of interest-bearing debt. billion in cash and deposits and ¥7.4 billion in investments and Total net assets came to ¥286.7 billion on December 31, other assets. 2018, an increase of ¥1.9 billion from the previous fiscal yearTotal liabilities amounted to ¥304.8 billion on December 31, end. The amount of profit attributable to owners of parent 2018, a decrease of ¥23.3 billion from a year earlier. This recorded outweighed the decreases resulting from share repurdecrease was primarily a result of the repayment of shortchases and dividends paid. The equity ratio increased from term loans payable and the redemption of current portion of 45.3% on December 31, 2017, to 47.3% on December 31, 2018. Consolidated Balance Sheets (Billions of yen) December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, Change Change 2017 2018 2017 2018 Current assets 447.4 438.5 (8.9) Total liabilities 328.1 304.8 (23.3) Notes and accounts Cash and deposits, securities 140.8 112.2 (28.6) 119.6 126.1 +6.5 payable-trade Notes and accounts 175.3 183.8 +8.5 Interest-bearing debt 114.5 79.1 (35.4) receivable-trade Inventories 109.5 122.6 +13.1 Others 93.9 99.5 +5.5 Others 21.7 19.1 (2.0) Total net assets 284.7 286.7 +1.9 Fixed assets 165.4 153.0 (12.3) Total shareholders’ equity 280.9 289.6 +8.6 Total accumulated other Tangible fixed assets 110.2 107.8 (2.3) (3.0) (9.9) (6.9) comprehensive income Intangible assets 12.0 10.6 (1.4) Subscription rights to shares 1.1 1.1 (0) Investments and other assets 43.1 34.5 (8.6) Non-controlling interests 5.6 5.9 +0.3 Total assets 612.9 591.5 (21.3) Total liabilities and net assets 612.9 591.5 (21.3) Cash Flows Year-on-year comparisons are not available as the previous As a result, cash and cash equivalents at end of period fiscal period was a nine-month period beginning April 1, 2017, decreased ¥28.5 billion, coming to ¥110.5 billion on December and ending December 31, 2017. 31, 2018. Net cash provided by operating activities amounted to ¥34.6 billion due to robust operating income. Consolidated Cash Flows Net cash used in investing activities was ¥15.9 billion as Billions of yen proceeds from sales and redemption of securities and invest150 ment securities of ¥5.5 billion and other inflows were out110.5 weighed by outlays such as purchase of fixed assets of ¥18.5 100 billion. 34.6 Free cash flow, calculated by combining net cash generated 50 18.6 from operation and net cash used in investment, was a positive 0 ¥18.6 billion. (15.9) (46.4) Net cash used in financing activities was ¥46.4 billion. This –50 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 was the result of a ¥24.2 billion decrease in short-term and Cash flows from operating activities long-term loans payable, ¥10.0 billion in redemption of bonds, Cash flows from investing activities ¥5.0 billion in share repurchases, and ¥4.5 billion in cash diviCash flows from financing activities dends paid. Cash and cash equivalents at end of period Free cash flow EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 30 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Intellectual Capital—Management Resources Underpinning Competitive Edge—Research and Development and Intellectual Property Management Message from Executive Officer Responsible for Technologies, R&D, and Intellectual Property Guided by the basic intellectual capital management policy of BRDIP,*1 which promotes coordination between Businesses, Research and Development, and Intellectual Properties, and the basic strategy of ABA,*2 which encourages collaboration between Academia, Businesses, and Associations, the EBARA Group has proceeded to hone the competitive edge of its business by advancing R&D and intellectual property activities through its proprietary frameworks. I hope to help support the growth of the EBARA Group as a global conglomerate by evolving and building upon the BRDIP policy and the ABA strategy going forward. Hiroshi Sobukawa Executive Officer REFERENCE EBARA’s Technologies Responsible for Technologies, R&D, and Intellectual Property https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/technologies/index.html Basic Approach The EBARA Group has developed several proprietary framewhile aggressively advancing forward-looking research and works under its ABA strategy. Ebara Open Innovation (EOI)*3 is development. a framework for strengthening fundamental technologies Meanwhile, several unique frameworks are in place to through partnership with universities. Ebara Open Laboratory invigorate intellectual property activities. With these frame(EOL)*4 is a framework for enhancing product technologies works, the Group has been promoting a shift toward quality through coordination between business and research divisions. over quantity in intellectual property and evolving its patent Ebara Innovation for “X” (EIX)*5 is a framework for advancing portfolio to be more strategically viable. We are also managing projects for creating new products and businesses. Lastly, and utilizing the intellectual properties of Group companies on Ebara Open for Supplier (EOS)*6 is a framework for bolstering a global basis while engaging in technology branding activities. prototyping functions. The unique open innovation activities Going forward, the EBARA Group’s intellectual property diviadvanced through these frameworks have consistently supsions will remain receptive to social trends, pursuing close ported the reinforcement of the Group’s business. We will concoordination with business divisions as they support operations tinue to evolve and build upon these frameworks in order to through proactive intellectual property activities. strengthen the technologies that contribute to our business *1 BRDIP: An original EBARA Group acronym created from “businesses,” “R&D,” and “intellectual properties” *2 ABA: An original EBARA Group acronym created from “academia,” “businesses,” and “associations” *3 EOI: An original open innovation framework that fosters young researchers at outside research institutions by conducting joint research to resolve advanced technological issues *4 EOL: A corporate research organization that enables exchanges among researchers and open sharing of research themes in-house *5 EIX: A research and development system for business creation *6 EOS: A term referring to both a framework and activities for open exploration of R&D suppliers that is not limited to existing suppliers Progress in Priority Strategies (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) Research Efficiency Indices EOI Former research EOL Research Expenses system % In-house Work Hours Outside Work Hours 500 Number of Research Themes Number of Joint Research Projects 400 Target Achievement Percentage Number of Patents Filed Public Announcements 300 Technology Transfer (in-house) 200 Reference value, before close of EBARA Research Co., Ltd. As a result of measuring research efficiency based on 100 the above research efficiency indices, we are ( ) using fewer management resources to ( ) achieve higher performance and ( ) equivalent results. 0 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 31 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Intellectual Capital Initiatives for Bolstering Intellectual Capital First EOI International Symposium external researchers invited to act as guest lecturers and six Industry-academia collaboration activities through the EOI training sessions were conducted in the fiscal year ended framework are in their ninth year. This year saw the holding of December 31, 2018. The training sessions were based on a the first EOI International Symposium. A total of eight profescurriculum designed to foster the intuition of junior employees sors, four from domestic universities and four from overseas to help them better understand technologies and various pheuniversities, were invited to give structured lectures on the nomena on an intuitive level. This focus on human resource results of their research activities. More than 100 employees development supports the development of fundamental techattended, making the event a site of vigorous discussion. At nologies of the EBARA Group. this event, many questions and opinions were voiced by *7. EHU: A  program aimed at bolstering the technical capabilities of Group researchers and younger engineers, and one of the guest lecturers stated that engineers and promoting inspiration by giving them an opportunity to learn about the latest technological information and trends the number of questions from engineers was proof of the improvement made in EBARA’s technical capabilities. Technology Branding Strategies Technology branding activities are being advanced as part of the EBARA Group’s efforts in the area of intellectual properties. As one facet of these activities, the technology brand “eDYNAMiQ” for EBARA’s standard pump technology was launched in 2018. Created through cooperation with business divisions, this brand is meant to help communicate to customers the passion that EBARA has poured into its standard pumps over the years. An acronym of the words Eco, Dynamic, and Integrated Quality, the brand name of “eDYNAMiQ” represents the characteristics of EBARA’s standard pump technology. Ebara Hi-tech University The EBARA Group has launched Ebara Hi-tech University (EHU),*7 a program aimed at bolstering the technical capabilities of Group researchers and engineers and providing inspiration by giving them an opportunity to learn about the latest technological information and trends. 10 lectures were held by Number of Patents Held Ratio of R&D Expenses to Net Sales The number of patents held grows each year, and overseas patents have come to In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, the ratio of R&D expenses to net sales exceed patents in Japan as the Group seeks to acquire the intellectual properties in was 2.1%. A ratio of 2.7% is projected in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, as each business that are necessary to continue expanding globally. a result of new investments. Billions of yen % 600 6.0 500 5.0 Approx. 1,500 Approx. 2,000 400 4.0 300 3.0 200 2.0 100 1.0 0 2017/3 2017/12* 2018/12 2019/12 0 (Forecast) Overseas Domestic Net sales (left scale) Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales (right scale) *T  he irregular nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, is the result of a change in the settlement date used by the Company. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 32 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL R&D Enhancement Case Study EOL EIX INNOVATION EHU EOI EOS EBARA’s R&D Activities for Creating a New Era Evolution of Virtual Factories to Shape the Future of Manufacturing with Suppliers It has been 10 years since EBARA CORPORATION disbanded its prior research laboratories to launch a new R&D structure. Over this period, we have promoted the advancement of various initiatives aimed at strengthening EBARA’s innovative R&D structure, which is unlike anything seen among its peers. One such initiative is Ebara Open for Supplier (EOS). The following is a discussion with the Kawasaki Institute of Industrial Promotion, an indispensable co-creation partner, on the EOS initiatives implemented thus far and the future of manufacturing. Inception of EOS ——What exactly is EOS? Tsujimura: EOS is a special R&D prototyping framework put in place by EBARA. In 2009, the Company disbanded its research laboratories. With its previous systems and frameworks abolished, EBARA began looking for a new R&D method. The ComAtsushi Miura pany was faced with a situation in which it needed to continue Director, Kawasaki Institute of Industrial research and development, but it had no labs or researchers. Promotion The solution it found was the creation of a completely new R&D structure focused on open innovation with researchers from both inside and outside the Company conducting joint research through a virtual environment. Moving forward with the resulting EOI and EOL ­initiatives, our R&D activities over the decade have consistently bore fruit. However, one issue that arose regarded the establishment of a prototyping factory that was ideally suited to this new R&D system. EBARA’s existing factories were exclusive for products and consequently, incompatibilities were sure to appear whenever we tried to Manabu Tsujimura produce new prototype articles there. What we needed was a Fellow at EBARA CORPORATION production framework that could adapt as necessary when we sought to create something completely new, a virtual prototyping factory to complement our virtual R&D system that did not 33 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL R&D Enhancement Case Study need factory staff and equipment in the Company. The framenew products and technologies. work we created to achieve this was EOS. We realized that Tsujimura: EBARA has had relationships with several SME working with suppliers that could join us in developing various associations in the past. However, most of the associations manufacturing processes and realizing these production techsimply introduced us to SMEs, and usually no transactions nologies was the key to better R&D. This was when we heard came of those meetings. That’s why when I met with the about the Kawasaki Institute of Industrial Promotion and its Kawasaki Institute of Industrial Promotion, I was surprised at work supporting 1,500 small and medium-sized enterprises how swift and attentive its approach for SMEs was. The Insti(SMEs) in Kawasaki City, prompting us to visit the institution, tute’s commitment to matching the desires of SMEs with those enabling us to take a large step forward in EOS realization. of EBARA as an order placer and to tying these desires to actual orders could be said to represent the core of the What is the Kawasaki model supporting EOS? Kawasaki Model. This commitment coincided with the hopes Miura: Kawasaki City is a central part of the Keihin industrial of our staff, and I felt confident that this model would help us district, which is home to many major companies and SMEs. realize the goals of the EOS framework. The Kawasaki Institute of Industrial Promotion has been supporting SMEs amid the globalization of society and the spread Actual EOS Initiatives of information technologies for 30 years. Our basic approach is ——How have EOS initiatives been advancing? to focus on frontline operations, actively visiting SMEs to gain Miura: One major characteristic of the Kawasaki Model is an understanding of the visions of their presidents and working team dispatch initiatives. In these initiatives, teams formed by together with them to further their development. We have government employees, representatives from local financial gained recognition for this commitment, and this approach to institutions, and staff from the Institute visit SMEs to explain supporting companies based on a shared vision has produced the various subsidy systems and measures available to them. results, thereby coming to be known throughout Japan as the I remember when you, Mr. Tsujimura, asked to accompany “Kawasaki Model.” Among our initiatives, we are attracting these teams. To us, the idea of having the head of technology particular attention with regard to how we help create new at a major company visit the frontlines with us on such a team products, based on our focus on frontline operations, infusing was inconceivable. This unexpected development led us to SMEs with the intellectual properties of major companies and refer to the team as the “Tsujimura Caravan” when you accompromoting open use of patents with the potential to give rise to panied us. We asked our coordinators, who had amassed R&D System Surpassing the Boundaries of EBARA EBARA’s R&D system is comprised of the EOI (joint research), EOL (in-house research), and EIX (new business / field research) frameworks. Research is also being advanced through the EOS framework for reinforcing prototyping functions and the EHU program for fostering the human resources that support technological development. EBARA strives to create new business by promoting coordination with business divisions and with external institutions and by fully capitalizing on this R&D system. For more information regarding each framework, please see the footnotes on P.31–32. EBARA Group Business Divisions Fluid Machinery & Systems Business, Environmental Plants Business, Collaboration Precision Machinery Business Research Creation of New Researchers results Businesses Corporate R&D System Outside EBARA EIX In-house Companies, research (JUMP) Universities, Research EOL institutions (STEP) etc. Joint EOI research (HOP) Collaboration Fundamental technologies Existing business / New business / research field research field research EOS EHU EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 34 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL R&D Enhancement Case Study extensive raw data through our frontline-oriented initiatives visiting companies as a member of the Institute’s dispatch thus far, to choose the SMEs to be visited from among the teams in which I have paid in cash to purchase items I found approximately 1,500 companies under our jurisdiction, and appealing on the spot. At the same time, there were cases in these visits were thus made a reality. which orders were placed, but the companies were unable to Tsujimura: I have found participation in these dispatch teams produce the requested articles in a satisfactory manner. Howto be most meaningful as they have enabled me to communiever, we believe that these failures should be treated in the cate our desire to create a framework through which we could same way as those that occur at our own factories and that we request the production of prototypes for R&D purposes. To have a responsibility to pay for the time spent on making the date, I have joined the teams five times, visiting 18 companies. product. While we may refer to the framework as a “virtual facLater, we were able to hold open innovation forums at our tory” scheme, this does not change the fact that our partners Fujisawa District and Futtsu Plant through co-sponsorship by are important allies in a co-production process. Our committhe Kawasaki Institute of Industrial Promotion. Technologies ment to this sentiment has driven ongoing improvements in were explained and exhibited at these forums, which provided EOS initiatives. a prime opportunity for exchanges between SME representaMiura: EOS initiatives are an incredibly ambitious undertaking tives and EBARA engineers. More than 100 EBARA employees with the potential to change not only the manufacturing system participated in each forum, engaging in lively exchanges of at EBARA but also the very concept of manufacturing in Japan. opinion. These activities were connected to four prototyping and Today, we are in an era in which industry structures are transexamination requests in 2016, seven in 2017, and six in 2018. forming, and manufacturing operations are being transferred Miura: Mr. Toichi Maeda, then President and Representative to locations with lower personnel costs like China and other Executive Officer and current Chairman & Director of the Comemerging countries. We are approaching the limits of what can pany, as well as business division executives and other reprebe accomplished with the conventional hierarchical manufacsentatives from EBARA participated in the open innovation turing systems found at most major companies. Given this forums, making it a truly revolutionary event entailing collabobackdrop, I have great praise for how EBARA is designing a ration between SMEs not only from Kawasaki City but also framework for maintaining an open and equal relationship with from the greater Keihin area including Yokohama and Ota City. suppliers and for using these relationships to realize a virtual There, EBARA employees engaged in daily research activities factory scheme. This initiative is truly groundbreaking and and the representatives of SMEs were able to have a frank and reflective of the society to come. open discussion about their hopes and the realities of manufacturing. The atmosphere at the forums indicated a flat relationship, contrasting the standard hierarchical structure found at most major manufacturing companies. All participants were moved by this atmosphere. The opportunity to hear the president of a major company explain their vision in person was another factor that truly impressed me about these forums. Tsujimura: The policies based on which we advance EOS initiatives are all principles gleaned from the stance of the Kawasaki Institute of Industrial Promotion. Policy 1: T he companies we visit are customers that provide technologies to EBARA. Policy 2: C ustomer satisfaction is a top priority. Policy 3: Initiatives are to start small and to be grown gradually as they produce results. EOS is a new undertaking, and we knew we would experience setbacks as we moved forward, but we were able to arrive at where we are today by addressing these head-on and changing our approach when needed. For example, usually when companies place orders, they will conduct credit investigations and go through various other procedures. As such, a great amount of time and work is required before the actual order can be placed. However, EBARA recognizes that the companies from which we request prototyping activities want orders with prompt payments. We therefore adjusted our purchasing system to allow for orders to be placed immediately for articles that offer the desired quality and for payments to be issued within two months. There have even been times when 35 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL R&D Enhancement Case Study As the EOS framework has improved, I have witnessed spaces and that makes easy the close coordination needed to changes to SMEs’ traditional hierarchical values and engrained realize the mutual heightening of knowledge and technologies. customs and cultures. It could be said that it is customary for The R&D system I envision a century from now is one in which SMEs to passively receive and fulfill orders from major compaone can write their idea on a big panel and have it immediately nies. EBARA’s EOS framework puts a new twist on that custom shared with all project members, who can then send their that can challenge traditional perspectives, leading to changes responses. This system will allow for a swift transition to in the culture of the companies involved. I see great potential development through coordination between the EOI, EOL, and for EOS to change the very nature of SMEs in Japan. EOS frameworks. As one step toward realizing this vision, we are currently working to realize the use of avatars to coordinate ——What successes have been achieved thus far? with people both inside and outside of the Company through Tsujimura: When we launched the EOI and EOL frameworks, virtual spaces. If we can apply augmented reality technologies we consolidated previously inconsistent research themes with to this system in the future, it will make it possible to share a focus on heightening our product development capabilities. product information through virtual spaces, and to view this The transition to virtual laboratories then changed our prior information and collaborate. This is one of my goals. year-based perspective on research to a day-by-day research Miura: KEIDANREN is currently searching for ways to realize a perspective. The result was an astounding improvement in new manufacturing style known as digital fabrication. However, research efficiency. Today, R&D expenses are half those of it seems as though EBARA is already working toward realizing 2009, while output is two to three times higher and research digital fabrication through the virtual factories of its EOS efficiency is four to six times higher. scheme. Other companies are probably engaging in similar Through the EOS framework, we aim to develop a virtual undertakings, but there are likely none that have managed to factory scheme for prototyping. This scheme will not be able establish the actual frameworks for this manufacturing style. to create immediate results akin to those of the EOI and EOL The EOS framework is a system for linking major companies frameworks. However, compared to the massive amounts of and SMEs and driving the ongoing growth of both. The number time and money required to build factories, virtual factories of SMEs in Japan is half that of 20 years ago, but those that can be set up quickly and at low cost. We are still in the prostill survive undoubtedly boast exceptional technologies. The cess of creating this scheme, and ongoing effort is required. current rapid pace of change in today’s world means that As such, the successes thus far are still few. Nevertheless, adapting to this speed will be crucial to survival going forward. we are making steady progress in the development of virtual I think that utilizing one’s own technologies while effectively factories through our connections with the Institute and with connecting these technologies to others will be an important our suppliers. part of this adaptation. Meanwhile, collaboration between In 2018, we launched new initiatives aimed at starting up completely different fields can create unprecedented technolovirtual factories. Specifically, we began building the Connected gies. Such technologies have the potential to generate value Lab within the Fujisawa District. This lab will be a site for joint for society and to contribute to the resolution of the various efforts with external suppliers. Our decision to create such a issues faced by communities. I hope to work toward this vision facility was based on the recognition that, no matter how in order to evolve our approach into what may one day come to ­“virtual” these factories may be, we will still need physical be referred to as the “Ebara-Kawasaki Model.” venues through which to connect with suppliers. Tsujimura: EBARA’s R&D system includes the EOI, EOL, EIX, Miura: I think that the virtual factory scheme of EOS is a marand now EOS frameworks. Next, we will expand our efforts to riage of both virtual and physical relationships in that it is built incorporate the EHU and NIH (Not Invented Here) programs. upon both trust-based, face-to-face interpersonal connections The phrase “not invented here” generally carries a negative and digital technologies. meaning, but we use it in a positive sense as in “we don’t do The passion and dedication of EBARA is giving rise to a that here, but we want to.” I see the potential for EBARA to new type of relationship between large enterprises and adapt its technologies to various fields, not just to the evolution SMEs. The successes of these initiatives may not yet be tanof the automotive and semiconductor fields that are garnering gible, but the efforts of today will no doubt grow gradually into attention today but also to space, medicine, and other fields greater successes tomorrow. I anticipate that these efforts that the Company has yet to explore. Through our EOS initiawill one day create new technologies, new products, and tives, we are developing the infrastructure that will allow us to maybe even new industries. take a realistic approach toward judging what we can accomplish and how these accomplishments can be achieved when Future of EOS we actually go to use our technologies in these fields. Further——What are EBARA’s goals going forward? more, I hope to utilize the connections we have formed through Tsujimura: EBARA is currently in the process of building the the EOS framework to broaden the scope of technologies we Connected Lab to furnish the physical infrastructure for concan access and return the benefits to society. As we adopt a necting with the people that we are linked to through the EOS forward-looking perspective and place value in mutual trust, I framework. Going forward, we hope to make this lab into a am confident in our ability to start small and grow gradually to place that enables involved parties to discuss and share ideas realize our goals. for the prototype being created through panels in virtual EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 36 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Human Capital—Management Resources Underpinning Competitive Edge—Human Resources and Diversity Message from Executive Officer Responsible for Human Resources The EBARA Group seeks to cultivate a corporate culture that encourages all ­employees to tackle their work with a competitive spirit and embrace challenge with ­passion and dedication. To this end, we replaced our prior seniority-based grading system with a system that evaluates employees based on their demonstrated role and accomplishments in the workplace, regardless of age, gender, or nationality. To facilitate the ongoing development and growth of EBARA’s business on a global scale, we will continue to implement system reforms aimed at utilizing global human resources more effectively and promoting Group unity. Shu Nagata REFERENCE Personnel Affairs and Human Resource Development Policy Executive Officer http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/environment/index.html#anc1209051 Division Executive, Corporate Strategic Planning Division and Human Resources Division Initiatives for Enhancing Human Capital Human Resource System Reforms Management-level employees were incorporated into the new system in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, and all union members were incorporated in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. The following initiatives were implemented to facilitate the transition. Human Resource System-Related Measures Results • Enables optimal placement of individuals to management positions based on ability as opposed to seniority • Enables the formation of strategic placement plans for capable individuals to develop in different areas Succession management program of the organization • Expands succession management program toward Groupwide/global positions to accelerate global mobility • Restructured a traditional seniority-based HR system to a system that evaluates and motivates employInstallation of new grading system ees based on their contribution and performance, more comparable to systems globally • Eliminates employee classifications which allows all employees to be evaluated and rewarded for highly Unified employee classifications skilled work and performance results Drastic change in promotional examination • Talented employees are promoted to management-level positions faster than before for management-level positions • Promotion of youngest employee to a management-level position at age 28 (previously youngest was 35) • Surveyed approximately 9,000 employees at domestic Group companies Employee awareness survey • Exceeded the average score for questions regarding work motivation for companies with more than 10,000 employees Promotion of Diversity and Work Style Innovation Human Resource Development A priority in EBARA’s diversity promotion Under the new human resource system, the roles and respon­initiatives has been to step up efforts for sibilities of section and department managers have changed empowering female employees. These drastically. In reflection of these new roles and responsibilities, efforts have earned recognition, and, in training programs for new section and department managers May 2018, the Company received the highest at EBARA CORPORATION and domestic Group companies rating (Rank 3) in the “Eruboshi” certification were introduced to facilitate awareness reforms and skill mark program. In this program, the Minister of Health, Labour acquisition. Going forward, we will continue efforts to enhance and Welfare grants this certification to the companies that the capabilities of managers. present excellence in empowering female employees based In addition, Self-Development Workshops were held for on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and employees who were previously general/assistant staff to help Advancement in the Workplace. them better understand the changes in their roles and to take In addition, the Operations Innovation Division was estabthe first step in tackling new challenges. We will enhance the lished in April 2018, after which EBARA began implementing line-up of these self-development training programs to supCompanywide work style innovations. In promoting diversity, port employee skill development going forward. the EBARA Group seeks to go beyond just empowering female employees to cultivate workplace environments in which each and every employee is able to fully exercise their talents and realize their ideal work-life balance. 37 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Human Capital Resolution of Material Issues: Action Policy 6 Progress toward Action Policy KPI Targets (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) Promotion of Diversity Status & KPI Target Ratio of female managers 5.8% (EBARA CORPORATION, full-time employees) % 7.0 KPI target: To accomplish our target for the ratio of female managers, we are enhanc7.0% ing and accelerating support for female employees to develop their careers. 5.8 Various ongoing initiatives are being implemented in this regard, including 5.4 presentations on the career paths of more experienced female employees, holding workshops, and dispatch to external training sessions. 2017 2018 2020 (Result) (Result) (Target) Human Resource Development Status & KPI Target Training expenditures per employee Yen ¥31,167 (consolidated, in Japan) 31,167 Programs for improving management skills have been conducted for 25,398 ­managers at domestic Group companies, as the introduction of the new KPI target: 21,147 human resource system drastically increased the roles and responsibilities 25,398 yen of managers. 2017 2018 2019 (Result) (Result) (Target) Occupational Health and Safety Status & KPI Target Frequency rate of accidents resulting in lost work days 0.32 0.32 0.32 (consolidated, in Japan) We have set our target for reducing the frequency rate of accidents resulting 0.25 in lost work days as 0.25 or less, the average of manufacturers with more KPI target: than 1,000 employees. Seeking to accomplish this goal, we will support 0.25 Group companies in establishing and installing health and safety plans/ regulations in each company. 2017 2018 2019 (Result) (Result) (Target) Work Style Innovation Status & KPI Target Total annual work hours per employee Hours 2,035 2,017 hours (consolidated, in Japan) 2,017 We facilitate a flexible workplace environment. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, the Work Style Innovation Committee, chaired by the 1,950 President and Representative Executive Officer, was established to monitor progress of work hour KPIs and improvement of productivity in each division. KPI target: In addition, we are participating in the government-led TELEWORK DAYS 1,950 hours campaign as a special sponsor. 2017 2018 2019 (Result) (Result) (Target) EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 38 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Human Capital EBARA’S PEOPLE Engaging in Competition and Embracing Challenge We asked employees for their stories regarding their goals and how they are taking on challenges to better society and support the growth of the Company. QUESTION Could you please tell us about the project that you are currently engaged in? ANSWER My team is currently in the midst of implementing a Groupwide enterprise resource planning system. I believe that, as the EBARA Group grows as a global company, it is crucial to develop foundations and implement a work process optimization and standardization system that unites the Group and lives up to the expectations of markets and customers worldwide. Currently, we have a 107-year history that has been supported by the introduction of operation systems and the pursuit of optimization on a by-business or by-division basis. However, we realize that this approach has limits with regard to our ability to utilize digital technologies in management. This is why in implementing this new system, we will need to consider iconoclastic reforms while maintaining our traditional strengths and following the “EBARA Way.” In order to effectively utilize this Akiko Uematsu new system, we will need to change how every employee thinks, Division Executive, Operations Innovation Division along with our very corporate culture. This is the end goal of my project, and I have no doubt that this massive undertaking will go 1992 Joined the Company Involved in launching overseas businesses in overseas sales division down in EBARA Group history. of the Precision Machinery Business 2000 Supervisor position in a management division of a precision machinery subsidiary QUESTION Responsible for the development of a system for managing income at Group companies How do you intend to further build upon the EBARA Group’s 2007 Team Manager in Internal Control Improvement & Enhancement strengths through this project? Also, what challenges do you Division hope to tackle in the future and what do you want to Handled development of Groupwide frameworks as part of project for accomplish? furnishing Group internal control systems based on Financial Instruments and Exchange Act 2015 General Manager, Internal Control Department ANSWER Planned and deployed internal control self-inspection guidelines The EBARA Group has a wide range of businesses and boasts 2017 General Manager, Internal Control and Risk Management sophisticated technologies, diverse products, and extensive base, Department Designed and implemented measures for spreading and monitoring sales, and service networks. This system between business segimplementation of internal control self-inspection guidelines and risk ments and countries is very complex, and it is currently difficult to management guidelines identify and share important information between business seg2019 Division Executive, Operations Innovation Division ments and departments efficiently. If, however, we could find a Assumed responsibility for promoting Companywide work process way to standardize and share relevant information and data within and work style reforms the Group, it would become possible for all organizations within the Group to utilize the strengths of others in a greater range of instances and on a mutual basis. I want to see the EBARA Group It is crucial to develop foundations and become an organization in which all employees are united as one, implement a work process optimization and and driven by passion and dedication to swiftly deliver highly relistandardization system that unites the Group and able products and services to customers around the world. I am lives up to the expectations of markets and devoted to helping create the foundations and corporate culture that will be required to accomplish this vision. customers worldwide. 39 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Human Capital QUESTION You worked overseas for quite a while. What kinds of challenges did you face there and what kinds of results did you see from those efforts? ANSWER For around eight years, I worked at Ebara Pumps Europe S.p.A., an Italian consolidated subsidiary that functions as an overseas production base for manufacturing stainless steel standard pumps.* I was in charge of development and sales support for the EVMS model pump, a global core product, as a project coordinator. As part of this project, we introduced a development methodology that entailed advancing all processes simultaneously in order to realize substantially shorter development periods. Before the project, our development was relay-race-style, meaning each design, production, and sales process was fully completed before passing the baton to the next process. However, this style of production resulted in a very long total development process, as the Dai Sakihama creation of the dies for production or sales materials had to wait Business Development Section, Global Sales Headquarters, until after the design phase had been totally completed. The Standard Pump Business Division, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company ­initial design phase also had a substantial impact on the entire 2008 Joined the Company development process and it was difficult to realize optimal Assigned to the development and design of standard pumps designs that also took ease of production or procurement 2011 Dispatched to Ebara Pumps Europe S.p.A. into account. Appointed to engineering position as part of an official development To address these downsides, we organized a dedicated team assistance project in Gambia comprised of representatives from all relevant divisions. Through 2012 Assigned to Business Development Department of Ebara Pumps this team, the basic design data necessary for the production and Europe S.p.A. sales processes was shared while the design phase was still Responsible primarily for new product development and planning underway to allow all processes to be conducted at the same 2019 Appointed to Business Development Section, Global Sales Headquarters time. We were thereby able to shorten what used to be four-year Responsible primarily for supporting sales of standard pumps in development periods down to two years. Moreover, by accounting Southeast Asia for ease of production and procurement in the design phase, this project realized a 30% cost reduction. The memory of villagers’ tears of joy in QUESTION Gambia will serve as my motivation going What kinds of challenges do you hope to tackle in the future? forward and as one source of the pride I feel working at EBARA. ANSWER In the past, I had the opportunity to take part in an ofﬁcial development assistance project in the Republic of Gambia in the west of Africa, where we constructed a regional water supply system. In the future, I hope to utilize the business strategy formulation and project management experience I gained to tackle the challenge of reinforcing businesses at existing bases and establishing new bases in the global market. The memory of villagers’ tears of joy when we completed construction of the water supply system *S  tainless steel standard pumps are primarily used for supplying water in buildings and in Gambia will serve as my motivation going forward and as one commercial facilities. Other uses include pressurization and circulation applications for source of the pride I feel working at EBARA. general industrial equipment such as water treatment and cleaning systems. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 40 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Natural Capital—Management Resources Underpinning Competitive Edge—Environmental Management Message from Executive Officer Responsible for Environmental Management The EBARA Group recognizes that efforts to combat climate change are not only important responsibilities but also significant business opportunities. We are therefore moving ahead with the development of products that realize the maximum possible reduction in environmental impact through miniaturization and efficiency improvement. In addition, we are making a business of helping prevent disaster damage from extreme weather events and supporting swift recoveries from any damage that occurs. The Group is also engaged in a concerted effort to reduce energy consumption, minimize waste, and otherwise realize more eco-friendly production Toru Nakayama Executive Officer activities. We also endorsed the recommendations of the Task Force on ClimateDivision Executive, Legal, Internal Control and related Financial Disclosures in May of 2019, and we disclose information pertaining Risk Management and General Affairs Division to our efforts to combat climate change as a signatory. Chairman, Environmental Control Committee REFERENCE EBRA Group Environmental Policy https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/vision/index.html REFERENCE Environmental Management Structure https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/management/index.html Initiatives for Strengthening Environmental Management Enhanced Monitoring of Global Environmental Data Global Reinforcement of Environmental Management To facilitate the formulation of environmental targets for 2030, The Company has been performing on-site environmental and Groupwide IT infrastructure has been installed to collect, safety surveys of overseas production bases since 2014. These manage, and aggregate quantitative environmental perforsurveys were focused on the bases under the control of the mance data. The scope of environmental performance data Fluid Machinery & Systems Business up until 2017. The scope collection includes 100% of domestic consolidated subsidiaries of the surveys was then expanded in 2018 to include the sites and 92% of overseas consolidated subsidiaries (based on perof all companies under the jurisdiction of the Precision centage of sales). We have been continuously expanding the Machinery Business. Checklists have been established for scope of our data collection, beginning with the manufacturing these surveys to ensure that the precursors of environmental facilities with the largest impact and are working to include all risks are addressed. The effectiveness of these checklists is consolidated subsidiaries. reviewed with each on-site survey in a process of ongoing enhancement aimed at ensuring accurate risk assessment. Environmental Measures through Products The following are examples of standard pumps launched in 2018 Improvement of Sales and Production Efficiency and that contribute to reduced environmental impact during use. Environmental Initiative Transparency • FSD4 model: Compared with conventional shaft direct conEstimate and inquiry centers have been established to expedite nection type pumps, this pump is more compact and space customer support, facilitate reductions in per unit of producefficient, contributing to resource conservation. tion energy consumption from automated pump assembly • DL model: With a simple structure that is easy to inspect and lines, and promote renewable energy use. repair, this pump achieves a longer lifespan and uses standardized parts to help conserve resources. • Sewage pumps with premium-efficiency IE3 motors: These pumps conserve energy with premium-efficiency motors and are thus being promoted as strategic global products. 41 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Natural Capital Resolution of Material Issues: Action Policy 3 Progress toward Action Policy KPI Targets (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) We aim to formulate EBARA Group’s FY2030 Environmental Targets based on an accurate understanding of current environmental performance levels on a global and Groupwide basis. The following KPIs and targets have been set for domestic Group companies, and business sites are working to reduce their environmental footprint accordingly. Greenhouse Gas Emissions*1 FY2020 Environmental Thousand tons of CO2 38,800t Target: 41.2 (Consolidated, in Japan*2) Reduce emissions (12-month reference figure) continuously 39.0 39.3 38.8 38.3 We are pursuing ongoing reductions in CO2 emissions through the introduction of and upgrades to air-conditioning equipment and lighting with higher energy efficiency and other measures to increase operational eco-efficiency. 29.9 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 Material Recycling Rate % 96.3% (Consolidated, in Japan*2) 98.7 98.8 98.1 (12-month reference figure) 97.2 The EBARA Group has set the target of maintaining a material recycling 98.0 rate of 95.0% or more as one of its FY2020 Environmental Targets. We will 96.3 work toward this target by ensuring that waste is properly separated, reducKPI Target: ing packaging materials, and implementing other initiatives for increasing 95% or more the material recycling rate and minimizing the landfill disposal rate. 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 Total Water Consumption FY2020 Environmental Thousands of m3 524,000m ; Tap water: 379,000m ; 3 3 Target: Water consumption of (12-month reference figure) Groundwater: 124,000m ; 555 631 19 19 3 517,000 m3 21 Industrial water: 21,000m 3 198 15 229 124 167 (Consolidated, in Japan*2) Industrial water 406 379 379 Inspections and repairs of tap water leaks at the Suzuka District contributed Groundwater 280 Tap water to water conservation by reducing the amount leaked per hour from 480 L to 70 L. 2015/3*3 2016/3*3 2017/3 2017/12 2017/12 2018/12 Waste Production FY2020 Environmental Tons of waste 10,192t Target: (Consolidated, in Japan*2) Reduce emissions 10,025 continuously (12-month reference figure) 10,192 EBARA is pursuing reductions in waste volumes by lowering the amount of 9,387 9,295 9,053 packaging materials it uses, among other initiatives. In addition, we are reviewing the waste processing subcontractors used by the Group as a Groupwide waste production reduction measure, with the aim of increasing 7,704 recycling rates. 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 Renewable Energy Usage Rate 0.50% (Consolidated, in Japan*2) Solar panels have been installed at the Fujisawa District and at one domestic Group company. In addition, the Kumamoto Plant began procuring electricity from waste-to-energy generation at EBARA Environmental Plant Co., Ltd., in December 2017, thereby realizing a year-on-year reduction in CO2 emissions volumes of 53%. We will continue to investigate and examine possible methods of introducing renewable energy systems going forward. *1 The Company uses the emissions coefficient of 0.357 kg/kWh set in 2000. *2 Figure excludes one electricity supply company. *3 Only total water consumption was monitored prior to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. REFERENCE Targets & Data https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/environment/targets_data/index.html EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 42 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Social and Relationship Capital—Management Resources Underpinning Competitive Edge— Partnerships with Stakeholders Collaborative Value Creation Partnerships The EBARA Group CSR Policy defines our commitment to and foster greater trust with our stakeholders and this has foster trust with our valued stakeholders by conducting our become a part of the foundation of EBARA’s distinctive value business with a strong sense of ethics. This policy delineates a creation process. In the future, we will continue to promote dedication to co-creating value for society, industry, and life strategic engagement with stakeholders to ramp up our through collaborative value creation partnerships with various ­initiatives for using social and relationship capital to create stakeholders. We have proceeded to build strong partnerships new value. Stakeholders Engagement Venues Outcomes • Supply of products that match customer needs through •D  aily communication through sales divisions provision of finely tuned solutions Customers • Information provision via catalogs and websites • Contribution to the resolution of social issues through •R  esponses to questions and feedback through call centers effective water resource usage and efficient energy use as customers utilize EBARA products • Information disclosure and communication through the General Meeting of Shareholders and financial results presentation meetings • Increased trust in management Shareholders and • Timely disclosure via integrated reports, financial reports, • Diligent communication of feedback to management for Investors websites, and other venues improving business activities • Factory tours, company presentations, financial results, and ESG presentation meetings • Daily communication with product component, material, and • Superior product quality and safety service suppliers through procurement divisions and requests • Competitive prices Suppliers and Other for adherence to CSR Procurement Guidelines • Stable supply of products and services with reliable Business Partners • Response to questions and input from partners delivery periods • Support for training at partner locations • Enhanced collaborative value creation partnerships • Strong relationships with residents of areas surrounding business sites • Coordination with community members and local companies • Development of technologies and higher-quality Local Communities • Joint research with universities products and services • Open innovation with local citizen groups through EOL • Wider pool of human resource candidates • Enhanced collaborative value creation partnerships • Daily workplace communication • Corporate culture encouraging competition and • Opportunities for dialogue with management through President embracing challenge Employees Dialogue Meetings, educational lectures, and other programs • Improved employee motivation and performance • Regular communications with labor union • Workplace supporting employee physical and mental health Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors The EBARA Group recognizes the development of long-term First Annual ESG Presentation Meeting trusting relationships with shareholders and other investors as Recently, the expectations toward one of its most important management tasks. The EBARA companies and the roles they Group appropriately discloses corporate information necessary should play in the realization of a for shareholders and other investors to make investment sustainable society have been decisions and strives to further strengthen its trusting rising, stimulating a growing relationships with these stakeholders on a continuous basis by trend toward ESG investment, an engaging in investor relations (IR) activities for enhancing its investment approach that entails ESG presentation meeting corporate value through constructive dialogue. evaluating how much ESG factors are integrated into a In regard to the EBARA Group’s IR structure, in principle, company’s decision-making. To respond to this increased the Executive Officer responsible for IR and the IR Department interest among investors, EBARA held its first annual ESG perform all IR activities overseen by the President and presentation meeting for institutional investors and analysts in Representative Executive Officer. Furthermore, Directors December 2018, which drew around 40 attendants. At this (including Independent Directors), Executive Officers, and other meeting, then President and Representative Executive Officer members of top management arrange opportunities to speak Toichi Maeda explained how the Company evaluates and directly with shareholders and investors as necessary. integrates ESG consideration into its decision-making. 43 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 ENHANCEMENT OF MANAGEMENT CAPITAL Social and Relationship Capital Collaborative Value Creation Partnerships with Suppliers The EBARA Group’s Procurement Policy encourages partnersurveys of conditions at supplier facilities, making improveships with suppliers to pursue the mutual improvement of ments to EBARA’s procurement activities, and responding to value through the creation of high-value products and services. regulatory requirements. The structure and activities of these In addition, we request that suppliers understand and adhere execution organizations are planned for review in the fiscal to the CSR Procurement Guidelines, and we are working year ending December 31, 2019. toward achieving a recognition rate of 100% for the guidelines by 2019. Progress toward Action Policy KPI Targets In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, the Procurement Major Sections of CSR Procurement Guidelines Committee issued CSR procurement surveys to suppliers to 1 Compliance 6 Information disclosure assess their adherence to the Company’s CSR Procurement Consideration to human rights, Guidelines and the standards of the Responsible Business 2 7 Information security health, and safety Alliance.* These surveys found that 84% of respondents were 3 Environmental conservation 8 Protection of intellectual property conducting satisfactory CSR activities. The results of these Ensuring proper quality, price, surveys will be utilized to facilitate ongoing improvements to 4 delivery, and safety of products 9 Corruption prevention CSR activities across the supply chain. and services Improvement of technical Dissociation from antisocial REFERENCE CSR Procurement Survey Sample 5 10 capabilities forces https://ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/commitment/__icsFiles/afieldfile/ 2019/07/09/2019%20CSR%20Procurement%20Questionnaire(ENG.ver.).pdf REFERENCE Procurement Policy & CSR Procurement Guidelines https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/commitment/index.html#anc119696 Establishment of Procurement Committee Resolution of Material Issues: Action Policy 4 The Procurement Committee was established in 2018. Meeting Fulfill social responsibilities to supply chain, deliver reliable product quality twice a year, this committee is chaired by an Executive Officer throughout the product’s life cycle, and achieve responsible customer appointed by the President and Representative Executive Offiengagement cer and comprised of division executives of business divisions. The committee is responsible for establishing basic procureCSR procurement survey response rate: 72% ment policies for optimizing procurement activities and ensuring ­rigorous compliance. Moreover, execution organizations Awareness of CSR Procurement Guidelines (self-reporting basis): are formed below the Procurement Committee to execute the 98% measures prescribed by the committee to guarantee the *T  he Responsible Business Alliance is an organization that defines standards for the steady implementation of its basic policies. In 2018, such human rights of employees, workplace safety, and responsibility for the environment as ­organizations were formed for the purposes of promoting well as standards for business ethics across the electronics industry supply chain. Collaborative Value Creation Partnerships with Local Communities In line with its corporate philosophy, the EBARA Group conducts social contribution activities based on three basic policies: utilizing know-how gained through business activities, fostering human resources, and meeting social needs. Through these activities, we help resolve social issues together with members of local communities. Examples of Activities Support for Development of Next GeneraEvents Aimed at Female Junior High and EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund (Overseas Technical Seminars) tion of Engineering Human Resources High School Students Pump assembly demonstration at ­overseas Donation of pump cross-section models to Japan Science & Engineering Challenge Mirai Rikejo—Monzukuri Café 2019 event for technical seminar university in developing country (JSEC2018) female science and engineering students Winner of EBARA Award: Gifu High School (Photograph provided by Rikejo magazine, Kodansha Ltd.) EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 44 BUSINESS STRATEGIES At a Glance Net Sales Ratio (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) ➇➈ Precision Machinery Business 26 % ➆ ➅ Components ¥59.3 billion ➈ Other ¥1.6 billion ➆ CMP Systems ¥69.8 billion ➀ ➇ Others ¥6.5 billion ➅ Consolidated Net Sales 509.1 Fluid Machinery & Systems Business 60 ¥ billion % ➄ ➀ Pumps ¥172.0 billion Environmental Plants Business 12 ➁ Compressors and Turbines ➃ ¥87.6 billion % ➂ ➁ ➂ Chillers ¥35.8 billion ➄ Environmental Plants ➃ Others ¥13.4 billion  ¥62.8 billion Net Sales Ratio by Industry Net Sales Ratio by Region S&S Sales Ratio Other Building Electric equipment power Asia (excluding Japan) Semiconductor Japan Overseas Product S&S North America Europe Middle East Other Public infrastructure Oil and gas* * Mostly downstream businesses POINT POINT POINT Net sales were not overly concentrated on any Over 50% of total net sales came from overService and support (S&S) operations genone industry, but were rather distributed seas, with Asia being the largest region. In the erated approximately 40% of total net between industries in a balanced manner. fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, there sales, contributing to the stability of the This indicates that EBARA Group products are was an increase in sales to Asia and North EBARA Group’s profit foundation. Measures used in various areas of social and industrial America in the Fluid Machinery & Systems will be advanced in all businesses going infrastructure and support the creation of a Business. The EBARA Group will continue forward in order to capitalize on demand to safe, secure, and comfortable society. efforts to incorporate the growth of overseas grow S&S operations. markets into its business. 45 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES At a Glance Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Net Sales Ratio by Industry Net Sales Ratio by Region S&S Sales Ratio Pumps Other Custom pumps, standard pumps, Electric S&S pumping stations, etc. power Public infrastructure Building Japan Overseas Product equipment Oil and gas* * Mostly downstream businesses Compressors and Turbines Other Japan Compressors, steam turbines (primarily for use as drivers), etc. Overseas Product S&S Oil and gas* * Mostly downstream businesses Chillers Chillers, cooling towers, etc. Other Building Japan Overseas Product S&S equipment Electric power Environmental Plants Business Net Sales Ratio by Industry Net Sales Ratio by Region S&S Sales Ratio Environmental plants (waste incineration Overseas Other facilities, biomass power generation plants) Product Japan S&S (O&M*) Public infrastructure * Operation and maintenance Precision Machinery Business Net Sales Ratio by Industry Net Sales Ratio by Region S&S Sales Ratio Components (dry vacuum pumps, gas abatement Other systems), CMP systems, Japan and others (plating systems, etc.) Semiconductor Overseas Product S&S EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 46 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Fluid Machinery & Systems Business In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, net sales in the Fluid Machinery & Systems (FMS) Business were up in comparison to the previous fullyear period, even though conditions in building equipment and other principal markets were relatively unchanged. This was largely due to the recovery in the investment appetite of the oil and gas market. However, operating income was down due to the continuation of fierce price competition and the incurring of one-time costs for the purpose of addressing defective products. Throughout the year, we continued to advance various initiatives in accordance with the basic policies of the medium-term management plan, E-Plan 2019, to improve our profitability and market share in Japan and Aspiring to deliver greater beneexpand the scale of our operations overseas. Initiatives for improving profitability in Japan included commencing operations of an automated stanfits to customers, we endeavored dard pump assembly line on schedule as part of our broader efforts to optimize our production systems. In addition, steady progress was made in to develop new high-efficiency the consolidation and standardization of product lineups and in work proproducts and to augment our cess reforms spanning from sales to production. To improve market shares and expand operations in Japan and overseas, we endeavored to develop S&S systems. new high-efficiency products and augment service and support (S&S) systems. These efforts were geared toward achieving our targets for reducing electricity consumption during product use and for expanding S&S operaNobuharu Noji tions to help maximize product lifespans and minimize equipment downSenior Managing Executive Officer President, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company times, both Action Policy KPIs which address our material ESG issues. We are committed to making steady progress toward the accomplishment of ESG-related and other management targets and to completing the measures prescribed for the final year of E-Plan 2019. Business Model of the Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Risks and Opportunities Risks Strategies Business processes • Curtailing of capital investment by customers (entire FMS Business) Planning •F  ierce price competition fueled by contraction of domestic market Consultation (Pumps) (Chillers) Proposals • Economic slowdown in China (entire FMS Business) • Growing prices of raw materials (entire FMS Business) Growth Opportunities Development Principal measures of • Increased infrastructure investment in emerging countries (Pumps) Design E-Plan 2019 • Improvement of productivity and innovation in production processes (entire FMS Business) Action policies for • Rising environmental awareness resulting in increased interest in addressing material energy-efficiency/renewable energy technologies (entire FMS ESG issues Business) Manufacturing •G  rowing demand for advanced water infrastructure in emerging countries (Pumps) Strengths Operation •F undamental technologies cultivated over the years such as fluid/ Inspection numerical/material analysis, etc. (entire FMS Business) Details of strategies and Repair progress •P roficiency at developing highly efficient, high-quality, and highly Modification → Pages 49–52 reliable products (entire FMS Business) •S ophisticated insight, technologies, and skills (entire FMS Business) •D iverse, global employee base (entire FMS Business) •G lobal sales and S&S network (Pumps) (Compressors and Turbines) Risks and •S trong, enduring partnerships with business partners (entire FMS Strengths Business) Opportunities 47 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Progress and Targets of Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Strategies Major KPIs for Action Policies which Address Material ESG Issues Numerical Targets of E-Plan 2019 (Consolidated) Action Policy 1  rovide products and services that minimize the P Operating income to sales ratio 8.5% or more use of energy and resources Pumps Business 8.0% or more KPI: Reduce electricity consumption of certain Progress toward Target Compressors and Turbines Business 11.0% or more products in comparison to prior offerings Chillers Business 7.0% or more Progress toward Target KPI: Reduce the weight of certain products in comparison to prior offerings Major Outputs • Reductions to the amounts of energy and resources consumed during Operating Income / Operating Income to Sales Ratio ­production/product use Billions of yen % 20.0 10.0 Major Outcomes E-Plan 2019 target: 8.5% or more • Contributions to resilient social infrastructure and reductions in energy and resource use 15.0 7.5 Action Policy 2  xpand the service and support (S&S) business, E maximize product life, and minimize any product 10.0 5.0 downtime 5.0 2.5 Progress toward Target KPI: Increase S&S sales 0 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 0 Progress toward Target (9-month period) Results Plan KPI: Increase number of S&S bases Bar graph: Operating income (left scale) Other KPIs → Pages 49 and 51 Line graph: Operating income to sales ratio (right scale) Major Outputs Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Pumps • Longer product lives • Prevention of malfunctions and halted operations Compressor and Turbines Chillers Major Outcomes • Contributions to customer business continuity and protection of water and other lifelines through stable operation of social and industrial infrastructure Value Created through Customers’ Business Activities Outputs Outcomes Pumps Business Economic Value Pumps Business Stable water supply and drainage Standard pumps Reliable river management Custom pumps and irrigation Systems* Stable operation of plants S&S (oil, gas, petrochemical, etc.) Resilient Social Compressors and Turbines and Industrial Business Compressors and Turbines Infrastructure Compressors Business Steam turbines Stable operation of plants Environmental Social Value Cryogenic pumps (oil, gas, petrochemical, etc.) Value S&S Chillers Business Chillers Business Chillers Dependable temperature control Cooling towers of buildings, etc. S&S SDGs Highly Relevant to Business Activities * Systems operations include the construction, maintenance, and management of water infrastructure-related pump plants. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 48 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Progress of E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues Fluid Machinery & Systems Business KPIs & Targets for Fiscal Year Strategies Underway Accomplishments in Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Ending December 31, 2019 E-Plan 2019 Standard Pumps Principal Measures POINT 1. Consolidate existing models to reduce management costs, In the domestic market, smooth shorten product lead times, and lower manufacturing costs progress is being made in the 2. Fundamentally reconstruct production system by building consolidation of model lineups, automated assembly lines utilizing IoT, AI, and robotics the establishment of automated technology and boost product competitiveness through plants, and the improvement of shorter product lead times and lower manufacturing costs sales efficiency. Overseas, strong 3. Improve work efficiency through reinvention of production performance was achieved and sales operation systems through ongoing launches of core 4. Continue to launch products for the global market in addiglobal products. In the fiscal year tion to products that meet region-specific needs ending December 31, 2019, these initiatives will be continued. Another focus will be the expanOperating income to • Operating income to sion of overseas bases. sales ratio for standard sales ratio for standard and custom pumps and custom pumps Custom Pumps 8.0% or more 3.5% Principal Measures POINT 1. Revise domestic production systems to implement reforms Major factory functions were conaimed at enabling flexible response to production increases solidated to create a streamlined 2. Shorten product lead times and reduce manufacturing domestic production system. costs by revising production systems and standardizing Meanwhile, local sales bases in products S&S operations were reinforced 3. Expand overseas S&S operations and bolster overseas through human resource developsales and technical support systems to place bases closer ment at overseas bases. Measures to local customers for improving profitability through product standardization, shortened lead times, and reduced manufacturing costs will be continued in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. Material ESG Issues Reduce electricity Action Policy 1 • Progress toward applicable products’ electricity consumption consumption of certain reduction target (Delivered products only) 57.5% products in comparison to Provide products and services that minimize the use of energy • Progress toward applicable products’ weight reduction target and resources prior offerings (Delivered products only) 79.8% 2%–15% POINT Reduce the weight of Five applicable pump models were chosen for these KPIs and certain products in comefforts were advanced to reduce their energy consumption parison to prior offerings during operation in comparison to prior offerings. The progress 8%–40% toward targets is measured only in products delivered, which allows us to quantify our contribution to lower greenhouse gas emissions of our customers. We also promoted raw material conservation by setting and meeting targets to reduce the weight of certain products. Increase S&S sales Action Policy 2 • Progress toward S&S sales target 94.6% 44% (compared to nine• Progress toward standard pump on-call processing time* month period ended E  xpand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize product life, and minimize any product downtime target 87.4% December 31, 2017) • Number of countries with custom pump S&S bases 13 Reduce standard pump POINT on-call processing time* to Our network of sales and service bases are being bolstered to 4.5 minutes provide swift and comprehensive S&S to customers. New bases were established in Brazil and other locations in the fiscal year Increase number of counended December 31, 2018. tries with custom pump S&S bases to 14 * On-call processing time is the time required to document and relay requests to relevant divisions after conclusion of inquiry. 49 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Fluid Machinery & Systems Business TOPICS Examples of Initiatives Pertaining to E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues Standard Pumps Business Commencement of Operations for Automated Pump Assembly Line Operation of an automated assembly line for horizontal multi-stage pumps commenced at the Fujisawa District in September 2018. The installation of this line entailed replacing the production processes from assembly to inspection with four robots. The result is a production system that requires less human labor and is able to respond flexibly to changes in demand. In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, we plan to construct a new Automated assembly line automated submerged pump assembly line and to commence mass production of these pumps thereafter. Additionally, the number of models handled by the existing Relevant E-Plan 2019 Principal Measures automated horizontal multi-stage pump assembly line 2. Fundamentally reconstruct production system by building automated assembly lines utilizing IoT, AI, and robotics techwill be expanded from one to four. Going forward, further nology and boost product competitiveness through shorter improvements to productivity will be pursued through product lead times and lower manufacturing costs fully automated assembly lines as the Group endeavors to establish systems for supplying products that are more acutely matched to customer needs. Custom Pumps Business Reinforcement of Custom Pump S&S Network The EBARA Group has a robust track record of delivering custom pumps to oil and gas, water infrastructure, electricity, and other markets around the world. An important initiative in E-Plan 2019 and for our material ESG issues is to reinforce our S&S systems to ensure that delivered products can operate reliably with little to no downtime, Service shop in Saudi Arabia and we are taking action to accomplish this objective. One example would be the service shop in Saudi Arabia we established in the nine-month period ended December 31, Relevant E-Plan 2019 Principal Measures 2017. We are also moving forward with efforts to develop 3. Expand overseas S&S operations and bolster overseas sales service systems that are more closely connected to cusand technical support systems to place bases closer to local customers tomers at existing overseas service bases. At these bases sales staff and engineers perform proposal-based sales Relevant Material ESG Issues Action Policy 2 activities while local field service engineers supply parts  xpand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize E product life, and minimize any product downtime and conduct overhaul services. Going forward, we will continue to respond to customer needs for parts supply, repairs, and maintenance as we seek to enhance S&S offerings throughout all areas of product lifecycles. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 50 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Progress of E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues Compressors and Turbines KPIs & Targets for Fiscal Year Strategies Underway Accomplishments in Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Ending December 31, 2019 E-Plan 2019 Operating income Principal Measures • Operating income to sales ratio 2.2% to sales ratio 1. Boost competitiveness in existing markets and enter into POINT 11.0% or more new segments and markets through M&A and proprietary Multiple projects are underway to reduce costs and shorten development lead times between order receipt and shipment. Meanwhile, 2. Thoroughly improve profitability in product and S&S the expansion of S&S operations is being targeted through the operations enhancement of service bases and the provision of services for 3. Deepen integration of global management in order to overproducts other than those supplied by us. In addition, business come international competition units were organized on a product and service basis to reinforce operating foundations and create an operation system that encom­ passes all steps from order receipt to shipment. Measures will be continued throughout the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. Material ESG Issues Increase S&S sales Action Policy 2 • Progress toward S&S sales target 88.8% 67% (compared to nine• Progress toward pre-contract shipment rate in global service month period ended Expand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize product life, and minimize any product downtime operations (parts sales) target 100% December 31, 2017) POINT Achieve shipment rate of Nearly all targets set for KPIs have been accomplished. Closer 98% for pre-contract communication with customers will continue to be pursued in the shipments in global serfuture in order to enable timely parts supply. vice operations (parts sales) Chillers KPIs & Targets for Fiscal Year Strategies Underway Accomplishments in Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Ending December 31, 2019 E-Plan 2019 Operating income to Principal Measures • Operating income to sales ratio 1.2% sales ratio 1. Designate turbo chillers and cooling towers as most imporPOINT 7.0% or more tant models and develop and promote sales of competitive In China, we were able to participate in the industrial market for products in the Chinese market cooling towers, a segment of the cooling tower market in which 2. Maintain S&S operations for chillers and expand cooling we were previously not involved. However, development of turbo tower S&S operations, which promise growth, in Japanese chillers fell behind schedule. At the same time, we developed and market launched new eco-friendly chillers while consolidating cooling 3. Promptly establish bases and build production, sales, and tower production bases in Japan. In the fiscal year ending Decemservice systems in order to expand operations in countries ber 31, 2019, we will continue the steady implementation of meaother than Japan and China sures for expanding the scale of our operations in overseas markets and for heightening profitability in Japan. Material ESG Issues Reduce electricity conAction Policy 1 • Progress toward applicable products’ electricity consumption sumption of certain prodreduction target (Delivered products only) 100% ucts in comparison to prior Provide products and services that minimize the use of energy • Progress toward applicable products’ weight reduction target offerings 5% and resources (Delivered products only) 0% POINT Reduce the weight of certain products in compariThe EBARA Group is moving ahead with the development of new son to prior offerings 9% products that respond to customer needs while being considerate of the environment. Increase S&S sales Action Policy 2 • Progress toward S&S sales target 92% 17% (compared to nine• Number of countries with S&S bases 8 month period ended Expand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize POINT December 31, 2017) product life, and minimize any product downtime Operations will be established in overseas markets through colIncrease number of counlaboration with Group companies in China and Thailand. In additries with S&S bases to 10 tion, we are working to refine maintenance systems and develop service shops as necessary to provide services matched to the needs of each country and region of operation. 51 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Fluid Machinery & Systems Business TOPICS Examples of Initiatives Pertaining to E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues Compressors and Turbines Business Construction of New Factory in Bangalore, India A new factory was constructed in February 2019 at a service center for large-scale compressors and steam turbines, established in Bangalore, India in 2015, with the goal of bolstering production of small and medium-sized steam turbines and enhancing after-sales services. Small and medium-sized steam turbines are used as New factory constructed in Bangalore, India drivers and for power generation applications in a wide range of industries, including the petrochemical, food, ­general chemical, and biomass power industries. The new Relevant E-Plan 2019 Principal Measures factory in India has made it possible to respond swiftly to 3. Deepen integration of global management in order to overthe growing demand for these turbines in India and in come international competition East Asia. Relevant Material ESG Issues Action Policy 2 Moreover, the facility is equipped with design, sales, E  xpand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize prodand service divisions as well as a training center to be utiuct life, and minimize any product downtime lized in enhancing after-sales services in response to the diversification of energy supply systems and the growth of energy demand. Chillers Business Launch of New Model RHD Absorption Chiller Heater We launched the model RHD absorption chiller heater, a new eco-friendly product in the Japanese market in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. This new product was designed with thorough consideration paid to energy efficiency and to customer needs. Features include quick start-up, an energy conservation mode, a wide range of operation variations, reduced use of refrigerants (fluorocarbons), and other superior capabilities to contribute to lower energy use and environmental impact. In particular, New Model RHD absorption chiller heater this model’s quick start-up unlocks new possibilities for the applications of absorption chiller heaters. This makes it an ideal solution for environmentally conscious customRelevant Material ESG Issues Action Policy 1 ers while also having the potential to make large contribuProvide products and services that minimize the use of energy tions to addressing material ESG issues (specifically, and resources Action Policy 1: provide products and services that minimize the use of energy and resources). EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 52 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Environmental Plants Business In recent years, there has been a rise in the need for municipal solid waste (MSW) treatment facilities to create additional value for their communities, such as acting as a venue for environmental education, effectively utilizing heat energy generated from incinerating waste, or by being resilient infrastructure able to withstand natural disasters. This new value is required on top of fulfilling the primary function of safe and reliable MSW treatment. In response to these diversifying expectations, we are expanding the scope and improving the quality of the services we provide to create safer, more secure, and invigorated communities. We are doing this by promoting local production and consumption of electricity through waste-to-energy generation, offering remote operation support, stockpiling disaster response In addition to our main business items on-site, conducting community environmental education activities, of municipal solid waste treatand providing other services. In addition, we are embracing automation using AI and IoT technologies ment, we are expanding the in order to bolster the functionality and reliability of our facilities. As a scope and improving the quality result of these efforts, we were able to complete the development of the industry’s first automated waste crane system equipped with AI-powered of the services we provide to waste identification features in 2018, and we have begun offering this sercreate safer, more secure, and vice to our customers. Going forward, we will continue to coordinate closely invigorated communities. with our customers in order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society together with them. Atsuo Ohi Senior Managing Executive Officer President, Environmental Engineering Company Business Model of the Environmental Plants Business Risks and Opportunities Risks Strategies Business processes • Facility accidents (adverse impacts on surrounding communities) •C  onsolidation and abolition of facilities due to population decline Planning support in Japan • Lack of operation staff Growth Opportunities Design Construction •R  econstruction and upgrade demand stemming from aging of MSW treatment facilities Principal Measures of • Increase in outsourcing of facility operation to private-sector E-Plan 2019 companies Action Policies for O&M • Increased demand for renewable energy Addressing Material Waste-to-energy generation Remote support • Growing need for waste plastic processing ESG Issues Strengths • T  echnologies for realizing performance in line with customer Inspection requests Repair • High-efficiency facility operation technologies •O perational expertise based on industry-leading operation contractDetails of strategies ing track record Reconstruction and progress Lifespan extending renovations •M aintenance expertise for minimizing equipment burden and maxi→ Pages 55–56 mizing facility performance • Customerand community-rooted support capabilities •R obust insight as a pioneer in offering comprehensive, long-term service contracts •E lectric power management enabling the local production and conRisks and sumption of surplus energy Strengths Opportunities •T echnologies for complete recycling of ash from incinerated MSW 53 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Environmental Plants Business Progress and Targets of Environmental Plants Business Strategies Major KPIs for Action Policies which Address Material ESG Issues Numerical Targets of E-Plan 2019 (Consolidated) Action Policy 1  rovide products and services that minimize the P Operating income to sales ratio 11.0% or more use of energy and resources KPI: Waste-to-energy generation volume Progress toward Target Operating Income / Operating Income to Sales Ratio KPI: Power generated by biomass-related Billions of yen % power generation facilities 10.0 16 Major Outputs • Generation of electricity at waste treatment facilities • Generation of electricity from biomass 7.5 E-Plan 2019 target: 11.0% or more 12 Major Outcomes • Development of regional power supplies • Local production and consumption of electricity • Sustainable supply of energy 5.0 8 Action Policy 2  xpand the service and support (S&S) business, E maximize product life, and minimize any product downtime 2.5 4 KPI: Increase number of Operation and Progress toward Target ­Maintenance (O&M) contracting facilities 0 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 0 Major Outputs (9-month period) Results Plan • Highly efficient waste treatment services Bar graph: Operating income (left scale) • Extended facility lifespans Line graph: Operating income to sales ratio (right scale) Major Outcomes • Consistent waste treatment that is not impacted by waste qualities or amounts • Energy-efficient waste treatment realized through sophisticated technologies • Cleaner communities Value Created through Customers’ Business Activities Outputs Outcomes Appropriate MSW treatment Economic Value Maintenance of regional hygiene Stable operation of facilities through maintenance and repairs Waste incineration plants Extension of lifespans of aged facilities through massive Biomass power generation overhauls Creation of plants Creation of evacuation sites for Sustainable use in major natural disasters Recycling-Oriented O&M Community environmental Cities education activities Environmental New energy Highly efficient renewable energy Social Value Value generation (carbon neutral) Ash recycling Local production and consumption of electricity (supply of power to local government facilities) Material recycling (recycling of ash as stone materials, collection of rare metals) SDGs Highly Relevant to Business Activities EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 54 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Environmental Plants Business Progress of E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues The Environmental Plants Business has been promoting a over the years and are driven by our highly skilled operational variety of initiatives to both meet our E-Plan 2019 targets and engineers at the Fujisawa Remote Support Center and from address our material ESG issues, such as the introduction of design and maintenance technicians at the Haneda Technical AI and IoT services at municipal solid waste (MSW) facilities Support Center. operated and managed by the Company, as well as other initiaIn addition, the power created through waste-to-energy tives with the goal of improving waste-to-energy generation generation is utilized at public facilities, and we are proposing efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions. These efforts are the use of MSW treatment facilities as community energy cenunderpinned by operational know-how we have accumulated ters to contribute to the realization of sustainable communities. KPIs & Targets for Fiscal Year Strategies Underway Accomplishments in Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Ending December 31, 2019 E-Plan 2019 Operating income to Principal Measures • Operating income to sales ratio 7.8% sales ratio 1. Enhance and evolve operation and profit management POINT 11.0% or more 2. Reinforce domestic customer base and strengthen presThe long-term, trust-based relationships with customers ence as domestic O&M business operator fostered through the provision of high-quality services will be 3. Pursue ongoing growth in new energy businesses and leveraged going forward as we seek to grow orders for extenaggressively develop operations in the biomass power sions to existing facility lifespans, long-term comprehensive generation equipment market proposals, proposals for effectively utilizing electricity from waste-to-energy generation, and new projects. Furthermore, AI and IoT technologies will be utilized to improve business efficiency and thereby boost profitability. Material ESG Issues Waste-to-energy generation Action Policy 1 • Progress toward waste-to-energy generation volume target volume 100% 700,000 MWh or more Provide products and services that minimize the use of • Progress toward biomass power generation facilities energy energy and resources generation volume target 88.6% Power generated by biomassPOINT related power generation In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, the Company will facilities construct one biomass power generation plant as a result of the 1,700,000 MWh or more demand for building woody biomass generation facilities. This will allow us to meet our targets for these KPIs. Increase number of O&M Action Policy 2 • Progress toward O&M contracting facilities target 80% contracting facilities to POINT 100 Expand the service and support (S&S) business, maximize product life, and minimize any product downtime MSW treatment facilities provide various functions to communities, and social expectations for MSW treatment facilities are diversifying, with there now being demand for them to act as energy centers and resilient infrastructure in the face of natural disasters or to otherwise contribute to communities. We will seek to increase the number of contracting facilities that respond to this demand. 55 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Environmental Plants Business TOPICS Examples of Initiatives Pertaining to E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues Receipt of Order for Construction of Woody Specifications of Woody Biomass Power Generation Plant Biomass Power Generation Plant Location: Shiojiri City, Nagano Prefecture EBARA has received an order for the construction of a Fuel source: Domestically produced woody biomass (unused timber, wood scraps) woody biomass power generation plant from Soyano Wood Boiler type: Internally circulating fluidized-bed boiler Power Co., Ltd. The woody biomass power generation Generation capacity: 14,500 kW plant will be fueled using previously unutilized timber proScheduled start of operation: October 2020 duced through thinning, which was often abandoned in mountain forests, as well as wood scraps left over after construction of wood structures and will boast one of Relevant E-Plan 2019 Principal Measures Nagano Prefecture’s highest generation capacities of 3. Pursue ongoing growth in new energy businesses and 14,500 kW. Going forward, EBARA will seek to construct aggressively develop operations in the biomass power high-quality woody biomass power generation plants that generation equipment market capitalize on the characteristics of internally circulating Relevant Material ESG Issues Action Policy 1 fluidized-bed boilers, namely the ability to realize stable Provide products and services that minimize the use of energy combustion using diverse fuel sources, and to deliver and resources impeccable services related to these facilities. We can thereby help to fight global warming through spreading the use of renewable energy. Reinforcement of Waste-to-Energy Operations through Partnership Agreement EBARA Environmental Plant Co., Ltd., has concluded an agreement with MARTIN GmbH für Umweltund Energietechnik to engage in a cooperative partnership in the Japanese waste-to-energy market. MARTIN has a long history of nearly 100 years in the waste-to-energy business field and has made great achievements worldwide with proven technologies and a strong dedication to research and development. Under this agreement, we will have exclusive distributor rights to MARTIN reverse-acting Signing ceremony grate stoker-type refuse incinerators for use in new projects and in upgrades to existing large-scale facilities. These rights will make it possible for us to respond to a Relevant E-Plan 2019 Principal Measures 1. Enhance and evolve operation and profit management wide range of diversifying needs in the waste-to-energy market, poising us to reinforce our position and portfolio in the Japanese market. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 56 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Precision Machinery Business The Precision Machinery Business has proceeded to seize growth opportunities by fostering a reputation as a reliable partner through swift proposals that incorporate customer feedback and exhaustive support. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, we responded to the brisk capital investment in Asia by catering to customer needs through increased coordination with suppliers. The result was record-breaking income. Market slowdown is being seen in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, due to factors such as the trade dispute between the United States and China. Nevertheless, we look to make steady progress in initiatives for addressing EBARA’s material ESG issues and for achieving the targets of E-Plan 2019. Eying the future growth of the semiconductor market, we built a new We will increase our product semiconductor manufacturing equipment factory in 2016 and plan to comcompetitiveness and improve plete construction of an automated dry vacuum pump assembly line by the end of 2019. This will help us reinvent our production and work processes profitability through the completo realize increased product competitiveness and improved profitability. tion of an automated dry vacuum However, given the growth in demand, we realize that it will not be enough to simply boost our own production capacity; we will need to advance pump assembly line and greater ­initiatives with a view of the entire supply chain. For this reason, we plan coordination with suppliers. to pursue greater coordination with suppliers and construct ideal procurement systems. Looking ahead, we will augment our lineups of products along with our S&S offerings to match customer needs and contribute Tetsuji Togawa to the ongoing growth and development of both the Group and its Senior Managing Executive Officer President, Precision Machinery Company stakeholders. Business Model of the Precision Machinery Business Risks and Opportunities Risks Strategies Business processes • Fluctuations in semiconductor demand and slowing pace of semiconductor capital investment Planning Consultation •D  iminishment of market share due to supply chain issues or other Proposals factors leading to insufficient production capacity • Impacts of trade dispute between the United States and China Growth Opportunities Development Principal Measures of • Increased semiconductor demand stemming from spread and Design E-Plan 2019 advancement of IoT, AI, and automated driving technologies • Aggressive semiconductor investment in China Action Policies for •C  onsistent capital investment demand in Taiwan, South Korea, Addressing Material and Japan ESG Issues Manufacturing Strengths •R otating machinery, fluid equipment, machine control systems, gas decomposition and abatement, and energy conservation technologies Inspection •S ophisticated manufacturing technologies that contribute to Details of strategies Upgrades resource conservation and progress Repair • Bases positioned near customers worldwide →P.59–60 • Flexible, high-quality customer support capabilities •L ong-term employee retention contributing to technology accumulation and transfer • Diverse base of technically skilled employees around the world • Robust supply chain Risks and Strengths Opportunities 57 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Precision Machinery Business Progress and Targets of Precision Machinery Business Strategies Major KPIs for Action Policies which Address Material ESG Issues Numerical Targets of E-Plan 2019 (Consolidated) Action Policy 1 P  rovide products and services that minimize the Operating income to sales ratio 12.0% or more use of energy and resources KPI: Reduce electricity consumption of certain products compared to 2017 models Progress toward Target Operating Income / Operating Income to Sales Ratio KPI: Reduce the weight of certain products Billions of yen % compared to 2017 models 20.0 20 Other KPIs → P.59 E-Plan 2019 target: Major Outputs 12.0% or more • Reductions to the amounts of energy and resources consumed during 15.0 15 ­production/product use Major Outcomes • Increased energy efficiency for customer production lines 10.0 10 Action Policy 2  xpand the service and support (S&S) business, E maximize product life, and minimize any product downtime 5.0 5 KPI: Increase S&S sales Progress toward Target KPI: Shorten overhaul delivery periods 0 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 0 (9-month period) Results Plan Other KPIs → P.59 Bar graph: Operating income (left scale) Major Outputs Line graph: Operating income to sales ratio (right scale) • Longer product life • Prevention of malfunctions and halted operations Major Outcomes • Support for realizing a super-smart society by ensuring continuity of customer businesses Value Created through Customers’ Business Activities Outputs Outcomes Economic Value Dry vacuum pumps Semiconductor production Gas abatement systems Display panel production CMP systems Solar cell production Reduction of Physical Plating systems Environmental preservation and Time-Based Bevel polishing systems through gas abatement Distance Ozonized water generators Environmental Social Value Value S&S Creation of high-capacity, high-transmission-speed devices SDGs Highly Relevant to Business Activities EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 58 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Precision Machinery Business Progress of E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, the Precision emission reduction target was achieved ahead of schedule Machinery Business was able to achieve growth in net sales through increased sales of large-treatment-capacity gas due to its system that enabled it to supply products in a timely abatement systems. Our efforts to bolster S&S operations manner through flexible responses to the robust demand for resulted in S&S sales that grew in conjunction with the growth semiconductor-related capital investment. We thereby accomin semiconductor demand. Going forward, the development of plished the target of an operating income to sales ratio of products that contribute to energy and resource conservation 12.0% or more set for the final year of E-Plan 2019 for the will be pursued in this business as we also construct overhaul second consecutive year. In regard to material ESG issues, the systems to accommodate higher demand and proactively targets for reducing the weight of and the number of parts in address material ESG initiatives. CMP systems were accomplished, and the greenhouse gas KPIs & Targets for Fiscal Year Strategies Underway Accomplishments in Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Ending December 31, 2019 E-Plan 2019 Operating income Principal Measures • Operating income to sales ratio 13.7% to sales ratio 1. Improve production and work efficiency through autoPOINT 12.0% or more mation and strengthen our competitiveness through The operating income to sales ratio exceeded the target for the shorter product lead times and reduced costs final year of E-Plan 2019 for the second consecutive year. Going 2. Grow sales from the equipment group centered on forward, improvements to production and work efficiency will plating equipment, projected to become the third pillar be pursued through automation with the aim of minimizing the of operations, with focus on packaging processes impacts of fluctuations in semiconductor-related capital invest3. Implement open innovation policies to explore demand ment as we develop and cultivate new technologies and busifor new semiconductor manufacturing technologies nesses with a scope that extends beyond semiconductor and advance development targeting commercialization manufacturing. 4. Pursue growth and stabilization of existing businesses and accelerate global strategies in all businesses Material ESG Issues Reduce electricity consumption Action Policy 1 • In comparison to products from 2017: (in comparison to 2017 dry Reduced electricity consumption 1–2% vacuum pump and CMP system Provide products and services that minimize the use of Reduced product weight 10% offerings) energy and resources Reduced number of parts used 20% 10%–20% Reduced greenhouse gas emissions from products by value of 200 Reduce product weight POINT (in comparison to 2017 CMP We will continue to develop dry vacuum pumps boasting both system offerings) durability and energy efficiency in addition to large-scale and 10% light-weight dry vacuum pumps. Reductions to the weight of Reduce number of parts CMP systems will be targeted through improvements to the (in comparison to 2017 CMP energy efficiency and functionality of the parts that comprise system offerings) these systems. We will also work to increase the volume of 20% greenhouse gas emissions treated through EBARA’s gas ­abatement systems by boosting sales of these systems. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from gas abatement ­systems by amount of 200 (2017 values indexed to 100) Increase S&S sales Action Policy 2 • Increased S&S sales by 10% 15% (compared to 2017 values • Reduced overhaul delivery periods by 1% indexed to 100) Expand the service and support (S&S) business, maxiPOINT mize product life, and minimize any product downtime Increase number of overhauls The Precision Machinery Business will conduct capital investperformed 20% (compared to ment as necessary to respond to increasing demand going 2017 values indexed to 100) forward. At the same time, process improvements will be implemented to streamline and optimize processes in order to Reduce overhaul delivery periincrease number of overhauls performed and shorten delivery ods by 20% (compared to 2017 periods. values indexed to 100) 59 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGIES Precision Machinery Business TOPICS Examples of Initiatives Pertaining to E-Plan 2019 and Material ESG Issues Release of New Air-Cooled Dry Vacuum Pump Model There is a rising need for clean vacuum environments and for dry vacuum pumps that require less maintenance in the analytical instrument, medical equipment, food, and coating industries. We have developed and released our new Model EV-PA air-cooled dry vacuum pump to meet these growing market demands through the utilization of the unique dry vacuum pump technologies we have cultiModel EV-PA air-cooled dry vacuum pump vated over our history of responding to the sophisticated specification demands of the semiconductor industry. This product boasts user-friendly characteristics such Relevant E-Plan 2019 Principal Measures as a non-contact seal that eliminates the need for seal 1. Improve production and work efficiency through automation replacement and extends maintenance intervals and an and strengthen our competitiveness through shorter product lead times and reduced costs exceptionally light weight of 9 kg to 21 kg, allowing for easy movement. We will increasingly focus on the development Relevant Material ESG Issues Action Policy 1 of products and services that contribute to increasing Provide products and services that minimize the use of energy and resources ­productivity for customers while simultaneously reducing costs. Recognition from Customers Receipt of Excellent Performance Award from state-of-the-art technologies, and a dedicated executive TSMC for Seven Consecutive Years task force specializing in production yield improvement. EBARA remains committed to supplying customers EBARA has received the Excellent Performance in with products and services that contribute to improveCMP Equipment award from Taiwan Semiconductor ments in productivity and reductions in total costs for Manufacturing Co., Ltd., (TSMC) for seven consecutive customers. years for a total of nine times overall. At the award ceremony held during the 18th Annual Supply Chain Management Forum on December 6, 2018, nine companies were presented with awards from among the more than 700 suppliers in attendance. Each year, TSMC presents select suppliers that have Masao Asami (left), then Presiexhibited outstanding performance through the provision dent of the Precision Machinery Company, receiving award of service and support with an Excellent Performance plaque from TSMC CEO Dr. C.C. award. Three achievements were cited as reasons for Wei (right) EBARA winning the most recent award: remarkable support for research and development, comprehensive and thorough planning for mass production using EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 60 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Composition of the Board of Directors To ensure the Board of Directors effectively fulfills its roles “management of individual businesses (in the Company),” and responsibilities, the Company shall make up the Board “corporate management and management strategy,” with directors of sufficient knowledge and experience inside “research and development,” “the environment,” “social,” and and outside the Company in areas related to business man“internal control and governance.” In addition to having approagement. Knowledge and experience important to the Compriate knowledge in all of these areas, the Company appoints pany are defined as the areas of “legal affairs and risk nominees for Director positions by specifying areas in which management,” “personnel and human resource development,” the Company particularly expects them to contribute. “finance, accounting, and capital policy,” “auditing,” The chart below details the areas in which the Company Corporate Governance System at a Glance (As of March 28, 2019) Overview of the Board of Directors (As of March 28, 2019) Format Company with Three Committees Chairman of Board of Directors Independent Director Classification Name Committee positions Number of Directors 11 Of whom are Independent Directors 7 Number of Independent Directors 7 Director Non-Executive Term of Directors 1 year Chairman of the Company Toichi Maeda Member of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Ratio of Independent Directors to Total Directors NEW Director Independent Directors Masao Asami President and Representative 7 Executive Officer Inside Directors 4 Independent Director Chairman of the Board of Independent Sakon Uda Directors Member of the Nomination Nomination Committee Committee Lead Independent Director Independent Ratio of Non-Executive Directors to Total Directors Shiro Kuniya Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Compensation Committee D  irectors not concurrently serving as 10 Executive Officers Of whom are Independent Directors 7 Hajime Independent Director Independent Member of the Compensation D  irectors concurrently serving as 1 Sawabe Committee Compensation Committee Executive Officers Shozo Independent Director Independent Member of the Audit Yamazaki Committee Audit Committee Number of Female Directors Female Directors 1 Independent Director Independent Hiroshi Oeda Chairperson of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Composition of Three Committees Independent Independent Director Nomination Compensation Audit Masahiro Member of the Compensation Committee Committee Committee Committee and the Audit Compensation Committee Hashimoto Committee Number of members 3 3 5 Audit Committee Of whom are 2 3 3 NEW Independent Directors Junko Independent Independent Director Of whom are Inside Nishiyama Member of the Audit 1 0 2 Committee Audit Committee Directors Tetsuji Director Non-Executive Chairperson of the Audit Fujimoto Committee Audit Committee Shusuke Director Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Inside Director Member of the Audit Tsumura Committee Audit Committee Independent Independent Director with notification submitted to Tokyo Stock Exchange Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee *1 T  he above table does not represent all of the areas in which Directors possess expertise. Compensation Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee 61 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Composition of the Board of Directors expects the Directors appointed for the fiscal year ending concurrently as Executive Officers has been reduced from December 31, 2019, to contribute based on these policies. three to one. Of the current 11 Directors, seven are Independent From the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, an IndepenDirectors. This membership enables the Board of Directors dent Director has been appointed as the Chairman of the to exhibit greater levels of transparency and impartiality in Board of Directors, and the number of Directors that serve its oversight. Reasons for the selection of individual Directors can be found in the proposal for the election of Directors contained in the Notice of the 154th Ordinary REFERENCE General Meeting of Shareholders https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/stock/shareholdersmeeting/__icsFiles/afieldfile/2019/03/05/E6361_154_1.pdf Attendance at Board of Directors and committee meetings in the Areas in which Directors (Non-Executive Directors) are expected to contribute*1 fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 (Meetings attended / Total meetings) Corporate Personnel Finance, Legal affairs management Research Internal Board of Nomination Compensation and human accounting, The Audit Committee and risk Auditing and and Social control and Directors Committee Committee resource and capital environment management management development governance development policy strategy Appointed in 14/14 March 2019 Appointed in — — — — — — — — — March 2019 14/14 13/13 6/6 12/14 6/6 14/14 5/6 13/14 13/14 10/10*2 12/12*2 Appointed in 10/10*3 10/10*3 March 2019 Appointed in Appointed in March 2019 March 2019 14/14 14/14 14/14 14/14 *2 Hiroshi Oeda was newly nominated and appointed as a Director and as a member of the Nomination Committee at the 153rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders and the meeting of the Board of Directors held on March 28, 2018, and his attendance to meetings of the Board of Directors and committees held since that date is provided above. *3 Masahiro Hashimoto was newly nominated and appointed as a Director and as a member of the Audit Committee at the 153rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders and the meeting of the Board of Directors held on March 28, 2018, and his attendance to meetings of the Board of Directors and committees held since that date is provided above. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 62 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Board of Directors (As of March 28, 2019) Shozo Yamazaki ● Hiroshi Oeda ● Shiro Kuniya ● Sakon Uda ● Toichi Maeda Hajime Sawabe ● Member of the Audit Chairperson of the Lead Independent Director Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Company Member of the Committee Nomination Committee Chairperson of the Directors Member of the Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Member of the Nomination Nomination Committee Committee 63 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Board of Directors Masao Asami Junko Nishiyama ● Shusuke Tsumura Masahiro Hashimoto ● Tetsuji Fujimoto President and Member of the Audit Member of the Audit Member of the Compensation Chairperson of the Audit Representative Executive Committee Committee Committee and the Audit Committee Officer Committee ● Independent Director EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 64 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Brief Personal History of Directors (As of March 28, 2019) Toichi Maeda D  irector, Chairman of the Company, Member of the Nomination Committee Shiro Kuniya Lead Independent Director, Chairperson of the Compensation Committee   Apr. 1981 Joined the Company Apr. 1982 Registered as an attorney (to present) Apr. 2007 Executive Officer Joined Oh-Ebashi Law Offices (currently Oh-Ebashi LPC & Partners) Apr. 2010 Managing Executive Officer May 1987 Registered as an attorney at law, New York Bar Association (to present) Apr. 2011 Head of Business Unit, Custom Pump Business Unit, Jun. 1997 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Sunstar Inc. Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Aug. 2002 Managing Partner, Oh-Ebashi LPC & Partners (to present) Jun. 2011 Director (to present) Jun. 2006 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NIDEC CORPORATION Apr. 2012 President, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Mar. 2012 Outside Director, NEXON Co., Ltd. (to present) Apr. 2013 President and Representative Director Jun. 2012 Director (to present) Jun. 2015 President and Representative Executive Officer* Jun. 2013 Outside Director, Sony Financial Holdings Inc. (to present) Mar. 2019 Chairman & Director (to present) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Member of the Nomination Committee (to present) Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited Jun. 2015 Chairperson of the Compensation Committee (to present) Jun. 2016 Outside Director, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited (to present) Mar. 2019 Lead Independent Director (to present) Masao Asami Director, President and Representative Executive Officer  Apr. 1986 Joined the Company Apr. 2010 Executive Officer Hajime Sawabe Independent Director, Member of the Compensation Committee Apr. 2011 Division Executive, Sales and Marketing Division, Precision Machinery Company  Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer Apr. 1964 Joined Tokyo Denki Kagaku Kogyo K.K. (currently TDK Corporation) Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer* Jun. 1996 Director, Executive Vice President of Recording Device Business, TDK Corporation Apr. 2016 President, Precision Machinery Company Jun. 1998 President & Representative Director, TDK Corporation Mar. 2019 Director (to present) Jun. 2006 Chairman & Representative Director, TDK Corporation President and Representative Executive Officer (to present) Mar. 2008 Outside Director, Asahi Glass Co., Ltd. (currently AGC. Inc.) Jun. 2008 Outside Director, TEIJIN LIMITED Outside Director, Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Jun. 2009 Outside Director, Nomura Holdings, Inc. Sakon Uda Independent Director, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mar. 2011 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Nikkei Inc. (to present) Member of the Nomination Committee  Jun. 2011 Director, Chairman of the Board & Directors, TDK Corporation Oct. 2011 Councilor, Waseda University Apr. 1981 Joined Nippon Kokan K.K. (currently JFE Holdings, Inc.) Apr. 2012 Executive Advisor, Japan Management Association Aug. 1989 Joined McKinsey & Company Jun. 2012 Executive Advisor, TDK Corporation (to present) Feb. 2006 Executive Officer, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. Jul. 2014 Vice President, Board of Trustees, Waseda University Oct. 2007 Senior Managing Executive Officer, Japan Post Holdings Co., Ltd. First Executive Officer, Japan Post Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 2015 Outside Director, Japan Display Inc. (currently Japan Post Co., Ltd.) Director (to present) Member of the Compensation Committee (to present) May 2010 Professor, Kenichi Ohmae Graduate School of Business (to present) Jul. 2018 President, Board of Trustees, Waseda University (to present) Jul. 2010 Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, The Tokyo Star Bank, Limited Jun. 2011 Director (to present) Sep. 2012 Counselor, Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund (currently Nuclear Damage Compensation and Decommissioning Facilitation Corporation) Shozo Yamazaki Independent Director, Member of the Audit Committee Apr. 2014 Dean, Faculty of Business Administration Professor,  Business Breakthrough University (to present) Nov. 1970 Entered Tohmatsu Awoki & Co. (currently Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) Jun. 2014 Director, Business Breakthrough, Inc. (to present) Sep. 1974 Registered as a certified public accountant (to present) Jun. 2015 Director, Public Utility Fund Japan-North America Medical Exchange Foundation Jul. 1991 Representative Partner, Tohmatsu & Co. Chairperson of the Nomination Committee (currently Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC) Jul. 2015 Lead Independent Director Jul. 2010 Chairman and President, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants Apr. 2016 Vice President, Business Breakthrough University (to present) Jul. 2013 Advisor, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (to present) Sep. 2016 Advisor to Tokyo Metropolitan Government Apr. 2014 Professor, Tohoku University Accounting School Special advisor to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Political Reform Feb. 2015 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Headquarters Tohoku University Venture Partners Co., Ltd. (to present) Jun. 2017 Member of the Compensation Committee Jun. 2015 Director (to present) Jul. 2017 Executive Director, Public Utility Fund Japan–North America Medical Exchange Member of the Audit Committee (to present) Foundation (to present) Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mar. 2019 Chairman of the Board of Directors (to present) Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of Japan (to present) Member of the Nomination Committee (to present) Jun. 2017 Outside Director, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (to present) 65 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Brief Personal History of Directors Hiroshi Oeda Independent Director, Chairperson of the Nomination Committee Junko Nishiyama Independent Director, Member of the Audit Committee   Apr. 1980 Joined Nisshin Flour Milling Inc. (currently Nisshin Seifun Group Inc.) Apr. 1979 Joined Lion Fat & Oil Co., Ltd. (currently Lion Corporation) Jun. 2009 Director, Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. Mar. 2006 Director, Finished Product Department, Purchasing Headquarters, Apr. 2011 Director and President, Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. Lion Corporation Apr. 2015 Member of Management Council, Hitotsubashi University (to present) Mar. 2007 Director, Finished Product Purchasing, Production Coordinating Department Apr. 2017 Director and Executive Advisor, Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. No. 2, Production Headquarters, Lion Corporation Jun. 2017 Corporate Special Advisor, Nisshin Seifun Group Inc. (to present) Jan. 2009 Director, Packaging Engineering Research Laboratories, President, Seifun Kaikan Inc. (to present) Research & Development, Headquarters, Lion Corporation Dec. 2017 Member of the Japanese National Commission for UNESCO (to present) Jan. 2014 Director, CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation Mar. 2018 Director (to present) Mar. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Lion Corporation Member of the Nomination Committee Mar. 2019 Director (to present) Jun. 2018 Outside Director, SEKISUI CHEMICAL CO., LTD. (to present) Member of the Audit Committee (to present) Mar. 2019 Chairperson of the Nomination Committee (to present) Tetsuji Fujimoto Director, Chairperson of the Audit Committee Masahiro Hashimoto Independent Director, Member of the Compensation  Committee and the Audit Committee Apr. 1976 Joined the Company  Apr. 2004 Executive Officer Apr. 1972 Joined The Daiwa Bank, Limited (currently Resona Bank, Limited) Division Executive, Financing & Corporate Accounting, Corporate Group Nov. 1998 President, Bank Daiwa Perdania (Indonesia) Jun. 2007 Director (to present) Jul. 1999 General Manager of International Division, The Daiwa Bank, Ltd. Apr. 2008 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2001 Managing Director and General Manager of Financial Department, Apr. 2011 Responsible for Group Management, Finance & Accounting and Internal Control Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. (currently SCREEN Holdings Co., Ltd.) Apr. 2012 President and Representative Director of EBARA Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. Jun. 2004 Senior Managing Director, Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. Jun. 2012 Senior Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2005 Representative Director, President and Chief Operating Officer, Apr. 2013 President, Environmental Engineering Company Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. Jun. 2015 Chairperson of the Audit Committee (to present) Apr. 2014 Vice Chairman, Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. Jun. 2015 Senior Advisor (part-time), Dainippon Screen Mfg. Co., Ltd. Apr. 2016 Industrial promotion advisor, Kumamoto Prefecture (to present) Shusuke Tsumura Director, Member of the Audit Committee Mar. 2018 Director (to present)  Member of the Audit Committee (to present) Apr. 1981 Joined the Company Mar. 2019 Member of the Compensation Committee (to present) Jul. 2009 General Manager, Finance & Accounting Department, Finance & Corporate Accounting Division Apr. 2012 General Manager, Group Management Department Apr. 2013 Deputy Division Executive, Finance & Accounting Division Jun. 2014 Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Board Member Jun. 2015 Director (to present) Member of the Audit Committee (to present) * Indicates shikkou-yaku, a Japanese legal term which refers to executive officers who are appointed by the Board of Directors to execute company policy and strategy. The role and legal title of such executive officers are described in the Japanese Companies Act, and as such they bear fiduciary duties to the company. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 66 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Discussion between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Company SAKON UDA × TOICHI MAEDA Evolution of Corporate Governance System Propelled by Ongoing Pursuit of Effectiveness EBARA has continued to evolve its corporate governance system in its ongoing pursuit of effectiveness. In the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019, the Company began implementing initiatives under its new corporate governance system. The following is a discussion between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Company in which they look at some of the key points of the most recent transformation, explain their commitments to improved effectiveness, and reflect on initiatives conducted to date. Uda: The most recent transformation to EBARA’s corporate governance system drew a clear divide between the oversight function and the execution function. The prior transition to the Company with Three Committees format described in the Companies Act of Japan resulted in the delegation of additional authority to Executive Officers while also reinforcing the Sakon Uda oversight function of the Board of Directors, thereby evolving Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Company’s corporate governance system to increase the Member of the Nomination Committee effectiveness of both functions. Now, there is only one Director serving concurrently as an Executive Officer, and that is President and Representative Executive Officer Masao Asami. As President, Mr. Asami represents the execution function at meetings of the Board, providing explanations as such and shouldering the responsibility of answering any questions raised during discussion with the seven Independent Directors and the three Non-Executive Toichi Maeda Inside Directors. This change further solidified the structure of the executive function with the President as the head while Chairman & Director of the Company, Member of the Nomination Committee clarifying the division between the oversight function and the executive function. Up until now, in-house company presidents had also been appointed as Directors. However, as the role expected of a Director is oversight, which is fundamentally different from the execution role expected of an Executive Officer, I suspect that when an in-house company president served concurrently as a Director, they may have often found it difficult to fulfill the oversight function toward other Directors also in charge of 67 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Discussion between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Company i­n-house companies. The new system eliminates such issues. desire to realize genuine improvements in the effectiveness Maeda: EBARA’s corporate governance system is not merely of the Board, not simply an attempt to conform with trends an adopted template. Rather, it has continued to evolve based of the time, such as the move to respond to the establishon our history. In 2008, we appointed our first two Independent ment of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. Directors, and the number of Independent Directors was increased gradually to steadily develop and reinforce an overBackground and Reason for Appointing an Indepensight framework based around these individuals. When the dent Director to be Chairman of the Board of Directors Company transitioned to the Company with Three Committees Uda: Previously, the Chairman of the Company, who did not format in 2015, the number of Independent Directors grew to have execution responsibilities, served concurrently as the seven, representing a majority of the Board. Meanwhile, we had Chairman of the Board of Directors. However, these two posifailed to sufficiently discuss the role of Inside Directors that also tions are generally meant to fulfill different roles. It is common had executive responsibilities. When deliberating on the topic of for the chairman of a company to play a role in which they the effectiveness of the Board in 2018, we reached the concluinteract with outside stakeholders and provide advice based on sion that only one Director with executive responsibilities would their execution experience while the chairman of the board of be sufficient for effective deliberation: the President. The resultdirectors is responsible for the effective operation of the board. ing change in the corporate governance system narrowed the EBARA assigned these positions to different individuals to scope of the Board’s roles to focus on oversight, and thus allows establish a clear division between these roles. Another reason for more effective discussions at Board meetings. Although for making an Independent Director the Chairman of the Board the President is the only Director on the Board with execution of Directors was to help invigorate discussions among the responsibilities, we ask Executive Officers to attend if we expect Board. An important characteristic of EBARA’s Board of Directo have discussions pertinent to their area of responsibility. tors is that the Chairman of the Board of Directors, now an Moreover, Executive Officers make quarterly reports on the exeIndependent Director, is responsible for the meeting agendas. cution of their duties to the Board so we can periodically review The Chairman of the Board of Directors is thus charged with progress made on important executive issues. choosing the matters to be discussed by the Board from an Uda: It was not as though we began considering the new objective standpoint, as opposed to merely focusing on the system last year out of the blue. Quite the contrary, the idea of matters raised in-house. Fulfilling this role as an Independent such a system was nurtured over the course of many years Director, who is not constantly immersed in the internal cirthrough ongoing discussions on how to improve the effectivecumstances of the Company in the manner that previous ness of the Board. It might be more accurate to say that the chairmen were, requires a strong commitment. If I do not current system is a checkpoint on the road of our ongoing disfamiliarize myself with the discussions going on at the Mancussion of corporate governance systems, and that an imporagement Meetings and with the fundamental issues faced by tant foundation of these systems is the need for all members the Company, there will be no point in me being involved in the of the EBARA Group, particularly management, to hold a conprocess of deciding the agenda items for Board meetings. I will stant sense of urgency and awareness of potential risks. This also be unable to gain the trust of those inside the Company. is true even in times when the management base is stable. However, as I cannot be inside the Company on a full-time One example of this mindset coming to fruition is the recently basis, I would like to ask you, Chairman Maeda, for your announced succession plan. We did not merely think about the ­assistance in fulfilling this role. succession plan for the President and Representative ExecuMaeda: I see the act of assigning the role of Chairman of the tive Officer in response to questions directed toward us, but Board of Directors to an Independent Director to be a step rather seriously delved into this subject with years-long disforward in the evolution of the Company’s corporate govercussions resulting in us now being able to explain EBARA’s nance. The idea of this assignment was identified as an plans to external stakeholders transparently. All of manageimportant item for discussion by the Board of Directors in ment shares the belief that increasing the effectiveness of the 2018 and during this discussion it was decided that the ChairBoard and the committees will be positive for the Company man of the Company would fill a supportive role of offering as a whole. For this reason, management does not merely look consultation regarding agenda items and helping liaise with to change the form of the Company’s corporate governance Executive Officers. system to fit expectations. Instead, earnest effort is made based on thorough discussion to pursue real improvements Activities of the Nomination Committee that Selected in the functionality of the Board. the New President Maeda: I became a Director in 2011, and I remember how Uda: EBARA established its voluntary Nomination Committee fresh the opinions of the Independent Directors felt at that in 2008, and this committee began interviewing possible suctime. It was an eye-opening experience hearing their objeccessors to the President long before it was time for the tive and logical input, which was very different from the change. The committee was therefore able to discuss succes­discussions in prior Board meetings without Independent sion plans for the President and Representative Executive Directors. After that, we continued to increase the number ­Officer based on the understanding of the Company’s human of Independent Directors while moving ahead with corporate resources that had been obtained through interviews and governance reforms based on the discussions and sucquestions at meetings of the Board up until that point. The bigcesses thus far. This ongoing progress was rooted in our gest issue, however, was the fact that as the chairperson of the EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 68 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Discussion between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Company Nomination Committee was an Independent Director, there Natsunosuke Yago assumed the position of Chairman. He was was no guarantee that the rest of the Company would be strongly committed to making governance reforms due to accepting of the committee’s decision. The Nomination Comexperiencing a crisis that threatened the existence of the mittee had, in fact, been preparing for the leadership change ­Company caused by the overreach of EBARA’s top managefor a period of between three and six years, during which ment. I too experienced this crisis, and am committed to members had met with a substantial number of candidates, ­building strong frameworks—in other words, governance learning about their dispositions, while also receiving informa­systems—to prevent such crises from occurring in the future. tion from Inside Directors and through external evaluations. As the number of employees that do not know of this past Accordingly, the committee had a working understanding of increases, it is even more important for management to build the thinking, leadership style, and other qualities required of unshakeable frameworks. Our various initiatives to build these the President of EBARA. frameworks have led EBARA to be praised for the advanced Maeda: When the new President was announced, there were governance initiatives it is implementing today. However, these those who asked if I had made the decision. However, I was not frameworks are not perfect and it is crucial we maintain our a member of the Nomination Committee at that time, and I commitment to preventing management overreach and contherefore did not know who was selected until just before the tinue to evolve our corporate governance frameworks. announcement. Of course, I had heard the names of the candiUda: It is common for the chairman of a company to become a dates, but thoroughly respected that it was the duty of the consultant or advisor after resigning. Former Chairman Yago, Nomination Committee to recommend candidates to the however, resigned completely when his term was up out of a Board. In this manner, the Nomination Committee and the desire for EBARA to arrive at the corporate governance syssuccession plan did not merely exist in form but were able to tems it has currently. The terms of the President and the fully achieve their intended function. This fact filled me with Chairman are both limited to six years and I think that these pride for EBARA’s corporate governance. limits are reflective of the wisdom EBARA has accumulated. Uda: There are still very few cases among Japanese compaFormer Chairman Yago adhered to this precedent, rather than nies in which independent and transparent succession plans trying to create an exception for himself. I hope to encourage function as intended. Much more common are cases in which management to maintain this mindset and to continue to the plans existed in form, but were not put into effect, and ­communicate the background behind the current system cases in which it cannot be clearly stated who or what organigoing forward. zation actually truly nominated the president. EBARA, however, is very effectively exercising the functions of the Company with Recent Issues and Future Initiatives Three Committees format. The evaluation of the Nomination Uda: I believe that the Board of Directors has two roles: to perCommittee for this succession plan is left to be made five to form checks for preventing damage to corporate value and to 10 years from now based on the performance of the new mandrive the Company toward future growth. Concerning the latter, agement team. while the Board is unable to draft growth strategies on its own, it is important for it to recognize that it too has to take responReview and Evaluation of Past Corporate Governance sibility for the growth of the Company. Another responsibility of System Evolutions the Board is to nominate the President. After a new President Uda: Compared to 2011, when I became an Independent Direcis nominated, one cannot help but wonder how this individual tor, the substance of discussions at EBARA’s Board of Direcwill contribute to the growth of the Company through their exetors has changed greatly. When I first joined, the impacts of the cution duties over the duration of their term. By sharing this harsh reforms conducted previously were still lingering, and sentiment among all Directors, I hope to create a framework there was a very significant need to provide checks on manthrough which the Board goes beyond just performing checks agement. Over the years, the topics of discussion have graduand even takes initiative to encourage the endeavors of the ally shifted to more forward-looking subjects aimed at future executive team with the ultimate goal of boosting corporate growth. In addition, whereas prior discussions were largely value. focused on compliance and the progress of business plans, a Maeda: The change in our corporate governance system has great deal of time has been dedicated to the medium-to-longsimultaneously resulted in a change in the atmosphere of the term enhancement of corporate value over the past two or Board, making meetings more conducive to discussions of how three years. We are also starting to see Independent DirectorEBARA should pursue future growth. Every single report made only meetings. These meetings precede Board meetings and by the executive team to the Board is met with stern comserve as venues for productive discussion among Independent ments, but this allows opportunities to examine measures Directors, enabling us to enhance our capacity to pose quesfrom new perspectives or at deeper levels. I have high praise tions based on the specialized perspectives and insights of for the fact that discussions at the Board have been adding individual Independent Directors. This has led to discussions new levels of depth to the plans of the executive team. that are more substantial, and I truly believe initiatives of this Uda: Currently, I am in a position in which I coordinate with nature contribute to increased effectiveness of the Board. I am you, Chairman Maeda, to decide which management issues sure the investors will also have praise for this system, which should be raised as agenda items at meetings of the Board. will help increase EBARA’s corporate value. The most important among these issues is the formulation of Maeda: I became President in 2013 while former President the next medium-term management plan. A critical point in 69 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Discussion between the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Company formulating this plan will be projecting the trends that will be ahead, I hope to use my position as Chairman to spur the seen in society a decade from now and considering how to President and the other Executive Officers forward toward incorporate these into medium-term strategies. The Board future growth. and other relevant parties are engaged in deep discussion with Uda: Now, the Board is pressed to support the President as he this regard. seeks to navigate the currently opaque social trends. Should a Maeda: The process for formulating medium-term managelarge wave of change strike, the Board and its seven Indepenment plans at EBARA has improved significantly in comparison dent Directors with diverse backgrounds will need to be preto when I was appointed President six years ago. At that time, it pared to assist the President in swiftly adjusting course. I also was customary for the President to be the central figure hope to create a greater range of opportunities for individual responsible for compiling plans. We have since broken away Directors to voice their opinions to Executive Officers in order from this custom, and plans have come to be forged through to help them improve upon their plans. I aim to realize genuine an ongoing process of discussion by the Board. EBARA has improvements to the effectiveness of the Board of Directors already furnished the necessary governance system and finanand thereby create an organization that is committed to driving cial base for the creation of a successful plan, and looking aggressive growth. Corporate Governance Systems (As of March 28, 2019) Corporate Governance Systems Composition of Board of Directors Basic policies: Basic policies: • Adopt Company with Three Committees format (maintain clear separation of supervi•A ppoint less than 15 directors of whom one-third or more and at least five are Indepension and business execution) dent Directors •P  lace importance on the roles of Independent Directors and center systems on •M aintain a majority of Independent Directors and Non-Executive Inside Directors ­Independent Directors and Non-Executive Inside Directors •A ssign an Independent Director or Non-Executive Inside Director as the chairman of the Board of Directors Supervision General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Directors Nomination Committee Chairperson Chairman Independent Directors’ Meeting Compensation Committee Independent Directors Chairperson Chairperson Inside Directors (non-executive) Audit Committee Inside Directors (executive) Chairperson Support organizations for the Board of Directors Audit Committee Office Corporate Strategy Planning & Governance Enhancement Department Business Execution Management Meeting President and Representative Executive Officer Risk Management Panel Corporate Audit Section CSR Committee Disclosure Committee Executive Officers Management Planning Committee Meeting bodies for business execution Business Operating Organizations Independent Directors Inside Directors (non-executive) Composition of the Nomination Committee, Compensation Committee, and Audit Committee Basic policies: Inside Directors (executive) Executive Officers •A ppoint at least three members of which a majority are Independent Directors •A ssign only Independent Directors and Non-Executive Inside Directors to be members EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 70 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance The EBARA Group has established the “EBARA Way,” composed of its Founding Spirit, Corporate Philosophy, and CSR Policy, as the EBARA Group’s identity and set of values to be shared across the Group. Under the “EBARA Way,” the enhancement of corporate value through sustainable business development and sharing the results with all stakeholders, including shareholders, are EBARA’s most important management objectives. To achieve such objectives, we constantly seek the best possible corporate governance systems and strive toward further enhancement. Basic Policies 1) The Company respects shareholders’ rights and fosters an environment for shareholders to effectively exercise their rights while ensuring equality among shareholders. 2) The Company strives to appropriately cooperate with various stakeholders, including customers, business partners, employees, and local communities. The Company also strives to develop a corporate culture and climate in which such stakeholders’ rights and viewpoints are respected and business is effectively executed. 3) The Company strives to ensure management transparency through adequate disclosure of its corporate information. 4) The Company incorporates the organizational form of a Company with Three Committees to ensure the clear separation between supervision and business execution. This system is centered on the objective perspectives gained from Independent Directors and Non-Executive Inside Directors and the pivotal roles they play in supervision. 5) The Company engages in constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors on the basis of its IR Basic Policy, with a view to contributing to sustainable growth and the medium-to-long-term enhancement of corporate value. Major Initiatives Taken in the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 The Board of Directors is charged with three major responsiIndependent Directors, enabling new depth in discussions. bilities: indicating the directions for important corporate stratFurthermore, brisk discussions were held on the ideal form egies, establishing frameworks to allow for appropriate risks (scale, composition, etc.) of the Board of Directors and the to be taken in business execution, and providing highly effective Company’s committees. The Nomination Committee reflected oversight of business execution from an objective and indepenthe opinions raised during these discussions into its deliberadent standpoint. In addition, the Board of Directors is expected tions on the Director candidate nomination policies for the to exercise both leadership from the perspectives of defensive fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. functions and growth-oriented functions. In terms of defensive functions, the Board will work to establish regulatory frameworks for preventing the occurrence of scandals and the mateMajor Items Discussed by the Board of Directors in the Fiscal Year rialization of other downside risks. From the perspective of Ended December 31, 2018  growth-oriented functions, the Board will ensure that systems ■ Establishment of annual management plan and key performance are in place to allow management to take bold action to preindicators for business segments vent the loss of upside risk (such as business opportunities). ■ Reports on medium-term management plan progress and growth In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, based on the strategies by business results of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of ■ Examination of measures for improving investment efficiency Directors, time was devoted to discussing the progress and ■ Standards for selecting successor for President and Representachallenges faced with regard to growth strategies and the tive Executive Officer ■ Composition of the Board of Directors medium-term management plan, E-Plan 2019, in all of ■ Evaluation of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness ­EBARA’s business segments. Also, an additional Independent ■ Cross-shareholdings policies Director was appointed in March 2018. With experience as a ■ Investor relations activity policies corporate manager, this individual brought the number of ■ Response to Japan’s Revised Corporate Governance Code directors with management experience to four out of seven 71 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance Initiatives for Strengthening Corporate Governance Around the turn of the century, the Company re-acknowledged the importance and necessity of corporate governance systems. Since then, we have been introducing improvements to our governance systems in phases to facilitate the Company’s sustainable growth and fulfill its social responsibilities. We will continue to improve our governance systems as necessary to achieve further improvements and move them toward the ideal state in which the Board of Directors can fully exercise its functions. Evolution of EBARA’s Corporate Governance System Pursuit of further transparency and impartiality Development of frameworks to ■  ppointment of Independent A improve effectiveness Director to Chairman of the Board of Directors Commencement of ■ T  ransition to the Company with ■ R  eduction of number of Executive governance reforms Three Committees format Inside Directors to 1 ■  tart of annual evaluations of the S Start of corporate ■  ppointment of Independent A effectiveness of the Board of governance initiatives Directors Directors ■ V  oluntary establishment of ■  evision of Directors’ and Executive R ■ Introduction of Executive Officer Nomination/Compensation Advisory Officers’ compensation systems System Committee ■  eduction of the number of R ■  evision of Directors’ and Executive R Directors stipulated in the Articles Officers’ compensation systems of Incorporation April 2002–March 2007 April 2007–March 2015 April 2015–December 2018 January 2019– Governance Organizational format Company with Board of Company Company with Board of Company 06/15: Company with Three Committees Auditors Auditors Committees 08/08: V oluntary establishment of Nomi06/15: Establishment of Nomination/ nation/Compensation Advisory Compensation/Audit Committee Committee as statutory committees under the 02/09: Membership of: Board of Directors • Nomination Advisory Committee: 06/17: Membership of: 2 Inside, 2 Independent • Nomination Committee: 2 Independent, • Compensation Advisory Committee: 1 Inside 2 Inside, 2 Independent • Compensation Committee: 3 Independent • Audit Committee: 3 Independent, 2 Inside Chairman of the Board of President of the Company 06/13: D irector, Chairman (Non-Executive 03/19: Independent Director Directors Inside Director) Separation of supervision 05/02: Introduction of Executive Officer 06/15: Revision of rules of the Board of 03/19: Reduction of the number of and business execution System Directors to delegate greater Executive Inside Directors 06/02: R eduction of the number of Direcauthority to the business executive (3 → 1) tors stipulated in the Articles of team Incorporation (35 → 20) 06/05: R eduction of the number of Directors stipulated in the Articles of Incorporation (20 → 12) Number of Members of the Board of Directors Directors 06/02: 20 06/05: 12 06/08: 12 06/11: 12 06/15: 14 06/17: 13 03/19: 11 Independent Directors 06/08: 2 06/11: 4 06/15: 7 06/17: 7 03/19: 7 (of which, female) (2) (1) (1) Outside Audit & Supervisory 06/01: 2 06/07: 3 Board members Directors’ and Executive 06/02: S hortening of term of directors 03/08: • Establishment of standards for Officers’ nomination from two years to one year evaluating independence of Independent Directors • Establishment of basic policies for Directors’ and Executive Officers’ nominations • Set of tenure limit of Directors and Executive Officers Directors’ and Executive 05/09: • Establishment of Basic Policy 03/18: • Abolition of stock option system Officers’ compensation on Directors’ and Executive • Introduction of restricted Officers’ Compensation stock compensation plan • Abolition of officer retirement and performance-linked benefit system stock compensation plan • Introduction of share-based payment stock options Advisors 06/15: Abolition of the provision regarding advisors in Articles of Incorporation Evaluation of Board of 06/16: Start of evaluations of the effecDirectors’ effectiveness tiveness of the Board of Directors 06/17: Addition of individual interviews into procedures for evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors EBARA Corporate 11/15: Establishment Governance Basic Policy 11/18: Revision (addition of regulations regarding non-reappointment of President, etc.) EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 72 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance Evaluation of the Board of Directors Effectiveness The Company believes it is necessary to work toward the best possible corporate governance systems and strive for improvement at all times. Annual evaluations of the contributions and effectiveness of the Board of Directors are conducted and the results are ­disclosed. The Company simultaneously works to resolve any issues that come to light. Timeline of Effectiveness Evaluations and Areas Identified as Needing Improvement 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 Evaluation ■ Self-evaluation by Board of Directors (with assistance by third-party institution) system Evaluation ■ Questionnaire ■ Questionnaire and interviews by third-party institution method (Scope: All directors) (Scope: All directors) ■ Benchmark analysis Evaluation scope ■ Board of Directors & All Three Committees (Nomination Committee, Compensation Committee, and Audit Committee) Areas identified ■ Enhancement of discussions regard■ Enhancement of identification and discussion of long-term issues contributing to the improvement of corporate value as needing ing medium-to-long-term manageimprovement ment issues ■ Expansion of discussion regarding ■ Increasing monitoring of the progress ■ Increased support for monitoring and ideal methods of disclosing informaof E-Plan 2019 follow-up efforts post-deliberation by tion to capital markets the Board of Directors ■ Efficiency of proceedings in Board of Directors meetings ■ Periodic reviews of the size and composition of the Board of Directors ■ Enhancement of discussion on ■ Enhancement of discussions on succession planning for the President and succession planning Representative Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and Independent Directors Evaluation of the Board of Directors Effectiveness in the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Analysis and Evaluation Process Major Topics of Individual Interviews  With the cooperation of a third-party organization, the Com■ View of Board of Directors pany had each Director complete a questionnaire and then ■ Succession planning for Independent Directors held individual interviews with all of the Directors based on ■ Sharing of information between Nomination Committee and their responses to the questionnaire. The state and effectiveBoard of Directors ness of the Board of Directors was analyzed based on the results, and meetings were held in February 2019 to confirm the evaluation and future action items. Summary of the Results of Analysis and Evaluation It was found that the evaluation of the current state of operaContents of Questionnaires tion of the Board of Directors and the Company’s committees The Company formulates questions concerning the effectivewere generally high and that adequate discussion is being carness of the Board of Directors and the Committees. ried out on important issues at meetings of the Board of Directors and the committees, indicating that they are being operated appropriately. It was confirmed that issues identified Major Questionnaire Items  ■ Roles and functions of the ■ S  tatus of operation of the during the nine-month period ended December 31, 2017 Board of Directors three committees (enhancement of identification and discussion of long-term ■ Size and composition of the ■ Support systems for issues (growth strategies, etc.); increasing monitoring of the Board of Directors Independent Directors state of progress of E-Plan 2019; periodic reviews of the size ■ Status of operation of the ■ Relationships with investors and and composition of the Board; enhancement of discussions on Board of Directors shareholders succession planning for the President and Representative ■ Composition and roles of the ■ Self-evaluations Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and three committees Independent Directors) are being addressed and improvements are being made, although issues still remain. Furthermore, it was confirmed that the quality of discussion in Board meetings has improved due to the efforts of both Independent Directors and Inside Directors and the increase in Independent Directors 73 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance with management experience. It was also found that IndepenAction to Be Taken dent Directors made substantial contributions to discussions The evaluation of the Board conducted in the fiscal year ended by making statements based on their experience and expertise December 31, 2018, identified a need for ongoing action in the while remaining aware of the importance of their roles. following four areas. However, it was found that it is necessary to continuously engage in the enhancement of identification and discussion of E  nhancement of discussion of long-term issues contributing to long-term issues contributing to the improvement of corporate ■ the improvement of corporate value along with progress of and value and in the monitoring of the progress of the mediumissues with the medium-term management plan term management plan. Another area identified as needing ■ Increasing support for monitoring and follow-up efforts improvement was increased support for monitoring and post-deliberation by the Board of Directors follow-up efforts post-deliberation by the Board of Directors. ■ Periodic reviews of the size and composition of the Board of Directors ■ Enhancement of discussion on succession plans for Independent Directors Nomination Committee 2 Independent Directors Nomination Committee coordinates with the executive team Members 3 to systematically cultivate human resources while narrowing 1 Non-Executive Inside Director down the scope of candidates for the position of President. This Chairperson Hiroshi Oeda (Independent Director) approach means that, as opposed to choosing the next PresiHiroshi Oeda possess a wealth of general corporate Reason for dent at the end of the current President’s term, potential canmanagement experience, and he was appointed as appointment of didates are gradually cultivated and evaluated before the chairperson chairperson of the Nomination Committee so that his substantial insight can be utilized. Nomination Committee makes the final decision of who to Meetings in the nominate to be the next President. fiscal year ended December 31, 13 The Nomination Committee is comprised of three Non2018 Executive Directors, including two Independent Directors and the Chairman of the Company. This membership ensures the The Nomination Committee is mainly responsible for deciding objective selection of ideal candidates. on the proposals to be submitted to the General Meeting of The Company has a policy stating that excessive terms Shareholders concerning the appointment and dismissal of should be avoided for members of senior management (the Directors, recommendations to the Board of Directors conPresident and the Chairman of the Company) and that individucerning the appointment and dismissal of Executive Officers, als in these positions should be changed periodically. The term and recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning of the President is six years and we plan to implement an execthe appointment and dismissal of Directors with special titles utive development plan over the course of the term of each and Executive Officers with special titles, in addition to succesPresident to cultivate future candidates. sion planning for the President and Representative Executive Officer. Cultivation and Selection Process EBARA’s succession plan begins with searching for candidates Succession Plan for the President and Representative with the potential to fill the position of President in the future. A Executive Officer development program is then conducted to instill in candidates The establishment and implementation of the succession plan the basic skills expected of executives. This basic skill developfor the President and Representative Executive Officer is one of ment program includes discussions with managers from the most important tasks for the Nomination Committee. In Japan and from overseas, coaching from external specialists March 2019, a new President and Representative Executive on introspective thinking, and other provisions designed to culOfficer was appointed. However, the process of cultivating and tivate the sense of commitment required of an executive while selecting candidates by the Nomination Committee began improving the viability of candidates. During this process, the three years prior. individuals that will be advanced to the next step are chosen. The Company’s succession plan has two major characterisThe next step of the plan is to have candidates address spetics. The first characteristic is that this plan is formulated pricific business issues via the management issue resolution promarily by the Nomination Committee, of which the current gram. Candidates who proceed to this stage are placed in President is not a member. The second characteristic is that positions that take them out of the area in which they have no separation exists between human resource development experience or have previously been responsible for through and the selection of the next President, but rather that the means such as transfer to another division. They are then EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 74 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance Six-Year Cultivation and Selection Process 1st Year 2nd Year 4th Year 5th Year 6th Year Selection Management Issue Selection Management Issue Selection Basic Skill Resolution Program Resolution Program Development Program (1st Time) (2nd Time) Coaching / Selection Selection Management Issue Selection Candidate Search 1* Basic Skill Selection of Resolution Program Development Program President (1st Time) * Images do not represent actual numbers of candidates. Candidate Search 2* expected to work to address actual management issues while decision of who will become the next President is made by the experiencing various new aspects of business. The candidates Nomination Committee based on the degree to which the to be submitted to final consideration are selected from among required qualities are possessed as well as on qualities such the individuals that have excelled at this step. as flexibility and growth potential as decided based on the Final consideration candidates receive coaching on the extent to which the candidate grew before and after receiving mindset and thought processes necessary of the President coaching. from a professional executive coach and are expected to apply what they learn accordingly. Candidates are evaluated during Future Succession Plans the coaching process, and the results of these evaluations are EBARA will continue efforts to create the most ideal process reported to the Nomination Committee. for selecting future Presidents going forward. At the same The qualities required in the President include persevertime, we will endeavor to construct integrated management ance and passion in addition to other qualities expected of candidate development and selection programs that begin with executives. Additional requirements are also defined based on junior employees in order to cultivate a corporate culture that the management circumstances at a given time. The final encourages competition and embraces challenge. Message from the Chairperson of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee selected the new President to discuss themes as necessary to improve the effectivethrough a three-year process leading up to 2018. To deterness of EBARA’s corporate governance system. mine whether or not candidates fully embodied the necessary qualities, members of the Nomination Committee sat down to talk with candidates on several occasions. Based on these discussions, exhaustive deliberations were held among the members of the Nomination Committee before we finally chose the next President. This approach made for a transparent and impartial selection process while also ensuring that others would trust and be accepting of our selection. In addition to the selection of the current President, 2018 also saw us draft a succession plan for systematically cultivating management candidates and selecting new Presidents every six years. The plan was enacted in 2019. I believe this plan to be cutting-edge in terms of systematic management candidate development, and I expect the Hiroshi Oeda benefits to be immense. Independent Director Going forward, the Nomination Committee will continue Chairperson of the Nomination Committee 75 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance Compensation Committee 3 Independent Directors Introduction of Restricted Stock Compensation Plan and Members 3 Performance-Linked Stock Compensation Plan 0 Non-Executive Inside Directors Chairperson Shiro Kuniya (Independent Director) In 2018, the Company introduced a restricted stock compensaShiro Kuniya is an expert on international legal affairs tion plan and a performance-linked stock compensation plan and has accumulated a wealth of experience and deep for Directors, Executive Officers, and certain employees of the Reason for insight while serving as a director and auditor at various Company as well as for certain directors and employees of appointment of companies. He was appointed as chairperson of the chairperson subsidiaries. The restricted stock compensation plan is condiCompensation Committee so that he can utilize his experience and expertise as he exercises leadership from a tional on applicable officers and employees remaining in their broad, global perspective. position for a defined period of time. The performance-linked Meetings in the stock compensation plan is also conditional on the aforemenfiscal year ended December 31, 6 tioned period of ongoing service, and the issuance of compen2018 sation under this system is predicated on the accomplishment of targets set in advance by the Board of Directors. These sysThe Compensation Committee decides on policies and tems are designed to serve as incentive for applicable officers amounts of compensation for individual Directors and Execuand employees to pursue ongoing improvements in the corpotive Officers in addition to making recommendations to the rate value of the Company and better share that value with Board of Directors concerning officer compensation systems shareholders. at affiliates and other companies. Composition of Compensation Paid to Directors and Executive Officers (If 100% of the target for performance-linked compensation is achieved) Not performance-linked 100% Independent Directors 90.9% 9.1% Not performance-linked 82.1% Performance-linked 17.9% Non-Executive Inside Directors 57.1% 25.0% 14.3% 3.6% (Excluding Independent Directors) Not performance-linked 59.1% Performance-linked 40.9% President and Representative 45.5% 13.6% 27.3% 13.6% Executive Officer Not performance-linked 59.5% Performance-linked 40.5% Senior Managing 47.6% 11.9% 28.6% 11.9% Executive Officers Not performance-linked 60.0% Performance-linked 40.0% Other Executive Officers (Including 50.0% 10.0% 30.0% 10.0% Managing Executive Officers) Basic compensation Restricted stock compensation Annual bonuses Performance-linked stock compensation Ratio of Stock Compensation Issued Based on Rate of Overview of Compensation Types Accomplishment of ROIC Target Annual Bonuses Ratio of stock compensation issued Annual bonuses employ a framework in which bonus amounts are determined directly based on the degree of accomplishment of targets 100% for Company and individual performance. Long-Term Incentives (Stock Compensation) The Company offers two kinds of stock compensation, the value of which Performance-linked is tied to its stock price, as long-term incentives. stock compensation • Restricted stock compensation: In principle, shares of the Company’s stock are allocated during the first year of a medium-term management plan with a defined transfer restriction period coinciding with the 50% period of the medium-term management plan. • Performance-linked stock compensation: Common shares of the Company’s stock are allocated to applicable officers and employees in amounts calculated based on their rank at the end of a performance Restricted stock compensation evaluation period, which is set to coincide with the period of the current medium-term management plan, and in correspondence with the rate of accomplishment of targets set in advance for given performance indicators upon the conclusion of the period. 0% 4% 8% ROIC EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 76 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance Total Amounts of Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 Total Total compensation by type (Millions of yen) compensation Basic compensation Bonuses Stock options RS PLS Position (Millions of yen) Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Directors of the Board (exclud177 3 131 — — 3 14 3 28 3 3 ing Independent Directors) Independent Directors 98 9 92 — — 7 1 7 5 — — Executive Officers 610 15 310 13 172 14 37 13 47 13 42 Total 886 27 533 13 172 24 53 23 80 16 45 Notes: 1. Compensation paid to Executive Inside Directors is included in the Executive Officers compensation column. 2. The amount of compensation paid to Executive Officers includes ¥79 million in compensation paid by subsidiaries to Executive Officers that serve concurrently as officers at subsidiaries. 3. The basic compensation (limited to performance-linked portion) of Non-Executive Inside Directors and bonuses of Executive Officers are calculated based on the performance of the EBARA Group, the performance of the relevant division, and an evaluation of the individual’s performance in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, and amounts are determined individually after deliberation by the Compensation Committee. 4. Basic compensation shown is the total amount of basic compensation paid to Directors and Executive Officers in office as of December 31, 2018, for the term of office of each Director and Executive Officer for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, and basic compensation paid to the two Non-Executive Directors among the three Directors who retired at the conclusion of the 153rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 28, 2018, and the two Executive Officers who retired at the conclusion of the meeting of the Board of Directors held on the same day according to their terms of office during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 5. Bonuses shown are the total amount of bonuses paid in March 2019 to Executive Officers in office as of December 31, 2018, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 6. The stock option system was abolished in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, and a restricted stock compensation (RS) plan and a performance-linked stock compensation (PLS) plan were introduced in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 7. No new stock options were issued in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. However, the amount recorded as expenses during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, in association with stock options issued in previous fiscal years is listed. 8. Stock options shown is the total amount of stock options granted in previous fiscal years to Directors and Executive Officers in office as of December 31, 2018, for the term of office of each Director and Executive Officer for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, and stock options granted to the two Non-Executive Directors among the three Directors who retired at the conclusion of the 153rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 28, 2018, and the two Executive Officers who retired at the conclusion of the meeting of the Board of Directors held on the same day according to their terms of office during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. Stock options are calculated at the fair value of subscription rights to shares and shown as the amount recorded as an expense in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 9. Restricted stock compensation shown is the amount of restricted stock compensation paid to Directors and Executive Officers in office as of December 31, 2018, recorded as expenses in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 10. Performance-linked stock compensation shown is the amount of performance-linked stock compensation paid in May 2020 to Directors and Executive Officers in office as of December 31, 2018, recorded as expenses in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 11. There were no Directors or Executive Officers to which total compensation paid in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, exceeded ¥100 million. Audit Committee 3 Independent Directors Major Areas Assessed by the Audit Committee Members 5 • The Audit Committee investigates the status of operations 2 Non-Executive Inside Directors and assets at the head office and at major operating sites Chairperson Tetsuji Fujimoto (Full-time Non-Executive Inside Director) and subsidiaries as described below to verify the implemenTetsuji Fujimoto has been appointed as the chairperson and a full-time member of the Audit Committee with the tation and operational status of internal control systems at expectation that he will be able to utilize the experience the Company and at Group companies. Reason for he gained in positions at the Company in accounting, • The Audit Committee confirms that the Independent Auditor appointment of finance, and business divisions as he maintains an up-tochairperson maintains a position of independence and conducts audits date and accurate understanding of the circumstances within the Company and quickly reflects changes in the appropriately. The committee also receives reports from the operating environment in the audit activities of the ComIndependent Auditor on a regular and as-needed basis on pany to heighten their effectiveness. the status execution of its duties. Based on the results of Meetings in the annual evaluations of the suitability of the Independent Audifiscal year ended 14 tor for reappointment as well as of the eligibility, indepenDecember 31, 2018 dence, and overall capabilities of the Independent Auditor, the Audit Committee decided to reappoint Ernst & Young The Audit Committee is responsible for conducting audits to ShinNihon LLC as the Company’s Independent Auditor for assess whether or not Directors, Executive Officers, and the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are in compli• In addition to the items audited every fiscal year based on ance with legal obligations and internal regulations. In addiannual audit plans, the Audit Committee also designates tion, the Audit Committee endeavors to monitor Executive other items requiring particularly intensive audits. In the Officers and verify whether they execute their duties in a fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, intensive audits of the sound, fair, appropriate, and efficient manner in accordance following items were performed. with basic policies for management and mediumand longi) Appropriateness of accounting procedures pertaining to term management plans established by the Board of notes and accounts receivable-trade / inventories and of Directors. investment revaluations / impairment losses associated with business reorganizations 77 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Corporate Governance ii) Implementation status of the medium-term management internal control and risk management on a monthly and asplan and annual budgets needed basis in order to maintain an accurate and up-toiii) A  dherence to fair disclosure rules and appropriateness of date understanding of relevant information. Advice is also information disclosure in consideration of stock exchange provided to the executive team as necessary. regulations • Documents of important resolutions are reviewed by the Audit Committee to confirm that decisions made are approActivities of the Audit Committee priate and in compliance with internal regulations. •T  he Audit Committee holds meetings with the President and • On-site audits are performed at domestic and overseas Representative Executive Officer three times a year to share offices, operating sites, and subsidiaries (including observarecognition of management issues and business and other tions of internal audits by executive teams and audits by the risks with the executive team and to exchange information. Independent Auditor) to confirm that internal control systems •M  embers of the Audit Committee attend meetings of the are functioning effectively across the Group. Management Meeting, the CSR Committee, the Risk Man• Group Auditor Conferences are held twice a year and agement Panel, and other important meetings to improve attended by auditors of subsidiaries to share information. the effectiveness and efficiency of audits. In addition, The Audit Committee also requests business reports from exchanges of information and opinions are held with the subsidiaries when necessary. Internal Audit Division and with divisions responsible for Cross-Shareholdings In principle, the Company does not hold cross-shareholdings. In exercising voting rights attached to cross-shareholdings, However, it is possible that the Company will hold shares of the Company determines whether to vote for or against each other companies only in cases in which it is determined that individual agenda item after consideration of whether it conpartnerships with investees through shareholding will contribtributes to the medium-to-long-term enhancement of the corute to the enhancement of the Group’s corporate value. The porate value of the Group and investees. Discussions are held rationale for cross-shareholding relationships is subject to with investees on the content of agenda items as required with regular examination by the Board of Directors based on the particular emphasis placed on the following items. following items, and shareholdings deemed by the Board of • Changes to articles of incorporation Directors to no longer be rational shall be dissolved when • Nomination of directors appropriate by disposal or other means. • Anti-takeover measures • Appropriation of surplus Matters Confirmed in Examination of Shareholding Rationale • Importance of partnership with investee and necessity of continuation of relationship •A  ppropriateness of returns and risks associated with the shareholding in comparison to cost of capital Number of Holdings and Total Amount on the Balance Sheet of Shares Held by the Company Not for Purely Investment Purposes 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 Number of holdings 71 56 50 46 Of which, holdings of stocks of listed 29 14 9 9 companies Amount on the balance sheet (millions of yen) 16,620 14,487 13,973 10,551 Of which, amount of holdings of stocks of 12,734 10,602 10,091 6,369 listed companies (millions of yen) EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 78 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Risk Management Basic Approach EBARA’s risk management divisions support the global develaddition, shared risk management and internal control guideopment of Groupwide business activities by reinforcing Group lines have been established for the Group to further support governance and risk management systems to furnish frameGroup companies in developing their risk management and works for facilitating the accomplishment of business results. internal control systems. Group administration regulations require that assessments REFERENCE Risk Management Basic Policy and System be performed prior to exposure to serious risks with the potential to impact Group companies or the entire Group and that https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/risk_management/index.html reports be submitted after risks have been assumed. In Priority Strategies and Progress Main Risks and Countermeasures Main Risks Identified The Risk Management Panel is one of the Company’s meeting 1. Risks associated with ordinary business activities bodies for business execution and is tasked with supporting 1) Compliance risks risk-related deliberations and activities. (1) Cartels and bid-rigging Compliance risks are combatted through education and (2) Bribery monitoring by specialized corporate divisions via the Anti-­ (3) Antisocial forces Corruption Program and other measures. Countermeasures (4) Trade security management for risks associated with the reliability of financial reporting (5) Compliance with Construction Business Act include developing, enhancing, and implementing internal (6) Compliance with Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract control systems. Meanwhile, the Environmental Control Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors ­Committee takes steps to improve the status of environmental 2) Risks associated with the reliability of financial reporting management to counter environmental risks. 3) Sales project risks In addition, crisis response procedures have been defined, 4) Loan and investment risks anticipated crises are assessed, and education and training 5) Environmental risks programs have been implemented to ensure preparedness. 6) Other operational risks 2. Crisis Priority Strategies and Progress Priority Strategies Progress • Head office internal control section conducted on-site evaluations Internal control • Provided ongoing support for implementation at Group companies Deployment and continuous improvement • Enhanced items on Internal Control Guidelines and revised contents of Risk Management Guidelines, which is of Risk Management*1 & Internal Control scheduled for completion in December 2019 Guidelines*2 at Group companies • Assessed policies based on the initiatives of the Business Continuity Management Subcommittee and the Information Security Subcommittee • Made quarterly activity reports Ongoing risk management and reinforce• Held discussions on contract risks pertaining to individual projects ment of risk management systems centered • Promoted deeper discussions of procurement activities and operational health and safety by dedicated on the Risk Management Panel committees • Formulated response measures for country-specific personal information protection laws • Improved environmental risk assessments of overseas manufacturing sites Risk assessment • Performed risk-weighting in reflection of changes in risks *1 Guidelines targeting improvements in risk management at overseas Group companies that were formulated by having each company conduct self-evaluations of their risk management level based on 12 areas, including the environment, anti-corruption, occupational safety, and human rights, and then establish a plan for the development of risk management systems to be implemented by the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019. *2 Guidelines for self-inspections designed to help EBARA Group companies practice autonomy in establishing, implementing, and improving internal controls. 79 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Risk Management Initiatives Pertaining to Priority Strategies Risk Assessment Employee Awareness Survey Based on Compliance Risk We conduct risk management centered on the Risk Manageand Employee Satisfaction Analyses ment Panel which holds regular quarterly meetings along with In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, an employee special meetings when necessary (seven meetings held in awareness survey was conducted with a third-party institution 2018) to implement a single-fiscal-year-basis risk manageto ensure objectivity. This survey combined conventional comment PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle. As part of EBARA’s pliance risk analysis that looks at the compliance awareness of medium-term initiatives for risk management systems, a risk employees and overall corporate culture with employee satisassessment was performed in 2018. faction analysis. We decided to integrate these analyses out of The assessment compiled the projected risks into around recognition of the importance of employee satisfaction and the 100 items and was carried out through surveys and interviews provision of comfortable working environments on overall with the individuals responsible for relevant businesses and compliance risks. divisions to reassess the amount of risk exposure, probability The compliance risk analysis was focused on determining of risk materialization, and adequacy of response measures whether EBARA is a reliable company. This analysis entailed for each item. Risks warranting Companywide responses were attaching quantitative scores to various compliance risks by assigned and risk owners and other response systems were organization and employee group and mapping the issues that decided upon by the Risk Management Panel. surfaced. Going forward, the Company plans to conduct risk assessThe employee satisfaction analysis identified issues through ments in three-year cycles to continuously implement questions designed to measure the levels of motivation among improvements to its risk management systems. employees on an individual, organizational, and company level. Risk Management Cycle Examination of Combined Risk and Employee Satisfaction Analyses Plan Formulate risk response plans Reliable company Motivating company Act Do Revise risk management Implement risk systems as necessary P response measures Compliance risk analysis Employee satisfaction analysis P Results of Employee Awareness Survey in the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 The employee awareness survey was designed to track yearly changes not only in comparison to data from within the Group A A D D but also in comparison to external benchmarks and on an individual question basis. The relative positions of the Company and of Group companies were shared with management via C the CSR Committee to establish an objective understanding of Risk assessment Medium-term cycle the circumstances within the Group. Issues were addressed performed as part of C through follow-up initiatives driven by coordination between medium-term Short-term cycle initiatives compliance divisions as well as human resources divisions and various other relevant divisions. The employee awareness survey implemented in the fiscal Check year ended December 31, 2018, indicated that there were no Monitor progress of risk response plans pressing issues on a Groupwide basis. Group companies with scores that fell below the overall average were provided with feedback and corrective measures were requested. Meanwhile, meetings with line managers and other investigations were performed at divisions in which specific issues were identified. In this manner, the head office was also involved in follow-up measures. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 80 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Compliance Basic Approach The EBARA Group strives to act as a good corporate citizen compliance awareness, guide us in creating systems for that earns the trust of stakeholders. For this reason, the detecting risks and preventing their realization and in estab“EBARA Way” and the EBARA Group Code of Conduct are lishing comfortable and open workplace environments. shared among all employees to form a common identity and REFERENCE EBARA Group Code of Conduct set of values. With this as the foundation, it is our basic policy to practice legal compliance along with faithful adherence to https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/ethics/corporate_ethics/index.html internal rules, social norms, and common sense and to act REFERENCE The EBARA Group’s Compliance System with good intentions and integrity. https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/Governance/governance/index.html Our company policies, rules, and regulations relating to risk management, which are based on the principle of spreading Priority Strategies and Progress Resolution of Material Issues: Action Policy 5 In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, various measures introduction of anti-corruption e-learning programs, the instiwere instituted at overseas Group companies along with initiatution of new guidelines, the expansion of overseas EBARA tives at domestic Group companies. Overseas measures were Group hotlines, and the implementation of compliance surveys focused on entrenching compliance and included the (in China). Priority Strategies Principal Measures Progress Establish frameworks and • Implement Anti-Corruption Program • Monitored status of relevant regulations at Group companies and provided ­implement measures for across the Group guidance ensuring compliance • Introduced comprehensive anti-corruption e-learning programs at 21 companies, prioritizing Group companies located in countries with low anti-corruption awareness • Instituted new guidelines at Group companies that incorporated policies for managing third-party entities from the perspective of anti-corruption • Establish overseas EBARA Group hotlines • Expanded application of whistle-blowing hotlines with external consultation venues at overseas Group companies (10 companies as of December 31, 2017 → 15 companies as of December 31, 2018 [nine in China, one in Vietnam, two in Indonesia, two in Thailand, and one in the Philippines]) • Entrench compliance awareness through• Transmitted and shared information through EBARA Group Compliance out the Group Network (domestic and Chinese subsidiaries) • Performed employee engagement survey (targeting approximately all 9,000 domestic Group employees) to analyze compliance awareness, corporate culture, and risks, as well as satisfaction • Conducted compliance surveys at overseas Group companies (targeting all of the more than 3,000 employees at 10 Chinese companies) Implement ongoing initiatives • Prevent and quickly detect and address • Processed 42 reports received in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 for improving capability of Group improper activity through swift response • Experienced sharp increase in non-compliance related consultations companies to independently to reports manage and improve compliance and risk mitigation activities • Enhance compliance liaison member • Trained compliance liaison members (50 at EBARA CORPORATION, 46 at system to provide familiar workplace conGroup companies) sultation venues • Stepped up communication with compliance liaison members 1. Integrated responses to reported incidents (9 in fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) 2. U pward trend of resolutions for consultation issues spearheaded by liaison members Foster comfortable workplace • Promote respect for human rights and • Posted human rights-related educational content on Company intranet ­environment founded on respect diversity in workplaces through activities (regarding Human Rights Week, requests for human rights slogans, for human rights and diversity of specialized divisions and compliance educational materials, etc.) liaison members • Continued to participate in Global Compact Network Japan, the Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and other external organizations 81 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Compliance Priority Strategies and Progress Respect for Human Rights Anti-Corruption ■ Harassment Prevention Measures ■ Implementation of Anti-Corruption Program Across the Group The Company is establishing compliance consultation hotlines The Anti-Corruption Program is moving beyond its previous stage, and spreading understanding regarding these hotlines and which was primarily focused on the establishment of regulations their use in order to foster comfortable workplace environand compliance consultation hotlines, to a stage of deploying and ments and to heighten its in-house capacity to address issues. implementing various measures across the Group. These measures will include exhaustive anti-corruption training, improveREFERENCE Human Rights System ment of employee compliance awareness, and enhancement of https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/csr/social/human_rights/1209153_3116.html management of sales agents and other third-party entities. In Japan, whistle-blowing hotlines have been installed at 1. Anti-Corruption Training Based on Anti-Corruption Risks Group companies, and we are transitioning to a system in In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, anti-corruption which reported incidents are addressed by the site at which the e-learning programs were implemented in a total of 21 counissue was reported (head office, Group company). At overseas tries in Asia and South America, where anti-corruption awareGroup companies, we continue to reinforce overseas EBARA ness is low. These programs comprehensively targeted the Group hotlines, which are designed to contribute to increasing members of management and employees of sales and other transparency across Group companies, to bolster the internal divisions to which corruption risk awareness was most pertiwhistle-blowing hotlines of these companies, and to support nent and offered education on risks, such as those associated healthy and autonomous operation. with interactions with government officials. Compliance Consultation Hotline Policies  Number of Participants in Anti-Corruption Training 1. Prevent improper activity from occurring Asia South America 2. Quickly detect improper activity that may have occurred Applicable employees 1,575 70 3. Create comfortable workplace environments Rate of participation (fiscal year 98.9% 100.0% 4. Foster internal capabilities for resolving issues ended December 31, 2018) 5. Maintain the confidentiality of and protect those who report Note: Employees that did not participate were primarily those on long-term leave. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, 42 reports were 2. Improvement of Compliance Awareness Among Overseas processed through compliance consultation hotlines, relatively Group Employees unchanged from 39 in the previous fiscal period. Nine of these Surveys were conducted in the fiscal year ended December 31, consultations involved suspicion of harassment, while 26, or 2018, in China to measure the degree of awareness regarding more than 60% of all consultations, were related to workplace compliance as well as corruption and other risks. The EBARA environment or other issues with the potential to lead to comGroup will continue to conduct surveys going forward in order pliance risks. to facilitate the regular provision of information and the sharing of risk awareness. Reports Processed through Compliance Consultation Hotlines Applicable companies Applicable employees Response rate Reports processed in the fiscal year 10 3,200 Approx. 95% ended December 31, 2018 New consultations 42 Consultations continuing from the 3. Guidelines for Managing Sales and Other Agents 12 previous fiscal year New internal guidelines have been established for preventing involvement in bribery schemes. These guidelines will be deployed throughout the Group beginning in 2019. Issues to continue being investigated in next 10 fiscal year ■ Expansion of Overseas EBARA Group Hotlines Issues closed in the fiscal year ended 44 The number of companies with access to overseas EBARA December 31, 2018 Group hotlines was raised to 15 in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, and we intend to expand the scope of Going forward, the Company will continue efforts to gather applicable areas and enhance the operational status of these information on various risks as quickly as possible in order to hotlines going forward. prevent the spread of damages, particularly through the expansion of opportunities to rectify legal violations through Number of Overseas EBARA Group Hotlines internal compliance. 2019/12 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 (plan) Expansion of workplace training by compliance liaison members Total number of Measures Enhancement of coordination and communication with complicompanies with 3 7 10 15 17 ance liaison members hotline access EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 82 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Executive Officers (As of March 28, 2019) Masao Asami Tetsuji Togawa Senior Managing Executive Officer, President and Representative Executive Officer President, Precision Machinery Company   Apr. 1986 Joined the Company Apr. 1986 Joined the Company Apr. 2010 Executive Officer Apr. 2013 New Business Development Department, ­Precision Machinery Company Apr. 2011 Division Executive, Sales and Marketing Division, Precision Machinery Company Apr. 2014 Executive Officer Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer Mar. 2019 Senior Managing Executive Officer* (to present) Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer* President, Precision Machinery Company (to present) Apr. 2016 President, Precision Machinery Company Mar. 2019 Director (to present) President and Representative Executive Officer (to present) Atsuo Ohi Senior Managing Executive Officer, Norio Kimura Managing Executive Officer, President, Environmental Engineering Company, Division Executive, Custom Pump Division, Chairman and Representative Director of Fluid Machinery & Systems Company, Chairman, EBARA ­Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. EBARA MACHINERY ZIBO CO., LTD.   Apr. 1981 Joined the Company Jul. 1990 Joined the Company Apr. 2008 Executive Officer Apr. 2009 Executive Officer Oct. 2008 Division Executive, Apr. 2011 Division Executive, New Business Drive Division, Corporate Strategy Planning Division Precision Machinery Company Apr. 2010 Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2013 Division Executive, Components Division, Apr. 2011 Head of Business Unit, Global Marketing & Sales Precision Machinery Company Business Unit, Fluid Machinery & Systems Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer Company Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer* (to present) Apr. 2012 Vice President, Fluid Machinery & Systems Mar. 2016 Chairman, EBARA MACHINERY ZIBO CO., LTD. Company, Head of Business Unit, Global Pump (to present) Business Unit, Fluid Machinery & Systems Apr. 2016 Head of Custom Pump Business Unit, Fluid Company Machinery & Systems Company Jun. 2012 Director (to present) Apr. 2017 Division Executive, Custom Pump Division, Fluid Apr. 2013 President, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Machinery & Systems Company (to present) Apr. 2014 Senior Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2015 Senior Managing Executive Officer* (to present) Mar. 2018 President, Environmental Engineering Company (to present) Yoshiaki Okiyama Managing Executive Officer, President and Representative Director of EBARA D ­ ivision Executive, Standard Pump Business Division, Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. Fluid Machinery & Systems Company, Chairman, Jan. 2019 Chairman and Representative Director of EBARA Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd. Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. (to present)  Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Apr. 2011 Executive Officer Apr. 2017 Division Executive, Strategy and Technology Management Division, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Mar. 2018 Executive Officer* Nobuharu Noji Senior Managing Executive Officer, Division Executive, Standard Pump Business President, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company, Division, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company ­Responsible for Chillers Business, (to present) Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Chairman, Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd.  (to present) Apr. 1984 Joined the Company Mar. 2019 Managing Executive Officer* (to present) Apr. 2006 Division Executive, Components Division, Precision Machinery Company Apr. 2008 Executive Officer Apr. 2011 Managing Executive Officer Apr. 2013 Division Executive, Standard Pump Business Division, Operations of Technology and ProducAkihiko Nagamine Executive Officer, tion, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Division Executive, Finance & Accounting Division Jun. 2013 Director  Apr. 2014 Division Executive, Standard Pump Business Apr. 1982 Joined EBARA DENSAN LTD. Division, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Jun. 2006 Director of EBARA DENSAN LTD. Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Responsible for Jul. 2010 Joined the Company Chillers Business, Fluid Machinery & Systems General Manager, Investment and Affiliates Company (to present) Supervision Department, Finance & Corporate Apr. 2017 Division Executive, Standard Pump Business Accounting Division Unit, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Apr. 2014 Division Executive, Finance & Accounting Division Mar. 2018 Director (to present) Senior Managing Executive Officer* (to present) Apr. 2015 Executive Officer President, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Jun. 2015 Executive Officer* (to present) (to present) Responsible for Finance & Accounting, Group Management, and Internal Control 83 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 FOUNDATIONS FOR GROWTH Executive Officers Toshihiko Miyashita Executive Officer, Responsible Shu Nagata Executive Officer, Division Executive, for Compressors and Turbines Business, Fluid Machinery & Corporate Strategic Planning Division and Human Systems Company, Deputy CEO of Elliott Group Holdings, Inc. Resources Division   Apr. 1975 Joined the Company Apr. 1990 Joined the Company Mar. 2011 President and Representative Director of Oct. 2008 Managing Director of Ebara Pumps Europe S.p.A Elliott Ebara Turbomachinery Corporation Apr. 2017 General Manager, Global Sales and Marketing Feb. 2014 Deputy COO of Elliott Group Holdings, Inc. Department, Standard Pump Business Division, Jun. 2015 Executive Officer* (to present) Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Responsible for Compressors and Turbines Mar. 2018 Executive Officer* (to present) ­Business, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Division Executive, Corporate Strategic Planning (to present) Division (to present) Apr. 2016 Deputy CEO of Elliott Group Holdings, Inc. Mar. 2019 Division Executive, Human Resources Division (to present) (to present) Seiji Katsuoka Executive Officer, Division Executive, Toru Nakayama Executive Officer, Division Executive, CMP Division, Precision Machinery Company Legal, Internal Control and Risk Management and General  Affairs Division Apr. 1994 Joined the Company  Apr. 2009 Executive Officer Sep. 2014 Joined the Company Division Executive, Semiconductor Equipment Jan. 2018 Division Executive, Internal Control and Risk Division, Precision Machinery Company Management Division Apr. 2011 Division Executive, CMP Division, Mar. 2018 Executive Officer* (to present) Precision Machinery Company (to present) Division Executive, Legal, Internal Control and Jun. 2016 Executive Officer* (to present) Risk Management and General Affairs Division (to present) Akihiro Kida Executive Officer, Division Executive, Hiroshi Sobukawa Executive Officer, Responsible for System Business Division, Fluid Machinery & Systems Technologies, R&D & Intellectual Property, Company Division Executive, Advanced Technology Division,  Precision Machinery Company Apr. 1984 Joined the Company  Apr. 2011 Executive Officer Apr. 1987 Joined the Company Deputy Head of Domestic Sales, Apr. 2015 Executive Officer Marketing & Service Business Unit, Division Executive, Advanced Technology Division, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Precision Machinery Company (to present) Jun. 2016 Executive Officer* (to present) Apr. 2017 Division Executive of Technologies, Head of Domestic Sales, Marketing & Service R&D Division Business Unit, Fluid Machinery & Systems Mar. 2019 Executive Officer* (to present) Company Responsible for Technologies, Apr. 2017 Division Executive, System Business Division, R&D & Intellectual Property (to present) Fluid Machinery & Systems Company (to present) * Indicates shikkou-yaku, a Japanese legal term which refers to executive officers who are appointed by the Board of Directors to execute company policy and strategy. The role and legal title of such executive officers are described in the Japanese Companies Act, and as such they bear fiduciary duties to the company. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 84 11-Year Financial Summary EBARA CORPORATION and consolidated subsidiaries (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2009–Fiscal year ended December 31, 2018) The occurrence of the irregular nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, is the result of a change in the settlement date used by the Company. Please find 12-month reference figures on the right, which include performance data from January to March of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 Financial Results: Orders ¥481,398 ¥426,622 ¥430,992 ¥394,921 ¥428,540 Net sales 501,149 485,889 401,675 412,076 426,302 Operating income 637 18,953 31,541 23,266 25,084 Ordinary income (loss) (2,383) 16,749 28,750 21,086 25,663 Profit (loss) attributable to owners of parent (13,113) 5,441 28,191 2,889 15,303 Depreciation and amortization 15,179 15,274 13,523 12,764 12,355 Capital expenditures 23,560 19,484 8,189 12,316 12,302 R&D expenses 8,829 4,977 4,066 3,827 5,025 Financial Position: Total assets*4 ¥562,456 ¥522,540 ¥507,898 ¥488,964 ¥504,576 Total net assets 124,263 132,665 154,939 154,653 191,788 Shareholders’ equity*5 121,411 129,805 151,950 151,060 186,885 Interest-bearing debt 181,555 177,859 160,412 143,617 138,914 Retained earnings 7,315 12,567 40,759 41,750 53,886 Cash Flows: Cash flows from operating activities ¥ 17,438 ¥ 23,581 ¥ 26,604 ¥ 12,588 ¥ 34,014 Cash flows from investing activities (2,774) (17,127) 10,996 (8,837) (33,130) Cash flows from financing activities (3,233) (5,436) (14,096) (19,997) 3,265 Free cash flow 14,664 6,454 37,601 3,750 883 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the fiscal year 77,194 81,711 104,002 87,294 93,792 Share Data*6: Number of issued shares (1,000 shares) 422,725 422,725 459,245 422,899 465,118 Cash dividends (yen and U.S. dollars) — — 5.00 5.00 5.00 Total return ratio (%)*7 — — 7.5 73.0 13.9 Earnings per share (EPS) (yen and U.S. dollars)*8 ¥ (31.04) ¥ 12.89 ¥ 66.78 ¥ 6.85 ¥ 35.93 Book value per share (BPS) (yen and U.S. dollars)*8 287.44 307.46 360.01 357.79 402.41 Financial Indicators: ROIC (%)*9 (4.1) 1.8 9.1 1.0 4.9 ROE (%)*10 (9.6) 4.3 20.0 1.9 9.1 Debt/equity ratio (times) 1.50 1.37 1.06 0.95 0.74 Operating income to sales ratio (%) 0.1 3.9 7.9 5.6 5.9 Equity ratio (%) 21.6 24.8 29.9 30.9 37.0 Overseas sales ratio (%) 36.1 39.3 44.1 44.0 50.6 Major Non-Financial Indicators: Number of employees (persons) 16,102 13,800 14,007 14,695 15,170 Number of overseas employees 5,144 5,894 6,081 6,816 7,264 Overseas employee ratio (%) 32 43 43 46 48 CO2 emissions (thousands of tons)*11, 12 46.6 41.3 41.5 40.7 38.6 Material recycling rate (%)*11 95.0 95.8 96.7 98.6 98.6 Landfill disposal rate (%) 3.5 3.6 2.6 1.2 1.2 Water consumption (thousands of m3)*11 587 642 576 574 608 *1 The U.S. dollar amounts are included solely for convenience and have been translated as a matter of arithmetical computation only at the rate of ¥111.00=US$1, the rate of exchange prevailing on December 28, 2018. *2 At the General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2017, it was resolved to change the Company’s settlement date from March 31 to December 31. As a result, 2017/12 represents an irregular nine-month period aggregating performance from April 1 to December 31, 2017, for EBARA CORPORATION and consolidated subsidiaries that previously had a settlement date of March 31, and from January 1 to December 31, 2017, for consolidated subsidiaries that previously had a settlement date of December 31. *3 Figures for the 12-month period from January 1 to December 31, 2017, have been prepared to allow for performance to be compared across periods of the same length (figures are unaudited). *4 The provisional accounting treatment concerning business combinations implemented in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, was finalized in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, and the finalized details of the provisional accounting treatment have been reflected in total assets for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. *5 Shareholders’ equity: Total net assets – (Subscription rights to shares + Non-controlling interests) *6 EBARA CORPORATION conducted a consolidation of common shares at a rate of one share for every five shares with an effective date of October 1, 2016. 85 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 11-Year Financial Summary Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 12-Month Period Ended December 31, 2017 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12*2 (Reference Figures)*3 2018/12 2018/12 ¥512,276 ¥487,553 ¥491,280 ¥ 477,956 ¥ 413,569 ¥506,082 ¥ 575,576 $5,185,369 448,657 482,699 486,235 476,104 381,993 507,809 509,175 4,587,162 32,194 34,567 38,011 29,995 18,115 36,649 32,482 292,630 31,311 36,258 36,471 28,464 16,529 35,481 31,281 281,810 18,973 23,580 17,254 20,587 9,531 22,785 18,262 164,522 12,117 13,038 11,610 13,739 11,923 — 15,266 137,531 18,152 15,846 15,729 22,675 12,386 — 19,364 174,450 6,465 6,754 7,632 8,758 7,218 — 10,698 96,378 ¥530,211 ¥570,392 ¥579,860 ¥ 588,457 ¥ 612,919 — ¥ 591,592 $5,329,657 215,048 247,553 250,444 277,509 284,788 — 286,778 2,583,585 208,037 239,058 241,016 271,356 277,955 — 279,640 2,519,279 119,672 121,500 120,126 96,531 114,592 — 79,137 712,945 70,629 91,815 102,446 117,883 121,321 — 135,715 1,222,657 ¥ 26,615 ¥ 11,296 ¥ 21,528 ¥ 33,816 ¥ 44,157 — ¥ 34,610 $ 311,801 3,540 (15,894) (14,344) (18,563) (7,906) — (15,927) (143,486) (25,336) (7,044) (9,655) (15,102) 11,296 — (46,412) (418,126) 30,155 (4,597) 7,184 15,252 36,250 — 18,682 168,306 102,341 95,604 91,185 90,683 139,102 — 110,556 996,000 465,187 465,644 466,044 101,736 101,783 — 101,957 7.50 12.00 12.00 36.00 45.00 — 60.00 0.540 18.4 23.6 32.3 28.1 48.0 — 60.5 ¥ 40.86 ¥ 50.77 ¥ 37.12 ¥ 213.71 ¥ 93.84 — ¥ 179.94 $ 1.621 448.05 514.38 518.16 2,672.19 2,735.94 — 2,795.72 25.186 5.8 6.9 4.8 5.6 2.5 — 4.9 9.6 10.5 7.2 8.0 3.5 — 6.6 0.58 0.51 0.50 0.36 0.41 — 0.28 7.2 7.2 7.8 6.3 4.7 7.2 6.4 39.2 41.9 41.6 46.1 45.3 — 47.3 52.8 53.6 52.2 52.7 60.1 — 55.0 15,168 16,030 16,270 16,317 16,219 — 16,556 7,336 8,165 8,438 8,319 8,343 — 8,678 48 51 52 51 51 — 52 37.4 39.0 38.3 39.3 29.9 41.2 38.8 92.6 98.7 97.2 98.8 98.0 98.1 96.3 7.0 1.1 2.3 0.9 1.6 1.6 2.8 628 555 631 623 462 627 524 *7 When the annual dividend of ¥36.00 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (including an interim dividend of ¥6.00), is converted after the consolidation of shares, it is equivalent to ¥60.00 per share, consisting of an interim dividend of ¥30.00 and a year-end dividend of ¥30.00. Accordingly, the total return ratio is calculated based on an annual dividend of ¥60.00 per share. *8 EPS is based on the average number of shares outstanding (excluding treasury stock) during the fiscal year. BPS is calculated using the number of shares outstanding (excluding treasury stock) as of the end of the fiscal years. *9 ROIC: Profit attributable to owners of parent / (Interest-bearing debt (Average between beginning and end of period) + Shareholders’ equity (Average between beginning and end of period)) *10 ROE: Profit attributable to owners of parent / Shareholders’ equity (Average between beginning and end of period) *11 Figures are for EBARA CORPORATION and domestic consolidated subsidiaries. *12 The Company uses the emissions coefficient of 0.357 kg/kWh set in 2000. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 86 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Millions of yen 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and deposits ¥ 94,323 ¥ 89,589 ¥ 90,381 ¥138,475 ¥110,610 Notes and accounts receivable-trade 209,864 216,310 202,874 169,298 176,895 Electronically recorded monetary claims 156 727 4,511 6,021 6,990 Securities 5,186 4,599 2,498 2,411 1,668 Merchandise and finished goods 12,851 13,060 12,716 15,191 18,082 Work in process 41,848 47,163 56,569 60,993 65,845 Raw materials and supplies 25,491 28,740 28,041 33,353 38,731 Deferred tax assets 13,100 12,505 11,644 10,484 8,309 Others 14,628 13,994 17,419 14,954 14,714 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,370) (3,233) (3,250) (3,694) (3,308) Total current assets 415,080 423,458 423,407 447,491 438,540 Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets Buildings and structures, net 43,247 41,781 46,431 47,005 44,269 Machinery and equipment, net 24,850 26,823 28,974 28,632 28,599 Land 21,083 21,265 21,153 20,904 19,810 Construction in progress 6,633 7,960 5,207 5,830 7,558 Others, net 6,454 7,341 8,364 7,853 7,640 Total tangible assets 102,270 105,171 110,131 110,227 107,879 Intangible assets Goodwill 1,426 2,638 2,279 1,831 1,148 Software 5,813 5,755 8,275 7,370 6,584 Others 2,356 2,806 2,679 2,879 2,937 Total intangible assets 9,596 11,200 13,234 12,080 10,670 Investments and other assets Investment securities 28,609 26,662 26,202 25,226 22,301 Long-term loans receivable 850 802 263 262 153 Defined benefit asset 29 31 118 3,202 3,038 Deferred tax assets 7,594 5,921 2,660 1,742 4,572 Others 10,077 11,411 17,237 17,088 9,623 Allowance for doubtful accounts (3,717) (4,800) (4,799) (4,403) (5,187) Total investments and other assets 43,445 40,029 41,683 43,120 34,503 Total fixed assets 155,311 156,401 165,049 165,428 153,052 Total Assets ¥570,392 ¥579,860 ¥588,457 ¥612,919 ¥591,592 87 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12 2018/12 LIABILITIES Current Liabilities Notes and accounts payable-trade ¥ 81,121 ¥ 68,905 ¥ 64,155 ¥ 61,756 ¥ 63,320 Electronically recorded obligations 29,944 47,550 55,922 57,869 62,854 Current portion of bonds — — — 10,000 — Short-term loans payable 64,906 77,714 62,789 70,470 46,766 Income taxes payable 1,792 4,128 4,598 1,697 4,598 Deferred tax liabilities 0 — 3 0 — Bonus payment reserve 9,036 9,200 9,172 5,460 6,263 Directors’ bonus payment reserve 273 311 314 250 344 Reserve for losses on construction completion guarantees 4,346 3,889 3,836 3,279 4,873 Reserve for product warranties 2,906 3,506 3,481 4,086 5,118 Reserve for construction losses 6,326 7,748 8,666 10,038 12,374 Reserve for expenses related to the sales of land 1,843 254 254 254 254 Others 41,729 36,391 41,022 45,529 51,782 Total current liabilities 244,228 259,600 254,217 270,691 258,550 Long-Term Liabilities Bonds payable 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 Bonds with share acquisition rights 19,994 19,988 — — — Long-term loans payable 24,644 9,870 21,520 22,161 20,730 Deferred tax liabilities 341 745 808 1,898 25 Reserve for directors’ retirement benefits 208 160 153 122 116 Provision for loss on litigation — 6,457 6,464 6,464 — Defined benefit liability 17,197 16,681 12,556 11,841 10,681 Asset retirement obligations 1,857 1,899 1,969 2,214 2,245 Others 4,367 4,011 3,257 2,734 2,464 Total long-term liabilities 78,610 69,815 56,730 57,439 46,264 Total Liabilities 322,838 329,416 310,948 328,131 304,814 NET ASSETS Shareholders’ Equity Common stock 68,697 68,760 78,764 78,815 79,066 Capital surplus 72,627 72,691 81,205 81,256 80,296 Retained earnings 91,815 102,446 117,883 121,321 135,715 Treasury stock (397) (408) (425) (431) (5,439) Total shareholders’ equity 232,742 243,490 277,428 280,962 289,639 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net unrealized gains (losses) on investment securities 5,324 2,739 2,692 2,564 381 Deferred gains (losses) on hedges 73 (12) (1) 10 (57) Translation adjustments 10,742 5,878 745 2,628 (1,226) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (9,824) (11,080) (9,507) (8,210) (9,096) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 6,316 (2,473) (6,071) (3,007) (9,999) Subscription Rights to Shares 730 952 1,361 1,163 1,152 Non-Controlling Interests 7,764 8,475 4,791 5,668 5,985 Total Net Assets 247,553 250,444 277,509 284,788 286,778 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥570,392 ¥579,860 ¥588,457 ¥612,919 ¥591,592 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 88 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Income Millions of yen 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12* 2018/12 Net Sales ¥482,699 ¥486,235 ¥476,104 ¥381,993 ¥509,175 Cost of Sales 356,424 353,344 350,032 285,261 376,021 Gross Profit 126,275 132,891 126,072 96,732 133,154 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Sales commission 4,056 3,954 3,578 2,503 3,385 Packing and transportation 5,538 5,904 5,554 4,575 6,909 Sales promotion 1,920 1,827 1,781 1,620 1,510 Provision of allowance for doubtful accounts 606 2,147 447 185 616 Personnel expenses 41,468 40,929 40,584 33,847 43,373 Bonus payment reserve expenses 3,573 3,499 3,572 2,106 2,263 Directors’ bonus payment reserve expenses 246 291 280 233 324 Retirement benefit expenses 1,217 1,146 1,380 1,107 1,543 Provision for directors’ retirement benefits 72 40 30 25 34 Traveling and transportation expenses 4,222 3,881 3,671 3,253 3,945 Taxes and dues 1,900 2,183 3,011 2,446 2,931 Depreciation and amortization 4,012 3,819 4,188 3,656 4,704 Amortization of goodwill 345 351 587 416 345 R&D expenses 6,754 7,632 8,758 7,218 10,698 Others 15,771 17,271 18,646 15,420 18,087 Total selling, general and administrative expenses 91,708 94,879 96,076 78,616 100,672 Operating Income 34,567 38,011 29,995 18,115 32,482 Non-Operating Income Interest income 219 223 216 273 311 Dividends income 482 489 559 169 752 Share of profit of entities accounted for using equity method 871 1,108 796 — 565 Foreign exchange gains 1,597 — — — — Others 920 535 509 495 1,000 Total non-operating income 4,090 2,357 2,082 937 2,629 Non-Operating Expenses Interest expenses 1,281 1,205 1,184 1,136 1,517 Share of loss of entities accounted for using equity method — — — 148 — Foreign exchange losses — 1,845 1,070 49 1,452 Taxes and dues related to overseas projects 221 — — — — Others 896 846 1,358 1,188 861 Total non-operating expenses 2,399 3,897 3,613 2,523 3,830 Ordinary Income 36,258 36,471 28,464 16,529 31,281 Extraordinary Income Gain on sales of fixed assets 656 77 409 2,209 401 Gain on sales of investment securities 251 380 1,978 1,352 804 Reversal of reserve for expenses related to the sales of land — 1,589 — — — Gain on sales of investments in capital — — 289 — — Others 7 1 — — — Total extraordinary income 916 2,049 2,677 3,561 1,205 Extraordinary Loss Loss on sales of fixed assets 45 15 25 176 319 Loss on retirement of fixed assets 218 99 126 269 827 Impairment loss 50 260 — 952 2,627 Loss on sales of investment securities — — 56 33 0 Loss on valuation of investment securities — — 435 103 — Loss on valuation of investments in capital 70 — — — 128 Provision for loss on litigation — 6,457 — — 1,257 Others 0 2 0 1 22 Total extraordinary loss 385 6,834 645 1,537 5,183 Income Before Income Taxes 36,788 31,686 30,497 18,554 27,303 Income Taxes-Current 8,439 9,581 5,546 6,324 7,148 Income Taxes-Deferred 3,024 3,207 3,299 1,908 468 Total Income Taxes 11,463 12,789 8,845 8,232 7,617 Profit 25,324 18,896 21,651 10,322 19,685 Profit Attributable to Non-Controlling Interests 1,743 1,642 1,063 790 1,423 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 23,580 ¥ 17,254 ¥ 20,587 ¥ 9,531 ¥ 18,262 * The occurrence of the irregular nine-month period ended December 31, 2017, is the result of a change in the settlement date used by the Company. 89 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Millions of yen 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2017/12* 2018/12 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Income before income taxes ¥ 36,788 ¥ 31,686 ¥ 30,497 ¥ 18,554 ¥ 27,303 Depreciation and amortization 13,038 11,610 13,739 11,923 15,266 Impairment loss 50 260 — 952 2,627 Loss (gain) on sales of securities and investment securities (251) (380) (1,922) (1,318) (803) Loss (gain) on sales of investments in capital — — (289) — — Increase (decrease) in reserve 1,348 8,516 744 (2,339) 48 Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit liability (1,810) (3,594) (2,242) (3,456) (2,571) Loss (gain) on sales of fixed assets (611) (61) (384) (2,032) (81) Interest and dividends income (700) (713) (775) (442) (1,064) Interest expenses 1,281 1,205 1,184 1,136 1,517 Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable-trade (18,568) (9,858) 7,344 33,728 (10,674) Decrease (increase) in inventories (5,766) (10,071) (9,136) (11,403) (14,854) Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable-trade 3,118 6,126 3,430 (188) 6,774 Increase /decrease in other assets / liabilities (5,968) (5,951) (3,784) 7,634 15,795 Other loss (gain) 1,833 (1,010) 771 1,049 563 Subtotal 23,782 27,763 39,175 53,798 39,847 Interest and dividends received 1,648 716 1,181 1,133 1,064 Interest expenses paid (1,290) (1,264) (1,202) (1,183) (1,529) Income taxes paid (12,843) (5,686) (5,338) (9,590) (4,771) Net cash provided by operating activities 11,296 21,528 33,816 44,157 34,610 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Purchase of fixed assets (15,000) (12,498) (21,591) (12,380) (18,570) Proceeds from sales of fixed assets 1,005 109 550 2,400 1,738 Purchase of securities and investment securities (15,494) (10,846) (8,797) (3,523) (4,578) Proceeds from sales and redemption of securities and investment securities 12,880 11,166 12,086 5,543 5,568 Payments into time deposits (1,158) (1,048) (2,637) (1,982) (1,946) Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 809 1,047 1,839 1,906 1,902 Payments of loans receivable (1,688) (317) (117) (19) (155) Collection of loans receivable 2,727 459 762 108 167 Purchase of shares of subsidiaries (9) — — — — Proceeds from or payments for purchase or sales of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of consolidation — (2,130) — — — Others 31 (285) (661) 40 (54) Net cash used in investing activities (15,894) (14,344) (18,563) (7,906) (15,927) Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net increase (decrease) in short-term loans payable 3,314 (1,349) 2,501 7,083 (22,498) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 4,133 4,678 14,079 3,026 689 Repayment of long-term loans payable (8,830) (5,110) (19,615) (2,078) (2,462) Proceeds from issuance of bonds — — — 10,000 — Redemption of bonds — — (22) — (10,000) Proceeds from issuance of common stock 0 0 0 0 0 Proceeds from disposal or purchase of treasury shares (10) (10) (17) (5) (5,008) Cash dividends paid (4,063) (6,623) (5,582) (6,093) (4,575) Cash dividends paid to non-controlling interests (868) (465) (458) (4) (414) Payments from changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in change in scope of consolidation — — (5,169) — (1,333) Others (719) (775) (817) (631) (809) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (7,044) (9,655) (15,102) 11,296 (46,412) Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 4,075 (1,948) (1,187) 871 (1,324) Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (7,566) (4,419) (1,037) 48,419 (29,054) Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 102,341 95,604 91,185 90,683 139,102 Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents Resulting from Change in Scope of Consolidation 829 — 536 — 507 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period ¥ 95,604 ¥ 91,185 ¥ 90,683 ¥139,102 ¥110,556 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 90 EBARA Group’s Global Network (As of December 31, 2018) Europe East Asia ● EBARA PUMPS IBERIA, S.A. ● Xian Ebara Precision Machinery ● Elliott Turbomachinery Limited ● Ebara Machinery (China) ● Elliott Turbomachinery S.A. ● Elliott Turbomachinery Services (Tianjin) ● Ebara Precision Machinery Europe GmbH ● HEFEI EBARA PRECISION MACHINERY ● Ebara Pumps Europe S.p.A. ● Ebara Machinery Zibo ● Sumoto S.r.l. ● Ebara Densan (Qingdao) Technology ● Ebara Pompy Polska sp. z o.o. ● Ebara Densan (Kunshan) Mfg. ● EBARA Pumps RUS Limited Liability Company ● Ebara Great Pumps ● Ebara Qingdao Africa ● EBARA REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT&SYSTEMS (CHINA) ● EBARA PUMPS SOUTH AFRICA (PTY) LTD ● Shanghai Ebara Precision Machinery ● Ebara Precision Machinery Taiwan Incorporated Middle East & South Asia ● Ebara-Elliott Service (Taiwan) ● ELLIOTT GAS Services Saudi Arabia Limited ● Ebara-Densan Taiwan Manufacturing ● EBARA PUMPS SAUDI ARABIA LLC* ● Ebara Fluid Machinery Korea Co., Ltd. ● Elliott Ebara Middle East Maintenance S.P.C ● Elliott Korea Co., Ltd. ● Ebara Pumps Middle East FZE ● Ebara Precision Machinery Korea Incorporated ● Elliott Ebara Turbomachinery India Pvt. Ltd. Southeast Asia & Oceania ● Ebara (Thailand) Limited ● Ebara Thermal Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ● Ebara Pumps Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ● Fluid Machinery & Systems Business ● Environmental Plants Business ●● Ebara Engineering Singapore Pte. Ltd. ● Precision Machinery Business ● Elliott Ebara Singapore Pte. Ltd. ● PT. Ebara Indonesia Sales ● PT. Ebara Turbomachinery Services Indonesia* Manufacturing and engineering ● Ebara Vietnam Pump Company Limited S&S ● Ebara Pumps Philippines, Inc. Other ● Ebara Pumps Australia Pty. Ltd. ● Ebara Densan (Taiwan) Samoa Mfg. Co., Ltd. * Non-consolidated 91 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 North America Ebara America Corporation ● Ebara Technologies Incorporated ● EBARA PUMPS AMERICAS CORPORATION ● Elliott Company ● Elliott Overseas Corporation ● Elliott Turbomachinery Canada, Inc. Latin America ● Elliott Turbomachinery S.A. de C.V. ● Elliott Turbocharger Guatemala, S.A. ● Ebara Bombas Colombia S.A.S. * ● EBARA BOMBAS AMÉRICA DO SUL LTDA. ● Elliott Ebara Servicos para Equipamentos Rotativos Ltda. ● EBARA CORPORATION (Muroran Office) Hokkaido ● EBARA CORPORATION (Hokkaido Branches/Sales Offices): 4 Tohoku ● EBARA CORPORATION (Tohoku Branches/Sales Offices): 8 ● EBARA FIELD TECH (Tohoku service locations): 3 ● EBARA DENSAN LTD. Kanto ● Ebara Byron Jackson Co., Ltd. ● EBARA CORPORATION ● EBARA REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT & (Kanto Branches/Sales Offices): 19 SYSTEMS CO., LTD. ● EBARA FIELD TECH (Kanto service locations): 2 ● Total Service Co., Ltd. ● Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. ● Swing Corporation* Kinki ● EBARA FIELD TECH. CORPORATION ● EBARA CORPORATION (Kinki Branches/Sales Offices): 10 Ebara Shonan Sports Center Inc. ● EBARA FIELD TECH (Kinki service location): 1 EBARA AGENCY CO., LTD. EBARA MEISTER CO., LTD. EBARA EARNEST Co., Ltd.* Chugoku/Shikoku ● EBARA CORPORATION (Sodegaura District) ● EBARA CORPORATION (Chugoku/Shikoku Branches/Sales Offices): 7 ● Elliott Ebara Turbomachinery Corporation ● EBARA FIELD TECH (Chugoku/Shikoku service locations): 2 ● E-Square Co., Ltd. ● ECE Co., Ltd.* ● EBARA CORPORATION (Kumamoto District) ● EBARA CORPORATION (Futtsu District) ●●● EBARA CORPORATION (Fujisawa District) Chubu ● EBARA CORPORATION (Chubu Branches/Sales Offices): 9 ● EBARA FIELD TECH (Chubu service locations): 2 ● Chubu Recycle Co., Ltd. ● EBARA CORPORATION (Suzuka District) ● EBARA FAN & BLOWER CO., LTD. Kyushu/Okinawa ● EBARA CORPORATION (Kyushu/Okinawa Branches/Sales Offices): 7 ● EBARA FIELD TECH (Kyusyu/Okinawa service locations): 4 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 92 News Topics in the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2018 This page provides a look at some of the major activities and achievements that were not covered in this report. January Start of new fiscal year after change in settlement date The President and Representative Executive Officer announced his commitment to the accomplishment of the targets of E-Plan 2019 and the 1 February CSR training for EBARA Group management themes for work style reforms. Details (in Japanese only) https://www.ebara.co.jp/about/corporate/news_media/news/details/1221152_2595.html CSR training sessions have been held for EBARA Group management every year since 2005. The theme of the training held in the fiscal year ended 2 December 31, 2018, was ESG investOrdinary General Meeting of Shareholders for the ninement and integrated thinking. March month period ended December 31, 2017 The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders was held on March 28, 2018. Details 3 April Pump production capacity increase in Italy https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/ir/stock/ (Transfer to new factory) shareholdersmeeting/index.html Pump production operations were transferred to a new factory with double the floor space of the previous factory. 4 Details https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/corporate/ Shipment of 150,000 dry vacuum news_media/news/details/1222851_2936.html May pumps from Fujisawa Plant This accomplishment was a product of our 32 years of diligent effort since the shipment of the first dry vacuum pump from the Fujisawa Plant in 1986. 5 First Company presentation meeting for private investors June Details in 2018 https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/corporate/news_media/ news/details/1223302_2936.html The first of four Company presentation meetings for private investors con6 ducted in 2018 took place in June. Details (in Japanese only) https://www.ebara.co.jp/about/ir/ July Participation in TELEWORK DAYS Shareholder/index.html We participated in TELEWORK DAYS as one facet of work style reforms. 7 Details (in Japanese only) https://www.ebara.co.jp/about/csr/social/environment/ August Pump technology seminar in Thailand index.html#anc1227751 A seminar funded by the EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund (estab8 lished 1989) was held. Seven such seminars took place in 2018. Receipt of special judges award for turbo chillers using new coolants in 21st Ozone Preservation and Global Warming September Prevention Award sponsored by NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN, LTD. Factors considered when presenting EBARA with this award included the turbo chillers’ use 9 of coolants with low global warming potential Start of construction of Chubu Factory of and highly efficient operation. October EBARA FIELD TECH. (in Suzuka City) Details (in Japanese only) https://www.ebara.co.jp/about/corporate/news_media/ news/details/1225601_2595.html The fourth dry vacuum pump overhaul 10 factory was established to bolster S&S systems. Details https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/corporate/ Commencement of construction of dry vacuum pump and news_media/news/details/1225852_2936.html November gas abatement system test development facilities in the Fujisawa District These facilities are being constructed to help 11 EBARA address the diverse needs of customers in the semiconductor industry. December Start of operations at Otsuki Biomass Power Plant Details https://www.ebara.co.jp/en/about/corporate/news_ media/news/details/1226452_2936.html EBARA will seek to construct high-quality 12 woody biomass power generation plants and to deliver impeccable services related to these facilities. We hope to thereby help combat global warming through spreading the use of renewable energy. 93 EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Profile / Stock Information (As of December 31, 2018) Corporate Profile Major Shareholders Company Name: EBARA CORPORATION Name Shareholding ratio (%) Foundation: November 1912 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 10.3 Head Office: 11-1, Haneda Asahi-cho, Ota-ku, ICHIGO TRUST PTE. LTD. 8.0 Tokyo 144-8510, Japan Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 6.5 Phone: 81-3-3743-6111 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 140042 4.2 URL: https://www.ebara.co.jp/en National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural 2.1 Paid-in Capital: ¥79,066 million Cooperatives Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 2.0 Number of Employees (Consolidated): 16,556 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 1.7 HSBC TRINKAUS AND BURKHARDT AG RE: DE-CLTS 1.7 A/C RE AIF Stock Information Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 1.5 Securities Code: 6361 (Japan) JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 1.5 Note: T  reasury stock has been eliminated from the total number of shares issued in calcuNumber of Shares Issued: 101,957,853 lating the shareholding ratio. Number of Shareholders: 22,234 Composition of Shareholders Stock Listing: Tokyo Stock Exchange Number of Shares Treasury Stock 1.9% Individuals and Constituting One Unit: 100 Others Securities 11.5% Companies 3.8% Transfer Agent Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited and Registrar: 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Foreign Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Corporations Accounting Auditor: Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC and Individuals 42.1% Financial Major Indices: Nikkei 225, JPX-Nikkei Index 400 Other Domestic Institutions Corporations 37.0% 3.7% External Recognition Based on ESG Factors EBARA CORPORATION has been selected for inclusion in several ESG indexes by various domestic and overseas ESG ratings institutions. FTSE4Good Index Series FTSE Blossom Japan Index MSCI Japan Empowering MSCI Japan ESG Women Index (WIN) Select Leaders Index Note: T  HE INCLUSION OF EBARA CORPORATION IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF EBARA CORPORATION BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. EBARA Group Integrated Report 2019 94 Head Office 11-1, Haneda Asahi-cho, Ota-ku, Tokyo 144-8510, Japan Phone: 81-3-3743-6111 FAX: 81-3-5736-3105 URL: https://www.ebara.co.jp/en 01-046-J
