2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Touchstone Report TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S 01 Executive Summary 1.1 CEO Message 4 1.2 Objectives 5 1.3 Relationship to Strategic Plan 8 1.4 How We Got Here 9 1.5 Governance Structure 10 02 Our Work 2.1 Design Leadership 12 2.2 Justice, Equity, Diversity, Inclusion 17 2.3 S ustainability Survey: 24 Understanding HKS’ Potential 2.4 Energy & Carbon 28 The AIA 2030 Commitment 2.5 Material Selection: Environmental & Human Well-being 34 2.6 Embodied Carbon & Life Cycle Analysis 39 2.7 The Market Value of Third-party Certifications 42 03 Public Interest Design 3.1 Citizen HKS 47 04 Our Enterprise 4.1 HKS Carbon Footprint 58 4.2 E nergy & Carbon: Building Knowledge, Design Capacity & Action 62 4.3 Materials: Building Knowledge, Addressing Environmental Impact & Human Health 64 4.4 Industry Influence & Thought Leadership 65 4.5 Staff Health & Well-Being 71 01 Executive Summary | 2 MGM National Harbor | National Harbor, Maryland, USA Designing a World We Want to Live In. Together. HKS signed onto the UN Global Compact in January 2020 to join leading global companies in aligning our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption, and to take actions that advance societal goals. When we signed the pact, we had no idea how increasingly urgent this pledge would become. We commit to infusing social responsibility and sustainability into our culture as well as our governance structure. To do this, we will track our corporate objectives and key results in alignment with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These goals form the framework for the report that follows, which is our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Touchstone Report. E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.1 Letter from the CEO Now is the time to put words into action. Hope is not a strategy for success. By joining the UN Global Compact, we pledge to join other global companies in aligning our strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, fair labor practices, environmental stewardship, anti-corruption practices, and to advance equal opportunity and a more sustainable future for all. Achieving real change requires us to set definable goals, implement effective processes and track our objectives and results in alignment DAN NOBLE with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This report CEO outlines the years of commitment and foundational work that we have already completed as well as the work we have yet to do. This is a touchstone from which we will measure, assess, and build upon our progress. This is how we will hold ourselves accountable to our pledge. HKS is a global architecture, design, planning and advisory practice that touches the lives of millions. It is within our power to make a positive difference in protecting our planet, creating more equitable, sustainable and beautiful communities, and encouraging others to join us on that journey. We are pleased to join the United Nations and our fellow Compact participants in that mission. 01 Executive Summary | 4 E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.2 Objectives The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan with the explicit mandate to “advance United Nations values and responsible business practices within the United Nations system and among the global business community.” The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are 1 Businesses should support and respect the the world’s shared plan to end extreme poverty, protection of internationally proclaimed reduce inequality, and protect the planet by 2030. human rights; and HKS has selected goals 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 13, 17 to 2 make sure that they are not complicit in focus on as our commitment to doing our part to human rights abuses. make a difference. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 01 Executive Summary | 5 E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.2 Objectives HKS’ working practice relationships to the SDGs and Global Compact Principles: DESIGN LEADERSHIP • • • • • • • • • • JUSTICE, EQUITY, DIVERSITY, INCLU SION • • • • • • • • SUSTAINABILITY SURVEY • • • • • • • AIA 2030 COMMITMENT • • • • • MATERIAL SELECTION • • • • • • • • EMBODIED CARBON • • • • • • • • • THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATIONS • • • • • • • • • • • CITIZEN HKS • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • HKS CARBON FOOTPRINT • • • • • • ENERGY & CARBON CURRICULUM • • • • • • MATERIALS CURRICULUM • • • • • • • • • • • I NDUSTRY INFLUENCE & THOUGHT LEADERSHIP • • • • • • • • STAFF HEALTH & WELL-BEING • • • • • • • 01 Executive Summary | 6 E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.2 Objectives This report details our objectives and explains how we will measure progress. Highlights include: 1. We will leverage our global 2. We will be a design firm that 3. We will design and deliver higher4. We will lead our industry in influence to assist under-served leads in Justice, Equity, Diversity performance buildings by: sustainable, socially responsible communities through: and Inclusion (JEDI) by: • Adapting the American Institute of Architects Framework practice by: • Fundraising for our 2020 Citizen HKS project, • Creating our first firm-wide JEDI plan. for Design Excellence as our internal measures of design • Establishing a 501(c)3 to support our public interest Reimagining Benefield. excellence for all HKS projects. design projects, which fall under our Citizen HKS • Increasing the diversity of our Board of Directors. program. This 501(c)3’s mission includes other firm • Our 2020 Month of Service, which is scheduled • Energy modeling every one of our projects. Identifying programs and initiatives that fuel design innovation. September 15 — October 15, 2020. • Promoting more diverse candidates. goals inclusive of energy, carbon and cost reductions. • Hosting a NOMA (National Organization of Minority • Creating and sharing a plan for a zero-carbon practice, •A  ttracting and retaining a greater number of diverse • Conducting 24 client-facing eco-charrettes. Architects) fellow this summer—and we will continue to include operations and professional services. design professionals. to do so annually. • Reporting all HKS projects to the AIA 2030 Challenge. • Conducting periodic firm-wide carbon footprint analysis, • We will fund our AIA Diversity Scholarship at a • Increasing our engagement and talent acquisition efforts • Conducting a whole building life cycle analysis (LCA) as identifying improvements and implementing policy higher rate. with historically Black colleges and universities. well as increasing performance analysis and research adjustments. • Increasing our investment in firmwide education on activities with a focus on embodied carbon. • Transparent industry engagement regarding unconscious bias and implicit bias. • Sharing data on our practice. governance objectives. •F  unding NOMA dues for all employees who want to join. 01 Executive Summary | 7 E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.3 Relationship to HKS Strategic Plan The HKS Strategic Plan, developed in The HKS 2020 ESG Touchstone Report is aligned with Stakeholders global best practices. Oriented with the UN Global 2019, identified the value and need Compact and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 for a comprehensive Environmental, guidelines, HKS will use these frameworks for process, Social and Governance structure assessment and reporting. This brings several benefits. at HKS. HKS’ leadership •E  mbed sustainability, public interest design, equity, diversity, and inclusion strategy within universal brought together the leaders for principles, building on international standards Sustainability, Public Interest Design and Justice, Equity, Diversity and •C  ommunicate commitment and actions both internally and externally Inclusion to form the core HKS ESG leadership team. •P  rovide stakeholders with studied, strategic and credible information This is a clearly identified and influential part of the HKS • Establish a standard for HKS ESG reporting and a Strategic Plan with active connections to all parts of the foundation for continuous improvement building on practice. Much of this work was already well established at the Strategic Plan HKS. In some instances, commitment and initiatives had been in place for many years. Bringing the ESG focused efforts was a distinctly strategic direction that grew directly from the Strategic Plan. Building on this, the HKS 2020 The bounding contexts of ESG Touchstone Report serves as the initial alignment and Materiality, Stakeholders, benchmark for our ongoing ESG work. The HKS 2020 ESG Touchstone Report is not a formal GRI G4 report. Sustainability Context, and 1. t Completeness form the framework. HKS is not publicly traded, and this is not a requirement. This is voluntary and driven by HKS Values: Relationship, Character, Purpose, and Vision. We believe that through limitless thinking, we will be the most influential firm in Materiality our industry. The report covers aspects that reflect HKS’ significant economic, environmental and social impacts; and substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. To this end, both business operations and project design solutions will be addressed. Broadly stated, the operational business issues relate to the internal business of HKS, while project design solutions relate to client solutions and the impact on external stakeholders. 01 Executive Summary | 8 E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.4 How We Got Here “Now is the time to put words into action” reflects core values that HKS has held for years. To advance our actions more deliberately and with greater speed, we are building on our rich history of sustainability, public interest design and justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. 2006 2008 2009 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 Environmental Environmental, and Sustainability HKS joins the USGBC HKS DesignGreen HKS signs on to the HKS initiates GreenWeek HKS founds mindfulMaterials HKS signs Architecture HKS joins IWBI HKS Signs Delos Social and HKS becomes a founding HKS London signs on to HKS joins the UN Global HKS target goal: Milestones founded AIA 2030 2030 China Standard Partnership Corporate WELL Living RIBA 2030 Compact become a Challenge Accord Development Lab Alliance Climate carbon team Governance member Challenge neutral HKS named Milestones HKS expands personal and practice LEED® Proven 4th Annual HKS London parental leave Provider Month commits to the benefits of Service U.K. Architects Declare Citizens HKS Initiative Hosts 6 JEDI Council Milestones Launch of Citizens HKS First CHKS Month Kachumbala Maternity Unit Sensory Wellbeing Hub firmwide is created of Service fundraising fundraising workshops The Materials campaign campaign and events Pledge: HKS becomes JEDI launches First CHKS 1 of 56 firm inclusive project opens: 2nd Annual Sensory signatories leadership Urban Food Month Wellbeing Hub module, draft Studio, of Service opens JEDI framework Washington 5th Annual and training D.C. Month manual 3rd Annual of Service Month of Service HKS commits HKS appoints to immediate first JEDI JEDI-related Kachumbala, Director actions and Uganda investments Maternity Unit opens Firmwide JEDI Champions Equity, Diversity Network created and Inclusion HKS launches Better Better Together Milestones Together initiative appoints new leadership Updated job descriptions (first iteration team and career of JEDI) tracks through JEDI lens Hosts 7 firmwide wokshops and events 01 Executive Summary | 9 E XECUTIVE SUMMARY 1.5 Governance Structure Environmental Environmental Environmental, Public Interest Equity, Diversity & Projects Business Design Inclusion Social & Governance DESIGNGREEN HKS CITIZEN HKS JEDI NETWORK STUDIO Environmental & Social Governance Leadership ESG Advisory CHIEF DIRECTOR OF DIRECTOR OF DIRECTOR OF Chief Design Officer SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY CITIZEN HKS EQUITY, DIVERSITY Governance is an essential core component of HKS‘ longOFFICER & INCLUSION Chief Process Officer term commitment to ESG. The Chief Sustainability Officer, Director of Sustainability, Director of Citizen HKS and Chief Technology Officer Director of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion all report to Senior Leadership and the Chief Executive Officer. Topical Leadership Director of Research Director of Integration Supporting each ESG pillar are dedicated leadership teams. DESIGNGREEN CITIZEN HKS JEDI STUDIO STEERING COUNCIL Regional Director Action and impact are the underlying objectives. To COMMITTEE support this, each ESG pillar has also engaged firm-wide, International Office cross discipline Champions. The Champions networks are Representative both idea incubators and actively engage each HKS office at all levels. Champion Network SUSTAINABILITY PUBLIC INTEREST JEDI CHAMPIONS DESIGN CHAMPIONS CHAMPIONS 01 Executive Summary | 10 SECTION TWO: Our Work Enterprise U.S. Bank Stadium | Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA OUR WORK 2.1 Design Leadership RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose A project that achieves Design Excellence… Relationships Character To define a transparent, firmwide benchmark of design …is innovative. Each project is a step of some scale Purpose excellence and establish HKS’ role and responsibility toward innovative practice. to peers, clients, the industry and the Earth. HKS is …is valuable. Our design work is useful to our clients and “Through Limitless Thinking we will be the Most Influential Firm in the Industry.” committed to continuous improvement by developing communities, and therefore we have something to offer. processes that advance our goals and maintain rigor. Our client then has something to use that has lasting Lead with Knowledge Advise for Influence Outcome Driven Design value. …is aesthetic. Design excellence is aesthetic in all Context DESIGN EXCELLENCE circumstances. As a design thinking firm, HKS …is honest. Our work should express truth and defines and commits to projects that authenticity. In materials, in use, in operations, in are innovative, valuable, aesthetic, performance and more. honest, environmentally responsible, …is environmentally and socially responsible. Excellent design acknowledges its environment and impacts it in intuitive, enduring and useful, macro positive ways. to micro. Aligned with the AIA COTE …is intuitive. Design should speak for itself. It should Measures of Sustainable Design, narrate its own story and require few words. It should Art BEAUTY PERFORMANCE Science HKS has developed a repeatable and be evident of the essence and vision with simplicity and clarity around the solutions. measurable approach to achieving Intangible Tangible …is enduring. Our work should endure time, but it isn’t design excellence. timeless. Design is unapologetically and unfailingly of its Qualitative Quantitative Immeasurable Measurable time. …is effective. From macro to micro, our work should manifest in permeation of the idea at all scales. 02 Our Work | 12 OUR WORK 2.1 Design Leadership Relationship to Strategic Plan Materiality Each project team was asked to clearly state and describe the challenge, solution and impact within each of the Driven by the firm’s Strategic Plan to be the most HKS values are firmly rooted in Relationships, Character, measures as to how the project design incorporated each influential firm in the industry, HKS embeds outcomeand Purpose. Our challenge is to exemplify these values in aspect of the framework. driven design throughout the design process. This the outcomes. HKS endeavors to uplift the Earth and our methodology celebrates exploration while honoring communities, leaving them in a better place than before accountability in all decision making. HKS is responsive to we were engaged in the work. We seek to align ourselves Measures or Outcomes the process and lessons learned. For this reason, HKS has with like-minded clients and to elevate every relationship HKS involved external and peer jurors to not only developed five foundational pillars through the enterprise we have. evaluate our work but also solicit unbiased opinions for for alignment and deeper purpose: improvement. The Top Projects effort also identifies areas 1. Methodology: The way we work, the resources we Assessment, Policy & Goals that we need to educate and place more focus on in 2020 provide, and the measures we require. and beyond. HKS has established objectives based on 2019 HKS believes that through an authentic and rigorous results and continues to focus on developing curriculum, 2. Research: Knowledge-led, create and test hypotheses. methodology and documentation, we will elevate our training and education around improving our work and work and challenge ourselves to make an impact. We focusing on impact. 3. Performance: Environmental and Social Governance, have implemented a design thinking methodology that credibility, and outcome-driven design. tracks project development through seven stages: Dream, As an organization that achieves design excellence, as HKS Decide, Define, Develop, Deliver, Distill and Distribute. characterizes it, we must understand and define our role 4. Innovation: Applying what we know to push the future Through these seven phases, we continuously evaluate and responsibility to our clients, peers and colleagues, and progress our purpose. our goals and measure outcomes to refine and improve communities, the industry and the Earth. 5. Technical: Material sciences, system detailing, and life our project approach and goals. We have established the HKS Top Projects process to measure our work based HKS creates an environment that promotes people cycle analysis. on three categories: Integration, Innovation and Impact. to critically question, explore and be transparent in Through measuring and elevating successful case studies everything we do. To achieve a workplace environment of continuous improvement and excellence, we must accept Stakeholders at the end of each calendar year, the entirety of our firm’s work benefits. that exploration is iterative and requires knowledge, rigor PRIMARY: and investment. Our design leadership holds the primary responsibility to establish a process and goals to maintain Implementation this rigor. In 2019, HKS instituted a six-month submission process HKS is aligned with the AIA Framework for Design geared toward communicating the integration of the 10 Excellence. This grows from long-term professional and RELATIONAL: measures into our everyday process. ethical imperatives about the purpose and impact of design. The framework has 10 measures, each part of a Using the AIA Framework for Design Excellence and the 10 holistic system defining and advancing great design. measures as our submission criteria, HKS evaluated more than 180 submissions and provided critical feedback for At HKS, our design work touches every single one of the continued improvement for each project. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For some, this is focused, and for others, it is across the board. We recognize this as an opportunity. 02 Our Work | 13 Kearns Building Renovation | Dallas, RossLake 2000| Salt City,Texas, Utah, USA OUR WORK 2.1 Design Leadership • • • • • • • • • MEASURE 1: Design for Integration HKS has aligned with the AIA Framework for Design Excellence. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • MEASURE 2: Design for Equitable This grows from long-term Community professional and ethical imperatives about the purpose and impact • • • • • • MEASURE 3: of design. The framework has 10 Design for Ecology measures, each of which is part of a holistic system defining and • • • • • • MEASURE 4: advancing great design. Design for Water At HKS, our design work touches every single one of the United • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • MEASURE 5: Nations Sustainable Development Design for Economy Goals (SDGs). For some, this is focused, and for others, it is across • • • • • MEASURE 6: the board. We recognize this as an Design for Energy opportunity. • • • • • • • • • • • • MEASURE 7: Design for Wellness • • • • • • MEASURE 8: Design for Resources • • • • • • • • • • • MEASURE 9: Design for Change • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • MEASURE 10: Design for Discovery 02 Our Work | 14 CA S E S T U DY Adaptive Reuse Design That Improves Community Well-Being The ProMedica adaptive reuse project has resulted in a reduction in Global Warming Potential of approximately 65.7% through structure and envelope material reuse. ProMedica Headquarters Toledo, Ohio, USA ProMedica Headquarters is an adaptive reuse of two buildings: a historic, Daniel Burnham-designed steam plant and a Brutalist junction building adjacent to Promenade Park on Toledo’s Maumee River. The downtown buildings combine to become the headquarters for ProMedica, a not-for-profit health care organization whose mission is to improve community health and well-being. Our design for the new headquarters demonstrates ProMedica’s commitment to Toledo’s community health, connecting it to its city by celebrating its heritage and history. As the historic steam plant powered the city, a fresh vision for two existing buildings energizes Toledo’s waterfront with new life. Our project offers employees a modern workplace designed to improve performance and employee well-being. Since ProMedica’s announcement to move downtown, more than $500 million of additional investment has come into Toledo from other developers and businesses. The move represents the largest influx of jobs into downtown Toledo. CA S E S T U DY A Modern Agri-Destination Aspires to Revitalize a Community The Farm at Crossroad Commons Merrillville, Indiana, USA Through sophisticated integration of ecology and agricultural production and livestock. Farm-to-table history, innovative performance-based design and restaurants tap produce grown on the farm, and advanced environmental systems, HKS proposed the the microbrewery and distillery use hops and wheat community a project worthy of one of its most valued grown just a stone’s throw away. The visitors center resources: the land. and greenhouse, equestrian arena, farmer’s market and more offer a variety hands-on activities and With its ideal climate and soil conditions, Lake County engagement. enjoys a long and productive agricultural tradition. However, in recent decades, development patterns The Farm provides economic opportunities for a new have converted this vital resource into buildings, generation of farmers and access to local and healthy pavement and soil-depleting monoculture crops. foods that decrease the region’s reliance on imported HKS design intends to unlock the site’s potential and and processed foods—a major contributor to health return it to its roots, evoking Northwest Indiana’s rich problems including obesity and diabetes. agricultural heritage. The estimated $350 million private-public investment The site creates a raw interface between the project is expected to create 600 construction jobs, architecture that equally supports the people and the 1,000 permanent jobs and nearly $100 million in new agriculture of the region that has historically provided local, regional and state tax revenues over 10 years. for the community. Abundant amenities provide health, wellness, and education through diversified OUR WORK 2.2 Justice, Equity, Diversity, Inclusion RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Relationship to Strategic Plan Established in 2019, the HKS Justice, Equity, Diversity, The JEDI framework is the future of the workplace and the and Inclusion (JEDI) “people-first” framework was created design profession. to encourage and promote a workplace environment that builds and supports high performing teams able to The framework aligns perfectly with our values of character, consistently deliver innovative, sustainable, and authentic relationships, and purpose. It promotes practices of social design solutions. and self-awareness, empathy, vulnerability, and trust for all stakeholders. It requires accountability and discipline, and Through the JEDI lens, HKS defines is embedded within cultural and marketing communications delivered through inclusive storytelling by a diverse team of flexible policies and strategies participants. that build belonging, promote psychological safety and design for Stakeholders dignity mirroring the communities it serves with the goal of creating a PRIMARY: resilient and equitable workplace. Context RELATIONAL: The future of our workplace must withstand the ebbs and flows of the economy. Our industry is losing talent. Our ability to be nimble and responsive to our changing client needs ever present. We have no choice but to evolve or perish. We must lead with knowledge, with all voices at the table, advising for influence and rewarding the behavior we value in our firm. JEDI Director Yiselle Santos Rivera at the AIA DC Women Inspiring Emerging Leaders in Design event. 02 Our Work | 17 OUR WORK 2.2 Justice, Equity, Diversity, Inclusion FI R M EQ U IT Y Materiality The JEDI Essential Enablers will facilitate collaboration internally. The JEDI Champions lead their respective Designing for dignity delivers outcome-driven design office or sector JEDI teams in building culture through solutions through research and exploration. Industry Equity belonging, and lead JEDI workplace initiatives. They partners look to collaborate with those that align with are the grassroots feedback structure that helps inform their values and mirror their communities. HKS has an firmwide equity initiatives. The JEDI Council defines the obligation to support their efforts in building inclusive relevant strategies and direction for our initiatives. Each spaces for all. By promoting and encouraging a design group meets regularly as defined by their respective roles JEDI mindset, HKS can deliver high-impact, sustainable, and responsibilities. and equitable designs that embodies the values of human and ecological health and are reflective of the future of our workforce. Measures or Outcomes The 2020 firmwide JEDI key results are to develop a Assessment, Policy & Goals firmwide JEDI plan and to adopt and socialize this plan. Justice Diversity The plan is to include metrics on firm composition by A DV I S I N G FO R WO R K PL AC E The JEDI framework is defined by four pillars: workplace gender and race shown by discipline and job descriptions. I N C LU S I O N C U LT U R E culture, firm equity, designing for dignity, and advising for In support of equity, we will establish firmwide JEDI inclusion. The framework has two objectives: be known training with the Professional Development team. HKS is as the leading JEDI firm and build knowledge and agency to be considered the employer of choice by benchmark to become the global leader in sustainability and socially recruiting, retention and referral bonus metrics as well as responsible practices. JEDI policies are currently in study the promotions process considering diversity and development in partnership with the Human equity for greater transparency. Resources, Talent Acquisition, and Organizational Development teams. HKS, in collaboration with its Research team, will produce data Implementation on our practice and JEDI initiative Inclusion The JEDI Framework is composed of four collaborative for internal and external distribution groups: while developing a metric for what 1. Director of JEDI constitutes and defines a highD E S I G N I N G FO R D I G N IT Y 2. JEDI Council performing and profitable team. 3. JEDI Champions 4. JEDI Essential Enablers. 02 Our Work | 18 OUR WORK 2.2 Justice, Equity, Diversity, Inclusion The Talent team at HKS is comprised of Human the applicant pool. This has been reflected in our hiring 2019 Hiring Stats Resources, Organizational Development, Operations, statistics. Internal Communications and the Director of Equity, Gender Diversity and Inclusion. HKS recognizes the responsibility to influence the talent pipeline and the future of the industry. Employees APPLICANT POOL HIRED With a focus on developing firm lead and engage in organizations that promote STEAM education in students at a young age in K-12 programs culture by attracting, training, such as ACE Mentorship, Cristo Rey, Mayor’s Intern developing and retaining the Program, and others. The HKS Talent team adopted a 43% Male 41% Male most talented professionals in the “call to action” mindset encouraging diverse viewpoints, promoting equitable practices, and building resilience. industry, HKS strives to create a workforce representative of the Pay Parity communities it serves. Initiatives developed by the Talent team are aimed at 53% Female 59% Female increasing clarity in job roles and responsibilities within Retention the firm. The goal is encouraging action and to promote In 2015, HKS began to regularly track employee attrition, greater employee engagement in defining professional not only to understand the firm’s position in the industry, paths to success. but to quantify and qualify reasons for leaving. This Ethnicity To increase equity throughout the firm, job descriptions enabled the firm to define a culture that would encourage were defined consistently across all offices and practice APPLICANT POOL HIRED retention and reduce attrition. These efforts align with the areas. This provided an equitable and tangible way goals of creating an equitable environment for all, where for employees to understand expectations and career psychological safety and authenticity are valued. In 2019, development. This effort enabled the creation of a HKS’ voluntary turnover rate was 9.7% while the industry 34% White 61% White framework for a future gender pay gap analysis to ensure averages fluctuated between 4% and 10%. equitable pay by role, rank, tenure, and geographic location. Recruitment In 2019, HKS implemented a new applicant tracking Leadership Training 31% Asian 14% Asian system customized for greater efficiency, automation, HKS also uses attrition data to inform the development reporting, and flexibility. As our reporting functionality of training opportunities. To build more equitable and increased, a better understanding of applicant inclusive teams, the firm offers Gallup StrengthsFinder demographics emerged in comparison to hiring statistics. assessments and Wiley DiSC assessments. These tools 14% Hispanic/Latinx 19% Hispanic/Latinx The data showed an alignment with an industry suffering assist employee growth in emotional intelligence and from a talent shortage due in part to the previous self-awareness. Other training opportunities include how recession, yet the numbers showed greater gender equity to give feedback, managing conflict, and unconscious 12% Black/African-American 4% Black/African-American as more women graduates with relevant degrees joined bias all aimed at increasing interpersonal skill literacy. 02 Our Work | 19 OUR WORK 2.2 Justice, Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Building Belonging Better Performance Development, The HKS Organizational Effectiveness team routinely visits On Projects and Training and studios and regional offices as a culture assessment tool. Teams are trained, behaviors and attitudes observed, More Profitable Better Team Dynamics Educaton and self-survey data is analyzed and compared with Projects and attrition and demographic data. All of our findings and Higher Company observations are compiled into a Culture Assessment Report and delivered to the office or studio leader along Profile in the with an executive summary including recommended Community action items to address inequities and shine a light on what is working well. We are seeing great advances in the way our teams interact and perform and attrition is lower than in previous years. To formalize this progress, a new and robust performance management software platform has been incorporated that will allows us to track our work and individual performance toward firm objectives. We are using these tools to encourage a culture that provides one-on-one development, conducts annual performance reviews all through an unbiased lens. Recruiting the Best, Realization of Our Right Talent Strategic Vision Rentention of Our Top Talent 02 Our Work | 20 OUR WORK 2.2 Justice, Equity, Diversity, Inclusion 2019 Employee Breakdown ETHNICITY GENDER : OVERALL GENDER : LEADERSHIP We are making steady progress in increasing global female representation at senior levels 70% White in our business. Women represent about 56% Male 85% Male 15% of our Principal Shareholder, Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President roles, yielding a solid foundation to grow the 14% Hispanic/Latinx number of women in executive leadership to our 18% target. 10% Asian 44% Female 15% Female 4% Black/African-American 2% Two+ Races/Other AGE GENDER : TECHNICAL ROLES GENDER : NON-TECHNICAL ROLES 59% of our technical roles are held by males, and 74% of our non-technical roles by female 3% Gen Z (1995–2012) employees. This negatively impacts our gender pay gap figures for regions as a whole. Our 59% Male 26% Male internal efforts in 2019 worked to define and 43% Millennial (1977–1994) clarify job roles at HKS to align employees based on skills and experience. The alignment will allow us to continue our efforts toward pay equity 33% Gen X (1966–1976) across the firm. 41% Female 74% Female 21% Boomers I & II (1946–1965) 02 Our Work | 21 CA S E S T U DY Offering Dignity and Comfort in a Welcoming Environment True Worth Place Fort Worth, Texas, USA HKS designed a resource center that embodies True Several interior glass walls provide a sense of safety Worth Place’s mission to empower the disenfranchised and openness through clear sight lines, while filling and restore their hope and dignity. Serving as a model the space with daylight. The site features a community facility that provides critical support services to courtyard and outdoor dining on a roof deck with people experiencing homelessness, True Worth Place a beautiful view of Fort Worth. An industrial-grade rebuffs a sterile, institutional setting for design that kitchen provides 200 meals each at breakfast and offers dignity and comfort. lunch every day. HKS provided architectural and interior design services for the project, which features True Worth Place, a comprehensive resource center health and dental clinics, showers, storage lockers, and day shelter, represents a new approach to a mail room, rooftop deck, and technology center supporting unsheltered populations. The environment classrooms. exudes a hotel or health club ambiance, with a central two-story hearth surrounded by club chairs and an In its first year of operation, True Worth Place served exposed wood ceiling. The center welcomes and nearly 5,000 people—or nearly all the people who provides services to anyone in need in an environment experienced homelessness in Tarrant County. featuring warm and thoughtful amenities. The project has been honored with a 2018 Social Innovation Award (Healthcare Environment Award); Guests can eat, take classes, check e-mail or apply for 2018 Merit Award, AIA Fort Worth; and a 2018 Design jobs online, receive mail, shower, do laundry, charge Excellence Award (Healthcare Large Category). electronics, meet with a case manager and even access health care, creating a consolidated, one-stop location with a wide array of service offerings, all in a single facility. CA S E S T U DY Nourishing Bodies, Minds & Souls Capital Area Food Bank Urban Food Studio Washington, D.C., USA Created for the Capital Area Food Bank (CAFB), with the community around issues of hunger and nutrition. Statistics for the Urban Food Studio’s first year of operation: seed funding from a USGBC Legacy Project grant, the The CAFB answers the problem of hunger and food Urban Food Studio is a flexible, all-season space and hands-on learning environment that hosts workshops insecurity by providing leadership, education, training and food to more than a half million people and 450 45 Education Seminars and gardening, cooking classes, nutrition education partner agencies, including churches, synagogues, sessions and events, while providing a place of respite for volunteers. This community gathering senior centers and other community groups that serve the hungry. 570+ C ommunity Members Educated space supports CAFB’s Urban Demonstration Garden 17 Events and reflects the mission and operations of the CABF About 21,000 people volunteer with the CAFB. In by incorporating reused and recycled materials. addition to distributing food, CAFB works with multiple The pavilion itself is a demonstration of sustainable partners to address the root causes of food insecurity. systems and includes a water collection system — it’s also solar panel-ready for installation in the future. Since opening in 2015, the HKS Washington D.C. office has continued its relationship with CAFB 790+ Garden Volunteers 40+ Volunteer Project Team Members The realities of hunger are crippling in and around during the firms’ annual Month of Service, including Washington, D.C.—15 percent of the area’s population designing and constructing a compost bin for the is food insecure. The CAFB assists one out of every Urban Demonstration Garden in 2018. 10 people living in Virginia, Maryland and throughout the District of Columbia — one-third are children. 30+ D onors Contributed $450,000 to CAFB’s goal is to educate, empower and enlighten Complete Project Construction 2,233 Pounds of Food Raised & Harvested OUR WORK 2.3 Sustainability Survey: Understanding HKS’ Potential RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Relationship to Strategic Plan This 2019 survey was a means of gauging the level of The core relationship to the Strategic Plan is “character” broad professional and cultural sustainability engagement and “purpose.” Character is a measure of the energy within HKS. Survey results provided an opportunity to and generosity we deploy throughout our work to all assess potential areas for advancement. HKS is utilizing stakeholders. Purpose ties directly to the contributions this first survey as a benchmark for future surveys and that design creates for our clients, communities and continuous improvement. the Earth. Context Stakeholders The “Sustainability at HKS” survey was distributed to all PRIMARY: HKS staff through the firm’s “Weekly Happenings” internal communications e-blast. All office and studio leaders were asked to make staff aware and advocate for survey completion. Additional communication forums were used to advocate for input. The survey response was 135, RELATIONAL: roughly 9.6% of HKS staff. Sustainability and high-performance design continue to be in demand from clients as characteristics of quality design. A broad cultural commitment to the topic is an increasingly important imperative of 21st-century Materiality architecture. This is crucial for industry influence and for The Sustainability Survey is directly material to HKS and business development. its consultants. The depth of HKS engagement directly influences the relationships and quality of design team A culture of high-performance design and sustainable consultants we work with. Indirect relationships are outcomes is supported by HKS. The firm is committed to material to our clients through the quality of design. creating an ethical and sustainable organizational ethos and governance structure. This survey is a view into how Specifically, this survey is a cultural accounting, assessing deeply that ethos reaches. HKS staff alignment around sustainability. 02 Our Work | 24 HKS Fort Worth Office OUR WORK 2.3 Sustainability Survey: Understanding HKS’ Potential Assessment, Policy & Goals Key take-aways from the 2019 survey are: 94% Believe Sustainable High-Performance Design 72% Believe HKS Encourages Sustainable, 69% Of Respondents Know Where to go to get Matters to Design Quality High-Performance Design the Resources They Need 85% 59% Of Respondents Feel that Sustainability is 51% Feel Like They Have the Personal Knowledge Believe Sustainable High-Performance Design is Integral to Client Service Inherent in the HKS Purpose Statement To Deliver High-Performance Projects 71% 52% Think the HKS Process Supports Integrated Implementation This survey will be repeated at the end of 2020 for comparison and adjustments as needed. Believe Sustainable High-Performance Design Helps Win the Work We Want High-Performance Teams Measures or Outcomes 77% One primary measure will be to engage a larger percentage of HKS staff in replying to this survey. A 35% or higher response rate is desired. Believe HKS has the Tools to Deliver High-Performance Design 02 Our Work | 25 OUR WORK 2.3 Sustainability Survey: Understanding HKS’ Potential What sustainable, high-performance As a practice, HKS’ attitude toward sustainability can be Sector and Practice Leaders clearly advocate for characterized as: integrated sustainable and high-performance design. issue do you consider to be the most important or urgent? 34.6% Random Acts of Sustainability 32.6% Only When Clients Ask 5.1% Code Compliant 06.7% Not Much at All 60 Energy & Envelope .07% Dismissive 23% On All Projects 47 Materials & Carbon 3.7% Regenerative and/or Resilient 37.8% When Useful to Win a Project 31 Process & Culture 27.9% Sustainable and High-Performance 27.9% LEED Registered or Certified 10 Social 2 Other HKS has a design process that supports integrated, I feel like I have knowledge to personally deliver I understand where to go to get the resources I need to high-performance teams. sustainable, high-performance projects. deliver sustainable, high-performance projects. 10.3% Strongly Agree 16.3% Strongly Agree 28.4% Strongly Agree 41.9% Agree 34.8% Agree 41% Agree 37.5% Neutral 32.6% Neutral 25.4% Neutral 8.8% Disagree 14.1% Disagree 4.5% Disagree 1.5% Strongly Disagree 2.2% Strongly Disagree 0.7% Strongly Disagree 02 Our Work | 26 CA S E S T U DY Transforming the Passenger Experience San Francisco International Airport’s Harvey Milk Terminal 1, Boarding Area B San Francisco, California, USA To deliver SFO’s Boarding Area B, HKS became fully The phased project includes 25 gates, including four immersed in the airport’s paradigm for Exceptional international swing gates, two airline lounges and one Project Outcomes (EOP), which encompassed all common use lounge; 14 food and beverage spaces; project aspects with a focused passion on design, 20 retail spaces and extensive amenities, including project management, construction, economics, SFO Museum exhibits, a children’s play area, pet relief business and sustainability. room and 10 site-specific art commissions. Key design challenges included defining the program This project initiates SFO’s vision—incorporating and footprint for the new boarding area while keeping next-generation building systems, aviation trends the existing terminal and airfield operational with and setting innovation standards—for the entire minimal disruption; delivering a new level of service airport. Despite the complexities of upgrading to new and standards; incorporating the latest technology, systems, SFO is reaping the long-term benefits of industry trends and aviation processing to futureoperating common-use gates, building management proof the facility; and fulfilling the airport’s ambitious systems and all-electric shared-use ramp service sustainable and healthy building outcome goals. vehicles. Focusing on the passenger experience, the design SFO has achieved some notable “firsts,” including creates a calm and curated journey: a generous operating the first ICS baggage handling system in central concourse features intuitive wayfinding, North America. It is the first common-use terminal at advanced acoustics and lighting, art galleries, SFO and provides the first gender-neutral restroom comfortable furnishings and plentiful amenities and facilities at the airport. food halls offering regional Bay Area fare. The project will achieve USGBC LEED Gold Radiant heating and cooling, dynamic glazing certification and is pursuing WELL certification. and 5-filter carbon air filtration systems create a The design included LEED Platinum-ready and Net comfortable ambiance while meeting SFO’s stringent Zero energy-ready installations for the future. The healthy building and sustainability goals. project will achieve a 50% Energy Use Intensity (EUI) reduction. OUR WORK 2.4 Energy & Carbon: The AIA 2030 Commitment RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose As an international firm, HKS supports aligned efforts of integrative design, building systems and technical The built around the world. In October of 2015, HKS became a outcomes. Positioning our design solutions for longBuildings account for 39% of annual global greenhouse environment founding signatory of The China Accord a commitment term relevancy and asset value is the core of Advising gas emissions. accounts for to plan and design cities, towns, developments, and for Influence. Energy efficiency and carbon reductions 39% buildings in China to low carbon/carbon neutral are integral to this pillar. Metrics, performative design According to the AIA website, standards. and building analysis is at the core of the AIA 2030 “The mission of the AIA 2030 Commitment. The Design Data Exchange (DDx) is central The Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) launched a Commitment is to support the of annual global complementary program, the 2030 Climate Challenge, to advancing Outcome-Driven Design. 2030 Challenge and transform the greenhouse gas in October of 2019. HKS immediately committed. The This program enables HKS to assess the body of its practice of architecture in a holistic, emissions. RIBA 2030 Climate Challenge addresses three outcome project work, providing data-driven feedback and building metrics: operational energy, embodied carbon and our knowledge and capacity to lead. firmwide, project-based, and datapotable water use. driven way. By prioritizing energy performance, participating firms can Introduced in 2006, The 2030 Challenge states that all At a local scale, HKS supports the efforts of the cities and Stakeholders new buildings, developments and major renovations shall municipalities we work within. In May 2020, HKS wrote more easily work toward carbonbe carbon-neutral by 2030. The challenge encompasses in support asking that the Dallas City Council adopt the PRIMARY: neutral buildings, developments and the architecture and building community and focuses Dallas Comprehensive Environmental and Climate Action major renovations by 2030.” on lowering energy consumption and greenhouse gas Plan (CECAP). Throughout the years, HKS has provided emissions. The 2030 Commitment was established in similar support to many civic leaders as they advance the 2009 by the American Institute of Architects (AIA) and specifics of their local climate agendas. RELATIONAL: Context provides an actionable tool for tracking progress toward achieving the objectives of the 2030 Challenge. H. Ralph Hawkins, former HKS Chairman and CEO, Relationship to Strategic Plan signed HKS onto the AIA 2030 Commitment in February Additionally, at HKS the AIA 2030 Commitment serves of 2009. The commitment focuses HKS project teams It is fair to say that the AIA 2030 Commitment touches to advance a critical aspect of design quality, energy use on the urgent issue of climate change, the impact of on each of the three pillars of the Strategic Plan: Leading and carbon reductions. It advances an integrative design the buildings we design for our clients and reducing our with Knowledge, Advising for Influence and Outcomeprocess and connects to the HKS objectives of Design corporate carbon footprint. Driven Design. Delivering high-performance projects to Excellence, Beauty and Performance. our clients and communities requires deep knowledge 02 Our Work | 28 OUR WORK Program goals are for an 80% 2.4 Energy & Carbon: reduction from baseline in 2020, a The AIA 2030 Commitment 90% reduction in 2025 and carbon neutrality by 2030. Materiality HKS Policy on the 2030 Commitment: HKS adopted the 2030 Challenge in 2009 and is a partner firm. We The AIA 2030 Commitment is directly material to the reaffirmed this commitment in 2016. All HKS employees professional leadership position of HKS. We work within a play a vital role in reducing our corporate carbon competitive industry and addressing energy and carbon footprint, which includes awareness of green operations will continue to grow as a relevant part of business policies and designing and providing our clients with development. This effort is relevant to our clients as energy-efficient buildings. they advance their organizational objectives related to resiliency and risk management. OPERATIONS: All stakeholders — businesses, communities and We commit to addressing our internal operations to much more — are nested inside of a healthy Earth and make them more sustainable. All HKS employees play environment. Addressing energy use and carbon/ a role in increasing or decreasing our corporate carbon greenhouse gas emissions in every project is material to all footprint. stakeholders. PROJECTS: Assessment, Policy & Goals We commit to design our new projects to achieve aggressive energy efficiency standards. Project HKS uses the Design Data Exchange (DDx), a tool designers, project managers, project team members, developed by the AIA, to annually manage and track our construction contract administrators, etc. affect our design work. HKS has used this assessment protocol projects‘ overall energy efficiency targets. By aiming since signing on to the 2030 Challenge in 2009. This is an to have more architecturally energy-efficient designs, annual assessment of all HKS projects globally in design as well as teaming with strong MEP firms that design for a 12-month period. The data is submitted to the AIA innovative integrated systems, we can meet the annually at the end of the first quarter or the following year. aggressive energy targets set by the AIA for the 2030 The data shared in this section of the Touchstone Report Challenge. is for projects in design in 2019. Program goals are for an 80% reduction from baseline in 2020, a 90% reduction in It is an HKS policy to document project performance in 2025 and carbon neutrality by 2030. the AIA 2030 DDx tool. HKS goals are incrementally stepped to meet the 70% reduction goal by Implementation 2024, with a 62% goal for 2020. HKS Principals, project managers, project designers and An associated goal is 100% energy modeling on all projects. 02 Our Work | 29 MGM National Harbor | National Harbor, Maryland, USA OUR WORK 2.4 Energy & Carbon: The AIA 2030 Commitment project team members are asked to set energy targets Measures or Outcomes and document project performance in the AIA2030 DDx In 2019, HKS had 264 projects in design and submitted to The HKS target for 2019 was 56%. As a firm, we did not online tool. HKS policy states that project teams will the AIA, comprising a total of 76,649,000 GSF. meet this goal, but six offices achieved this standard, document the designed energy consumption metrics on all projects, new construction, major renovation, and including Detroit, New Delhi, Orlando, Phoenix, San Forty-two of these projects are interior-only projects interior design lighting. Its applicability shall determine Diego and San Francisco. comprising 4,200,000 GSF. other types of HKS work, such as urban design, to HKS shows 21 projects that have a 70% or greater pEUI reporting protocols. reduction. There are another 31 with 60% or greater. Predicted Energy Use Reduction 50% 46% INTEGRATED DELIVERY: Project Managers ensure that appropriate scope and While the goal of 100% energy contract requirements are in the project scope, work plan modeling was not achieved, the and as needed in consultant agreements. 20 19 20 1 8 78% GSF energy modeled was a TECHNICAL OWNERSHIP: dramatic jump from 46% in 2018. Project Architects assist in establishing and reporting an Twelve offices met the 100% energy modeling goal, energy target appropriate for the project using the 2030 Percentage of GSF that is Energy Modeled including Atlanta, Denver, Detroit, Fort Worth, London, 78% 45% DDx. Project Architects enter project data into the DDx Miami, New Delhi, Orlando, Phoenix, San Diego, San and manage updates as the design develops. Francisco and Washington, D.C. Please reference the following pages for additional context and data DESIGN LEADERSHIP: 20 19 20 1 8 breakdown. Project Designers address energy as a design criterion and utilize design performance modeling to achieve aggressive EUI targets. Lighting Power Density Reduction 27% 37% PROJECT ACCOUNTABILITY: All projects engage in this effort. The HKS Technical Resource Group, Project Management and DesignGreen leadership manage the overall effort. DDx Champions 20 19 20 1 8 in all offices support this work and lead the discussion across all HKS offices. PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY: HKS is explicit about this responsibility in project reviews. Salt River Fields at Talking Stick 02 Our Work | 30 Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, Arizona, USA OUR WORK 2.4 Energy & Carbon: The AIA 2030 Commitment PREDICTED ENERGY USE INTENSITY (PEUI) % REDUCTION PEUI REDUCTION BY OFFICE 50% FIRM AVERAGE LIGHTING POWER REDUCTION (LPD) % REDUCTION % OF GSF MODELED 78% FIRM AVERAGE GROSS SQUARE FOOTAGE REPORTED EXTERIOR INTERIOR 02 Our Work | 31 CA S E S T U DY Living and Learning Neighborhood Embodies Sustainable, Human-Centered Design UCSD North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood La Jolla, California, USA The North Torrey Pines Living and Learning Neighborhood lecture and performance halls, public and outdoor spaces, (NTPLLN) at the University of California at San Diego retail, dedicated bike paths and recreational areas, and a (UCSD) embodies sustainable, human-centered design. 1,200 space below-grade parking structure designed for This new mixed-use campus supports state and regional conversion in a car-free future. climate change objectives through the university’s Climate Action Plan, which considers all aspects of academics and Slated to be the largest living and learning community in research, energy and climate, sustainable operations, waste the University of California system when it opens in 2020, diversion, clean transportation, water conservation and NTPLLN adds 2,000 undergraduate beds to accommodate environmentally preferable procurement. a growing student population. Human social dynamics, psychological needs and learning NTPLLN is targeting Parksmart and LEEDv3 Platinum behaviors drove every design decision for NTPLLN. Weaving certifications for the entire project. The campus design together living and learning at a massive scale forms the includes active and passive integrated sustainability foundation of this vibrant, healthy and exciting community. features including operable windows for natural ventilation, By understanding the myriad points of view of those who photovoltaic arrays powering the net-zero parking structure live, work and visit the North Torrey Pines campus, the and an anaerobic digester that processes dining hall food project team designed for interaction and collaboration to waste into electricity and fertilizer. enable a rich learning and life experience. With specific targets and timelines developed from its From building and program placement to the placeoperational baseline data, UCSD is on a trajectory to meet making of spaces between the built environments, the its ambitious sustainability goal to be climate-neutral project addresses the needs of a broad user base that by 2025. NTPLLN demonstrates that it is possible to will enliven this new campus. The 1.6-million-square-foot accommodate growth and at the same time, improve public project includes housing, academic buildings, faculty health and well-being, air quality and increase clean energy and administrative offices, rooftop terraces, a market, production, enhancing the quality of life and well-being of two-story dining hall, coffee shop, a craft center for the campus community. students and community members, classrooms and CA S E S T U DY First Collegiate Venue to Incorporate On-Site Renewable Energy University of North Texas Apogee Stadium Denton, Texas, USA After opening in September 2011, Apogee Stadium The 29,000-seat venue features 21 suites, 750 club became the nation’s first LEED Platinum-certified seats, a private club and team store. The stadium’s collegiate stadium. It was also the first collegiate circulation follows the sloping site descending from venue to incorporate on-site renewable energy east to west through plazas, special event areas and using wind turbine power, which substantially offset concourses. The stadium features state-of-the-art external energy demand. high-efficiency mechanical systems, water-efficient plumbing, regionally obtained materials and The HKS designed UNT Apogee Stadium provides permeable paving. Three 150-foot tall wind turbines the entire North Texas region with a venue for a provide a half-million kilowatt-hours per year to UNT’s variety of outdoor events, from college football to power grid. high school band competitions. Nestled into the site’s contoured sloping terrain, the stadium grounds have The project achieved an 80% reduction in landfill a campus feel, which is an element of the University construction waste, 20% in recycled content, 45% Master Plan. HKS designers preserved a grove of Post regional material selection and more than 40% in Oak trees and respected the natural, open character FSC certified wood. Apogee, which opened in 2011, of the site. A natural amphitheater and areas for replaced the 59-year-old Fouts Field and has reduced tailgating, picnics and pregame festivals surround the its energy consumption by more than 20%. In 2013, stadium, integrating game day celebrations into the Apogee Stadium was named Renewable Energy on-field action. Project of the Year by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) North Texas Chapter. OUR WORK 2.5 Materials Selection: Environmental & Human Well-Being RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose firm in our industry, a focus on healthy material and product selection will enable HKS to deliver projects By focusing on material and product selection, HKS with an increasingly lower impact on human health and is building capacity to deliver projects with a lower improved environmental performance. impact on human health and improved environmental performance. Stakeholders Context PRIMARY: HKS has been working toward a more informed and data-driven product and material selection RELATIONAL: process for nearly a decade. The mindful MATERIALS (mM) program was conceived, nurtured and launched by HKS staff and leadership. We participate in industry forums such as the USGBC LEED Materials and Resources Technical Advisory Group as Materiality well as Committee and Board participation on the Health HKS does not procure materials within the supply Product Declaration Collaborative. Advocating for our chain for building construction. We do, however, industry to be transparent around material ingredients and use our collective purchasing power and product/ substances of concern is core to HKS’ values. material selection and specifications to create the contract requirements by which the contractors and subcontractors construct the buildings we design. In this Relationship to Strategic Plan arrangement, HKS has a significant, meaningful and direct Driven by the strategic direction to be the most influential influence on the specification and impact of materials, products and systems that create the built environment. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport 02 Our Work | 34 Airside Modernization | Atlanta, Georgia, USA OUR WORK 2.5 Materials Selection: Environmental & Human Well-Being Assessment, Policy & Goals HKS advocates for transparency in material and HKS prioritizes human health and environmental wellproduct ingredients and the impact on both human being as critical factors in material and product selection health and environmental welfare. As such, we support process for our design solutions. As such, we strive for organizations, programs and systems that enable greater material and product selection decisions to be made with transparency. These organizations include Mindful consideration of human health and environmental welfare MATERIALS, Environmental Product Declarations, Health in all instances. These considerations are not exclusive Product Declarations, Declare, Cradle 2 Cradle and the but complementary to the many other factors (aesthetics, organizations that support these systems. cost, durability, standards, constructability) deployed in There is exceptional momentum in both the design and the design process. A holistic approach is expected. manufacturing industries to better engage with material HKS considers the Precautionary Principle a framework impacts on human health and environmental welfare. for decision making regarding materials and product This is evident in programs like mindful MATERIALS, the chemical constituents, components and substances. We Health Product Declaration and other industry efforts. use the Precautionary Principle to determine the applicaAddressing these issues is not the sole responsibility of bility of a material or product to our design solutions. any stakeholder. As such, HKS values relationships and partnerships as we engage more deeply ourselves. The Precautionary Principle guides our decisions in We seek innovative and inspired partnerships. situations where there is the possibility of harm (human or environmental), and when extensive scientific knowledge on the matter is lacking. We act with respect for life and on the side of caution. We consider this a broad approach to risk management that includes all stakeholders impacted or potentially impacted by our design solutions. HKS understands that we work within a business system and material supply-chain that includes downstream and upstream implications for our work. We will deploy a life cycle approach (extraction through repurpose) to material and product selection to the extent that we are able and for which information systems exist. 02 Our Work | 35 OUR WORK 2.5 Materials Selection: Environmental & Human Well-Being Implementation In addition to product literature, we use Material HKS created and delivered an educational program reporting, such as HPDs, to evaluate and limit these supporting an optimized product and material selection HKS deploys transparency requirements on all projects. chemicals of concern. We hope that in the future we can approach. This effort supports an integrated project A 2019 revision of Division One specification requires continue to eliminate additional chemicals that are rated specification process. We continue to develop directed transparency and optimization documentation, including by GreenScreen as Benchmark 1 (BM-1), List Translator 1 educational opportunities ranging from human and Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs), Health (LT-1), and List Translator possible 1 (LT-p1), however the environmental health impacts to life cycle thinking to Product Declarations (HPDs), and product emissions firm realizes that we work within a product ecosystem detailing for deconstruction. testing, for all projects. and are limited to available products. HKS has a long history of advocacy for material transparency, which HKS modified its technical we will continue so that all in the industry can benefit Measures or Outcomes specification sections to support from this work. Because HKS practices globally and The means for assessing the deployment of optimized the firm’s purpose and goals. This is regulations vary, the Precautionary Principle is a best materials, products and systems will be determined practice approach. supportive of and integrated within in 2020. the design and materials selection When competitive product options exist, HKS will select and specify products and materials to only include process. companies that support material transparency. Likewise, As part of this effort, all HKS projects will require when competitive options exist, products that do not management of Indoor Air Quality during construction, have transparency documentation for a product or will identify products that meet Mindful Materials library material will be removed from product selections and criteria, and will eliminate, when possible, certain specifications, this is a continual and ongoing process. chemicals of concern. HKS created a targeted list of When competitive options exist, HKS will “optimize” chemicals of concern to eliminate from product selections materials and products to deliver projects with an due to the association to environmental and human wellincreasingly lower impact on human health and an being. Though the list is short, it encompasses thousands improved environmental performance. Some of the of chemicals. material transparency documentation that we prioritize, includes: Antimicrobials Bisphenol A (BPA) Health Product Declarations Cadmium Declare Label, Red List Free or Declared Chromium Cradle 2 Cradle certified Flame Retardants Environmental Product Declarations Formaldehyde TVOC Emissions testing Highly Fluorinated Chemicals California Air Resource Board (CARB) ultra-low-emitting Phthalates formaldehyde (ULEF) resins or no added formaldehyde (NAF) resins FSC Certified 02 Our Work | 36 HKS Dallas Office OUR WORK 2.5 Materials Selection: Environmental & Human Well-Being Antimicrobials Formaldehyde are also known as antibacterials, a group of chemicals a colorless gas that functions as a fixative, preservative, disinfectant, and antimicrobial, added to products to kill or inhibit microbe growth; commonly identified as urea-formaldehyde (UF) and phenol formaldehyde (PF), but also examples include triclosan and nanosilver. listed as formalin, formic aldehyde, methanediol, methanal, methylaldehyde, methylene Chemicals of Concern Awareness Developmental glycol, methylene oxide Central Nervous System Impacts Damage Endocrine Disruption Neurological effects Focusing on material and product selection enables HKS to deliver projects that reduce harmful human and Leukemia Antimicrobial Carcinogenic environmental health impacts on each project we design. Resistance Microbiome Disruption Nasopharyngeal Cancer Carcinogenic To help project teams engage in materials selection on Asthma and Allergies a deeper level and make informed decisions that drive Respiratory Conditions Asthma & Lung Cancer market transparency and deliver healthier projects, HKS Allergies Carcinogenic Respiratory Conditions has developed a variety of educational and projectHormonal Reproductive Imbalance Effects focused guidance tools for employees. Endocrine Disruption Digestive Endocrine Disruption Antimicrobial Resistance Disorders & Skin Irritation Microbiome Disruption Microbiome disruption HKS’ Chemicals of Concern posters, affixed on HKS office walls and in breakrooms around the world, use the human anatomy to help employees quickly visualize how some of the chemicals used in building products and architectural finishes—everything from carpet, furniture, textiles, countertops, interior paint, insulation and more— Direct or Indirect Exposure Direct or Indirect Exposure negatively impact human health and well-being. Antimicrobials enter the body through Formaldehyde enters the body through ingestion, inhalation, or skin contact: ingestion, inhalation, or skin contact: This simple tool enables employees to make a meaningful Construction Construction connection: the choices they make have an impact on the Products & Materials Distribution & Products & Materials Distribution & health of their projects’ future occupants. Installation Installation Production & Production & Manufacturing Manufacturing Use Use Impacts throughout Impacts throughout Insulation Flooring Countertops Textiles Paints Product Life End of Insulation Composite Furniture Textiles Product Life End of Use wood products Use Cycle Cycle Raw Material Raw Material Extraction Extraction Wallboard Furniture Wall Grouts & Door Dispose Resins Paint & Adhesives & Dispose Recycle Recycle coverings sealants hardware Design coatings sealants Design in Practice in Practice Everyday + Use an HPD to evaluate product contents Everyday + Use an HPD to evaluate product contents + Use HKS Product Guides to identify + Use HKS Product Guides to identify Activities preferable products Activities preferable products + Discuss avoiding antimicrobials +Look for wood products that are ULEF with clients (ultra-low emitting formaldehyde) or NAF + Select and/or ask for products (no-added formaldehyde) manufactured free of antimicrobials + Look for low-emitting products + Address end-of-use and recyclability with a general emissions evaluation Water Medicine Wellness & Dust / air Medicine Wellness & Food (i.e. Greenguard Gold or SCS Indoor beauty beauty Advantage Gold) + Address end-of-use and recyclability HKS HKS 02 Our Work | 37 CA S E S T U DY The amount of carbon Making Concrete Change sequestered in the concrete masonry units is equivalent to the amount of carbon sequestered by 1.2 acres of forests in one year. MGM National Harbor National Harbor, Maryland, USA The cement industry plays a significant role in global carbon emissions at 8% of the total and is the highest polluting component of concrete. While designing and constructing MGM National Harbor, HKS worked with CarbonCure, a company reducing the carbon footprint of the built environment using recycled CO2 to trap sequestered CO2 inside the concrete used and reduce the need for cement. Adding CO2 in liquid form to concrete during the mixing process provides several benefits including reducing the amount of cement needed, improving the concrete’s strength as well as turning carbon into a mineral captured within the concrete, preventing it from being released into the atmosphere in the case of demolition. The premier entertainment destination and the first luxury gaming resort in the Capital Region is LEED Gold Certified and employs 3,700 people. The hotel reached capacity 242 nights during its first year of operation and totaled more than 6 million visitors. Green technologies are visible and celebrated within the design. HKS placed a large emphasis on transparency and disclosure of the project’s building materials. OUR WORK 2.6 Embodied Carbon and Life Cycle Analysis RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Stakeholders Implementation Embodied carbon is a growing area of focus for the AEC PRIMARY: RELATIONAL: Life cycle analysis (LCA) is the study used to determine industry, but is also a key part of addressing climate the environmental impact of materials, which includes change. HKS is committed to generate a positive impact their carbon footprint. LCA allows designers to obtain on the environment and adapt to the changing industry. information on how their material choices affect the environment and make informed decisions. Currently, HKS is in the initial stage of implementing LCA as part Context Assessment, Policy & Goals of the design process, collaborating with designers and HKS supports a culture of high-performance design Embodied carbon in architecture is the measurement informing them of less carbon-intensive product, detail, with sustainable outcomes and is committed to making of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) emitted during the extraction, and design alternatives. The firm is working on the first progress toward these goals. Addressing sustainability manufacture, and transportation to the site, the physical in-house life cycle analysis. It will become an important and climate change from myriad vantage points, HKS has construction of the building and the materials end-of-life milestone in HKS’ journey to fully incorporate this process long focused on energy consumption and we are now encompasses the total embodied carbon of a building. into common practice. layering in the embodied carbon for the buildings we These emissions, combined with building operations design. This will create a much fuller picture of the total emissions, amount to the total carbon footprint of a carbon impact of our work. building. As the industry reduces the operational carbon Measures or Outcomes of buildings, embodied carbon becomes a bigger part The implementation of embodied carbon assessment Relationship to Strategic Plan of the carbon footprint; furthermore, embodied carbon and analysis as part of the design process is a new goal has an immediate impact as these emissions are mostly for HKS and it is still in an early phase of development. Addressing embodied carbon will place HKS at the created by the time the building is first occupied. Despite The firm is coordinating and organizing around this topic forefront of a topic gaining traction, which is crucial for this importance, in common practice, the analysis of the and generating a standard procedure of action, with industry influence. materials’ environmental costs is typically not considered. DesignGreen leading the effort. The current goal is to have This can be attributed to a lack of available data, loyalty to an established system around embodied carbon, allowing Materiality conventional construction methods, or the complexity of DesignGreen to participate in more projects, reach more embodied carbon calculations. people, and have a bigger impact. By establishing this Addressing the embodied carbon of projects will allow system, HKS will be able to integrate embodied carbon HKS to grow into a leadership role in the industry. Quality analysis as a fundamental part of the design process. design, through material selection, especially in structure design, will generate influence. 02 Our Work | 39 3161 Michelson | Irvine, California, USA CA S E S T U DY What You Don’t See Matters The life cycle analysis resulted in a 17% reduction in carbon emissions, equal to 8,393,742 miles driven by an average passenger vehicle. Parkland Outpatient Clinic Building Dallas, Texas, USA HKS worked with Walter P Moore to conduct a life The LCA approach, using the Tally analysis tool, cycle analysis (LCA) for the Parkland Outpatient was focused on improvements to the concrete Clinic Building. This analysis resulted in a critical mixture design and reduced emissions from the strategic decision to adjust the concrete mixture concrete structure. Tally analysis accounts for the full and, ultimately, lower CO2 emissions from 19776063 cradle-to-grave life cycle impacts for a building life kgCO2e to 16393385 kgCO2e. of 60 years with design options studied, including material extraction, building product manufacturing, Parkland is a value-driven, change-ready clinic transportation to site, product maintenance and designed to unite Parkland’s fragmented specialty replacement, deconstruction, demolition and outpatient services into a unified building to serve disposal. Dallas County. As a tax-funded county hospital, Parkland has a 125-year legacy of serving the diverse Early in the design phase, the team used WBLCA to patient population of Dallas County, including lower understand hot spots and found that the concrete socioeconomic populations, many of which lack structure and foundation were the dominant access to healthcare. contributor to most LCA impacts. The cement and fly ash content of these mixes was then manipulated for While seeing 800 patients a day, the community the building, which achieved the impact reductions. continuously stayed a primary focus of design, including substantial sustainability decisions that will help the project achieve LEED Silver certification. 2.0 Our Enterprise | 40 concrete option and wi applicable to the indus Concrete is the most si CA S E S T U DY building, so the analysi How Design Can Play a Role in Decreasing CO2 in Data Centers ServerFarm Whole Building Life-Cycle Analysis Report 6 Embodied Carbon Embodied Carbon per Material The graph shows the embodied carbon for the same building in 10,000,000 ServerFarm 9,425,673 three different scenarios. The first one is a standard new 9,000,000 8,301,691 Chicago, Illinois, USA construction, the second is a 8,000,000 standard new construction with a low carbon concrete, and the 7,000,000 third is reusing an existing In our modern data-driven economy, data centers building. Theseare scenarios are 6,000,000 major consumers of energy, contributing brokentodown carbon kgCO2eq per material, emissions and impacting the climate. How can showing howdesign concrete is the 5,000,000 play a role in decreasing CO2 in data center design? main contributor of embodied carbon in this case. 4,000,000 HKS partnered with Mission Critical client ServerFarm on a life cycle assessment (LCA) to determine the 3,000,000 impact of reusing existing building stock as compared to new construction. HKS’ analysis demonstrated that 2,000,000 modernizing a data center using an existing building 1,151,439 while expanding capacity can deliver embodied 1,000,000 carbon savings of 88% when compared with the material carbon cost of the new project. Standard Low Carbon Concrete Building Reuse Conducting a LCA is a discovery process that Construction examines multiple impacts of building materials, including their carbon emissions potential, over Concrete Metals their entire life cycle—from material extraction and manufacturing through recycling and finally, the Wood/Plastics/Composites Thermal and Moisture Protection landfill. Armed with scientific data and credible Openings and Glazing Finishes and Flooring analysis, WBLCA provides designers and clients with deep insight into a project’s energy savings potential, Material Breakdown enabling informed decision making related to Cograph nstrushows StandardThis ction the embodied bon Cfor Low Carcarbon cr esame te building onthe dithe Builin ng three Reusdifferent e Structurescenarios. The first oneStructure is a standard new construction, the second is a standard new Floors reducing both embodied and operational carbon. per Scenario Concreteconstruction (0-19% fly with a lowcarbon Concretemodel and fly (50% the third is reusing an existing Epoxy building. flooring in ash/slag) These scenarios are broken down per material, showing concrete ash/slag) is the main conserver halls Floors tributor of embodied carbon Floorsin this case. Partitions Epoxy flooring in Epoxy flooring in Metal studs server halls server halls Gypsum boards Roofs Roofs Polyisocyanurate board Polyisocyanurate board SBS modified bitumen SBS modified bitumen Partitions Partitions Metal studs Metal studs OUR WORK 2.7 The Market Value of Third-party Certifications RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Assessment, Policy & Goals The assessment of third-party certifications is an HKS will evaluate the need for any related policy. important gauge of client and market interest in Stakeholders Currently, there is nothing in place. The bearing of sustainable design and the related value to the real estate third-party certifications is largely determined by client asset and organizational brand. Third-party certification PRIMARY: demand, which is influenced by the market, client brand systems are found all over the globe, with the primary and building use. certifications including LEED, BREEAM, WELL and Energy Star (in the U.S.). Building staff capacity for broad advocacy for the value and impact is a goal. The current primary obstacle is RELATIONAL: data on construction cost and value creation. A cost of Context certification and value research activity would be a highly valuable data point for HKS. HKS is a leader in third-party certifications. Staff participates in Implementation the development of these standards Materiality HKS DesignGreen will continue to provide its expertise and we use these systems globally. Third-party certifications are directly material to the and deliver these services. Occasionally an outside design quality and asset of the clients for whom we consultant provides this service to an HKS design project. work. The rigor and outcome-based approach create Relationship to Strategic Plan added value for our clients. It also creates a framework Third-party certifications are an accountability from which we can advise for influence. This, in turn, assessment of our design. They are directly related to a is materially relevant for the global business interests set of outcome-driven design issues. They enable large of HKS. objectives to be articulated in a way the project team can align around and are regarded as best-practices standards in the industry and enable the articulation of large objectives for project team alignment. 02 Our Work | 42 2.0 Our Enterprise | 42 2345 Crystal Drive Lobby | Arlington, Virginia, USA OUR WORK 2.7 The Market Value of Third-party Certifications Measures or Outcomes To date we have the following certification data: LEED Certified: 24 certified & 30 registered NEAT (NON-EXERCISE ACTIVITY THERMOGENESIS) Silver: 61 certified & 64 registered 4 completed Gold: 73 certified & 32 registered Total: 92,022,000 sf (8,549,123 sqm) Platinum: 10 certified & 6 registered Total: 1 54,022,000 sf (143,091,12 sqm) GRIHA 1 in process BREEAM Total: 1,900,000 sf (1,76,515 sqm) 24 completed 10 in process GREEN STAR Total: 6,082,000 sf (565,036 sqm) 2 completed Total: 2,915,000 sf (270,812 sqm) WELL 6 completed 1 in process AEGB (AUSTIN ENERGY AND GREEN BUILDING) Total: 769,106 sf (71,452 sqm) 8 completed PEARL 3 in process 1 completed Total: 4,768,000 sf (442,961 sqm) Total: 602,000 sf (55,927 sqm) GEORGIA PEACH PARKSMART 1 completed 1 completed Total: 225,000 sf (20,903 sqm) 1 in process Total: 4,300,000 sf (39,948 sqm) ENERGY STAR 7 completed Total: 1,476,000 sf (137,124 sqm) 02 Our Work | 43 Salt River Fields at Talking Stick | Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, Arizona, USA CA S E S T U DY Residential Tower Aims to Be Healthiest High-Rise in Texas Hall Arts Residences Dallas, Texas, USA Standing at 28 stories, the Hall Arts luxury residential Features include a raised flooring system to promote tower is designed to give homeowners the highest energy efficiency and advanced technologies such as level of comfort and health in their built environment. air purification, water filtration, active design, acoustic With infrastructure and amenities focused on and thermal comfort. soothing the mind and body, the building will be the first residential development to register for WELL Through the scientific rigor of the WELL Building certification in Texas. Standard, every resident can take comfort in knowing that the design and operation of their The WELL Standard was created in conjunction building is actively contributing to a better, healthier with medical institutions, including the Mayo environment, so residents may breathe, sleep and live Clinic, Cleveland Clinic and Johns Hopkins. It is better. All three buildings designed by HKS within the a performance-based system for measuring and development are pursuing LEED Gold Certification. certifying features of the built environment that impact human health and well-being through air, Some key design strategies that have been water, nourishment, light, fitness, comfort and implemented to excel in each of the seven WELL the mind. It marries best practices in design and categories are the minimization of indoor air pollutants construction with evidence-based medical and using multilevel air filtration, the elimination of building scientific research—harnessing the built environment materials containing VOCs, thick demising walls that as a vehicle to support human health and well-being. mitigate noise transfer between and within homes, a Hall Arts is a building with medical integrity that will sound-reducing membrane installed in floors, on-site ensure it upholds the highest levels by continuous fitness facilities, light-optimal interior design palettes performance monitoring and re-testing. created by Emily Summers Design Associates to maximize comfort, and an environment infused with beauty and inspiring art to stimulate the mind. CA S E S T U DY First LEED Gold Major League Baseball Spring Training Facility Salt River Fields at Talking Stick Salt River Pima-Maricopa Indian Community, Arizona, USA HKS redefined the fan experience while creating Inside the stadium, the detailing is carefully designed lasting value for the community with the design of Salt to reveal concessions and fan support amenities. River Fields at Talking Stick. It is the first professional Collectively, the walls, openings and pathways serve sports venue built on Native American land, blending multiple purposes: to promote an immersive experience environmental stewardship and innovation with and interaction of fans and players; to frame key ancestral custom. It is also the first LEED Gold-certified views of the surrounding landscape and to encourage sports venue of its kind. environmental awareness and stewardship. Widely regarded as Major League Baseball’s (MLB) The stadium features stone materials from the Salt River top Spring Training facility and the ultimate baseball Pima-Maricopa Indian Community lands, enhanced by destination environment, Salt River Fields at Talking native landscaped grounds that include more than 85 Stick was designed as an unprecedented immersive replanted trees and cacti. fan experience while supporting the interests of the community beyond baseball. A community resource beyond baseball, Salt River Fields was the first Spring Training venue to incorporate The 145-acre, 11,000 seat venue hosts two major community events outside daily or annual MLB league teams and is surrounded by beautiful desert operations. Since opening in 2011, Salt River Fields mountain views. The design is inspired by traditional has become a premier location for event planners and native dwellings situated around a central courtyard. promoters, including annual food and beverage events, Radiating from this central courtyard, 12 support and music and community festivals, private events and local administrative buildings, 18 practice fields and two sports tournaments. clubhouses form an overall cohesive complex. The walls and roofs recall traditional and historic native culture In 2019, Ballpark Digest named Salt River Fields at and life. The masonry simply yet eloquently serves as a Talking Stick the Best Spring Training Ballpark of the backdrop to the landscaping and playing fields. Decade. It was also Ballpark Digest’s 2020 Best of the Ballparks venue for the Cactus League as voted by fans. SECTION THREE: Public Interest Design Sensory Well-being Hub at Lane Tech College Prep High School Chicago, Illinois, USA PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN 3.1 Citizen HKS RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Founded in 2014, Citizen HKS is the firm’s social impact initiative—a global platform for socially responsible engagement. Citizen HKS focuses on improving lives and communities by leveraging design, volunteer service and financial philanthropy to help lift communities in need. Citizen HKS is divided into three impact areas: Create, Connect and Contribute. 03 Public Interest Design | 47 Kachumbala Maternity Unit | Kachumbala, Uganda, Africa PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN 3.1 Citizen HKS Create Residing at the heart of great Citizen HKS’ Guiding Principles inform the projects we SERVE our clients in design is joy, health, happiness choose, as well as our design approach. PROVIDE design thinking creating environments •P  rovide design thinking to create innovative solutions for and safety. In that same vein, marginalized and at-risk populations. to create innovative with unbiased access to all solutions for marginalized populations, and to provide every Citizen HKS design project •S  erve our clients in creating environments with unbiased and at-risk populations. assistance in the most access to all populations and to provide assistance in the begins by asking: how can our most impactful ways possible. impactful ways possible. work improve the world? •D  esign with an egalitarian approach. We are here to partner with and serve, not to dictate and enforce design Citizen HKS looks beyond the creation of a single building. solutions. DESIGN with an egalitarian We set about reimagining how design can transform lives, •C  reate design solutions that are sustainable fiscally, address the complex dynamics and systemic challenges approach. We are here to socially and environmentally. alongside the communities facing them. partner with and serve, •C  reate scalable design solutions with potential to be not to dictate and enforce We know design by itself isn’t a solution to a problem. We replicated to serve other communities. design solutions. partner with non-profits, civic and community leaders, like-minded contractors and design industry colleagues to get projects built, outfitted and operational. IDENTIFY scalable design CREATE design solutions solutions, with potential to that are sustainable fiscally, be replicated to serve other socially and environmentally. communities. 03 Public Interest Design | 48 PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN Citizen HKS is reflective of our firms’ 3.1 Citizen HKS values regarding RELATIONSHIPS, CHARACTER and PURPOSE. Purpose Inherent in Public Interest Design is the fundamental principle that all people deserve to live in socially, This public interest design initiative dedicates up to 1% economically and environmentally healthy communities. of the firms’ hours on an annual basis. HKS staff have Focusing on three key actionable areas for socially an opportunity to work on a pro bono design project responsible engagement, Citizen HKS is how we express while positively impacting an underserved community or our shared humanity. We’re focused on bettering lives marginalized population. and driving social change through design, community service and philanthropy to help lift communities in need. Context Nothing better expresses the humility and humanness of an architects’ quest to improve the world and lift mankind Citizen HKS demonstrates how design thinking through our craft and making design accessible to all contributes to solving some of the world’s most systemic people, whether they can afford to pay for our services or challenges, including access to health care, equity in not. HKS leads with knowledge and advises for influence education and affordable housing, job creation, livable by empowering its people to share their knowledge and cities and more. skills as part of the community engagement and design Public Interest Design is becoming increasingly important process. as our profession addresses our work’s architecture’s Every Citizen HKS projects begin with one of our strategic social and environmental impacts. For designers, it plan’s firm’s key pillars: outcome-driven design. We provides a platform for creative freedom, exploration, employ responsible design and the Nature of Place problem-solving and pushing boundaries: design teams protocol on every project from the onset of the design aren’t as constricted by client demands and budgetary process. Designing high-performance buildings and limitations inherent in the process and the typical projects is critical to our initiative’s credibility. fee-driven client-architect relationship. It is also an opportunity for staff to engage in meaningful work that Access to our services combined with HKS’ desire to is helping address some of the world’s most systemic be a relevant contributor in our communities creates problems. a powerful opportunity: in the process of doing this work, we can make ourselves, our firm and the design ESG profession itself agents for positive change. The Citizen HKS initiative fits squarely within the “S” as our contribution to creating a more equal and just society Stakeholders through design, volunteerism in the communities in which we live and work, and financial philanthropy. PRIMARY: Relationship to Strategic Plan Citizen HKS is reflective of our firms’ values regarding Relationships, Character and Purpose. RELATIONAL: 03 Public Interest Design | 49 Capital Area Food Bank Urban Food Studio | Washington, D.C., USA PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN 3.1 Citizen HKS Materiality Citizen HKS Goals are the most appropriate to undertake while having the greatest community impact and adding value to our As we grapple with the most pressing issues of the 21st •E stablish 501c3 status: it is important related to our overall portfolio. century, we believe that a business-as-usual approach ability and flexibility to fundraise to help complete our will eventually render us obsolete. We can no longer only projects, whether in the U.S. or internationally. • Monitoring, tracking and reporting the hours dedicated serve the top 10% of the global population that can afford to Citizen HKS on an annual basis •D evelop a Champions Network to extend our reach professional design services and stay relevant in a world of into each HKS office. It will help us better serve our • The volume of awards, recognitions, media placements, growing societal inequity. communities, assist in finding new opportunities, and speaking engagements and employee testimonials that help office leadership better understand and support are directly attributed to Citizen HKS, whether through CHKS project staffing needs. the initiative itself or individual projects. Citizen HKS team in Kachumbala, Uganda Assessment, Policy & Goals •C ontinued and ongoing Marketing Communications Because our initiative is not revenue-generating, we must align with HKS’ “Non-Negotiables and Must-Haves for support, which has been strong and is reflected in Measures of Outcomes & Goals numerous articles and media placements, on our web Success” to stay relevant and maintain the firm’s leadership Citizen HKS projects, volunteerism and fundraising site, awards garnered, Top Projects recognition and support. In relationship to HKS’ Business Development and have impacted the communities in which we live, industry and public presentations. Design & Business Management Rigor, we have carefully work and design, and the initiative has impacted our traditional projects—responsible design, integrative developed, evolved and cultivated a motivated Steering •E nhanced internal alignment with Human Resources and employees, firm and business. Through outcome-driven design, net zero, resilient design, COTE Top 10, Nature of Committee that has met every two weeks over the last five Global Knowledge Services to ensure all employees can design, Citizen HKS is the embodiment of how we are Place, etc. years. learn about, access and engage in Citizen HKS. demonstrating character and purpose as a firm. • Citizen HKS projects garner prominent media •P artnerships with NGOs and non-profit organizations placements and enhances the HKS brand. We strictly adhere to our Guiding Principles and project Since inception, Citizen HKS has completed 12 projects: engaged in global disaster relief efforts—not only to selection protocol when soliciting and vetting projects. 10 in the U.S. and two international (Uganda and Mexico). • Citizen HKS projects allow younger staff an opportunity partner “on the ground” with direct, hands-on relief Each applicant must complete (and revise, given our As of June 2020, we have 11 projects in various stages of to assume leadership roles and learn different skills than efforts, but in rebuilding affected communities using questions or concerns) our Project Request form design or construction — two of these projects will open they are not typically afforded on traditional projects. resilient and sustainable design strategies. before a project is considered. Each project is carefully in 2020. Additionally, CHKS has formed partnerships to • Citizen HKS is a differentiator—our organized and reviewed on multiple levels, including its funding sources, support two non-profit organizations on an ongoing basis. structured approach to public interest design is helping constructability, ongoing support and maintenance and Implementation us win traditional work. more, and every organization we work with is carefully Other ways that Citizen HKS adds value: After five years, the Citizen HKS initiative is wellscreened to ensure they’re well-regarded, financially stable, • Opportunity for staff to engage in meaningful work that established within HKS and is fully supported by its community-supported and boast a legitimate, credible connects them with other people and helps tackle some leadership and executive committee. We function board and staff. of the world’s most systemic problems. with the support of budgets (both hours and dollars), Since the inception of Citizen HKS, we have consistently communication, KPIs and processes. We have been • Opportunity for networking with non-profits, clients’ understood and managed our initiative in relationship to holding ourselves accountable from Day One by: philanthropic foundations, board engagements, etc. the value it is delivering to the firm and the communities in • Citizen HKS projects advance other efforts that are •U sing guiding principles and including diverse which we live and work. important to the firm but can be a challenge on perspectives of the steering committee to carefully vet project opportunities and determine which projects 03 Public Interest Design | 50 PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN 3.1 Citizen HKS AN ARCHITECTURE GUIDE to the UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals Citizen HKS Awards & Media Highlights Citizen HKS—its projects and as a social impact initiative—has been recognized in the global press and has been honored with numerous awards. Here is a partial listing. KACHUMBALA MATERNITY UNIT LANE TECH SENSORY WELLBEING HUB • 2019: Detroit Design 139 Feature, Cass Community Master Plan Awards Awards • 2019 AIA National Emerging Leaders Exhibit Finalist, • 2020 Telly Silver Award Winner in the Branded • ASID Foundation Grant Recipient North Texas Food Bank Content — Social Impact category (Kachumbla •2 018: Fast Company Innovation in Design Honorable • 2017 AIA Washington DC Unbuilt Award Winner, North Maternity Unit video) Mention: General Excellence Texas Food Bank • 2020 Telly Bronze Winner in the Social Video — Social •2 018 Fast Company Innovation in Design Honorable • 2019 AIA Richmond Lehmen Prize, Reside Mumbai Impact category (Kachumbla Maternity Unit video) Mention: Spaces, Places and Cities • 2018 Global Architecture & Design Award, Reside • 2019 Frame Social Award • 2018 EDRA Core Award with Merit Mumbai • 2018 European Healthcare Design Award: Health & •2 019 Interior Design HiP Award Winner (Lisa Adams • 2018 Boston Society of Architects Design Award, Reside Wellness honoree) Mumbai • 2018 European Healthcare Design Award: Healthcare • 2020 ASID Outcome of Design Award Winner • 2018 AIA National Emerging Leaders Exhibit Finalist, Design under 20,000sm Reside Mumbai • 2017: Fast Company World Changing Ideas, Health Media placements • 2019 AIA Virginia Merit Design Award for Contextual Finalist •C hicago Unheard: “Inside Lane Tech’s Sensory Design, Benefield • 2019: Architizer Award Plus: Architecture for Good Wellbeing Hub” • 2019 AIA Richmond Excellence in Design Merit Award, • 2017: SXSW Place By Design Finalist •C hicago WGN: “New Program at Lane Tech Helps Benefield Students with Autism” • 2019 AIA Richmond Lehmen Prize, Benefield • World Architecture Festival Built Health Category Finalist •D NAInfo: “Innovating Sensory Room A Boon to Lane • 2020 Telly Silver Award Winner in the Branded Content • British Construction Industry—Exporting Excellence Tech Students with Disabilities” — Social Impact category (Kachumbla Maternity Unit Award Finalist •F eatured in 2020 “Architecture Guide to the 17 UN video) Media placements Sustainable Development Goals” • 2020 Telly Bronze Winner in the Social Video — Social • Featured in 2019 “Architecture Guide to the 17 UN Impact category (Kachumbla Maternity Unit video) Sustainable Development Goals” CITIZEN HKS (OVERALL) Media placements • Dezeen: “Maternity Facility in Rural Uganda is Entirely Self Sustaining” • Texas Architect: “How For-Profit Firms Benefit from Awards Not-For-Profit Work” • Interiors & Sources: “Service that Saves” •2 015 Malcolm Lewis Impact Award Greenbuild Legacy • Hospitality Design: “Social Good” • Designboom: “HKS Employs Local Workers to Build Project, Urban Food Studio • AIA National: “Social Impact Design is Good for Your Sustainable Maternity Unit in Uganda” •2 015 Malcolm Lewis Impact Award Greenbuild Legacy Career and the Profession” • Architectural Digest: “These Designs Have Made the Project 2015, Urban Food Studio • Interior Design: How 5 Design Professionals are Giving Architecture Guide to the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals, 2018 and World a Better Place” •2 019 AIA Detroit People’s Choice Award Winner—Cass Back Around the World 2020; The Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts Schools of Architecture, DeCommunity Master Plan sign and Conservation, The Danish Association of Architects and the NUIA Commission on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 03 Public Interest Design | 51 PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN 3.1 Citizen HKS Connect Month of Service Since 2015, HKS offices across the globe have participated in the firm’s annual Month of Service. Offices select volunteer service projects in their home communities and our employees fan out on evenings and weekends to volunteer for a cause. From raising money for non-profits, swinging hammers to repair homes or paint a school, teaching kids, making and serving meals, cleaning beaches and parks, planting trees or volunteering with veterans, in Top Left: A team from HKS London and orphanages and gardens, we’re out making a difference in Arup summited Mt. Kilimanjaro, Africa’s the communities we call home. tallest peak, to raise funds to help build a project they designed: the U.K.’s first Our impact story is powerful: in five years, HKS employees high energy proton beam therapy facility have volunteered nearly 25,000 hours serving more than at The Christie Foundation Trust Hospital 530 non-profit or community organizations spanning nearly Manchester, England. 700 individual events, raising roughly $375,000 for charity. Top Right: A team of HKS employees in the Dallas office spent the afternoon volunteering at the Ronald McDonald House where they installed beds and served ice cream to resident families. 25,000 Hours Volunteered Bottom: The HKS New Delhi team collaborated with post graduate architecture 530+ N on-Profit & Community students from Ansal University, Gurgaon, on their elective studio project called APNI SADAK, or “My Street” in English. This Organizations community event promoted ownership of neighborhood public space to encourage 700+ Individual Events pedestrian-friendly design solutions to augment existing green spaces. $375,000 Raised For Charity 03 Public Interest Design | 52 PUBLIC INTEREST DESIGN 3.1 Citizen HKS Contribute: Donations and Fundraising HKS conducts firmwide employee-focused fundraising campaigns to support Citizen HKS design projects in need of financial assistance to ensure they get built. This effort brings Citizen HKS design work full circle, providing every employee an opportunity to play a role in its completion, connecting us to something larger than ourselves. HKS’ global citizens have answered the call by raising funds to help complete two Citizen HKS projects—the Kachumbala Maternity Unit in Uganda, and the Sensory Wellbeing Hub at Lane Tech College Preparatory High School in Chicago. Kachumbala Rising. In 2016, CHKS’ Kachumbala Rising campaign raised nearly Metamorphosis of Learning. In 2017, CHKS Metamorphosis of Learning $50,000 to complete construction and purchase interior finishes, including campaign raised more than $50,000 to complete the installation of the Sensory medical equipment, beds for the recovery ward, labor and delivery suite needs, Well-being Hub at Lane Tech High School in Chicago, Illinois. The employee staffing station desks and chairs, a small drug storage refrigerator and locking fundraising campaign provided ample funding for the design and research team cabinets for patient’s personal items. to secure all of the items needed for each of the Well-being Hub’s three groupings of artifacts: calming, stimulating, and a media hub. Non-virtual hubs provide tactile stimulation and include a pin art wall, Lite Brite wall, bubble tubes, a fidget wall, tactile garden, a bouncy platform with a padded wall and a curtain of rubber tubing notably referred to by the students as the “Car Wash.” A digital media wall system houses a touch screen monitor, color-changing lights and a sound system. 03 Public Interest Design | 53 CA S E S T U DY Indigenous Materials and Ancient Infrastructure Enhance Education Salihi Zirak High School Gazhni Province, Afghanistan Salihi Zirak High School (SZHS) opened in 1994 with a large auditorium, the new two-story, 13,000 squarea few open-air classes under the shades of local foot (1,200 square-meter) infrastructure will serve orchards. Serving Zirak and several surrounding both boys and girls in Zirak village its neighboring villages, the school grew and moved to its current communities. location and building in the late 1990s. The existing structure was completed in 2004 with many HKS conducted a daylight study to determine the modifications added over the years. Extreme high and facility’s optimal orientation and wall to window ratio, low temperatures and weather fluctuations throughout allowing the right amount daylight into the education the year have deteriorated the building’s condition. spaces. The project site in the village of Zirak lies within a Afghanistan’s indigenous method of irrigation, known valley of the Jaghuri Region of the Gazhni Province of as Kariz, harnesses groundwater tapped by a tunnel. Afghanistan. The community is about 170 miles (270 After running for some distance, the water passes km) from the national capital of Kabul. through an outlet and is directed to a reservoir. It is a community enterprise managed by tribal tradition The program, developed by the Zirak School and run by social control. Spacing of the Kariz, their Coordination Committee and the Citizen HKS project types, life, length, discharge, land development and team, replaces the aging and dilapidated school. allocation, water distribution and management are The new facility and campus are organized around a important aspects of the age-old irrigation system. central, active courtyard and site that incorporates contextual materials native to the region and local By incorporating passive strategies and intentional building techniques. design decisions for this learning hub at the heart of a rural landscape, all design efforts aim to enhance the Consisting of 15 classrooms, a kindergarten, educational experience for students, teachers, and the administrative areas, computer and science labs and community of the Zirak Valley for many years to come. CA S E S T U DY Welcoming New Life, Passive Design Kachumbala Maternity Unit Bukedea District, Kachumbala, Uganda In Partnership with Engineers for Overseas Development Giving life to architecture carries the responsibility to sustain life for many people—the people who design it, build it, use it, own it—and responsibility to the Earth, too. When we approach design by engaging this network of stakeholders, we can change the world. In November 2017, we opened a maternity unit in Kachumbala, Uganda—it’s one shining example of how this design ecosystem can work. Kachumbala is located in Uganda’s Bukedea District, home to 160,000 people in rural eastern Uganda and one of the country’s most impoverished regions. The area’s only existing maternity unit was a two-room, 1950s-era facility that turned away four out of every 10 patients because it didn’t have room for them. The region suffers from a high maternal and infant mortality rate: an estimated 35-40 children out of every 1,000 die before their first birthday. To improve Kachumbala’s health care facility, Citizen HKS designed a sustainable and passive maternity unit, partnering with Engineers for Overseas Development (EFOD) and Cyfle Building Skills on the design and construction. Furthering the challenge of expanding the regional maternity unit, Kachumbala doesn’t have a reliable source of electricity. To construct the new unit, we designed a fully passive building, created with vernacular construction methods. CA S E S T U DY Welcoming New Life, Passive Design Environmental Impact Human Impact 95% of the building materials used were 9.77 out of 10 Patient Satisfaction Rating sourced within 20 miles of the site. Average 9.76 Accommodations; 9.83 Medical Care; 9.72 Experience By considering the building’s current and future impacts, 96% reduction in predicted energy usage HKS and EFOD gave the region a health care facility that intensity compared to a typical U.S. clinic will improve the health of its mothers and children. We in a similar climate. did it by changing how we approached the project: Comparison based on the Commercial Buildings The way we partner. For more than a decade, EFOD has Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS) 2003 Baseline for a medical office in Key West, Florida. Business and been working in Kachumbala with village elders and Community Impact community members on meaningful projects that have real impacts. We built and maintained trust with the 51% of power needs to the new maternity community. unit are supplied by on-site renewable 29% More Deliveries per Month energy. 58 deliveries in old ward; 75 in new ward The people who build it. We hired and trained more than 40 community members to help build the maternity 18% Fewer Mothers Referred to Other unit right alongside our team. These paid construction 75% of water needs to the site are supplied Facilities per Month workers gained valuable skills for future employment, by a rainwater harvest system. 7.7 mothers referred to other facilities in old ward; empowering community members to provide for their (5,000-liter capacity) 6.3 in new ward well-being into the future. 40 local men, both skilled and unskilled, The materials we build with. We used only local 100% of occupied area achieves adequate built the unit. materials and constructed the building with methods lighting levels without artificial lighting They were paid a living wage and learned that didn’t require electricity. Handmade bricks that form during daytime. construction techniques from visiting apprentices, the building’s structure were made on site, baked in the creating opportunities for future employment. sun, not fired (saving trees from being cut and burned). Using regionally made materials is environmentally and socially responsible and supports the economy. My heart just likes this In addition to maternity care, the unit can offer additional health services to the Our impact on the planet. The sustainable, passive place because it is really community. These include cervical cancer screening, dental design will have a minimal impact on regional resources, while improving health care for its people. clean and I feel very exam and treatment, eye exam, tuberculosis and HIV treatment and public health promotion. The new building accommodates up to six births each safe.” —Akello, Mother day, the average for the region. As a result, all women in the Bukedea District now have access to a maternity unit. The Kachumbala Maternity Unit is changing lives in this community, and its design example can change the world, too. The project was named a World Changing Idea by Fast Company magazine. SECTION FOUR: Our Enterprise HKS Singapore Office OUR ENTERPRISE 4.1 HKS Carbon Footprint RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Relationship to Strategic Plan Acknowledging the need to understand the repercussions By addressing the firm’s carbon footprint, HKS is aligning of the corporate activities, HKS has started to analyze staff and corporate practice with sustainable values that its carbon footprint with the intent of reducing it. HKS can be measured and promoted. is committed to generate a positive impact on the environment and adapt to the changing industry. Materiality Context Likeminded clients in the industry are heading in the same direction, which incentivizes HKS to pursue an in-depth An organization’s carbon footprint is the result of the study of its corporate carbon footprint. Savings in carbon emissions generated (directly or indirectly) in the can also be translated to operational cost savings. production of its goods or services. HKS’ corporate carbon footprint equates to carbon emissions associated with the firm’s professional activities. Stakeholders The emissions are divided into three scopes. The first PRIMARY: one includes all direct emissions by HKS, like natural gas or owned vehicles. The second scope is all purchased electricity consumed by our offices to conduct our business. Scope three is much broader and consists of indirect emissions by business activities like business RELATIONAL: travel, employee commuting, purchased goods and services, capital goods and improvements and waste. Tah Mah Lah Residence 04 Our Enterprise | 58 Portola Valley, California, USA OUR ENTERPRISE 4.1 HKS Carbon Footprint HKS Carbon Footprint Assessment Scope 3 Other Indirect Emissions: Business Travel, Commuting, Waste Management, Assessment, Policy & Goals Outsourced Activities & Purchased The results of the carbon footprint for 2018 show some key Materials & Services takeaways. First, airline travel is the biggest contributor to the carbon footprint, comprising nearly 26% of the total footprint. 29% Scope 1 Other big contributors include the renovation of offices, the software being used, and purchased electricity. One of Business Travel: 5,531 the limitations of this study was the accuracy and quality of Direct Emissions: Fossil Fuel data. New focused studies will be conducted for a better Combustion & Company Vehicles understanding of these issues. 24% 2.2% Implementation Capital Goods: 4,580 HKS has performed its first carbon footprint study to Natural Gas: 417 analyze the environmental impact of the firm‘s actions and serve as a baseline for future years. This carbon footprint Fugitive Emissions: 100 study was developed for the year 2018, and its results gave Owned Vehicles: 5 the firm an indication of the current state and a trajectory of the environmental impacts if business would continue as usual. The carbon footprint was obtained by analyzing available data from accounting, from employee reporting and industry averages. Scope 2 18,934 Metric Indirect Emissions Purchase of Energy, Tons of CO2 Electricity, Heat or Steam 20% 15% Purchased Goods Purchased Electricity: 2,918 & Services: 3,886 8% Employee Commuting: 1,475 0% Waste: 19 04 Our Enterprise | 59 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.1 HKS Carbon Footprint Scope 1: Direct Emissions: Fossil Fuel Scope 3: Other Indirect Emissions: Business Travel, Commuting, Waste Management, Combustion & Company Vehicles Outsourced Activities & Purchased Materials & Services 2.2% 81% Measures or Outcomes NATURAL GAS BUSINESS TRAVEL PURCHASED GOODS & SERVICES WASTE With an initial carbon footprint as a basis, HKS is now in Top 4 Highest Consuming Offices kBtu/ft2 Metric Tons of CO2 Metric Tons of CO2 Total Emissions for One Week a position of analysis and optimization. Six offices Audited, Metric Tons of CO2 Washington, D.C. 42 Airfare 5,012 Renting of M&Eq & Other Business Optimizing and improving the quality of the data: Activities 2,861 Dallas (average 550 people) 8.7 Chicago 42 Mileage 247 • Recommended to update the accounting methods Atlanta (average 45 people) 1.2 Atlanta 30 Lodging 246 Pulp, Paper, Printing and Publishing 718 to include parameters that can directly measure carbon footprint London (average 65 people) 0.9 Dallas 18 Rental Car 23 Food, Beverage & Tobacco 43 • Add metering systems to offices New Delhi (average 32 people) 0.8 Bus 3 Possible Optimizations: Other community, Social and • Promote employee participation in the data Washington, D.C. (average 50 people) 0.5 • Consider moving offices to buildings Subway 0.9 Personal Services 9 gathering process without natural gas consumption and more Denver (average 16 people) 0.1 Train 0.01 renewable energy options. Public Admin and Defense; The second area to improve is the reduction of the Possible Optimizations: Compulsory Social Security 0.3 Possible Optimizations: firm’s carbon footprint: • Use Egencia in international • Setting energy consumption as a priority when Possible Optimizations: • Identify better matches between offices offices to obtain more renovating an office Scope 2: Indirect Emissions accurate data. • Software licensing has a significant to optimize the waste audit and obtain impact. This can be reduced by better results. • Asking software manufacturers to offset the Purchase of Energy, • Egencia to breakdown US embodied carbon of their products requesting carbon offsets by the • Conduct the waste audit in more offices. Electricty, Heat or Steam data per office. software firms. •Review the current business travel model and purchasing carbon offsets 15% CAPITAL GOODS EMPLOYEE COMMUTING Metric Tons of CO2 Metric Tons of CO2 PURCHASED ELECTRICITY Top 4 Highest Consuming Offices kBtu/ft2 Construction 2,301,557 Motorcycle or Moped 11 Electrical & Optical Equipment Car (Alternate Fuel, Eco) 52 Atlanta 60 1,247,959 Rapid Transit 55 Washington, D.C. 60 Furniture 1,009,240 Bus 76 Dallas 66 Basic Metals & Fabricated Metals 22,002 Train 92 Chicago 57 Possible Optimizations: Carpool (2-3 people) 200 Possible Optimizations: • If a renovation of an office takes Car 9878 •M  ore agressive power conservation efforts place, special attention to energy in offices, such as turning off computers Walk, Bike, Scooter, Telecommute 0 consumption could help reduce the and lights after hours. emissions in a different category. Possible Optimizations: • Promoting alternative options of commute will help reduce the emissions. 04 Our Enterprise | 60 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.1 HKS Carbon Footprint 7,270,656 square If this carbon feet compared to the total size of Central Park in NYC. footprint is maintained until 2030, HKS will be responsible for melting 7,270,656 square feet of Arctic Sea Ice. 04 Our Enterprise | 61 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.2 Energy & Carbon: Building Knowledge, Design Capacity and Action RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Early phase building energy modeling must be seamlessly Stakeholders integrated into the HKS design process. It begins with To establish a common core curriculum centered around PRIMARY: knowledge. HKS encourages designers to learn the basics the integration of early phase building energy modeling for of energy modeling so that they can create simple models HKS staff. This underpins the desired outcome to achieve for their projects. a carbon-neutral built environment. HKS is committed to utilizing energy modeling to inform early design decisions RELATIONAL: and benchmark performance. This curriculum builds staff Relationship to Strategic Plan knowledge and the capacity to do this work. The energy curriculum is squarely focused on the pillars of “leading with knowledge,” “advising for influence” Context and most directly, “outcome-driven design.” This talent development effort is core to meeting the demands of The AIA 2030 Commitment urges architects to become being a great global architecture firm. Assessment, Policy & Goals agents of change in the face of the global climate crisis. HKS has implemented a directive to energy model 100% The impact of energy demand and consumption in the of its projects. Supporting this educational curriculum, built environment is dependent on early design decisions. Materiality operational, contractual and reporting procedures are The American Institute of Architects (AIA) note that energy The delivery of energy-efficient design solutions is a core in place to assess compliance and guide progress. HKS is a design problem. As suggested, the solution would characteristic of quality architecture. Building knowledge uses the AIA 2030 Commitment program and the Design be to “engage energy modeling directly with design is a competitive business imperative. This is crucial for Data Exchange as the data management tool for all generation, thus informing major design decisions and the HKS brand and an essential component of being project-related energy data. We have used this program providing continuous feedback.” However, familiarity with competitive and creating influential client partnerships. for 10 years. We draw on this data quarterly to create Design Performance Modeling (DPM), including fluency in internal reports assisting the firm to understand and make vocabulary, technologies, process and software tools that support energy and carbon considerations as an active Most directly, this is a fundamental skill set for the talent we need to deliver design solutions. Building capacity in progress. HKS has implemented a element of design needs support. staff is essential. Learn more about the AIA 2030 Commitment on page 28. directive to energy model 100% of projects. 04 Our Enterprise | 62 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.2 Energy & Carbon: Building Knowledge, Design Capacity and Action Implementation For whole-building performance simulation and analysis, existing building’s energy use intensity (EUI) with similar To build the knowledge and technical capacity to energy Sefaira is utilized to enable project teams and individuals building types, understanding how a building achieved its model all project work within the firm, the Early Phase Digital-based learning introduces building energy to explore design options and understand their impact EUI (via energy efficiency, on-site renewable energy, and/ Energy Modeling curriculum is intended to be accessible modeling at the early phase of the design process for on building performance. This collaborative software or green power purchase in comparison to a baseline; the by all; a necessary knowledge level-set to make progress designing high-performance buildings. The topics for high-performance design enables design teams to 2003 Commercial Building Energy Consumption Survey toward outcome-driven design. The expectation is that all covered include best practices for building geometry collaboratively and rapidly analyze passive and active (CBECS 2003). employees who are directly responsible for architecture setup, appropriate input parameters for envelope, strategies to optimize their buildings’ performance. and design (excludes Operations) enroll and complete HVAC and internal gains, and how to quickly explore The Early Phase Energy Modeling curriculum is structured the course requirements in full. The core essentials found design options and better understand their impact of Defining consistent and relevant baselines are important in a way that architects receive AIA continuing education in the curriculum are then embedded as part of the building performance. The training also covers building in establishing meaningful benchmarks to track as two (2) Learning Unit (L.U.) and Health, Safety, Welfare new-hire orientation program and completed voluntarily benchmarking utilizing energy use intensity in relation progress and compare performance. Thus for building (HSW) credits. Utilizing the AIA/CES continuing education for the firm’s current employees. The Early Phase Energy to a baseline building and tracked for standardized firm benchmarking the AIA 2030 Design Data Exchange (DDx) system developed by the AIA serves a dual purpose to Modeling curriculum is a prerequisite to receiving more performance reporting. and Zero Tool is used to compare a building’s design or an the firm: enables architects to keep current, master new in-depth (project-specific) training. knowledge and skills, plan for the future, and responsibly meet the role society entrusts to a professional and builds As more architects complete the Early Phase Energy the knowledge and technical capacity to energy model all Modeling curriculum, a series of additional learning project work within the firm. The curriculum is self-paced, modules are envisioned that further supports the mobile and provides the core essentials in providing a Integrated Design Process. This is a more intensive and common language for energy modeling. rigorous curriculum focused on design refinement after the Concept and Schematic Design phases. The core essentials include: • Understanding what building benchmarking is and how to benchmark a building using the ZeroTool and AIA Measures or Outcomes 2030 Design Data Exchange (DDx) utilizing energy use Broad goals include 100% of HKS projects energy intensity in relation to a baseline building. modeled. This supports the associated primary objective • Learning the parameters of a building envelope of delivering energy-efficient designs in all instances. that affects the energy use intensity of a building Therefore, in support, the educational metric for the by examining climate zone specific requirements of energy curriculum is that all HKS employees who are building envelope performance. directly responsible for architecture and design (excludes Operations) enroll and complete the course requirements • Learning best practices for building geometry setup, in full. appropriate input parameters for envelope, HVAC and internal gains, and how to quickly explore design options and better understand their impact on building performance. Sunlight simulations for Novartis Pharmaceuticals/Alcon Laboratories in Fort Worth, Texas • Learning advanced features of Sefaira to compare design options for building performance. 04 Our Enterprise | 63 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.3 Materials: Building Knowledge, Addressing Environmental Impact and Human Health RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Stakeholders Assessment, Policy & Goals While so much of our world these days is digital, to coin a PRIMARY: Participation in the Parsons Material Lab at the New phrase from a 20th-century cultural sage, Madonna, we School has created a Healthier Materials & Sustainable live in a material world. This is simply to recognize that Building certificate program is elective. The HKS what we build with is real, tangible, carries qualities, and DesignGreen team supports this effort through advocacy has a lasting impact on environmental and human health. and administrative efforts. There is currently neither stated Educational efforts are directed on developing knowledge RELATIONAL: policy nor a goal regarding certification; HKS will evaluate and capacity in HKS staff to select and specify products both policies and goals in the coming year. and materials with reduced negative impact. Implementation Context This is aligned with the Parsons/New School academic Materiality While many HKS staff have a solid base in this content, calendar. The learning is remote, and each participant this is a rapidly developing area in our profession. Both This connects directly to the objectives related to design works at their own pace. DesignGreen convenes environmental and human impact and technical content quality, which in turn elevates the ability of HKS to be conference calls with the participants to share notes, are expanding quickly. competitive and win work. facilitate learning and discuss how to deploy this knowledge on projects. The Parsons Material Lab at the New School has created This is also an issue of importance to material, product a Healthier Materials and Sustainable Building certificate and systems manufacturers. The business relationship program. HKS staff development program supports this, that HKS enjoys with leading manufacturers in the Measures or Outcomes industry depends on our engagement with the selection and to date, more than 60 staff members are taking or have completed this course work. and specification of materials. These partners are Currently, HKS does not have a means of assessing the Of the more than 80,000 level of engagement at a project level. This will be a responding to industry messages for transparency and topic in the coming year. Current participation levels are chemicals listed in the EPA optimized materials. HKS has a reciprocal obligation to Relationship to Strategic Plan support these efforts and manufacturers who also value between 20 and 30 staff globally. We plan to continue this inventory for use in the US, most level of engagement. Building knowledge and capacity in materials is directly human and environmental health. linked to “leading with knowledge,” advising for influence have not been adequately tested and “outcome-driven design.” for their effects on human health. 04 Our Enterprise | 64 HKS London Office OUR ENTERPRISE 4.4 Industry Influence and Thought Leadership RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose This directly supports the stated objective to “advise for Assessment, Policy & Goals influence” in a way that engages staff while connecting To recognize, encourage and advance the many personal Assessment is simply an accounting or activity. to personal career goals with professional advocacy and professional, generous contributions of HKS progressing critical and stated objectives of the firm. HKS does not have a formal policy encouraging industry subject experts to our profession and our communities, developing shared environmental and social objectives influence and thought leadership related to ESG issues. It is however, encouraged and supported as an important and outcomes. Stakeholders part of professional life. HKS does have an Ethics & PRIMARY: Business Conduct policy outlining expected standards of Context behavior. HKS is a global practice with deep roots in our local communities, cities, industry organizations and Implementation professional institutes. While we contribute to many RELATIONAL: HKS will continue to encourage industry engagement professional organizations in numerous ways, this Touchstone Report draws attention to those efforts that influence and thought leadership in environmental, social have an environmental, public interest and justice, equity, and governance issues. Currently, we see no need for a diversity and inclusion mission or objective. firmwide strategy or formal program advancing this area of professional engagement. We already have a high level We see this as a means of recognizing personal of personal and professional interest across the firm. contributions, encouraging further and deeper Materiality Specifically, the practices and business units, Research, professional engagement and advancing Sustainable This has a direct and primary importance to the HKS ESG/DesignGreen, and LINE all engage in such work. Development Goal 17, Partnerships for the Goals. Working vision of being the most influential firm in the industry. This is supported by a robust network of Sustainability in this way brings HKS knowledge and skills to address the This is how HKS staff contribute to the communities, Champions, JEDI Champions and Citizen HKS Champions broader challenges of the UN Global Compact. businesses and organizations with whom we partner. across all HKS offices. Relationship to Strategic Plan Measures or Outcomes Top: Metropolis Think Tank Staff engagement is a tangible manifestation of HKS’ HKS currently has no stated measures or outcomes. Bottom: Brain Health Symposium stated values of Relationships, Character and Purpose. We envision this progressing organically. 04 Our Enterprise | 65 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.4 Industry Influence and Thought Leadership For 80 years, HKS has been SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS designing with purpose to “A Common Language to Design Carbon Neutral “Assessing Building Envelope Performance and “How Can Research Inform and Elevate the “Out in Architecture,”AIA National & AIA Chicago, Projects by 2030,” 2  020 Building Performance Resiliency with Forcing Climate Projections,” Practice of Architecture and Build the Bridge “Embracing Our Differences. Changing the World,” create a better world. Our Analysis Conference and SimBuild, Kyleen 2019 Building XIV International Conference, Between Academia and Industry?,” The Series Panel, Yiselle Santos Rivera, June 25, 2019 Rockwell, Tommy Zakrzewski, Mike Brown, Tommy Zakrzewski, Kyleen Rockwell, December Conscious Cities Festival, Upali Nanda, thought leaders impact how August 12–14, 2020 9, 2019 Brooklyn, NY, October 4, 2019 “FleXX: A Framework for Flexibility,” E  uropean Healthcare Design, Upali Nanda, London, UK, humans and the natural world “Spatial Daylight Autonomy Imprecision Correlated to the Increased Application “Addressing Our Own Bias to Design Better,” ARCHITECT Magazine, Podcast Episode 43, “Making the Case For Custom Tool Development: In-house And Beyond,” Panelist, 2019 Building June 17–19, 2019 interact in and with the built of Daylight Driven Design,” 2020 Building Performance Analysis Conference and SimBuild, Yiselle Santos Rivera, December 2, 2019 Performance Analysis Conference, Kyleen Rockwell, September 25–27, 2019 “2+2 Achieving Outstanding Design: College of Fellows & Young Architects,” A  IA National environment through purposeKyleen Rockwell ,August 12­–14, 2020 “How and ‘think different’ culture drives diversity and business,” G  reenbuild International “When the Client Asks: Can your Model Confirm Conference, Julie Hiromoto, Las Vegas, NV, June 7, 2019 driven leadership, research “Hidden Costs: An Examination of the Price We Pay for Workplace Inequity,” A  IA Houston Conference and EXPO, Julie Hiromoto, Atlanta, GA, November 9, 2019 my Design Day Field Measurements,” 2019 Building Performance Analysis Conference, “The Housing Crisis: How Architects Can Drive and practice innovation. HKS’ Women in Architecture, 2020 Equity Series Panel, Yiselle Santos Rivera, March 4, 2020 “The Architect of the New Era,” AIA Virginia, Kyleen Rockwell, September 25–27, 2019 Change,” H  olly Arnold, AIA National Conference, Las Vegas, NV, June 6–8, 2019 influential thought leaders “The Design Professional’s Guide to yaf[CON] panel, Yiselle Santos Rivera, November 8, 2019 Dallas COTE Healthy Materials Workshop & Fair,  llen Mitchell-Kozack & Allison Smith, Dallas, TX, E “How to Build a Successful Research-Minded Practice,” AIA National Conference, Upali Nanda, have made hundreds of public Decarbonization of the Built Environment,” CarbonPositive20 Conference, Miranda Gardiner, “Building Belonging: Equity, Diversity and September 24, 2019 Las Vegas, NV, June 6–8, 2019 Inclusion in the Workplace Panel,” AIA Virginia, “Embracing the Wait: Using Waiting Rooms presentations over the years with March 2–4, 2020 Architecture Exchange East, Yiselle Santos Rivera, as Opportunities to Reduce Stress and Build “The Living Lab: A Design Framework,” E  DRA, “Every Voice is Valuable,” D  esign Voice Podcast, November 7, 2019 Community,” Stanford Medicine X | CHANGE, Casey Lindberg, Brooklyn, NY, May 22–26, 2019 a commitment and passion for Yiselle Santos Rivera, February 19, 2020 Upali Nanda and Elizabeth Jameson, Stanford, CA, “What is the Social Impact of Sustainable “Sensory Wellbeing for Adolescents with September 20–22, 2019 sharing knowledge, whether as Congressional Testimony, House Committee Architecture?,” M  etropolis Magazine Mrerpolis Developmental Disorders: Creating (and Testing) on Energy & Commerce hearing on “Saving Perspective, Rand Ekman, November 2019 “Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion in the Profession,” a Sensory Wellbeing Hub,” EDRA, Giyoung Park, keynote speakers, presenters Energy: Legislation to improve energy efficiency AIA Blue Ridge, Equity in Planning — Person, Brooklyn, NY, May 22–26, 2019 and storage,” T  estified on behalf of the AIA on “Kklai·muht CHānj (Climate Change),” 2019 Community, City Keynote, Yiselle Santos Rivera, or panelists. The following is a H.R. 3962, the “Energy Savings and Industrial Energy Harvesting from Infrastructure and Ocean September 20, 2019 “Can Design Really Improve Health & Wellness? Let’s Look at the Proof,” AIA Huron Valley, Competitiveness Act,” Julie Hiromoto, February Systems (EHIOS) Conference, Tommy Zakrzewski, partial list. 12, 2020 November 4, 2019 “Research in Architecture: How Firms Find Upali Nanda, Huron Valley, MI, May 15, 2019 Success,” Women’s Leadership Forum, Upali “FleXX: A Framework for Flexibility, Tested in “Advancing Campus Climate Neutrality with “Why Colorblind Doesn’t Cut it in Corporate Nanda, Minneapolis, MN, September 12–14, 2019 Practice,” Health Care Design Expo & Conference, a Modular Micro-Anaerobic Digester,” 2019 America,” S  trange Fruit Podcast, Yiselle Santos Upali Nanda, Whitney Fuessel, New Orleans, LA, “Point of Decision Design: How Health Care Municipal Green Building Conference, Tommy Rivera, February 5, 2020 November 2–5, 2019 Environments can be Catalysts for Health,” Zakrzewski, April 18, 2019 “The ROI of Investing in Diversity,” A  IA National, Global Health Exhibition, Upali Nanda, Riyadh, “Urban Design for Mental Health,” The Conscious “Uncovering the Relationships Between Health AIAU Live Course Webinar, Dan Noble, Yiselle Saudi Arabia, September 11, 2019 Cities Festival, Upali Nanda, Brooklyn, NY, and Our Environment,” ULI APAC Thought Santos Rivera, Julie Hiromoto, January 2, 2020 October 4, 2019 “M Live! Love It or Leave It: Talent Recruitment Leadership Webinar, Casey Lindberg, “The Wrap Up: Life Beyond Design,” She Builds and Retention,” SMPS Build Business 2019 April 17, 2019 Waves, The Quarterly Conversations, Yiselle Conference Panel, Yiselle Santos Rivera, Santos Rivera, December 10, 2019 August 1, 2019 04 Our Enterprise | 66 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.4 Industry Influence and Thought Leadership SPEAKING ENGAGEMENTS, CONTINUED KEY STATS “Setting the Stage: The Role of Place and the Conference and SimBuild, Tommy Zakrzewski, “Energy efficiency success stories and proven “Business Imperative for Improving Diversity and Potential of Being a Living Lab,” B  rain Health in Chicago, IL, September 27, 2018 strategies for overcoming common barriers,” Inclusion,” ILFI unconference, Julie Hiromoto, 300 LEED Place Symposium, Upali Nanda, Dallas, TX, April Energy Innovators Forum, DOE and Seventhwave, Seattle, WA, May 17, 2017 Professionals 15–16, 2019 “Emerging Professional Story Slam,” A  IAS February 28, 2018 HKS employs 300 full-time, Grassroots, Yiselle Santos Rivera, Washington, “Design and Health: Outside the Box,” CleanMed LEED-accredited profession“Managing Cultural Differences in the Workplace,” D.C., July 21, 2018 “Planning, Action, Impact: Firm Action Plans Conference, Julie Hiromoto, Minneapolis, MN, als including 2 LEED Fellows. AIA National, AIA Grassroots Panel, Yiselle Santos for Carbon Neutrality,” A  IA Conference on May 16, 2017 Rivera, March 7, 2019 “A Living and Learning Neighborhood Architecture, Rand Ekman, 2018 Community,” FEFPA Summer Conference 2018, “Sefaira Professional Panel: The State of “Health and Wellbeing in the Workplace,”  Thom Greving, Tommy Zakrzewski, July 10, 2018 “S, M, L, XL-2030 Commitment in all Sizes!,” A  IA Sustainability in the AEC Industry,” G reenBuild, No. 10 Top Green TTI/Vanguard, Casey Lindberg, Berkeley, CA, Conference on Architecture, Rand Ekman, 2018 Rand Ekman, Los Angeles, CA, November 2016 Building Firm by BD+C March 4–6, 2019 “LEEDING & Living WELL: A case study in In 2019 BD+C ranked HKS as number 10 delivering a high-performance workplace,” “Building Energy Literacy: The 2030 “Partnerships & Tools Driving Sustainable in its listing of Top Green Building Sector Firms. “Sensory Wellbeing Hub: Cocoon 2.0,” SXSWedu, NeoCon 2018, Julie Hutchison, Ellen MitchellCommitment’s Transformation of Firm Culture,” Construction in Sports,” Greenbuild International Giyoung Park, Jonathan Essary, Lisa Adams, Kozack, Tommy Zakrzewski Chicago, IL, Greenbuild 2018, Rand Ekman, 2018 Conference and EXPO, Julie Hiromoto, Los Ashley Flores, Austin, TX, March 3–7, 2019 June 12, 2018 Angeles, CA, October 5, 2016 “Architect/Engineer/Contractor Panel on 154 Million SF “Well Students, Safe Schools,” A4LE School and “ArchiTalk: Fundamentals of Leadership in Integrative Design,” ASHRAE Building “Leadership in Professional Organizations,” AIA LEED-Projects Safety and Security Symposium, Giyoung Park, a Design Firm,” AIA 2018 Convention, Julie Performance Analysis Conference, Rand Ekman, DC Emerging Architects Committee, Leadership HKS LEED-certified and LEED-registered projects Ashley Flores, Dallas, TX, March 2, 2019 Hiromoto, New York, NY, June 2018 Atlanta, GA, 2017 and the Emerging Architect Panel, Yiselle Santos equaled 154 million square feet as of 2019. Rivera, January 26, 2016 “A’19 LGBTQ+ Architecture & Design Reception,” “Designing for a Diverse Future,” A  IA 2018 “Social Impact Design Roundtable,” AIA National, AIA National, A’19 Conference on Architecture, Convention, Julie Hiromoto, New York, NY, A’18 Conference on Architecture panel, Yiselle “Leveraging the 2030 Commitment,” U  SGBC Yiselle Santos Rivera, 2019 June 2018 Santos Rivera, 2018 Illinois Spring Credential Blitz, Rand Ekman, $40.6 Billion Chicago, Illinois 2016 LEED Projects “The Power of Design and Diversity,” D  esignWell, “Equity Diversity & Inclusion, Beyond Census “The role of energy modeling in the design HKS accounted for $40.6 billion in LEED-certified Pre-Conference Workshop moderator, Yiselle Statistics,” AIA HR Large Firm Round Table, process and AIA 2030 Commitment,” AIA “Why Architecture?,” T  akoma Elementary School, and LEED-registered projects as of 2019. Santos Rivera, 2019 Julie Hiromoto, Miami, FL, April 11-13, 2018 Chicago’s Environment KC, 2030 Working Group, “Women of STEAM,” Yiselle Santos Rivera November 6, 2017 “Women Entering the Workplace,” Phelps ACE “Never Too Early to Make An Impact,” A  IA DC “Innovative Approaches, Partnerships & Tools High School, STEM Women’s Month panelist, Emerging Architects Committee, Mentorship “Introduction to Smart Buildings,” Cushman and Driving Sustainable Construction in Sport,” 300 LEED Yiselle Santos Rivera, 2019 Series, Yiselle Santos Rivera, March 27, 2018 Wakefield — PDS Development Service Monthly Panel Discussion at Greenbuild International Projects Call, October 20, 2017 Conference and EXPO, Julie Hiromoto, HKS accounted for 300 LEED projects— “WELL and Leedv4 Drives Displacement “Displacement Ventilation Workplace Innovation: Los Angeles, CA 168 certified and 132 registered as of 2019. Ventilation Workplace IEQ Innovation,”  Improving Indoor Environmental Quality and “Advocacy: A Tool to Empower Leaders,” A  IA DC, 2018 GreenBuild Conference, Ellen MitchellOccupant Wellbeing,” I FMA Facility Fusion Design DC, Yiselle Santos Rivera, October 4, 2017 “Catalyzing Behavior Change to Save Energy in Kozack Tommy Zakrzewski, Chicago, IL, Conference 2018, March 21, 2018 Schools,” Greenbuild 2015, Amber Wirth and 75 WELL Professionals November 16, 2018 Closing Panel, Design Futures Council Kate Renner, Washington D.C. 6 WELL-registered Projects “Woman’s History Month,” A  IA Twitter Chat, Sustainable Design Summit, Rand Ekman, HKS employs 75 WELL-accredited “Building Integrated Cogeneration System Julie Hiromoto, March 7, 2018 Toronto, Canada, September 2017 professionals and has 6 WELL-registered projects. Design Sizing and Analysis for Climate Disruption,” 2018 Building Performance Analysis 04 Our Enterprise | 67 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.4 Industry Influence and Thought Leadership In 2008 HKS established what was one of the first non-profits of its kind in the United States. The Center for Advanced Design Research and Evaluation (CADRE) is a 501c3 non-profit entity committed to fostering innovation and excellence in design, first by contributing to the growing body of evidence related to design performance and impact on users, organizations and ecosystems, and second by disseminating such accrued knowledge to the design and user community in credible, open-source forums. Click here for more about CADRE > PUBLISHED CONTENT Dallas’ Shift to Net-Zero Construction: What Will it Take DC Building Energy It’s OK to See Color Computing the Environment: Digital Design Tools Lessons from the Leading Edge Strategies For Making It Work Performance Standard (BEPS) ARCHITECT Magazine for Simulation and Visualization of Sustainable Review Committee AIA COTE Top Ten 1997-2015 D Magazine Achieving Zero Net Energy (ZNE) for Yiselle Santos Rivera Architecture (Work cited) Rand Ekman Dan Noble Existing Buildings August 2019 AD Smart 2015 2020 Thomas Zakrzewski and A. Agarwal Julie Hiromoto February 2020 Going Beyond the Punchlist: Why Architects April 2018 Action Plans The ROI of Investing in Diversity American Should Embrace Post Occupancy Evaluations ARCHITECT Magazine Institute of Architects AIA to Testify on Climate Action Before the U/S/ Metropolis Magazine Building integrated cogeneration system design Rand Ekman Dan Noble House Subcommittee on Energy Julie Hiromoto sizing and analysis for climate disruption January 2014 2020 ARCHITECT Magazine February 2019 Building Performance Analysis Conference Julie Hiromoto SimBuild by ASHRAE and IBPSA-USA Substances of Concern: Why Material Transparency Spatial Daylight Autonomy Imprecision February 2020 Architect’s guide to integrating energy modeling Thomas Zakrzewski and Brent Stephens Matters Correlated to the Increased Application of in the design process 2018 ArchDaily Daylight Driven Design Defining Design Excellence | Measure 4: Design The American Institute of Architects Rand Ekman Building Performance Analysis Conference for Water Rand Ekman Four tips to pursue equity in your firm November 2013 SimBuild by ASHRAE and IBPSA-USA The American Institute of Architects 2019 AIA National Kyleen Rockwell Julie Hiromoto Yiselle Santos Rivera DEEP ENERGY RETROFITS: An Emerging Opportunity August 2020 February 2020 Assessing Building Envelope 2018 The American Institute of Architects Performance and Resiliency Forcing Climate Rand Ekman A Common Language to Design Carbon Neutral Re-forming the Building Industry: Equity, Projections AIA+2030 Professional Series 2013 Projects by 2030 Diversity, and Inclusion Spotlight Report Thomas Zakrzewski and Kyleen Rockwell AIA + 2030 Series Building Performance Analysis Conference BuildingGreen 2019 Rand Ekman Model Behavior SimBuild by ASHRAE and IBPSA-USA Yiselle Santos Rivera 2015-2017 ARCHITECT Magazine Tommy Zakrzewski, Mike Brown, Kyleen Rockwell January 2020 Great Diverse Designers Library Rand Ekman August 2020 Featured Designer AIA and DOE Launch 2030 Commitment August 2012 The Case for Zero Energy Buildings Yiselle Santos Rivera ARCHITECT Magazine Sustainability in the Built Environment D Magazine 2019 Rand Ekman The Architects Guide to Integrating Energy Modeling Prism Dan Noble May 2015 into the Design Process Julie Hiromoto 2019 A COTE Snapshot from Living Future’s The American Institute of Architects April 2020 Unconference By Linking Tropicana Field to the Waterfront, Rand Ekman Adapting to Technology and Process Disruptions The American Institute of Architects Global Firm Wins Design Competition 2012 House Energy Committee Discusses Energy Shaking the Foundations of A/E/C Firms Julie Hiromoto Tampa Bay Times Efficiency and Storage Bills AEC Thrive 2019 Julie Hiromoto Sustainable Commercial Interiors Environmental and Energy Study Institute Dan Noble April 2016 American Society of Interior Designers (ASID) Julie Hiromoto 2019 Squire, Corey and Walker, Tate et. al. COTE Top Rand Ekman March 2020 Ten Toolkit. One of 15 primary authors of the Sustainability Becoming Quality 2007 This Medical Planner is Working to End the design practice guide to enable and support ARCHITECT Magazine Confusion Surrounding EDI implementation of the AIA Framework for Design Rand Ekman Plotlines Excellence August 2015 Yiselle Santos Rivera Julie Hiromoto October 2019 2018 04 Our Enterprise | 68 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.4 Industry Influence and Thought Leadership INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP ROLES Graciela Andraos • Director AIA Virginia 2019 Emerging Leaders in • USGBC Los Angeles Women in Green Committee • WELL Community Working Group Member, 2018 Patrick Nedley • ASID Ones to Watch Leadership Group Architecture (ELA) Vice Chair • AIA Los Angeles Design Awards Committee • WELL Building Standard v2, Working Group • AIA Columns Publications Committee • ULI Tap Committee; Virginia Technology & • William J. Worthen Foundation Decarbonization Member Rick Atkinson Real Estate Council of Buildings Working Group • Urban Land Institute, Sustainable Development Kate Renner • USGBC Green Building Provider • Urban Green Monthly Program Committee, Council, 2019-current • AIA DC Christopher Kelley Leadership Development Program, • City of Dallas Energy Code Provider Greg Davenport 2017-2019 • International Living Future Institute (ILFI) Chair 2018 • NCSEA SE3 Committee Member • ILFI Vancouver Collaborative Chair, 2013-2016 Ambassador, 2015-current Kaitlyn Badlato • ILFI Living Building Leader, 2016-2020 Wayne Reynaud • ILFI Vancouver Collaborative Chapter of the Year • AIA DC Equity Committee by WIELD, Chair Rand Ekman • Association for Learning Environments (A4LE) Recognized Ed., 2015 • New York University School of Professional • AIA COTE Advisory Group, Chair 2015 Studies Dean’s Adjunct Advisory Council, Facility Planner Cullan Barkau • Chicago Architecture Foundation, Board Member Marsha Getto-Aikens 2015-2018 • AIAS, Board Member 2015 Salvador Rivas • ULI Dallas/Fort Worth: Advisory Committee • Archstorming Design Competition Juror• EPA and AIA 2030 Commitment Working Group, & Impact Awards Chair & DFW Topping Out • Royal institute of British Architects (RIBA) Residential Stadium Adaptive Reuse, 2018 Mike Brown Chair 2014 Co-Chair • Architects Registration Board UK (ARB) • Yann Weymouth Graduate Scholarship Juror, • U.S. Green Building Council, North Texas Chapter • AIA Large Firm Roundtable, Co-Chair 2013-2014 • ICSC (International Council of Shopping 2019 and 2020 • Instituto Mexicano del Edificio Inteligente y Sustentable (IMEI) • The National Society of Black Engineers • AIA Chicago Chapter, President 2012 Centers:) Centerbuild Conference Planning • International Building Performance Simulation • City of Chicago Energy Benchmarking Working Committee Aaron Hollis Yiselle Santos Rivera Association Group, 2012 – Present • NTCAR (North Texas Commercial Association of • AIA Communities by Design Committee • AIA National COVID-19 Health Impact, Task Force Member 2020 • North Texas Association of Energy Engineers • AIA National 2030 Commitment Working Group, Realtors: Board Emeritus • AIA National Board Associate Representative, 2020 • The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating 2009 – present • CREW Network (Commercial Real Estate Women) Denise Irles • AIA National Strategic Council Associate Representative, 2019 and Air-Conditioning Engineers • AIA National Energy Modeling Working Group, Member • Architecture Sans Frontieres at Quebec, • AIA National Equity and the Future of Architecture, Board 2009 – 2018 • WELD (Women Executive Leadership: Senior Volunteer Committee 2019-2020 Neil Bustamante Mentor, 4Word for Women • AIA National New Urban Agenda, Task Force 2020 • CSI Houston Chapter, Director Whitney Fuessel Brian Junge • AIA DC Board Secretary, 2020 • Women in Healthcare, Founding Board Member Araceli Gutierrez • Utah AIA Committee • AIA DC Equity Committee by WIELD, Past Chair 2020 Jenn Carlson • Committee on Architecture for Health, AIA • Vida y Familia México I.A.P., Volunteer • AIA National Associates Committee At-Large Director, • AIA Dallas Communities by Design, Member Houston, Fundraising 2019 — 2016 Chris Knell Advocacy Outreach and Education 2017-2018 • AIA Dallas Committee on the Environment and • Committee on Architecture for Health, AIA Julie Hiromoto • AIA Urban Planning Board • AIA DC Board Director At-Large, 2016-2019 Public Policy, Member Houston, Past Chair 2018 — 2017 • AIA Large Firm Roundtable Sustainability Group, Angela Lee • AIA Women’s Leadership Summit, Organizing Committee • Committee on Architecture for Health, AIA Chair 2016-2017, Vice-Chair 2015 Member 2017 Kim Coates • AIA COTE Advisory Group, Chair 2020, Member • Urban Land Institute’s Women’s Leadership Houston, Chair 2016 2017 • DCBIA Community Improvement Day, Team Captain 2014-2018 • AIA DC Equity Committee by WIELD, Vice-Chair 2018-current Initiative, Asia Pacific Chapter, Steering • SES Student Healthcare Student Liaison, Event • AIA DC Latin American Interior Design, Engineers, and 2019 Committee Coordinator 2013-2015 • AIA 2021-2025 Strategic Planning, Committee Architects (LA.IDEA) Committee Co-Founder, Treasurer Member 2019-2020 Nick Cooper Greg Luongo 2013-2014 Miranda Gardiner • AIA Nominating Committee Task Force, 2020 • AIA Richmond President, 2020 • AIA DC Urban Design Committee • Greenbuild Conference & Expo Advisory Board • AIA Sustainability Leadership Group, 2019-2021 • ACE Mentor Richmond, Director • Greenbuild 2020 Host Committee Partnerships • 2018 Global Climate Action Summit, Advisory Elisabeth Mejia • AIA Virginia: Director Sub-Committee Co-Chair Group to AIA Delegates • IIDA NY Committee Design Camp, Co-Chair • 04 Our Enterprise | 69 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.4 Industry Influence and Thought Leadership INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP ROLES, CONTINUED Kyleen Rockwell • AIA DC Equity Committee by WIELD, Community Mike Vela • AIA Colorado EDI Committee, Secretary Outreach Director • Commissioner for the Salt Lake City Landmark • AIA CO Sustainability Advancement Knowledge • AIA DC Urban Design Committee Commission Group • AIA DC Emerging Architects Committee • Salt Lake County Board — Performing Arts • AIA DC Design + Wellbeing Committee • AIA National, Executive Secretary 2017-2019 Ashley Schmidt • Women in Healthcare, Founder and President Gabriela Soto Greg Verabian • Living Future Florida Collaborative Steering • AIA Los Angeles President, 2020 Janki Shah Committee • AIA DC Urban Design Committee Agnes Warneford-Thomson Vince Tam • AIA DC Urban Design Committee Lance Shields • AIA Dallas Women in Architecture, Chair • Layton City Board of Adjustment Planning 2013-2014 Kenneth Webb Commission Committee • ULI North Texas Partnership Forum, Chair • AIA Academy of Architects for Health, Board 2017-2019 Member Allison Smith • Greater Dallas Planning Council, Board Member • AAH Foundation Board • USGBC Materials and Resources Technical 2017 • Clemson Architectural Foundation Trustee Advisory Group (MR TAG) • WELL Airport Advisory Kirk Teske Amber Wirth • WELL v2 Standard Reviewer, 2017 • BikeDFW and Dallas Bicycle Coalition. 2020 • DDOE Building Energy Performance Working • WELL Community Standard reviewer, 2016 • LFRT, Treasurer, 2020 Group, 2019 • Health Product Declaration Collaborative, • mM, Board Member, 2020 • Greenbuild Conference, DC Host Committee Content Inventory Technical Sub-group (TSG) • Word Affairs Council, Board Member, 2020 Legacy Project, 2015 • HPDC Technical Committee • USGBC NCR Green Schools Committee, Co• Health Product Declaration Collaborative, Bridgett Baker Thomas Chair, 2013-2017 Hazards Technical Sub-group (TSG) • AI DC Equity Committee by WIELD, Treasurer • Mindful Materials Outreach Working Group 2019-2020 Tommy Zakrzewski (mM OWG) • ASHRAE Building Energy Modelling Professional • Texas Materials Initiative (TMI) Founding Member Emir Tursic • COTE Top Ten AIA Technical Reviewer (ENERGY), • Downtown Alliance Committee Salt Lake City 2017 Rebecca Soja • COTE Top Ten AIA Technical Reviewer (ENERGY), • DCBIA Community Services Corporation 2018 • DCBIA Young Leaders Committee • • 04 Our Enterprise | 70 OUR ENTERPRISE 4.5 Staff Health and Wellbeing RELATED UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS: RELATED UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES: Purpose Relationship to Strategic Plan HKS is committed to creating a Staff health and well-being are directly related to our three core pillars; relationship, character and purpose, as well as healthy, safe, equitable, supportive key objectives from the strategic plan including “improved and equal opportunity environment teamwork,” “relationship-building and collaboration for employees to grow professionally across teams and offices” and “becoming a true learning organization.” Through the Strategic Plan, we have and personally. As a leading global identified the specific need for investment in our talent. design firm, we seek to create a This is driving ongoing assessment and improvement. workplace environment that aligns with our values that promote HKS’ Stakeholders business objectives and individual PRIMARY: RELATIONAL: professional development while supporting physical and mental health and well-being for our staff and their families. Materiality While much of this work is personally driven, the Context materiality for HKS is directly related to the contributions HKS is a global company working within different cultural we offer, the influence we create and the partnerships we contexts. We are sensitive to these differences and adjust develop. This is material to the vitality of our business. policy and implementation to reflect these distinctions. HKS staff leadership is sought by both our clients and the We foster a culture of active learning and a healthy communities we work within. lifestyle throughout our organization. This section covers employee benefits, wellness programs, educational tools and newly implemented technologies. 04 Our Enterprise | 71 HKS London Office OUR ENTERPRISE 4.5 Staff Health and Wellbeing Assessment, Policy & Goals the process of revising our employee manual to provide work from home flexible possibilities. We offer benefits to HKS assessed staff health and well-being with a firmwide protect their health, provide financial protection and help survey in 2019 to understand what health and wellness them save for the future. benefits were of priority to our employees. That data resulted in a benefits package that included additional HKS has prioritized ESG related education and credentials offerings based on the survey. A new wellness program with internal rewards as having this for our staff helps us aims to encourage employees to become more wellnessmove toward our 2030 commitment as well as our firm’s literate and to create new healthy habits through fitness, sustainability goals. HKS is implementing a firmwide diet and medical evaluation. performance management system that will increase transparency and alignment and drive accountability for To highlight education as a leading priority of the firm, individuals and departments reaching their objectives. HKS is devoting increased resources to learning and development for all in a way that is beneficial for the individual and the firm’s goals. This includes an increased Measures or Outcomes tuition reimbursement policy and a 150% increase in available learning hours and reimbursements by 2020. We Many of the ways we plan to will also introduce digital subscription study materials. measure outcomes for our newer We will foster a culture of transparency and accountability initiatives are still being vetted. through role clarity and regular feedback. We will use Utilization of these benefits will be performance management tools and data to inform our base-lined this year to see if we recognition and reward processes and drive employee should grow it in 2021. commitment. We are hoping to learn in 2020 what people want by how they are using their learning allowance dollars. We also Implementation work with our Forum Representatives to understand what Wellness implementation includes a focused application tools and study materials are in demand/current so we that offers access to fitness challenges, insurance can offer the best. We will also measure how many newly premium discounts based on completion of a biometric licensed and credentialed employees we have year-overscan, wellness coaching call, and wellness survey. A year and how many LEED and WELL certified projects we scheduled Thrive Week focused on education of health complete. The success of the wellness application will be and wellbeing. HKS is also partnering with our benefit based on how many people are registered and utilizing providers to bring in medical clinics throughout the year. it as well as how many people qualify for the premium discount. Beyond just measuring how many people We are proud to provide employees and their families interact with it, we will also measure how soon people with a valuable and comprehensive benefits program, sign up (earlier adoption). Thrive Week success will be floating holidays, paid parental leave, and are currently in measured by event participation and engagement with vendors each year. 04 Our Enterprise | 72 CA S E S T U DY Promoting Well-being, Environmental Stewardship and Creative Discovery HKS Chicago Living Lab Chicago, Illinois, USA HKS believes in the power of design to create places comfort, reduces energy use, and provides higher that foster well-being, spark creativity and conserve quality air to breathe. Live plants, including edible the Earth’s limited resources. There is no better way herbs, dot the office landscape. to demonstrate our commitment to these ideals than to design the workspaces we occupy in ways that The HKS Chicago office also functions as a living embody the values we espouse to clients. lab where we continually test, evaluate and evolve our environment. To calibrate our office, we track HKS Chicago is located within The National, a environmental conditions with sensors; survey historic building designed by renowned Chicago employees to assess their health and well-being; architect Daniel Burnham and built in 1907. In monitor energy use with a dashboard and assess crafting the interior layout, designers were inspired how we use our space with behavior mapping. by the design of the city itself. The combination Our living lab addresses the dynamic, continually reception and large conference room — known as changing aspects of design by existing as a space The Plaza — is a place to mingle, meet or unwind. that evolves and adapts. It reflects our solutionThe studio itself supports employee well-being with seeking work culture that evaluates research and myriad unassigned workspaces, private break-out firsthand experience with an emphasis on health areas and acoustically private meeting rooms. A and well-being. large multipurpose room includes a ping-pong table, café counter, maker space and materials HKS Chicago achieved multiple sustainability library. ratings, including LEED for Commercial Interiors V4 Platinum, WELL Gold and ENERGY STAR Charter To promote health and well-being, designers Tenant certifications. Measurable energy and wellemployed biophilic design strategies. Graphics being impacts include a 60% reduction in energy throughout the space harken to outdoor Midwestern cost per square foot to operate, improved air and landscapes, from Lake Michigan to an Illinois water quality, greater employee sleep satisfaction wheat field. Each workspace has sit/stand desks, and increased employee presence in the office. fresh drinking water is accessed via filling stations It was named one of Crain’s Chicago Business adjacent to desk areas, and an energy-efficient publications’ Coolest Offices in 2018. displacement ventilation system maintains thermal CA S E S T U DY Promoting Well-being, Environmental Stewardship and Creative Discovery Business and Health Impact Community Impact 7% Increase in Sleep Satisfaction 9% More Employees Present, Even with Flexible Work Policy Behavior mapping showed an increase in mean number of employees in the office, potentially 51% Increase in Lighting Satisfaction indicating greater comradery and space utilization for collaborative and focused work. 56% Increase in Air Quality Satsifaction 6000+ Online Views of Our Living Lab Story HKS Website; YouTube; Facebook; Twitter; Instagram 44% Increase in Acoustic Satisfaction 2,564 People Visited HKS Chicago in Our First Year 25% Increase in Thermal Comfort From October 2017 through September 2018, we hosted public events that welcomed 2,564 visitors to our office. This is an increase of 2,489 more people than we hosted in our previous office, where we 2% Increase in Employee Focus and Mood welcomed only 74 guests in the prior year. Environmental Impact “Greenhouse gases, just like viruses, do not respect national boundaries.” ANTÓNIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL When the Earth paused to breathe for the air we breathe — and yet more than 70% COVID-19, the world’s major economies of ice-free habitat and the land surface has shut down to slow the spread of the virus, already been altered significantly. By 2050, and greenhouse gas emissions plunged — development and other land-use changes will temporarily. New data shows that July 2019 affect 90% of the Earth’s biodiversity if we to June 2020 tied as the warmest 12 months return to business as usual, pre-pandemic. on record, even though global industrial emissions are estimated to drop 4-8% in COVID-19 has 2020 than 2019. starkly revealed that But this small reduction reveals a vital truth transformational change is about the climate crisis, and it’s one we needed — and we’ve never can no longer afford to ignore: even if we permanently shuttered factories, curtailed air had a better chance to travel and our daily commutes and slowed choose a more sustainable our consumption of fossil fuels and electricity, and equitable path forward. the world would still need to reduce its carbon emissions another 7% each year for Our new normal must integrate climate and the next 30 years to meet the Paris Climate carbon reduction strategies, green economic agreement’s ambitious goal of a planet just opportunities and social equality measures 1.5°C warmer. into our financial systems, policymaking and infrastructure development. Together, we can With a pandemic-induced recession build a better, more balanced and harmonious confirmed and a global economic crisis future by striking a new social contract with looming, there is much talk about quickly nature, working toward a healthier and secure returning to business as usual after the future in which all people co-exist within the COVID-19 crisis is over. And yet normal is means of our natural ecosystems and thrive — what got us here in the first place. We rely on for generations to come. nature to provide us with all that is essential to human survival — food, water, pollination, and WORLD HEADQUARTERS 350 N. St. Paul, Suite 100 Dallas, Texas 75201 ABOUT HKS HKS is a global firm of architects, designers, advisors and makers driven by curiosity and devoted to creating places that combine beauty with performance. Our 1,350 people in 23 locations are united by our shared culture and sense of purpose. We value honesty, diversity and inclusion and we celebrate creative thinking across our firm. In partnership with each other, our clients and our partners, we craft powerful ideas and solutions. Together we create places that stand apart. 01 Executive Summary | 76
