VALUE NO.1 ENERGY & CHEMICAL PARTNER GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report For your convenience, this report has links on the table of contents and specific content, so you can quickly find relevant information. GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report VALUE NO.1 ENERGY & CHEMICAL PARTNER About This Report Since 2005, GS Caltex has published a yearly sustainability report to transparently disclose our plans and progress related to economic, CONTENTS environmental and social value creation and to communicate with stakeholders. This is our 15th sustainability report. Reporting Period This report covers our sustainability performance from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. For the key factors of quantitative performance, Corporate Overview 2019 Highlights the results of the past three years (2017 through 2019) have been shared for comparative analysis while newly disclosed quantitative and qualitative CEO Message p. 04 Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management p. 16 performances are indicated separately. Some highlights from the first Company Profile p. 06 Issue 2. Preparation for the Future p. 20 half of 2020 are included in this report to ensure their timely disclosure. Business Model p. 10 Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the p. 24 Business Areas p. 12 Workplace Scope and Reporting Boundaries The scope of this report encompasses GS Caltex’s headquarters and major domestic business operations, including our Yeosu Complex. A portion of the data was derived from our terminals, lubricant plants, gas stations, LPG stations and affiliated companies. Any parts that require special attention are indicated accordingly. Sustainability Performance Governance Reporting Guidelines SHE Management p. 28 Corporate Governance p. 68 The GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance Customer Satisfaction p. 36 Risk Management p. 70 with the Core Option of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards and Ethical Management p. 44 Information Security p. 72 designed to incorporate stakeholder feedback in compliance with Shared Growth with Partners p. 47 AA1000SES. Compared to the previous report, there are no significant Respect for Human Rights p. 51 changes in the scope or reporting boundaries. Any cases where there Social Contribution Activities p. 58 are changes in the way data was collected have been updated in accordance with the 2019 standards and annotated separately. Assurance This report has been assured by DNV GL, a third-party assurance institution, for the objectivity and accuracy of its content and data. We Appendix have conducted in-depth performance reviews of the following sectors: water resource management, water and air pollutants, waste volume, Financial Data p. 76 Third Party Assurance Statement p. 94 usage volume of hazardous chemicals and occupational safety and health. ESG Data and Performance p. 77 GHG Assurance Statement p. 96 The assurance statements can be found in the appendix to the report. GS Caltex ESG Policies p. 89 Global Initiatives p. 97 Selection of Material Topics p. 90 Major External Activities  p. 98 GRI Standards Index p. 92 to Sustainability Corporate Social For more information about GS Caltex, Responsibility Team please visit our website at  02-2005-1614 www.gscaltex.com or contact us. news@gscaltex.com 04 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview CEO Message Company Profile Business Model Business Areas 05 CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders of GS Caltex, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for the trust and support you have shown us throughout the years. Thanks to your support and dedication of our employees, we have been able to continue progress towards sustainable development. By securing extensive investment and facilities, and competitive advantages through continuous innovation over the past half-century, GS Caltex is now at the point where we mean to create new values and drive change and expansion to lead the future. With the growing uncertainty in the global economy, we are facing increasingly fierce competition in the energy industry. Under such circumstances, our sustainability must be maintained through changes or it might face perils. At the 2020 Davos Forum, we had an in-depth discussion over our commitment to moving towards stakeholder capitalism in which corporations are oriented to serve the interests of all their stakeholders, and that is also aligned with the goal of our ESG strategy. Over the years, we have been focusing on the ESG practices that have a strong impact on our diverse stakeholders and building a management system that is on a par with global standards. By aligning our social value creation with the ESG management, we establish and update our policies while increasing the disclosure of indicators and improving processes. Going forward, we will continue to help our suppliers improve their ESG performance and take proactive initiatives in line with UN SDGs (UN Sustainable Development Goals). We will also build an ESG management system to meet the global standards when it comes to the environment, occupational safety and health, human rights, labor, and compliance, thereby achieving valuable goals. Honored stakeholders of GS Caltex. In this 15th Sustainability Report, we share the progress we made in 2019 towards our sustainability goals. I hope this report will guide our company to maintain close communication and cooperation with stakeholders and continue to achieve mutual growth. GS Caltex is pursuing transformation and expansion “ into an energy company that leads the future by continuing to create economic and social value With your continued interest and support, we will continue to strengthen our competitive advantages and work towards becoming the most highly respected and sustainable energy and chemical company in the industry. through enhanced ESG performance Thank you. ” President & CEO Saehong Hur 06 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview CEO Message Company Profile Business Model Business Areas 07 Company Profile Domestic and Overseas Network (As of May 2020) Corporate Overview Since its establishment in 1967 as the first private oil refinery business in Korea, GS Caltex has set new standards in the domestic petroleum industry and played a critical role in the national economic growth. GS Caltex diversifies its business portfolio based on differentiated technology and quality in the refinery and petrochemical industries, which grows and develops as an energy company with global competitiveness. Corporate Profile Overseas Offices Name of Company Date of Incorporation Address No. of Employees Areas of Business (branches) GS Caltex GS Caltex London Branch Russia GS Caltex China Co., Ltd. China, Czech GS Tower, 508 Petroleum Representative GS Caltex Republic, India, GS Caltex Czech, GS Caltex Shanghai Branch May 19, 1967 Nonhyeon-ro, 3,283 Petrochemicals Office Corporation Singapore, Mexico, s.r.o. GS Caltex (Suzhou) Plastics Co., Ltd. Gangnam-gu, Seoul Lubricants London, etc. GS Caltex (Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd. GS Caltex Abu Dhabi GS Caltex (Langfang) Plastics Co., Ltd. Branch GS Caltex India Organization Chart (As of May 2020) Private Ltd. GS Caltex Mexico GS Caltex GS Caltex S.de R.L.de C.V. Singapore Pte. Ltd. Tokyo GS Caltex Vietnam Branch Representative Office Corporate Yeosu Complex Sustainability Supply & Trading Strategic Planning President & CEO Headquarters Lubricant Plant (Seoul) Petrochemicals (Incheon) Finance Business Central Technology R&D Center (Daejeon) Yeosu Complex Organizations directly Lubricants Business reporting to CEO Human Resources Corporate Audit Retail Marketing MFC Project 08 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview CEO Message Company Profile Business Model Business Areas 09 GS Caltex Vision and the GSC Way Sustainability Management System Under our vision of Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner, we define and practice the GSC Way as our guiding principle. Sustainability Management Committee Sustainability Management Committee In order to ensure sustainable growth in this fast-changing global business environment, GS Caltex has continued to develop the company’s system for sustainable operations GS Caltex Vision Vision Statement CSR Committee & CSR Operation Council based on social responsibility practices while managing various economic, social and Our vision is to be the most respected environmental issues relevant to the organization. energy & chemical company based on Corporate Compliance Committee industry-leading competitiveness. CSR Committee GS Caltex holds CSR committee meetings with the CEO as a chairman. Since its Fair Trade Review Committee establishment in 2010, the committee has been meeting regularly to discuss and make Strengthening Our Vision and Practicing the GSC Way decisions on important CSR issues. Photo of outstanding performers in GSC way Mutual Growth Committee At GS Caltex, we share best practices for implementing the GSC During the 22nd CSR Committee Meeting held in February 2020, we discussed the progress Way with our employees and acknowledge the best efforts within we had made towards improving our ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) practices in our organization. In line with the GSC Way, we share strategies Risk Management Committee 2019 and presented our improvement plans for 2020, as well as plans for our major CSR that our employees have used to overcome challenges they face activities including Maum Talk Talk and Yeulmaru. in their actual work. These selected practices have a positive Strategic Investment impact on the practice of the GSC Way for other employees. Adjustment Committee GS Caltex holds various committee meetings related to sustainability management, including the CSR Committee, in order to strengthen our sustainability management Every year, we select and award employees who excel in their Safety & Environment Committee system at a corporate-wide level. To meet the growing importance of ESG issues, we execution of the GSC Way based on their GSC Way practices established a CSR Operation Council under the umbrella of the CSR Committee since 2020 and work performance. In 2019, 34 GSC Way performers were to discuss and develop solutions to implement CSR. recognized for their excellent performance. Occupational Safety & Health Committee Systematic ESG Management GSC Way Corporate Values Human Resource Committee Disclosure of non-financial information is becoming more important at home and abroad. EU’s Trust Fulfill one’s role, and trust and respect one another ESG Disclosure Regulation enforced in 2018 for companies with more than 500 employees and Flexibility Welcome diversity with an open mind and behavior the Stewardship Code adopted as of July 2018 in South Korea are both such examples. In line Information Security Committee Challenge Set high goals and pursue them aggressively with this trend, we anticipate the scope of disclosure for non-financial information will expand as global asset management firms, investment banks and credit rating companies integrate Strive for excellence in individual and Excellence organizational performance the ESG assessment in their decision-making for product development and investments. In response to the growing importance of CSR evaluation and management, GS Caltex Core Behaviors built an ESG database to manage the system in 2017. In 2018, we selected key areas for Proactive Think ahead and be the first to act enhancing performance and implemented management systems. These areas are human Collaboration Strategically utilize internal and rights management, enhancement of our partners’ CSR practices, tax compliance, and external resources and capabilities Certified highest rank from EcoVadis the strengthening of safety, health, environment and quality. In 2019, we established a Performance-driven Deliver tangible results stakeholder policy for our various stakeholders and developed detailed plans to promote the CSR activities of our partners. GSC Way Charter Based on our corporate values of Trust, Flexibility, Challenge and Response to Stakeholders’ Requirements for ESG Data Excellence, we will : GS Caltex conducts ESG analysis as required by individual companies to maintain a reliable Think ahead and be the first to act supply chain. In addition to this, we commission an international ESG analysis agency to Strategically utilize internal and external resources and capabilities evaluate our ESG performance every year. In particular, we obtained the Gold Medal (the Deliver tangible results We will achieve our vision through the GSC Way highest rank) from EcoVadis, a global ESG assessment platform in 2019. 10 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview CEO Message Company Profile Business Model Business Areas 11 Value Creation Business Model Sales Human Rights Management ‌ KRW 33,261.5 billion‌ Percentage of Our Employees ‌ Who Took the Human Rights ‌ Material Resources ‌ ‌ Risk Survey : 100% ‌ 268.95 million barrels, 32 types of (sent to all the employees) crude oil (268,946,525 Bbls) Value of Exports ‌ TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Crude Oil Imports KRW 23,738.3 billion‌ Rate) for Our Employees and ‌ Partners ‌ 0.15 R&D Export Ratio ‌ Increase in Partners’ Sales ‌ 71.4% KRW 7.5 billion Operating Income ‌ No. of Partners Who Signed KRW 879.7 billion‌ the Code of Conduct for ‌ GS Caltex Partners ‌ ‌ 466 partners ‌ Input (As of the first half of 2020) Finance Current Net Income ‌ Energy Savings ‌ KRW 452.6 billion 1,251TJ Promoting sound Assets KRW 20,427.7 billion corporate growth to create Capital KRW 10,997 billion value for shareholders & NCSI Waste Recycling Rate ‌ Shareholding Structure investors Ranked 1st ‌ 76%‌ GS Energy : 50% ‌ for 11 consecutive years Chevron (Overseas) Holdings Ltd. : 40% ‌ Lubricants Business Chevron Global Energy Inc. : 10% Base Oil┃Lubricants Quality Inspection of No. of Children Who Benefited Petroleum Business Gas Stations ‌ from Maum Talk Talk (Cumulative)‌ Manufacturing 5,643 cases 18,504 Gasoline, Diesel, Kerosene, ‌ Improving productivity Investment in Facilities ‌ Aviation Fuel, etc. and product quality KRW 1,236.2 billion through continuous investment in infrastructure No. of Gas Stations 2,368, No. of LPG Stations 391 Domestic Market Share 24% Intelligence No. of Membership Subscribers 11.39 million Enhancing Investment in R&D ‌ Petrochemical Business competitiveness as a KRW 51 billion Sales global energy company Aromatic ┃Polymers and preparation for the future through R&D Human Resources Investing in talent No. of Employees 3,283 recruitment and Total Compensation for Employees ‌ development KRW 366.9 billion Environment Investing in the creation Investment in Environmental Protection Production Capacity of eco-friendly workplaces KRW 61.6 billion with the aim of reducing Refining 800,000 barrels/day environmental impact Aromatic 2,800,000 tons/year Base Oil 26,000 barrels/day Society Lubricant 9,000 barrels/day Strengthening cooperation Low-Interest Loan Program for Partners Propylene 500,000 tons/year for mutual growth with KRW 62.2 billion various stakeholders Polypropylene 180,000 tons/year Input Amont in Social Contributions including suppliers and KRW 15.7 billion PP Compound 300,000 tons/year local communities 12 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview CEO Message Company Profile Business Model Business Areas 13 Smart Gas Station in Wirye, Seoul The 3rd HOU (VRHCR), Yeosu Propylene Production Capacity 500,000 tons/year Base Oil Lubricant Polypropylene Production Capacity Production Capacity Production Capacity 26,000 barrels/day 9,000 barrels/day 180,000 tons/year PP Compound Production Capacity 300,000 tons/year Base Oil Business Lubricants Business Polymers Business GS Caltex produces eco-friendly, highAs a leading producer in the market, GS GS Caltex’s polypropylene production quality base oils, using our advanced Caltex is recognized for our superior quality facilities were completed in 1998 with an HCR (hydrocracking) process to meet the and technological expertise. To meet the annual production capacity of 120,000 tons. Business Refining Capacity 800,000 barrels/day Aromatic requirements of automotive and industrial lubricant manufacturers. demands of our customers, we produce our own high-quality base oils and, by leveraging our innovative technologies, are able to We now produce 180,000 tons a year. With the completion of No.1 HOU (RFCC) in 1995 and No. 4 HOU (VGOFCC) in 2013, our annual Areas Heavy Oil Upgrading Ratio Production Capacity 2,800,000 tons/year Recently, in response to increasingly demanding regulatory requirements related supply more than 400 types of Kixx engine oil. Our automotive lubricants, such as the production capacity of propylene, which is used for polypropylene, has reached 500,000 to the environment in developed countries, premium engine oil Kixx PAO and engine oils tons. We also have production facilities in 34.3 % emerging countries such as China have begun for personal and commercial vehicles, along Korea, China and Czech Republic for PP applying more strict regulations. The lowwith industrial lubricants like hydraulic fluid compound, which is used in automobiles Business Overview growth economic trend also adds negative and oils used in industrial sites, are exported and electronics, with an annual production Petroleum Aromatic pressure on demand. to more than 60 countries around the world output of 300,000 tons. as our flagship products. The business areas of GS Caltex GS Caltex has facilities that produce 800,000 Our annual production of aromatics has Despite these changes in market conditions, The most critical risk factor in the barrels of high-quality petroleum per day. reached 2.8 million tons. Since the completion we have been able to maintain our The increasing regulations in the lubricant petrochemical industry, where commodities consist mainly of petroleum, We also supply petroleum products to the of our production facilities back in 1990, we competitive advantages by diversifying  market as well as stronger requirements from are a driving force, is the fact that profitability petrochemicals, and lubricants. After domestic market through 2,368 gas stations have consistently increased the production our sales channels. To sustain our growth, manufacturers has led to a growth in demand can be subject to external factors such continuous efforts to diversify our and 391 LPG stations nationwide in addition capacity through continuous investment in we are actively developing overseas markets, for high-quality products. As a result, the use as oil prices. In this regard, our polymers overseas market segments, 70% of to our focus on exports to the global market. facilities and optimization of processes. As a including China, India, and Southeast Asia, to of lubricants has remained flat or increased business has helped us optimize a portfolio our revenue now comes from exports. result, our current production capacity stands secure global sales channels. In 2019, more at a slow rate. In addition, the competition is that can distribute risks through vertical In 2019, the US-China trade war and other at 1.35 million tons of paraxylene, 0.93 million than 90% of our base oil sales came from fierce in the lubricants industry at home and integration, ranging from propylene (resource) events had a big impact on the refinery tons of benzene, 0.17 million tons of toluene, overseas markets. GS Caltex is the market abroad due to its low entry barrier. to polypropylene (intermediate goods) and industry. In 2020, we expect to see more volatile and 0.35 million tons of mixed-xylene. leader as the major supplier of base oil in PP compound (end goods). GS Caltex is also market conditions due to the International Asia. We continue to seek opportunities to In order to overcome these challenges, driving sustainable growth by developing ecoMaritime Organization’s ban against sulfur However, due to a massive expansion of expand our market share. we are focusing on improving the product friendly and high-transparency products to content in fuel, and COVID-19. Furthermore, the paraxylene production facilities worldwide, mix, developing cost-saving recipes, and meet regulatory requirements. Furthermore, market will become even more saturated as the the aromatics market is seeing a decline in attracting new customers. As a result of we have diversified our sales channels supply of petroleum exceeds the demand due profitability. these efforts, Kixx won the First Brand making inroads into China, Europe and North to growing global investment. Awards 1) in the Lubricant Category in America and as a result, over 70% of our sales Under these circumstances, GS Caltex is December 2019 following the win in 2018. in the polymers sector come from exports. At GS Caltex, we have consolidated the focusing on reducing our dependence on foundations of our oil supply by diversifying aromatic products in certain markets. We are our suppliers and purchasing crude oil not also seeking methods to secure stable levels 1) ‌Held by the Korea Consumer Brand Committee, only from the Middle East but from the U.S. of profitability by diversifying our operations organized by the Korea Consumer Forum and the Korea Economic Daily as well. As Korea’s largest HOU, this gives us and product portfolio. a competitive advantage. We also remain the No. 1 company in the gas station category of the NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) for the 11th consecutive year thanks to our Marine Shipment, Yeosu R&D Center, Daejeon Lubricants Plant, Incheon unique service program. Recently, in response to fluctuating market conditions, we have been working on a digital transformation that further strengthens our competitiveness for our petroleum business. 15 2019 Highlights Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management p. 16 Issue 2. Preparation for the Future p. 20 Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace p. 24 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 16 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Highlights Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management Issue 2. Preparation for the Future Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace 17 Issue 1 Environmental Management Eco-Friendly Management Environmental Strategy GS Caltex is committed to eco-friendly practices that is more rigorous than environmental regulations throughout our entire value chain, from material procurement to production, sales and recycling. To this end, we fulfill our social responsibility towards the environment by minimizing our environmental impact from the economic perspective of resource circulation. Materiality 1 U  sing eco-friendly Reducing energy consumption 2 Concerns for environmental issues are growing following The Paris raw materials and pollutants Agreement on climate change. This has resulted in the increased ・‌Using biomaterials when ・‌Introducing energy-saving awareness of the environmental responsibilities of corporations manufacturing products ‌ systems and technologies, and improving processes and increased consumer demand for eco-friendly products and (e.g., biodiesel) ・‌Increasing the use of waste ‌ ials Pro ・‌Investing in GHG emissions services. As a result, companies are required to implement rigorous er at men t d in raw materials ‌ and air pollutant reduction e environmental strategies and minimize environmental impacts by (e.g., using recycled  Raw Pro M uction systems cu developing eco-friendly materials and expanding facilities that have plastic, etc.) r Circular a minimal environmental footprint. Economy ・‌Acquiring environmental Issued Green Bonds es certifications ‌ (kerosene, two types of cli l m & Risk & Opportunity Sa u Recy ption ng s lubricant) n Co ・‌Supplying high ・‌Increasing the collection of performance/efficiency Environmental regulationsㅣAs global environmental regulations materials/products from waste products (e.g. base oil group 3, grow stronger and government regulations and legal amendments resources (e.g., rare metal recovery) polymer modified asphalt) are put in place, the demand for corporate practices to execute 4 Promoting ‌ recycling and Selling eco-friendly and 3 environmental responsibilities is also growing. Environmentcirculation high-quality products related regulations are continuously growing stronger from shifts in environment-related regulations as well as awareness. Establishment of a Monitoring System Eco-friendly consumer trendsㅣThe eco-product market is expanding GS Caltex established a monitoring system to oversee the response of our production as consumers are avoiding environment-impacting products and more facilities to environmental impacts and external risks stemming from their operation in interested in eco-goods. order to proactively manage any potential risk. Classification Description Management Approach Periodic on-site measurement and analysis On-site measurements (e.g., air, water quality, waste) By aligning our environmental strategies from the perspective Remote monitoring system for Established Facilities Real-time air and water quality measurement and control of Circular Economy, GS Caltex is strengthening our sustainable concentration of pollutants for Fine Dust Reduction supply chain. We are also expanding our eco-friendly product line LDAR1) VOC2) and hydrogen scattering and emissions monitoring as we develop more sustainable materials and research technology to reduce reliance on hazardous materials. Going forward, we Oil spill response equipment Management of oil spill response equipment inventory status management system will continue to issue green bonds to expand our eco-friendly facilities and innovate technologies to maintain our competitive Plant drainage control Installation of oil detectors, pH meters and CCTV cameras advantages. Analysis of impact point on Yeosu Complex and early response Typhoon monitoring system based on typhoon information SHE information system Oversight of environmental practices 1) Leak Detection and Repair 2) Volatile Organic Compounds 18 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Highlights Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management Issue 2. Preparation for the Future Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace 19 Development of Eco-Friendly Products We have established a demonstration plant for 2,3-butanediol, which was certified as a new technology/product by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and are creating demand for eco-friendly materials for cosmetics, personal care, and crop protection At GS Caltex, we continue to develop energy-efficient, eco-friendly products as part of agents. We also plan to carry out various activities, including technology verification, our support for low-carbon energy policies. Based on highly refined fuel oil, we secure through scale-up research and technology development for cost competitiveness. excellent quality competitiveness, and we are also developing eco-friendly light-weight In the future, we are going to develop safe and eco-friendly chemicals with superior materials and solvents. performance to meet growing demand in various markets. High-Quality & Eco-Friendly Fuel Oil Development of Eco-Friendly Materials GS Caltex is continuing R&D efforts to secure various technologies for processing GS Caltex is focusing on developing eco-friendly, high-performance polymer materials petroleum, improving energy efficiency in oil refining and enhancing the quality of IR52 Jang Young-sil Award that can replace metallic materials and have both the mechanical and the thermal our oil products to strengthen our competitiveness in the energy sector based on our in the 27th week of 2019 properties to improve fuel efficiency and reduce GHG emissions in automobiles. In accumulated technological capacity. 2019, we developed an uncoated composite material with improved softness for automotive interior parts and won the IR52 Jang Young-sil Award2) in the 27th week of Our major brand GS Caltex Kixx is a high-quality gasoline product that meets the world’s 2019. GS Caltex will continue to develop eco-friendly materials. highest eco-friendly standards as it contains highly purified additives to protect key components of the engine while dramatically reducing harmful emissions. It also improves Expansion of Eco-Friendly Facilities driving performance and comfort by maximizing engine power with fuel efficiency. In October 2019, GS Caltex issued KRW 130 billion green bonds. The funds raised via the Our diesel products have an excellent ignition ability and output, and contain a highbonds will be used to expand the environmental facilities in the Yeosu Complex with performance fluidic enhancer that prevents wax formation in winter, making it easy 2) ‌Recognizes the contribution of R&D a focus on the reduction of pollutant emissions and odors through investment in the to start the vehicle at low temperatures. Produced at our cutting-edge desulfurization professionals to the development of new economic technology. One product is facilities. Issuing green bonds is part of our active initiatives to protect our environment, facilities, it has received 5 stars from the Environmental Quality Rating System every year selected each week. and we will continue our efforts to contribute to the environment. since 2006. The kerosene product line is highly purified and eco-friendly with lower emissions of harmful gases as it is produced through an advanced refining process. Our kerosene produces less petroleum odor and does not cause discomfort to the eyes, so it is possible to store indoors. It was certified by the Ministry of Environment for its eco-friendly attributes, as the sulfur Business Case Establishment of Facilities Businessfor CaseFine Dust Reduction content is significantly lower than the legal limit for quality standards. Marine fuel oil generates large amounts of heat to maximize the propulsion of ships. 1) ‌Global index to standardize ingredients in In 2019, to reduce SOx (sulfur oxide), which is a cause of fine dust, we invested KRW 54.6 billion to replace the DeSOx system located at Marine fuel is produced in various forms according to the specific viscosity that the ship marine fuel oil No.1 HOU (RFCC) with a wet gas scrubber. In 2019, we also added NOx reductors to reduce nitrogen oxides in our oil refinery facilities engine requires. In addition, our marine fuel is an eco-product that not only meets the by investing KRW 2.9 billion. As a result, the amount of SOx generated was reduced from 4,481 tons in 2018 to 1,269 tons in 2019, and ISO 82171) standards but also produces minimized pollutants following our even-stricter NOx emissions were reduced from 844 to 684 tons over the same time period. company standards. In early 2020, we completed process improvements whereby all LSFO (low sulfur fuel oil) was replaced with LNG (liquefied natural gas). We also make asphalt for road construction using materials produced during the refinery In addition to dust, SOx and NOx, LNG also produces less carbon dioxide than LSFO, making it a potent tool in the fight against processes. In addition to standard asphalt, we supply asphalt that can withstand high global warming. and low temperatures without deformation or cracks while researching the development of eco-friendly and high-performance asphalt to meet the varying needs of customers. Investment in fine dust reduction equipment Development of Eco-Friendly Chemicals Approx. SOx NOx In response to the growing demand for eco-friendly materials, GS Caltex has devoted significant resources to the development of various eco-friendly chemicals, low-toxic KRW 54.6 billion Reduced by 3,212 tons Reduced by 160 tons materials and special solvents. 20 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Highlights Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management Issue 2. Preparation for the Future Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace 21 Issue 2 Intelligent Plants Preparation for the Future Digital Twin Virtual Plants Using Digital Twin Building the Yeosu Complex GS Caltex is building a virtual plant that is exactly like an actual plant using our Digital in the Virtual Space Twin technology. This will allow us to simulate various situations that are difficult to recreate in real life, such as abnormal conditions or equipment malfunction. It will also Integrated Control Center enable us to predict risks and review optimal operation methods so we can find ways Materiality to increase efficiency. We can also monitor the operational status of multiple systems in Integrated Monitoring of 300,000 Facilities the production facility in real time and minimize losses at each stage, from the receipt of Digital technology has emerged as an integral part of competitiveness crude oil to product shipment, to pursue optimal production management. for refiners. As digital transformation such as AI (Artificial Intelligence) Virtual Training & Education moves forward, it will trigger a fundamental change in our business Comprehensive Real-Time Monitoring Through Scenario-Based Simulation ‌ model and its implementation. Under these circumstances, leading Training & Education Integrated Control System refiners are strengthening their systematic digital capabilities, and are committed to operation innovation and risk management We are building an Integrated Control Center, with a completion target of 2030, to based on digital technology. optimize production and minimize loss at each process step. At the GS Caltex Yeosu Establishment of Complex, which is 6,000,000㎡, there are more than 300,000 pieces of equipment, and Integrated Control all of the processes are interconnected. Additionally, starting from time of completion, Risk & Opportunity System Based on ‌ planning standards differ for each process and both management and optimization standards are operated independently. Digital Twin A paradigm shift in refining industryㅣAs advanced technology Due to this factor, in case of issues in individual production procedures, time is wasted in and improved operations at production facilities have led to supply sharing issues and solutions among corresponding departments. An Integrated Control growths, competition in the refining industry has intensified. In Center allows us to monitor facilities of the Yeosu Complex in real-time so we can easily addition, digital technology has become an essential factor to check the state of production, design and maintenance. This will enable us to provide an competition which has sped up the rate of change in the business immediate response which encompasses the entire process should any issues arise. environment, leading to a paradigm shift. Creating opportunities through digital technologyㅣNew opportunities to obtain growth drivers are arising from utilizing digital technology such as managing production risks through simulations or real-time monitoring of all work sites and facilities using data analysis. Greendiol Management Approach To deal with uncertainties in the business environment, GS Caltex Launch of Greendiol, is establishing an integrated control system based on Digital Twin. the Eco-Friendly Cosmetics Ingredient This comprehensive monitoring system allows us to efficiently manage production processes and use simulation technology to Application of Digital Transformation to Production Processes minimize losses while managing process risks. By doing so, we are incorporating digital technology into our production processes and At the Yeosu Complex, we are applying digital transformation to each area, such as continuing to push ahead with digital innovation to enhance our operations, technologies, and asset management. Using 3D models, we implemented a competitiveness and create value. system that supports easy access to facility data to the No. 3 HOU (VRHCR) processes. As a result, we managed to reduce the time it takes to access facility-related information, such as maintenance records and drawings, by 30% and we made it possible to check 3D models instead of visiting the actual site, which has led to time savings of up to 70%. 22 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Highlights Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management Issue 2. Preparation for the Future Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace 23 In addition, we run an OTS (Operation Training Simulator) which is a simulation program the focus on cost competitiveness, optimal operation of processes such as HOUs, energy based on actual production processes. Employees can train for emergency situations efficiency, production of high value-added products, and maximization of their sales. As such as plant shutdown from boiler or pump equipment issues. By doing so, we can a result of our continued efforts with the V-Project, we achieved a cumulative financial minimize risks and pave the way towards a sustainable future. performance of KRW 500 billion by 2019 in spite of the uncertain environment. However, 1) ‌Areas of improvement : strengthening due to the rapidly changing external situation and the appearance of new businesses, competitiveness in feed stock, optimizing process operations, maximizing product there is a growing need to secure our competitiveness further. value, optimizing energy & utilities, Solid Foundation for Growth strengthening midto long-term competitiveness In 2020, GS Caltex formed an Agile unit (engineer group) to facilitate prompt responses 2) ‌To be implemented by the Agile unit (engineer and identify innovative solutions. This new unit will take over the V-Project and focus its group) from 2020 MFC Project resources on enhancing our competitiveness. At GS Caltex, we are working on the development of our olefin model as our new growth Key Areas of Improvement for V-Project1) and Annual Financial Performance (Unit : KRW 1 billion) engine. It has potential for growth and will be easy to expand to the downstream market. Year 2014 Performance 2015 Performance 2016 Performance 2017 Performance 2018 Performance 2019 Performance 2020 Estimate2) As the first step, we have invested in the construction of MFC (mixed feed cracker), olefin Wave 1 (2013) 99.2 153.9 108.4 84.7 70.6 47.5 69.4 production facilities. Wave 2 (2014) 61 117 72 61.6 66.3 70.3 90.2 Wave 3 (2015) 30.7 65.6 57.6 94.3 118.7 114.2 One of the key olefin products is ethylene, which is used as a base material in various Wave 4 (2016) 27 36.7 36.2 40.5 31.5 industries. PE (polyethylene) in particular, one of the downstream products of ethylene, is Wave 5 (2017) 25 42.6 75 75.6 widely used for plastic products such as vinyl, containers and disposable goods. We are Wave 6 (2018) 36.1 110.3 85.5 Wave 7 (2019) 33.6 79.9 focusing on the HDPE (high density polyethylene) market in particular as our first stepping Total 160.2 301.6 273 265.6 346.1 495.9 546.3 stone into the PE industry. The HDPE market is relatively large and linked to our existing PP (polypropylene) operations, which should make it easier for us to penetrate the market. In addition, ethylene prices are not strongly correlated to the aromatics that GS Caltex Business Case Development of a Bioprocess Business Case for Mass-Production of 2,3-BDO produces. This makes it possible for us to develop a secure portfolio. Project Status and Competitiveness 2,3-BDO (2,3-butanediol) , developed by GS Caltex, is a natural are not genetically modified. Moreover, as it only uses physical substance widely present in nature. It can be found in fermented/ characteristics such as boiling points in the separation and refining GS Caltex is in the process of building olefin productions facilities in Yeosu, which are natural foods, plants, animals, water and soil. It has excellent process, it is environmentally friendly and harmless to the human body. Transportation of Propylene Tank scheduled to be completed in 2021. In October 2019, we transported a large circular tank moisturizing benefits and due to its moisturizing, antibacterial and weighing about 1,000 tons with a diameter of 22m and a capacity of 35,000 barrels, by antiseptic effects as well as its ability to protect crops, it has a wide 2,3-BDO is one substance registered to represent EU-REACH range of applications for cosmetics, crop protection, fertilizers, food (registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals), sea to be installed in our Yeosu Complex. In March 2020, we completed the installation of additives, and pharmaceuticals. and currently, major cosmetic companies around the world are a pipe rack module as big as a 15-story apartment building. It consists of a steel structure producing products containing this substance. In March 2020, we and pipes through which fuel and products are transferred for the processing operations. After 10 years of extensive research and development, GS Caltex has launched our own exclusive cosmetic ingredient brand, Greendiol The MFC Project is anticipated to obtain an excellent cost competitiveness through finally developed a bioprocess technology that allows for the masswhich we supply to prestigious brands in cosmetics. production of 2,3-BDO using microbial fermentation. Our 2,3-BDO synergy between the competitiveness of our ingredients and existing facilities. production technology utilizes non-GMO and microorganisms that  In response to the growing interest in eco-friendly materials, we will continue to develop new demands in various areas. Furthermore, to transform the MFC Project into a successful business, we are conducting Certifications research activities to develop the metallocene catalyst which accurately controls high polymer formation to provide customers products with the properties they desire. In addition to our existing business in the aromatics market, we expect to create a new revenue stream in the olefin and polymer market. By entering this high valueadded downstream market, we will further strengthen our competitiveness in the COSMOS3) Certified as a 100% Vegan4) Certified NET5) Certified by the NEP6) Certified by the Bio-Product by the Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Trade, petrochemicals industry, as well as refining industry. Certified US Department of Industry and Industry and Agriculture Energy Energy Strengthened Competitiveness with V-Project 3) COSMetic Organic and Natural Standard. An international certification for organic and natural cosmetics products 4) Products that do not use animal products and have not been tested on animals for production GS Caltex maintains a solid revenue generation model through our V-Project innovation, 5) ‌New Excellent Technology. A certification system to promote the commercialization of new technologies developed by domestic companies, research institutes, which was designed to strengthen our internal competitiveness throughout the value and universities, and to create a foundation for entry into new markets by improving the trust system for new technology products 6) New Excellent Product. A system for discovering, evaluating and certifying new products developed for the first time in Korea to support the initial sales of chain (crude oil procurement-production-sales) despite the fast-changing business environment. smalland medium-sized enterprises. Between 2013 and 2019, about 260 tasks were selected to improve our profitability with 24 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 2019 Highlights Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management Issue 2. Preparation for the Future Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace 25 Issue 3 Employee Safety and Health Initiatives Safety Innovation in the Workplace Life Saving Golden Rule Life Saving Golden Rule Action Items In 2019, GS Caltex established the Life Saving Golden Rule for employees to prevent accidents beforehand and create a culture where we also care for our peers’ safety. The Life Saving Golden Rule is composed of items that must be adhered to on work 1 ‌Restrict access 2 ‌Protect Materiality when working yourself sites. The items were drawn from analyzed data on workplace accidents and solutions with heavy against a fall therefrom. The Life Saving Golden Rule is composed of 6 categories: 1) Restrict access objects when working There is a growing awareness of safety in the workplace as part at height when working with heavy objects, 2) Protect yourself against a fall when working at of corporate social responsibility as well as increasing regulatory height, 3) Cut-off energy during maintenance, 4) Wear protective gear, 5) Restrict access requirements on safety management such as the revision of the to dangerous areas, and 6) Ensure safety when working in enclosed spaces. Occupational Safety and Health Act. As a result, building a systematic safety management system has become an integral part of sustainable Through these measures, we anticipate our employees to raise awareness on safety and 3 Energy 4 ‌Wear growth. A safety management system is also an important aspect to cut-off during protective create a collaborative safety culture where we consider the safety of our peers as well. maintenance gear be considered when it comes to making decisions on investments and business. As a result, the need for system implementation and Using Drones to Reduce the Risk of Accidents Established the ‌ management continues to grow. In the past, cranes or scaffolds were used to assess the safety of tall facilities such data-based Life Saving as chimneys. Since 2015, GS Caltex has been utilizing drones to check tall facilities, Golden Rule 5 ‌Restrict 6 ‌Ensure safety dangerous areas or in water. We also periodically check any damage in high-temperature Risk & Opportunity access to when working dangerous in enclosed facilities using drones equipped with thermographic cameras to ensure the safety of our areas spaces employees at the Yeosu Complex. Change of awareness in managing industry accidentsㅣIncreasing transparency by managing industry accidents systematically, Our Response to COVID-19 monitoring the entire production process and preventive risk systems are all issues in which interest is growing. In response, the GS Caltex is taking various measures to protect our employees’ health from COVID-19 that need for managing industry accidents along the entire value chain began to spread early 2020. We periodically distribute masks to our employees. Body is growing. temperatures are checked at all work sites including the head office and Yeosu Complex. Purchase of Yeosu Local Gift Vouchers Change in work environmentㅣChanges in government policies By ordering potential cases to work from home and by introducing various measures in to Support Recovery from COVID-19 to promote human rights such as increasing minimum wage and accordance to government guidelines, we radically reduced the potential spread of the reducing work hours are bringing a change in the work environment. virus in our company. Any employee who had visited an area (work or holiday) with a high rate of COVID-19 cases was required to work from home for 14 days. We also introduced telecommuting to support Management Approach child care as the start of school was delayed. Workplace Safety Check Using Drones GS Caltex has introduced cutting-edge technology to improve In addition, we purchased Yeosu Local Gift Vouchers worth KRW 150 million in March 2020 safety management on work sites in order to prevent accidents and to help the local economy recover from the impact of the virus. These vouchers were given create a safe workplace. In addition, we have designed a companyto the workers of the Yeosu Complex and employees of our partners to celebrate 4 million wide safety and health response strategy and management system accident-free hours for the MFC Project, which is currently under construction. and conduct safety training to our and suppliers’ employees to spread safety culture. 27 Sustainability Performance SHE Management p. 28 Customer Satisfaction p. 36 Ethical Management p. 44 Shared Growth with Partners p. 47 Respect for Human Rights p. 51 Social Contribution Activities GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report p. 58 28 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 29 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities SHE Management Occupational Safety and Health Goal 2019 Performance Establishing a Safety Management and Culture Distribute clean energy technology to • Provided high-efficiency cookstoves to 7 Affordable and Clean Energy contribute to the environment and work developing nations vulnerable to climate Based on the occupational safety and health management measures for our employees to promote sustainable energy change Data┃‌Occupational Safety & Health Indicators and those of partners, GS Caltex is creating a culture of safety through surveys of the working environment, improvements to safety awareness and practice by sector, and the Link to SDGs • Saved energy worth KRW 19 billion Reduce the use of resources in all  • Increased usage of LNG for heating furnaces establishment of systematic systems and facility safety. We have also implemented an 12 Responsible Consumption stages of business operations and enhance recycling to create a sustainable • Reached a waste recycling rate of 76% emergency response system to prevent accidents and facilitate our response procedures. and Production • Invested KRW 54.6 billion to reduce SOx value chain & NOx emissions Internalization of Process Safety Management Reduce GHG emissions in all stages of • Transitioned from fossil fuels to low-carbon 13 Climate Action In order to prevent industrial disasters, GS Caltex has implemented an emergency business operations fuel i.e. LNG response procedure for each sector along with a systematic process safety management Human system. We classify the areas of Process Safety Management into Human (training, accident investigations, supplier management, internal audits), Facilities (facility maintenance, pre-operation SHE Management Policy safety inspections) and System/Technology (process safety information, safety guidelines for operation processes, safety work permission procedures, process risk assessment, manage changes), and Emergency Response to take a more systematic approach to our safety management. To In order to reflect current safety and environmental issues and demands as well as to Emergency enhance our preventive measures, we make sure our employees understand all 12 items GS Caltex SHE Management Policy Response promote employee understanding and easy application in practice, GS Caltex updated of the system. Based on this, we are improving our response to accidents and the safety our SHE Management Policy in 2019. System/ Facilities level of our operations. Technology SHE Information System Safety Risk Analysis System Since 2018, we have efficiently managed and shared SHE information with our employees We established the Reliability Master Plan for 2017-2020 to perform step-by-step Data┃‌Occupational Safety through our SHE Information System. This is used to identify and improve areas of Certification monitoring of all our process facilities. In order to systematically analyze and evaluate Data┃‌Accidents Related to the weakness through analyzing and databasing of SHE information. The SHE Information risks, we have applied process risk assessment techniques including HAZOPs (hazard Safety of the Production System provides regular notification of items that require action, such as diagnosis or Process and operability studies), LOPA (layers of protection analysis), SILs (safety integrity level) and QRAs Data┃Environment & Energy accident investigation, and encourages employees to make necessary improvements. We (quantitative risk assessments). also promote the internalization of safety and support reviews of key issues using various dashboards provided by the system. After adopting SHE (safety, health and environment) as a core value, we have undertaken systematic introducing the latest eco-friendly equipment. Substances Control Act, and the Emissions Trading System, while INTERVIEW SHE activities, such as creating a safe working environment, managing the health of our continuing to optimize our SHE practices. employees as well as those of partners, and internalizing health and environmental management. To preemptively respond to the strengthening of environmental We also share our ESG progress with stakeholders, focusing on GHG emissions, water resources, regulations, we have established a dedicated team and task In addition to the above, we have been applying the concept of pollutants, waste, and occupational safety and health. force to analyze potential risks and take actions from a longDigital Transformation to create production facilities in a virtual term perspective. As part of this effort, all low sulfur fuel oil have space. Once this project is completed, the Yeosu Complex will The importance of SHE cannot be overstated, as a company’s sustainability depends on the been replaced with LNG, reducing emissions of fine dust-causing have a safer working environment based on simulations as well safety of its people and the protection of the environment. These are ultimately the responsibility substances such as SOx and NOx by more than 30%, and carbon as optimized production processes. of companies as we move towards sustainable growth for our planet and humanity. dioxide by 20%, thus contributing to a reduction of GHG emissions. In the future, we will continue our efforts to focus our resources At GS Caltex, we set more stringent requirements than those established by law when We also proactively monitor ESG changes along with regulatory on SHE management and support sustainability for all our Doo-Cheon Choi Vice President of Safety & Environment it comes to environmental protection. To this end, we are preemptively implementing changes in the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Act on stakeholders. environmental policies on transitioning to eco-friendly fuel, improving facilities, and Registration and Evaluation, etc. of Chemicals, the Chemical 30 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 31 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities We also conduct preliminary inspection of workplaces and risk assessment to ensure safety Best Safety & Environment Practices and compliance with the safety work plans. We assign a safety supervisor who is in charge of Each quarter, GS Caltex selects and shares the best safety & environment practices safety management to the workplace. Further, when work operation changes, we re-examine to promote their implementation at the corporate-wide level. Selected practices are the risk and revise the safety work plan. If any unsafe conditions are identified during presented by the Safety & Environment Committee and awarded around the day of the operations, they should be resolved before commencing work. Founding Ceremony. Going forward, we will continue to support best practices to raise safety awareness in our workplaces. New Project Safety Management When undertaking a new project, we establish a PSMP (project safety management plan) for GS Caltex Safety Campaign all phases of the project, including design, purchase, and construction. We work with our In 2019, we launched our Daily Safety Compliance campaigns starting with the Campaign GS Caltex Safety Campaign partners on project safety management planning, safety training, risk assessment, work for Holding Handrails on Staircases to enhance employees’ safety awareness and permits, and short-term worker management. We have also introduced a project safety incorporate safety in daily routines. Through these small activities, we aim to create safer monitoring program to take initiative in the prevention of accidents. workplaces. With our varied safety campaigns, we will continue to take the initiative to practice safety in everyday life for our customers as well as our employees. Emergency Response System Healthy and Safe Workplaces Emergency Response Manual To facilitate swift and effective emergency response processes in the case of industrial Chemical Substance Information Data┃Occupational Safety Drills accidents, safety and environmental problems, and natural disasters such as earthquakes We have established a Chemical Management Portal to control hazardous chemicals used and typhoons, we operate an emergency response team 24 hours a day. With the GS Caltex in our workplaces. Through the MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) management system, we Emergency Response Manual, we define the responsibilities of our employees in emergency provide information about hazards and risks to our customers and partners as well as to situations while simplifying our reporting system so that we can promptly respond to any event. those of our employees who handle chemical substances, whether directly or indirectly. Emergency Response Training Health Support Programs Our Yeosu Complex prepares emergency response scenarios that may occur for each process The Yeosu Complex operates a clinic with the latest medical equipment and specialized and conducts emergency response training at least once a month. We have prepared a medical staff to help our employees stay healthy. We also provide various healthcare system for dispatching about 240 emergency and marine control personnel in the first and programs to help our employees maintain their health, including medical check-ups, second lines to respond quickly in the event of an emergency. In addition, employees at our musculoskeletal disease prevention programs, and other programs regarding smoking Yeosu Complex are working to minimize loss of human life and damage to the environment and obesity. In particular, the Daily Walking Program (10,000 Steps Campaign), which aims to and property resulting from accidents by accumulating emergency response capabilities prevent obesity or digestive issues, is helping employees increase activity levels, reduce through actual drills in a large-scale fire drill facility built inside the workplace. body fat and maintain a healthy lifestyle. Spread of Safety Awareness Reducing Environmental Impacts Safety Awareness Program To raise employee awareness regarding safety and behavioral standards, we have Data┃‌Partner Industrial established safety awareness programs at all our major workplaces, including the Yeosu Safety Training Preemptive GHG Management Complex. This program consists of safety monitoring, accident investigation and safety improvement and the operation of the program is customized to the specific conditions To strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change, countries around the of each site. Additionally, we discuss important safety issues and make decisions in order Data┃GHG world, including Korea, are establishing plans to reduce GHG emissions and develop to internalize safety culture every quarter through the Safety Leadership Committee led low-carbon strategies. It is essential for industries to have an understanding of climate by our CSO (Chief Safety Officer). change in order to create a low-carbon society and implement a sustainable carbonneutral economic system. Safety & Environment Consulting To conduct monitoring and ensure the effective operation of our SHE management The refining industry needs strict energy and environmental management activities as Data┃‌Investment in system, we work with external experts. Consultation is provided on a yearly basis to Environmental Protection production consumes a significant amount of energy. We are monitoring GHG emissions comprehensively and consistently identify human, facility, system/technology, and in the production and distribution processes, considering the impact of GHG generated emergency response factors that can be improved in a proactive manner. In addition, when initiating new projects or making process improvements. every three years we perform a safety diagnosis applying the standards of the API (American Petroleum Institute), as they represent global standards in global petroleum and gas industry. 32 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 33 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities First, based on our process operation plan and the national GHG reduction roadmap, we Water Resource Management established a GHG management plan for our work sites and reduced emissions. In 2020, most of the low sulfur fuel oil used at our production facilities were replaced with lowRecognizing the depletion of water resources as a potential risk, GS Caltex has taken Data┃‌Management of Water carbon LNG to reduce GHG emissions. Resources initiative in managing them. Since 2018, we have been investing in overseas GHG reduction projects to expand the scope Water Demand & Supply Management of our GHG management. With the High-Efficiency Cookstove project, we provided stoves to The daily industrial water consumption at our Yeosu Complex was approximately 54,000 countries with poor cooking facilities that are vulnerable to climate change. Unlike the existing tons on average in 2019 and our MFC Complex, to be completed in 2021, is expected to use cooking appliances, our high-efficiency cookstove is designed to have better combustion up to 36,000 tons of water a day. Therefore, maintaining a stable water supply is critical. As efficiency and improved air circulation while reducing the amount of firewood needed, which our industrial water is supplied solely by K-water, we keep in close communication with the means less soot and smoke. We expect to help improve the respiratory health of users while company to ensure that supplies remain stable. In addition, we plan to reinforce our water reducing environmental impacts related to forest destruction, soil erosion and GHG emissions. management system by increasing storage and developing alternative water resources. Energy Management Data┃Energy Water Consumption & Recycling Management To meet the needs of different proceses, GS Caltex reprocesses industrial water into At GS Caltex, we have developed a midto long-term roadmap and are carrying out energy utility water, boiler feedwater and so forth. Our industrial water consumption is Energy Efficiency in the Workplace monitored and managed so that it can be used more efficiently. management activities to respond to the changing business environment and strengthen our competitive advantages through energy-saving and efficiency programs. We share their ideas At GS Caltex, we take a proactive approach to for saving energy and strive to incorporate innovative technologies in our business operations dealing with climate change and improving energy We are also developing various ways to use water as our consumption of industrial water has through external consultations and benchmarking. We also take a multifaceted approach efficiency at our work sites. In 2019, we carried out grown along with the expansion of facilities for new projects. At Yeosu Complex, we investigate 39 energy-saving activities. to reviewing energy-saving projects to help us make strategic investments. GS Caltex sets a the method to reduce the industrial water (i.e., a high-pressure mist fog system) and recycle (used challenging target to reduce energy consumption and all employees work to achieve the goal. Representative Energy Cost water, rainwater, and waste water), and implement the optimal method after analyzing validity and Activities Reduction Reduction Thanks to these efforts, we saved KRW 19 billion in energy costs during 2019. economic feasibility. All waste water generated at our work sites is treated and discharged Saved fuel more strictly than legal requirements. improving the GS Caltex is operating an energy monitoring system in accordance with government efficiency of heat KRW 1.3 88TJ policies as well as working to cultivate expert talent. Going forward, we plan to analyze exchangers in CDU billion Water Resource Risk Management (crude oil distillation the energy usage of our production facilities in cooperation with external experts and unit) processes benchmark the latest technologies from around the world. Furthermore, we will continue Yeosu Complex is located at the end of K-water’s pipeline, so if the consumption of Saved steam to explore opportunities to save energy in both our daily practices and our midto long-a  djusting the industrial water increases, water pressure may be reduced or we may be issued with a term projects, and optimize our energy monitoring system so we can take timely action. recirculation rate 29TJ KRW 400 request to save water, which jeopardizes the stability of our water supply. To prevent this, of the high-octane million gasoline additive if water consumption is expected to increase due to construction or facility expansion, we Air Pollution Risk Management production process will build new storage tanks to keep supplies stable, even in the case of a disruption in Saved energy the supply of industrial water. Air Pollutant Reduction lowering the KRW 1.6 temperature of the 103TJ We are actively investing and improving our facilities to reduce particulates. To maintain and fluidized bed reactor billion Before undertaking any new project, we estimate the level of water consumption to improve our facilities, we have installed systems that reduce the amount of NOx and SOx at No.1 HOU minimize stress on the resource. To this end, we check whether water can be supplied produced. We are also focusing on reducing air pollutants by using electrostatic precipitators, by K-water in advance. If it is necessary to increase the supply capacity of our production odor incinerators and organic compound collectors. facilities, we notify K-water first to secure the water in a timely manner. We also manage Data┃Volume of Air Pollutants water resource risks by calculating the investment in advance if additional facilities or Air Pollutant Emissions Monitoring capacity is needed. We have installed Tele-Monitoring Systems (TMS) in the main chimneys of the plant to Data┃‌C  oncentration Level of monitor the density of air pollutant emissions. The TMS mainly monitors emissions such Air Pollutants as NOx, SOx and Total Suspended Particles (TSP). The TMSs are installed in 14 vents as of early 2020 and we plan to increase the number to 43 by the end of 2022. We monitor the density of pollutants emitted from the vents. If the density turns abnormal, the system immediately analyses the reason and takes action to decrease the volume of air pollutants, contributing to maintaining clean air. As demonstrated, GS Caltex is utilizing cutting-edge technology and equipment to manage emissions of air pollutants at stricter standards than legal requirements. 34 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 35 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Management of Hazardous Chemicals new technologies and seek out buyers to reuse tank sludge, waste oil, catalysts, synthetic resin, wood, and food waste for various uses. Chemical Management Portal Renewal In January 2016, GS Caltex established a CMP (Chemical Management Portal) to ensure compliance Prevention of Soil Contamination with the regulatory requirements. As the stricter regulation on chemicals and the number of GS Caltex signed a voluntary agreement with the Ministry of Environment to preserve the chemicals handled by the company have continuously increased, GS Caltex has newly opened Data┃‌I nspection of Soil Contamination soil environment in order to jointly deal with the problem of soil pollution caused by oil the system to strengthen legal compliance and proactive monitoring in January 2020. storage and production facilities (initial agreement : 2002 to 2012, secondary agreement : 2013 to 2023). Yeosu Complex is leading the prevention of soil and groundwater contamination by By upgrading the system, we improved the process so that a small amount of chemicals, relocating underground oil pipes over the ground and fundamentally blocking soil pollution. such as reagents, can be reviewed and approved while enhancing the preparation logic to increase the reliability of the MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet). We also added status graphs To prevent groundwater contamination, we have installed monitoring systems in all areas to enhance user interface and provide an overview of hazardous chemical substances for of the Yeosu Complex to monitor soil and groundwater pollution and implement strict each department and at the corporate-wide level. prevention and response activities to preserve the soil environment. We also conduct soil inspections around our gas stations every year. Hazardous Chemical Spill Response Training GS Caltex provides regular training programs to strengthen our ability to respond to Data┃‌C onsumption of Protection of Eco-Systems hazardous chemical spills and prevent damage. Since we signed the Joint Accident Hazardous Chemicals Prevention Agreement with other companies in the Yeosu Industrial Complex in 2013 to Data┃‌P Recognizing the importance of protecting biodiversity, we manage the eco-systems around establish emergency response measures and organize joint training, we have organized an  rotected Areas Around Worksites and Relevant our work sites in cooperation with the government and local communities. After a spill at the emergency response group, established a joint training plan and conducted training every Activities Changwon Logistics Center in 2018, we have been regularly inspect the site by local agencies year. As a representative of the 2nd Group of the Yeosu Industrial Complex, we have held a that our business activities does no impact on the environment and eco-systems. Other local seminar on a quarterly basis and joint training once every six months, starting in 2016. sites also undergo monitoring, environmental impact assessment, and follow-up research on environmental impact to prevent the contamination of eco-systems. Currently, there are no We also have prepared for chemical spills by placing and managing protective equipment endangered species habitats around any of our work sites. and kits around each hazardous chemical storage facility. Moreover, to prevent chemical accidents, we conduct regular inspections and manager training for contractors handling hazardous chemicals. Compliance with New Government Environmental Policies Waste Material Management Category Related Activities and Plans At GS Caltex, we have diversified our efforts to manage waste materials. We notice the amount of waste materials generated by each division of our production facilities on a Data┃Waste Material monthly basis as a means of encouraging waste reduction and ensure that each type of 1 Completed reports on evaluation of external impacts/hazard 5 ‌Installed facilities for emergency cleaning and to prevent solid waste material is handled separately to maximize our recycling performance. control planning catalysts from scattering 2 ‌Undertook TF activities for improving facilities according to the 6 Replaced hazardous chemical substance warning signs Chemical Substances Chemical Substances Control Act (until 2019) 7 ‌Conducted regular inspections of facilities handling hazardous Furthermore, we have implemented a digitized waste processing and identification Control Act 3 Provided personal protective gear following the new regulations chemical substances system to raise awareness among our employees and partners. To improve the 4 ‌Reported hazardous chemical handling and established ‌ 8 ‌Established a system to monitor training programs (for all self-inspection process employees) for hazardous chemical substances recyclability of our waste materials, we are working with recycling companies to develop Act on the Registration 1 B  uilt a chemical management portal ‌ and Evaluation, etc. of 2 O  rganization and registration of chemical-specific associations (review chemical substances before purchase) Chemical Substances 1 ‌Upgraded facilities to improve efficiency (e.g., replacement of 4 Upgraded existing facilities and installed new equipment Improvement in Air Pollutant Emissions Process NOx reductors and catalysts in the SOx elimination process) 5 ‌Responded to the Special Act on the Reduction and Business Case Business Case Clean Air 2 Introduced clean fuel (LNG) Management of Fine Dust Conservation Act 3 ‌Upgraded/replaced heating boilers ‌ 6 ‌Signed a voluntary agreement to respond to high levels of (minimized the emissions of NOx) fine dust In October 2019, company officials were charged with reporting false numbers in measuring air pollutants at the GS Caltex Yeosu Act on Integrated 1 ‌Analyzed the environmental impact of pollutants on air 3 ‌Complete integrated environmental permits (by 2022) Management of Complex to the overseeing organization. The officials were sentenced (with probation), fined and ordered to execute community quality Environmental 2 ‌Establish an optimum environment management system to work. GS Caltex is investing strenuous efforts to improve related procedures to prevent similar incidents from recurring. Pollution Facilities minimize pollutants generated in overall operations (by 2022) 36 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 37 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities After the pre-registration in 2008, we completed the EU-REACH registration for chemical Customer Satisfaction substances over 1 ton exported to Europe. As a result, European consumers and customers who export to Europe are able to safely receive chemical products from Goal 2019 Performance us. We also comply with other chemical laws and regulations including the Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of Chemical Substances. • ‌Produced products with specifications Produce safe and reliable products based 7 Affordable and Clean Energy superior to legal requirements. on sustainable energy technologies In addition, we apply stringent quality controls to our petroleum products, ensuring that • ‌Operated Kixx quality service vehicles Link to SDGs they meet individual product specifications for proper performance, consumer safety and minimized environmental impact. 8 ‌Decent Work and Economic Growth Contribute to the economic and social • ‌Implemented energy-mobility development through sustainable convergence gas stations 12 ‌Responsible Consumption management and investment. and Production Quality Specification Items Item Description Example Safety Items that can impact safety when handled Flash point Environment Items that can impact the environment (air and water quality) Sulfur content Performance Items that can impact the performance of the product Octane rating Product Quality Control Value Chain Quality Control System Data┃‌Q  uality Management Importance of Quality Control Certification Petroleum products must be strictly managed to ensure that they conform with When it comes to petroleum products, quality control is crucial as it has a significant Data┃Quality Inspection standards, from production to storage and distribution processes, to prevent any decline 1) Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and impact on safety, the environment and performance. At GS Caltex, we are committed to Restriction of CHemicals in quality. Our products are produced at production facilities that have acquired ISO9001 recognizing the hazards and risks of chemicals and protecting the health of people and (quality management system) certification, which is stricter than the legal requirements. We the environment by implementing EU-REACH1) through a preemptive and systematic plan. also conduct quality inspections on incoming and long-term storage products in addition to those being shipped out to prevent quality issues. In order for a company to be sustainable, it needs to be chosen by customers, who are the Particularly, by applying standards that are more stringent than customer complaints promptly, we operate a customer support biggest group of stakeholders. Anyone who has used any of our products, even once, is the legal requirements, we can assure quality. Since 2017, we center. Various social media channels are also available to INTERVIEW considered a customer. The VOC (voice of customers) has a huge impact on our sustainability as have provided compensation for all quality issues experienced support our open communication with customers. well as our profits. by our customers at our 1,200 Smart Stations nationwide as part of our Smart Assurance System in order to achieve a As a result of these efforts, we have been ranked first in the gas In this regard, we listen to our customers and use both mass-marketing and targeted customer complaint rate of zero. station category by the NCSI (National Customer Satisfaction Index) marketing based on data collected through GS&POINT to gain their loyalty. for 11 consecutive years and recognized globally through KSQI Safety also includes information security for our customers. (Korean Service Quality Index) certification. Safety is our top priority when it comes to customers. As we produce and sell oil and chemical As 11.39 million customers use GS&POINT, we maintain the products, any failure to comply with regulations and procedures may have negative impact highest level of security. Every year, we acquire PIMS (personal Based on these achievements and efforts, we are dedicated to on the safety and health of our customers. Therefore, we are committed to ensuring full information management system) and ISMS (information security implementing new concept gas stations that provide various compliance with safety procedures while preventing environmental impacts throughout the management system) certifications to ensure our high level of services, such as car washes, repair, dining, and delivery. entire distribution process, not just at customer contact points such as gas and LPG stations. information security. Simultaneously, we are making efforts to evolve into a total Kwang Ok Cho energy station capable of charging electric and hydrogen Vice President of Retail Business Planning We also conduct service training at our gas stations to maintain vehicles. Through these efforts, we will continue to pave the a high level of customer satisfaction. In order to resolve way towards a sustainable future. 38 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 39 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities We comply with quality inspections and environmental and safety procedures in accordance Partnership Service for Gas Stations with both laws and our internal regulations when products are shipped to or stored in a distribution center. As a result, in 2019, GS Caltex’s Busan Logistics Center received a We believe that in order to provide quality service to customers, it is important to offer commendation from the Mayor of Busan for its contribution to the safety management while good service to our gas station partners as they are our contact points with customers. our Incheon Logistics Center was recognized for its contribution to the development of the That is why we are committed to delivering a variety of services for our partners, marine and fisheries industry by the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, and our Changwon including the quality control leaflets we distribute to gas stations nationwide to help them Logistics Center received a letter of appreciation from the Chief of Changwon’s Coast Guard for maintain the highest level of quality during the distribution process. We also conduct its contribution to marine safety management and joint training. inspections to prevent water inflow that causes cracks in tanks and pipes, and encourage our partners to register the results on the e-partner system. We also maintain quality assurance in the distribution process, which is our customer contact point. Since 2007, we have been operating the Kixx Quality Service Vehicle, making us the first We provide a brochure with instructions on how to maintain diesel products during the company in the industry to carry out quality inspections of gas stations nationwide. With this winter to customers who visit gas stations and industrial customers so that they can use our vehicle, we can also ensure prompt responses to complaints and emergency situations. In products without any problems. We have also acquired the Korea Service Quality Excellence addition, we have been operating a LPG Quality Service Vehicle and maintaining the highest Certification from the Korea Productivity Center for our excellent customer service in 2017. quality standards to ensure full compliance with legal requirements and to prevent any violations at LPG stations when the legal quality standards change. In addition, in 2019 we organized customer service training class for employees of logistics centers and drivers of tankers across the country. In the process, we shared information about accidents and customer complaints during transportation with both logistics centers and Quality Control System tanker drivers, and introduced preventative activities and policies. We also invited professional Production Facilities Logistics Centers Gas Stations/Customers instructors to provide training on service skills for customer satisfaction. Improving Customer Service ・ ‌More stringent quality control ・Q  uality inspection before than required by law receipt ・ Operation of Kixx Quality Information Service on Fuel-Supply Gas Stations ・ Quality inspection before ・Q  uality inspection for Service Vehicles for Public Organizations shipment products in long-term storage GS Caltex was appointed as the fuel supplier for public organizations in November 2018. Since then, we have been offering discounts to government agencies, local governments, and Kixx Quality Service Vehicle Overview government-funded organizations. To provide excellent service to our customers, we provide the location and information of our stations on Naver (a portal site) Map. Thanks to this service, Operation Purpose Metropolitan Area Daejeon Team people can find the stations easily. Teams A, B (1 vehicle) Equipped with systems that can detect defective and illegal petroleum (2 vehicles) Chungcheong products, the vehicles perform on-site sampling and quality inspections ‌ Seoul ‌ district New-Concept Services at GS Caltex stations. Metropolitan Area, Gangwon district Based on our Smart Gas mobile communication platform, we are expanding our brand Operation Process experience and engagement with customers. Through the GS&POINT application, Smart Gas provides useful information and benefits to customers to help them choose a gas station in real time. In 2018, we also launched HomePick, a gas-station-based delivery (Emergency) Inspection requested On-site quality analysis at Gas Station Output delivered Follow-up management service through which we continue to expand functions of gas stations. (send the samples to the lab if required) Expansion of the Eco-Friendly Energy Alliance Vehicle-Mounted Equipment As part of our energy service expansion, we launched a pilot project for EV (electric vehicle) charging in 2019. Furthermore, we cooperate with industry leaders, including Kia Motors Gwangju Team Busan Team • ‌Gasoline analysis : FT-NIR (Fourier Transform-Near Infrared Spectrometer) (electric vehicle OEM), LG Electronics (control solutions and systems), Signet EV (charger manufacturer), (1 vehicle) (1 vehicle) • ‌Detection of kerosene in diesel : Use Colorimeter and UV Spectrometer Jeolla district Gyeongsang district Soft Berry (EV application), and Green Car (EV sharing). As of 2019, we have secured 77 electric • ‌Detection of water content and sediment : Moisture detection reagents charging slots at 37 gas stations nationwide and are working on expanding the network. and centrifugal separator 40 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 41 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities In October 2019, we signed MOUs with KST Mobility and Soft Berry for charging station Conceptual Image of GS Caltex’s Future Gas Station bases for EV taxis. Based on this agreement, we have established a plan to use gas stations as bases for EV taxi charging and switching for the first time in Korea, and we expect that this will help solve the problem of a lack of infrastructure. In addition, in 2020 we are going to launch a total energy station that will supply charging for hydrogen and electric vehicles as well as gasoline cars. Mobility Hubs At GS Caltex, we have redefined the concept of gas station from a space providing oil services, car washes, and maintenance to a hub of the mobility industry based on radical innovation. To lead the change, we have established a development model that combines the potential of startups with the experience of GS Caltex to share advantages as well as promote mutual growth. We are using our gas stations as a base for Korea’s leading car sharing company, Green Car, transforming them into bases for various means of transportation. Going forward, we will continue to build infrastructure in the energy, mobility, and vehicle maintenance Service Expansion through Investment in Green Car (car-care) sectors to strengthen our position as a mobility infrastructure service provider in Recognizing the impact of changes in consumption patterns and technological innovation response to mobility-based innovation. on our business, GS Caltex has prepared for innovative changes in mobility, such as car sharing and autonomous driving. In response to the growing importance of the shared Connected Cars economy, we have responded to changes in customer mobility by acquiring 10% of At GS Caltex, we are preparing for the exponential growth of the connected car market, Green Car, a leading car sharing company, and built a midto long-term partnership with including the autonomous-driving sector, driven by the development of communication the company in order to gain competitive advantages in the mobility market. Recently, and IoT technology. In December 2017, we invested in OWIN, a Bluetooth-based connected we have seen the emergence of innovative technologies such as electric vehicles and car technology company. Using their technology, customers can make non-face-to-face autonomous driving, which are incorporated into car-sharing services. In response to payments with their vehicles when they purchase gas. As of the end of 2019, GS Caltex these trends, we are entering the car sharing sector through a partnership with Green Car collaborated with OWIN to introduce untact payment service in about 300 gas stations. and developing new technologies to provide convenient services to our customers. We plan to expand offline applications of OWIN in places such as parking lots and F&B stores Car Care Service and develop drive-through systems where customers can easily use our services. GS Caltex is attracting more customers for automotive maintenance by leveraging our new online and mobile platforms. The Cardoc, in particular, which is used by approximately Going forward, we will continue to build infrastructure for connected cars by commercializing 2 million drivers in Korea, connects car owners with repair service companies to enable vehicles with the OWIN system and focusing on the distribution of Car IDs (in-car Bluetooth them to check repair costs in advance. It also offers total car care services including engine transmitters) in cooperation with automobile manufacturers and credit card service providers. oil replacement, premium car washes, and the replacement of consumables. GS Caltex Future-Oriented Gas Station : Mobility & Logistics Hub In cooperation with Cardoc, we are operating a new-concept gas station, Cardoc Ilsan station (GS Caltex) which combines premium car wash services and a café. The Cardoc Wash Express Service offers semi-automatic upgraded car wash services while the Cardoc Existing service Mobility Hub Logistics hub Techshop Express offers replacements of consumable parts for customers, who can also enjoy high-quality F&B such as coffee and snacks in the waiting area called Café on the + Road. Through these efforts, we are creating a future-oriented gas station with a high level of customer satisfaction and wide range of services. Car sharing Charging for Parcel service Fuel (Green Car) electric vehicles (HomePick) Transforming Gas Stations into Logistics Hubs GS Caltex has transformed gas stations into mobility hubs that function as logistics centers, pick-up spots and rest stops. As our first step in this direction, we launched the HomePick delivery service through our gas stations. The logistics startup picks up Carwash Maintenance Charging for Micro mobility Delivery packages within an hour of receiving a delivery request and hand them over to the hydrogen vehicles (Lime) by drone delivery service at the station. Thanks to this service, customers are able to send their 42 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 43 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities packages in a faster and more convenient way while gas stations can generate revenue 2019 GS Caltex Star Festival from unused space. Furthermore, GS Caltex will partner with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (South Korea), Jeju Island, and GS Retail to introduce a drone delivery service based on our gas stations. Diverse items will be delivered by drone such as drinking water, meal boxes, cooking ingredients, and medicine. We anticipate this service to aid those living in areas isolated from logistics services. HomePick Delivery Process HomePick Delivery Service Customer Pickup within 1 hour (logistics startup) Gas station Promotional Events and Communication Channels Customer Shipping company (Hanjin Express) GS&POINT, an integrated membership program launched by GS Group, provides membership benefits including travel, sports, and cultural experiences. In 2019, we communicated with our customers through various promotional offers and events. Customer Satisfaction In order to share our corporate philosophy with customers, we have established various digital communication channels under our brand slogan, I am your Energy. Customers Customer Centered Management can access GS Caltex’s content as well as information about energy through various digital channels such as blogs, Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram. As a result of our efforts to create values and achieve the highest level of customer satisfaction, 1) ‌Customer Centered Management :  we became the first company in the industry to receive CCM1) certification in 2010 and have A policy to review whether companies are now received the certification five consecutive times (in 2012, 2014, 2016, and 2018). formulating all activities based on consumers Social Awareness Campaign as well as continuous improvements. An assessment made by the Korea Consumer Independence Calligraphy Campaign We provide customer support through our CSC2), an integrated channel established to Agency and Certification issues by Fair Trade We celebrate the 100th anniversary of the March First Commission. Re-certification occurs every  promptly handle customer complaints and inquiries and provide information. We have 2 years Independence Movement by sharing the Independence Font in line with GS Group founder’s story about also invested in fostering professional service representatives and improving our call 2) ‌Customer Service Center, dial 1544-5151 or visit kixx.co.kr supporting the independence movement service infrastructure. Based on these efforts, we can handle customer complaints faster and enhance customer satisfaction. Complaints collected through the CSC are categorized Created an Heart emoji so and analyzed by type, and then used to establish a plan for improvement and to prevent Data┃‌C  ustomer Satisfaction that people can send their Certifications recurrence. Improvement progress is monitored to ensure successful implementation. feelings by mobile text Connecting Heart Emoji We also acquired the PIMS (personal information management system) certification for the first time in the industry in 2013, and maintained it until 2020, ensuring that we are able to Helped change misperceptions Supported social about stepmothers corporations protect customers’ personal information in a systematic and effective manner. Connecting Heart Stories Energy that Changes the World Improving Customer Satisfaction Since 1993, GS Caltex has held the Star Festival where we select outstanding partners from Data┃‌C  ustomer Satisfaction our gas stations or LPG stations that are showing excellent performance. At the Star Festival, Activities we award partners as a star partner who has outstanding performance through customer satisfaction management. Moreover, we aim to increase customer service satisfaction by sharing excellent management know-how and encouraging partners to internalize Blog Facebook YouTube Instagram customer centered management. 44 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 45 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities The program is also available to subsidiaries operating both in and outside Korea. We Ethical Management Principles for Reports Processing reflect amendments and new legislation regarding fair trade into the curriculum to continuously improve our content. GS Caltex keeps the identity of whistle-blowers Goal 2019 Performance and the contents of reports strictly confidential. When complaints, petitions or allegations of In addition, various ethical campaigns are organized on a quarterly basis. For instance, we Link to SDGs • ‌Operated the Subcontracting Review corruption arrive, a dedicated team checks posted CEO messages on social issues including drunken driving and sexual harassment and reviews the facts, and notifies the whistle8 ‌Decent Work and Economic Build a sound supply chain to achieve Committee as well as ethical practice messages before the traditional holidays to prevent unethical blowers of the outcome of the investigation. Growth sustainable economic growth • ‌Requested employees to sign the Pledge gift giving and to encourage compliance. We are also using various methods to promote of Compliance Any unethical activities that may have a negative motivation for ethical management such as sharing ethical management issues via impact on business operations are subject to report. These include inappropriate work internal social media. (negligence, etc.), unfair trade practices, and bribery, whether with money or entertainment, as well as inappropriate transactions with Communication Channels for Ethical Management stakeholders (joint investments, loans, etc.) , Ethical Management violations of human rights (between customers, GS Caltex shares its ethical management activities, GS Caltex Ethics Regulations along partners, or employees) and sexual harassment. with guidelines for Ethics Regulations practice and FAQ through the dedicated website. Internalization of Ethical Management Ethical Management Website GS Caltex also operates an ethical management hotline so that employees and To support rational and transparent decision-making of our employees, GS Caltex has stakeholders can report violations of ethical management, unethical practices, various Data┃‌E  thical Management http://ethics.gscaltex.com been practicing ethical management in accordance with the GS Caltex Ethics Regulations. corruption cases, and unfair practices at any time. We ensure strict anonymity of all Training In addition, the Audit Committee organized under the Board of Directors is reported on whistle-blowers who report through the hotline and prohibit retaliatory actions against Ethical Management Hotline ethical management twice a year to reflect it in our operation. the reporter. Any ethical dilemmas that may occur during business transactions can be consulted through this channel with guaranteed confidentiality. 02-2005-6011 Raising Awareness of an Ethical Management Culture ethics@gscaltex.com To raise awareness and promote internalization of ethical practice, our employees sign a GS Caltex Code of Ethics Compliance Dedicated Hotline for Sexual Harassment pledge for compliance every year and are encouraged to complete the CCP (Corporate Compliance Program). The CCP is a mandatory program with a curriculum consisted of five subjects 02-2005-6012 including an understanding of CCP, ethical management, fair trade, information security, and meetoo@gscaltex.com Compliance Management Operational Organization CCM (Consumer Centered Management). GS Caltex has a CCO (Corporate Compliance Officer) who is in charge of corporate-wide compliance practice and UCO (Unit Compliance Officer) for each division, subsidiary, and organization to systematically implement compliance. In addition, we have formed a Compliance Operations Committee composed of CCO and UCO to promote and manage ethical management practices on a company-wide scale. These types of compliance Depending on the context, the precise definition of the ethics demanded of corporations We anticipate the synergy created  activities are transparently reported to BOD. by society varies. Laws should be followed at all times but when it comes to ethics, between our systems and employees’ INTERVIEW interpretation and application are much broader. Although it is difficult to clearly define the individual compliance competency In January 2020, we organized the Compliance Team to establish and implement our scope, the ethical or unethical actions of companies have a far greater impact than those to result in enhancing the level of our compliance programs with the focus on fair trade, anti-corruption, and so on. We also of individuals. Recognizing the importance of ethics, we take various initiatives to fulfill our ethical practice to a higher level. appointed an ACO (Anti-trust Compliance Officer) to train and raise awareness of fair trade social responsibilities and optimize our ethical management. among our employees. Keeping in mind the fact that corporate For instance, GS Caltex worked with external agencies to review our ethical management sustainability depends on ethical system in 2019. Through a multifaceted internal system review and external consultations management, we will continue to Compliance Program that took place over a year, we identified our areas of weakness, restructured our engage in various activities to promote GS Caltex recognizes the importance of compliance under the changes in the organization and created the Compliance Team on January 2020. We also appointed an ACO ethical practice. environment. In 2019, we began a project with external experts to review our compliance (anti-trust compliance officer) to reduce the risk of unfair practices in our organization. program through which we have been identifying and executing improvements such as Beom Sang Lim Vice President of Corporate Legal raising employee awareness and the spreading of ethical culture starting 2020. In addition, we organize various types of compliance training and awareness programs every year, focusing on effectiveness and benefits rather than formality. 46 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth Respect for Social Contribution 47 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities GS Caltex’s Compliance Program refers to outstanding cases at home and abroad to form items including establishing compliance systems, assessing risk, training, processing issues, Shared Growth with Partners and internal investigation, measures, and incentives/disciplinary actions as well as monitoring and improvement. GS Caltex is investing efforts to run the Compliance Program effectively. Goal 2019 Performance Create and maintain jobs through • ‌Improved work efficiency for partners by Compliance Management Organization and Report System (As of May 2020) 8 ‌Decent Work and Economic management and investment to operating a website Link to SDGs Growth contribute to the development of the • Built a sustainable supply chain through a economy and society partner ESG evaluation process Compliance BOD CEO Management Committee Report Communicate with communities where the Appointment of CCO Report 11 ‌Sustainable Cities and worksites are located, reflect their feedback • ‌Launched the Go Together project to drive Communities in our operations and carry out activities to innovation in SMEs’ production capacity Compliance Team CCO ‌ UCO Head of Unit improve the region (Executive Office) (Corporate Compliance Officer) (Unit Compliance Officer) Disciplinary Actions against Violations Appointment of UCO Basic Policy of Shared Growth Reward/ Training & Dissemination Ethical Each Unit Punishment Management Hotline GS Caltex has committed to shared growth and cooperation with our partners through Committee various support programs in financing, technology development and training. Under Operation of Compliance Programs our shared growth policy, which focuses on fairness, stability and feasibility, we comply Code of Conduct for Partners with rules dedicated to promoting fair practices, maintaining sound and ethical business partnerships, and improving the competency and productivity or our partners. In particular, Fair Trade Compliance Activities we support the stable and sustainable management activities of our partners through cash payments and long-term contracts. On January 2020, we renewed our partner portal to GS Caltex prioritizes fair trade practices in business operations. To do so, we manage improve the efficiency of our work processes and communication channels. every transaction process and operate the Internal Trade Review Committee and the Subcontractor Review Committee according to the type of transaction and its entity. In addition, we promote employee awareness of fair trade and spread a culture of practicing Shared Growth Policy fair trade through our Antitrust Compliance Program (ACP). Fairness Stability Practicality Monitoring for Fair Trade Promote a mutually beneficial Pay partners in cash, form ‌ Provide practical and effective Our Internal Trade Review Committee was organized to ensure fair trade in internal business arrangement based on long-term partnerships to enable management support including Data┃‌A  ctions on Compliance fairness and transparency partners to pursue sustainable technological cooperation, training, business relations. The Committee reviews compliance with applicable laws, including Reports business operations. and consulting programs. the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, Commercial Act and Tax Act while keeping our business departments informed of compliance issues to enable them to take necessary follow-up measures based on the results. The business standards have changed from the conventional approach to partners, which We strive to maintain a fair subcontracting transaction, and we operate a Subcontracting INTERVIEW focused on financial performance, to one where the the perspectives of social responsibility Review Committee to assess compliance-related laws to implement fair trade in the event and mutual growth management are emphasized. Nowadays, going one step further, ESG of a subcontract with SME (small and medium enterprises). management in the supply chain is becoming increasingly more important for corporate sustainability. Fair Trade Compliance Program GS Caltex operates a Fair Trade Compliance Program for the systematic practice of fair The supply chain supports the company’s products and services, and it is interconnected. trade. As part of the program, the Energy & Fair Trade Affairs Team communicates with the As we value mutual growth in our business operations, we are dedicated to keeping our Fair Trade Committee as well as other relevant organizations. At the same time, the team supply chain healthy and sustainable. monitors establishments of and amendments to major fair trade legislations as well as regulatory trends and shares the results with the company to make sure fair trade laws are Jung Youn Moon All our payments to partners are made promptly in cash, and we provide low-interest loans adhered to. Furthermore, the Compliance Team proposes standards for fair trade practices Vice President of Strategic Procurement using a shared growth fund to help them maintain cash flow. to our employees with the Fair Trade Practice Guidelines. The team also provides relevant Continued on later pages regulations and guidelines to promote employee awareness and conducts periodical online training and transaction type-specific training. 48 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth Respect for Social Contribution 49 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Establishment of the Supply Chain Management Process Support for Production Innovation To support our SME partners in overcoming challenges in production and manufacturing GS Caltex strives to systemically manage its supply chain based on the product quality, technologies, we have undertaken the Go Together project to promote production innovation supply capacity and financial situation of our partners. Since 2017, we have engaged in Data┃Partners and help them gain competitive advantages by securing the technologies they need. various activities to improve their ESG performance. In 2017, we established the Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners. In 2018, we shared this code of conduct with our Recognizing the challenges SMEs face due to a lack of technical expertise and access to partners and requested that they sign a pledge of compliance. In 2019, we established reliable agencies, we provide financing for their R&D projects and matching programs to an ESG evaluation process and in June 2020, conducted an ESG survey with partners. connect them with national research institutes. In the product development process, we provide business information, on-site information, and technical data, and assist them To help our partners better understand the process, we created an ESG training video in developing their technology by supporting the prototype demonstration and testing that provides information on its importance, how to improve competitiveness through ESG Training Video process. Technologies developed under this program are fully owned by the SMEs, and ESG management, and the ESG programs we have available for our partners. Currently, we do not require any transactional conditions in exchange for our support. we are sharing these videos through our web-portal for partners. Going forward, we will continue to raise the awareness of our partners using various channels. In addition, equipment and materials that successfully achieve domestic production through the Go Together project are used in our olefin production facility project, which In addition to the Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners, in early 2020 we added ESG-related began construction in 2019, and elsewhere. It allows us to start using our SME partners’ clauses to contracts that we sign with our partners as we recognize the importance of applying products immediately. Thus, replacing the imported materials, parts, and equipment, we ESG practices. In this way, we encourage our partners to protect the human rights of their use domestic products and facilitate the localization of production. employees and comply with the Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners, which supports corporate social responsibility. We also requested suppliers to provide ESG-related data or Education and Training Support cooperate with on-site inspections in accordance with our requirements. As of May 2020, 466 GS Caltex provides various training programs and organizes seminars for our partners to partners have agreed to comply with the Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Partners. Data┃Partner Discussion help them improve their competitiveness. We developed a special training program for our maintenance partners at the Yeosu Complex, focusing on improving job performance We expect these activities will improve the level of ESG compliance in our supply chain and and safety and management expertise while continuing our efforts to develop new training eventually, the competitiveness of our partners, which will further drive mutual growth. programs, such as seminars for partners. We also provide training for our partners focusing on tank vessels and coastal shipping vessels every 6 months and quarterly, respectively. In Shared Growth Program addition, we organize training programs at logistics centers for our employees and those of our partners to prevent accidents, raise safety awareness, and enhance customer satisfaction. GS Caltex is committed to providing optimized support to our partner companies based on their varied conditions and needs in order to produce the maximal effect. In addition 2019 Go Together Project Performance to commercializing and mass-producing products manufactured by SMEs, we will continue to help these companies expand and develop their markets. Continued on prior pages We also take part in technical support programs for partners to purchase contract forms by adding 11 companies/ Increased the sales of INTERVIEW (material/construction services) Supported Reduced costs of partners by‌ 5.1 billion partners by ‌ 12 projects help them develop new technologies, such as the Go Together ESG-related items. project to boost production innovation, and we help our KRW 7.5 billion KRW partners gain a competitive advantage through various training The purpose of our ESG partner management is not exclusion, programs with a focus on safety, job and management. but improvement. It allows us to identify risks associated with our Company Performance partners in advance so we can make necessary improvements, In addition to all these, we are working on ESG management thereby increasing opportunities for business. Ultimately, their PT Coupling Co., Ltd. Localized the production of membrane couplings for rotating ‌ machinery power transmissions, all of which used to be imported. activities to help partners to increase their sustainability. improved sustainability will benefit us as well as them. In 2017, we established the Code of Conduct for GS Caltex Dongwoo Optron Checked the precision and durability of domestic replacements ‌ Co., Ltd. for TMS analyzers imported from Germany and United States Partners, based on which we developed a foundational ESG Recognizing that the sustainability of our partners has a evaluation process in 2018 and 2019. direct impact on our own, we will continue to implement Secured the precision and durability of domestic diaphragm ‌ Cheonsei Co., Ltd. pumps to replace imported ones new policies from diverse perspectives. In early 2020, we requested compliance with the Code of Successful development of explosion-proof small motors, ‌ Conduct for GS Caltex Partners and updated the partner which used to be fully imported, Gfutec Co., Ltd. Completion of developing explosion-proof air conditioners for petrochemical processes based on the above product 50 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth Respect for Social Contribution 51 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Financial Support We have implemented an array of financial support programs for SMEs with which we do Data┃Low-Interest Loan Support Respect for Human Rights business. When making purchases, we ensure 100% cash settlements, and payment is made within seven days upon receipt of invoices. In addition, we have created a sharedGoal 2019 Performance growth fund in partnership with financial institutions for those of our partners who have Link to SDGs joined one of the above programs. In 2019, we provided low-interest loans worth KRW • ‌Prohibited discrimination in recruitment, 62.2 billion to 84 partners. We have also introduced a program where we make advance Pursue gender equality in business operations assessment, compensation, promotion, etc. 5 Gender Equality for female employees to show their capabilities • ‌Operated female leadership development payments of up to 20% of projected monthly expenses for major shipping companies programs that we have contracted. Partner-Friendly Purchase System We improved our purchase system to facilitate communication with partners. The new purchase system supports suppliers so they can efficiently carry out their operations. Human Rights Management Previously, when dealing with us, our partners had to perform quotationand contractrelated tasks through the purchase system while using the partner’s portal (electronic Human Rights Management Policy certification system) for tax invoicing. In order to solve this inconvenience, we streamlined processes so they can do all these tasks using the purchase system. We recognize the importance of human rights management and are committed to protecting our stakeholders’ human rights in all our business practices. To protect human rights and We implemented a system where the information required to issue a tax invoice (contract labor rights in the countries and regions where we operate, we fulfill all our human rights amount, etc.) is entered automatically to expedite the process. The system was implemented obligations in order to prevent violations, whether they be direct or indirect. We also support to allow each supplier to check each business process’s status in real-time through the Human Rights Policy standards and norms set forth by international organizations, including the Universal purchasing system. Hence, we improved the level of information sharing between the two Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human companies to enable efficient collaboration. Rights, as well as local labor laws and regulations wherever we operate our business. To this end, we have adopted a human rights management system that includes internal and external communications, grievance handling, and recovery procedures. Partner Support Program Financial support Full cash payment With the growing importance of human rights worldwide, companies are increasingly ‌Proving low-interest loans by raising win-win funds paying more attention to this issue both externally and internally. Although the INTERVIEW Pre-payment to support mutual growth government is strengthening related regulations, such as labor laws and the Management support Occupational Safety and Health Act, and establishing guidelines for corporate human ‌Long-term contract for stable business operation rights management, the laws and systems are not enough to meet social demand. with partners -T  echnology development support and management consulting At GS Caltex, we actively participate in these changes and fulfill our social responsibilities Support localization of material supply‌ ‌Financial support for certification review cost through human rights management that exceeds legal requirements. We also identify of safety and health management system risks associated with human rights violations and design our systems to create a positive Support for purchase of materials working environment where employees can reach their full potential. Education and Training support Safety and job training‌ For instance, we established the GS Caltex Human Rights Policy in 2018, based on Support for ethics training which we provide fair opportunities to employees throughout the entire HR cycle, from Yong Chan Kim hiring to retirement, and prevent violations of fundamental rights. When it comes to Other support Senior Vice President of Human Resources Support for safety systems ‌ recruitment, we conduct blind interviews and do not allow interviewers to ask questions ‌Organizing mutual growth forums, seminars not related to the job. and council meetings Continued on later pages 52 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 53 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Human Rights Management Analysis and Due Diligence Improving Ways of Working To prevent human rights violations that may occur in the course of our business Smart Working Time System operation, we share our human rights policy with all stakeholders, including employees In May 2018, we introduced our Smart Working Time System to comply with working and partners, and respond to potential human rights risks through our labor rights hour regulations and improve the quality of life for our employees. To this end, we also analysis processes. implemented end-of-day announcements and a PC-Off system followed by paperless reports, delegation of approval rights, and improvements to the meeting culture to We are monitoring human rights compliance, anti-discrimination, improvement of human expedite the decision-making process. rights violations, and safety and health standards, based on the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Product and Guidelines for human rights In 2019, we introduced flexible work schedules which allow employees to start their management of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. A groupware survey work at any time between 8 and 10 a.m. for eight hours of work per day. Our goal was to is conducted for all employees, and the results are analyzed according to unit and position create a productive working environment and improve efficiency and job performance as so we can reflect improvement needs in our policy. We also carry out human rights part of the Smart Working Time System. To help our employees maintain a healthy workreviews regularly to manage risk in our workplaces. life balance, we also improved organizational culture related to office dinners vacations, flexible work schedules, and our work management system by reflecting the nature of Commitment to Creating a Culture of Protecting Human Rights different jobs and teams. GS Caltex established the GS Caltex Human Rights Policy that reflects our philosophy of Introduction of Agile Methodology Café HanWool in the Yeosu Complex respect for human rights. We also declared the GS Caltex Code of Conduct for Partners and the To improve the efficiency of our employees, we introduced the Agile methodology in our GS Caltex Stakeholder Policy to respect and comply with the human rights of all stakeholders process. The Agile methodology focuses on a single issue every one to two weeks, reviews in the company, including business partners. Furthermore, our employees are required to take performance, and responds to customers’ fast-changing external conditions and needs. mandatory training programs on sexual harassment and disability every year. With a small team, each employee takes initiatives to boost their performance and respond to issues promptly to reduce risks. We are internalizing the Agile methodology by inviting In March 2020, as part of our efforts to create jobs for the disabled, we opened a café instructors and practicing it through debate and training programs. on the left side of the first-floor lobby of our Yeosu Complex PCB (Project Center Building), which is run by people with disabilities. The café is also a means of developing teamwork Workspace Created by Employees between our employees and those of our partners. We are taking the initiative to create a In 2019, we started a project for employees to create their workspace. Through interviews culture of protecting human rights across our supply chain and local communities. and research, we identified the problems and needs of our existing workspace and sought solutions. As a result, a prototype design was drawn up based on a concept that promotes focus, communication and emotion in the workplace in communication and Innovating Organizational Culture rest areas. Based on the new design, we renovated a space that not being used. It was named Yieum, which means a link between employees, following an in-house naming contest. As a result, we have a better workspace for our employees that enhances GS Caltex is committed to promoting an organizational culture that respects human rights. communication and understanding between them. To this end, we comply with the Labor Standards Act and keep our performance evaluation and compensation systems fair. We also reflect employee input, collected through various Yieum, a Reinterpretation of Space communication channels, in creating a corporate culture that keeps our employees happy. Continued on prior pages When it is time for our employees to retire, we grant them and a flexible work schedule system in 2019. INTERVIEW one month to prepare for retirement. We also organize programs based on our corporate philosophy of human We also focused on hiring talents from socially vulnerable rights management in all areas of HR, including evaluation, populations and established a standard worksite for the compensation, benefits, training and organizational culture. disabled (a café in our Yeosu Complex). Additionally, we listen to our employees through various Going forward, we will maintain balanced growth for both communication channels, including seminars, surveys, and our company and our employees by responding to changing social media, on HR plans and performance. Based on our environments and implementing various HR programs to employees’ suggestions, we introduced a casual dress code ensure respect for human rights. 54 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 55 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Promoting Communication Fair Performance Evaluation and Compensation At GS Caltex, we promote communication and exchange between employees through Performance Evaluation Principles and Policies various channels, focusing on sharing management policy and status. As part of this effort, GS Caltex pursues fair performance evaluations and compensation and strictly prohibits in 2019, we held business presentations in the form of town hall meetings and broadcast Data┃Performance Evaluation any gender-based discrimination in wages, evaluations, or promotions. When setting them live so all employees could watch. We also made a recorded version available. annual individual performance goals, we ensure that they are aligned with corporate goals through an interview process and subject them to review by the evaluators based on which Also, lectures were held at the Jium Academy on topics such as IT trends, office any necessary support can be requested. yoga, hydrogen economy, and 2020 consumer trends to enhance the knowledge of our employees further. In the SBT (Self-designed Business Trip), many teams submit their Through this series of processes, we ensure that employee goals are aligned with our ideas, and three of them are selected by vote. The selected teams traveled abroad to corporate strategy based on individual performance to support fair evaluations and benchmark their ideas (hydrogen energy, eco-friendly plastics, IoT/drones). Meanwhile, in 2019, compensation. By operating our system flexibly and in line with job ranks, we evaluate 100 ideas were submitted for the Idea Exchange, which is a channel where employees can and reflect the roles and characteristics of each job objectively and fairly. suggest their ideas freely, and 45 of them were reviewed and implemented in practice. Performance Evaluation Cooperative Labor-Management Relations A year-end evaluation is conducted annually to evaluate both quantitative and qualitative aspects of performance, focusing on core areas, and the outcomes are reflected in GS Caltex has implemented various Labor Management programs to maintain a talent development and compensation. To make sure that evaluations are fair and that 1) ‌Composed of seven members from each side good relationship with our labor union and promote mutual benefits. In 2005, we and formed to discuss work-related matters employees accept the results, evaluators conduct interviews with evaluatees, and the latter and working conditions established the Declaration and Charter for Harmonious Labor-Management Relations can raise objections through a dedicated system. 2) ‌Composed of eight members from each side to introduce more concrete ideas with high practicability for labor-management and formed to discuss occupational safety and health practice relations. Furthermore, we operate a Labor Management Council1) and an Occupational Furthermore, our compensation system is aligned with performance evaluations to ensure Safety and Health Committee2) to create communication channels and to strengthen that our employees remain fulfilled and motivated. Employee compensation levels are our labor-management relations. determined based on each individual’s performance and contributions and the importance of their role. High performers are rewarded with additional incentives. Data┃Labor Union We also engage in negotiations to determine wages for employees every year and discuss the renewal of collective agreement to review labor union activities and working conditions every two years. Going forward, we will continue to identify our employees’ Evaluation & Promotion needs, solve problems, and work together towards common goals. • Early promotion for high performers • ‌Competency-based appointments Changing the Job Ranking System In March 2019, GS Caltex changed the job ranking system (managing director, executive director, vice president, president) to a job title system (head of department, head of division, head of office) to create a horizontal organizational culture that promotes collaboration and communication. Moreover, in March 2020, we simplified our five job levels (associate, assistant manager, manager, deputy general manager, general manager) to just three levels (associate, associate manager, manager) of our employees to bring changes. Rational Recruitment Process Compensation Job Assignment & Circulation • One of the highest salaries in the • ‌Initial assignment to a department : domestic manufacturing industry personal preferences and aptitudes When recruiting new talent, we value diversity and actual job qualifications. We do not • Special bonuses based on business are considered in interviews discriminate based on applicants’ academic backgrounds, ages, majors, or areas of performance • Job circulation : employees design residence. We have also simplified our application process, and excluded foreign language Data┃‌H  uman Resource • Individual salary adjustments their own career development plan Recruitment based on HR evaluation scores and instead focus on job skills to promote a fair and effective selection process. At GS Caltex, in addition to regular recruitment, we conduct both general and industryacademy internships, as well as a chemical engineering leadership program. In particular, the latter program was designed as an official curriculum in cooperation with universities as a means of sharing the knowledge and know-how required to work in the field with students. 56 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 57 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Human Resource Development Welfare System Systematic Human Resource Development Our employee welfare system is designed to help our employees stay focused on their jobs, considering various aspects of life. We are committed to creating an efficient welfare system by GS Caltex regards talent as the most important resource for creating sustainable reflecting the input of our employees. organizational competitiveness. To pursue talent, we have established and operated talent Data┃HR Development development programs based on the GSC Way that all employees must follow. These Maternity Support and Parental Leave programs contribute to organizational performance by securing necessary job expertise. We have also implemented programs that promote leadership to achieve our company vision. We have established a nursing room (Mother’s Room) at our headquarters to provide a relaxing and convenient space for female employees during or after their pregnancy. Employees are Our training programs are designed to provide training, which reflects the life cycles, job allowed to take parental leave of up to one year to take care of children aged up to eight Data┃‌W omen in Management training aligned to tasks, curriculums with diverse experiences, coaching, mentoring, and Positions years, or in the second grade of elementary school. We allow our employees to split the use of Data┃Parental Leave external degree programs. We also provide both short and long-term courses targeting parental leave once. employees recognized for their outstanding performance. Welfare and Benefits Talent Development Program Talent development is an integral part of sustainable growth. We provide selected Category Item Description individuals with the opportunity to earn various academic degrees, including MBAs Job Competency Development Program Housing Support from prestigious institutes at home and abroad, and to participate in training programs Housing loans Providing housing loans for purchase or rental to support employees’ housing needs at global companies such as Chevron. We also provide opportunities for them to take • ‌Basic business courses Providing company housing (Yeosu Complex) and dormitories (R&D Center and Yeosu advanced courses and enter external education programs in their areas of expertise. focusing on production Company housing/dormitories Complex) for employees commuting long distances processes and finance • ‌Competency Common Job Leadership Development Program Competencies improvement Healthcare Medical expense Covering medical expenses for employees and their spouses courses in the areas Covering dental appliance expenses for employees and their spouses and children GS Caltex provides training programs for all our employees on a regular basis to help them of communication, Annual physical examinations Supporting annual physical examination and health enhancement program (including spouses) improve their job competencies and skills at each stage of growth. We select candidates creativity, analysis and planning Group accident insurance Purchasing group accident insurance for the health and safety of employees through our LDC (Leadership Development Center), our internal leadership program, and our early leader curriculum to foster team leaders. We also have curricula for team leaders • ‌Advanced job Parental leave for childbirth Offering paid leave for 10 days, which can be used over two separate occasions newly appointed, group study and regular session for team leaders, etc. competency training Parental Support aligned with each Tuition for kindergarten Making monthly payments for a year Specialized Job business department Daycare Centers Competencies Headquarters and Yeosu Complex Furthermore, we invite experts to deliver lectures to executives and team leaders to provide • ‌Development of core job instructors and Congratulatory Money for Providing celebratory cash gifts for children entering elementary, middle, or high school them with opportunities to understand external trends and enhance their insights into the training courses Enrollment of Children business. We hold training and discussions on issues regarding leadership. Moreover, every Tuition Support High school and university (no limitation on the number of children) year, we carry out multifaceted evaluations of leadership for both managers and subordinates• ‌Available throughout the year Livelihood support loan including self-evaluations-and provide them with feedback to support the continuous Providing housing loans for purchase or rental to support employees’ housing needs • ‌Training courses Personalized Congratulatory money and leave improvement of leadership within our organizational structure. In 2020, we expanded our Job Training designed to reflect Allowing leave and money for congratulatory/condolence events or births the needs of the for special family occasions leadership programs to support self-directed and horizontal leadership development. organization, group, Livelihood Providing leave for an appropriate duration according to social customs when a family and members Support Special disaster leave member is missing due to a disaster (established in 2020) Coaching/Mentoring Program Employee counseling program Organizing employee counseling programs EAP1) • ‌Change and innovation (counseling on interpersonal conflicts, stress management, financial planning, etc.) We have organized a coaching program for our executives and team leaders to help them program based on Funeral support services Providing funeral items (e.g., condolences from the company) improve the leadership skills they require to perform their jobs. Our internal coaching Transformation Design Thinking & Innovation • ‌Innovative field Personal retirement pension Supporting IRP (Individual Retirement Pension) program helps employees adapt to the organizational atmosphere and achieve their Program experience training Bonus paid as retirement pension Supporting the payment of bonus as retirement pension, D.C2) full potential. Our mentoring program, in which team leaders or seniors play the role of inside and outside Korea mentor, targets new employees during their first and second years of employment to learn Welfare Points Offering cash-equivalent welfare points work processes and adapt to the organization. Self-Development Educational content Providing educational content through e-learning system Digital • ‌Personalized learning & Leisure Support Condominium and resort Operating nationwide condominium and resort facilities Job Competency Development Program Expertise program in the areas Development of smart working and Learning & Development Center Operating Learning & Development Center (Cheongpyeong) Our job competency model consists of common areas required for all employees and Program digital transformation Refreshment leave Allowing two weeks of summer vacation specialized areas based on each job category. When required by individuals or teams, we support them in joining internal and external job training programs. Rewards for long-term service Providing long-term service gift and leave (every 5 years) 1) Employee Assistance Program 2) Defined Contributions 58 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 59 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Social Contribution Activities Slogan Sharing Energy to Create a Beautiful World Areas of Focus Culture & Art Local Community Environment Goal 2019 Performance Local Maum Talk Talk Contributions Integrity Expertise Stakeholder-oriented 1 No Poverty Improve the quality of life and nutrition ‌ • Operated a free Meal Program for Engage in long-term and Promote cooperation with Organize social of isolated neighbors through social low-income senior citizens sustainable activities, competent partners and contribution programs contribution programs and employee • ‌1,282 employees joined volunteer services Action based on the participation focus on effective social based on the needs of and support of employees, contributions. local communities and 2 Zero Hunger volunteer services in 2019 Principles rather than providing stakeholders at business financial/one-time support. sites nationwide, including Volunteer GS Caltex our Yeosu Complex and •A total of 18,504 students applied to Activities Yeulmaru Link to SDGs logistics centers. Maum Talk Talk • Provided cultural experience programs Provide educational support so that children 4 Quality Education to children through GS Caltex Hopeful Areas of Focus and adolescents can grow happily Energy Class • ‌Job applicant support program for healing Data┃Social Contributions GS Caltex is committed to providing opportunities to experience culture and art for children, and performance improvement adolescents, and adults to improve their quality of life. As a critical area of our social • ‌GS Caltex Yeulmaru, culture and art contribution activities, we organized art therapy programs for children and adolescents, Communicate with communities where program Maum Talk Talk, and a culture and art space in Yeosu, GS Caltex Yeulmaru. 11 ‌Sustainable Cities and we operate, reflect their feedback in our • ‌Gave extra points to job applicants Communities operations and conduct social contribution from Yeosu as part of the local talent activities for their development Also, we engage in social contribution programs to support the growth of local recruitment program communities in Yeosu and Incheon, where we operate our business. In particular, we focus on environmental conservation and education as part of our efforts to support sustainable growth for our future generations. In line with our social contribution vision, our employees join their efforts in volunteering activities and donations. Social Contribution System Social Contribution Strategy Key Social Contribution Activities By fulfilling our social responsibilities in our role as corporate citizens, we can gain competitive advantages and build a strong foundation for sustainable growth. Under our social Maum Talk Talk contribution slogan of Beautiful world by sharing energy, we are committed to our social Data┃Maum Talk Talk Program GS Caltex started the Maum Talk Talk program in 2013 to support the emotional health of contribution programs, focusing on culture and art, local communities, and environment. children and adolescents, who are the future of our country. In 2015, we signed an agreement with the Ministry of Education to promote art therapy and introduced a program to schools. Recognizing that sustainable development is based on our society and its members’ 2013 to 2019, the program helped more than 18,500 children social value creation and strengthen our models for collaboration happiness and health, we are actively engaged in social contribution programs. In particular, and adolescents in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. with national and local governments and non-profit organizations. INTERVIEW we are committed to social contribution programs with the focus on stakeholders in Yeosu, where our major production base is located. We also promote a fair distribution of our social contribution We also collect and reflect feedback from our stakeholders resources through such programs as employee-matching grant by organizing resident seminars and civil society organization Starting with supporting programs such as meal program for local seniors and scholarships donations, support for public organizations and employee seminars centered around Yeosu, near our production facilities. for local talents, and GS Caltex Yeulmaru, a complex cultural and artistic space created by GS volunteer activities. Our social contribution activities are aligned with the UN SDGs Caltex & Yeosu City, contributes to the expansion of local culture and arts infrastructure and (Sustainable Development Goals), with a focus on No poverty, Zero the improvement of local citizens’ quality of life. Since its grand opening in 2012, more than At GS Caltex, we focus on what social value is created by these hunger and Sustainable cities and communities. 880,000 people have visited the Yeulmaru for concerts, exhibitions, and education. activities. By analyzing the benefits to local culture and art development brought by Yeulmaru and to psychological and Going forward, we will continue to support the sustainable Furthermore, in 2013 we introduced an art therapy program, Maum Talk Talk, to help children emotional support for children brought by Maum Talk Talk, we are growth of our communities and improve the quality of life to Sang Hoon Lee and adolescents with psychological and emotional problems near Seoul and Gyenggi. From considering the outcomes and impacts of our social contribution become a respected corporate citizen. Vice President of Public Relations programs. Based on these efforts, we will continue to promote 60 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 61 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Maum Talk Talk is divided into an art therapy program for selected elementary and Social Value Sharing of Maum Talk Talk Maum Talk Talk Maum Talk Talk activity middle school students and a healing class where all first graders of selected middle schools are divided into 2 to 3 groups to take part in class healing programs. GS Caltex undertakes efforts to share the expertise and value we have accumulated with our Maum Talk Talk program with Korean society at large. To improve our art therapy effectiveness, GS Caltex invites some of the country’s best art therapists to participate and continually manages and improves the programs. So far, As part of these efforts, in February 2019 we published the Report on Maum Talk Talk Participation of supervising professors more than 200 art therapists have built up their capabilities under the supervision of the Healing in Class, which is composed of Maum Talk Talk experiences. The report was professors with a cumulative 12,171 hours of training and clinical supervision. A total of • ‌Provide comprehensive consultation and designed to share the content and performance of our Class Therapy Healing with art individual/group supervision 18,504 students across the country have healthy friendships for seven years until 2019. therapists and relevant organizations. It was written by Maum Talk Talk managers and They seek emotional stability and enhance their social skills based on proper self-reflection. An outstanding team of therapists art/performance therapists, and reviewed by experts to enhance its credibility. • ‌Select professional therapists with Social Impact Analysis of Maum Talk Talk graduate degrees/certifications and The printed report is used to train art therapists and informative material for schools that clinical experience, and manage the pool wish to participate in the program. It will also be used to inform the art therapy industry, of therapists. Since its inception, we have conducted surveys for participants of the Maum Talk Talk the Ministry of Education, education offices of various districts and our employees of the program as well as a control group. Based on the feedback we have collected from school Specialized target program status and benefits of the program. teachers (evaluations of students’ behavioral changes) and program instructors (satisfaction surveys), • ‌Tailor the program to individual children we are trying to improve the program’s effectiveness. Through these surveys, we have and schools. In recognition of this accomplishment, the Maum Talk Talk cases were presented at learned that Maum Talk Talk helps children improve their self-esteem and motivates them workshops hosted by the Ministry of Education in February 2019 and at a CSR Seminar to improve their social and interpersonal skills while increasing their level of satisfaction Multifaceted validation of benefits in October 2019. Thanks to its contributions, the program was selected by the Ministry of with school life. • ‌Develop and utilize tools to measure Education as a model program for supporting troubled students, and received a citation effectiveness. • ‌Conduct qualitative analysis and work on for preventing school violence in 2019. Based on the expertise and know-how we accumulated over the years, we help teenagers academic papers. who have been subject to probation and are developing the program to expand their Emotional Support and Training Camp for Job-seekers application areas for students who are victims of school violence. Through preventive 1) ‌This represents the number of persons In 2019, GS Caltex organized three camps in cooperation with the Korea Mecenat and corrective activities, we can help these students to adapt to society and reduce social the participant indicates were friends and the increase/decrease. An increase means Association as part of a support program for young job-seekers aimed at alleviating the costs. With these efforts, we have been recognized for improving awareness for children growth in overall interaction. psychological and emotional pressures of looking for a job and helping them prepare and adolescents’ psychotherapy and expanding the base of art therapy programs. 2) Close relationship where participants can share their concerns. for the recruitment process. 3) ‌Broad relationship where participants can share their daily experiences. This program consisted of various culture and art activities that boost self-confidence, including Résumé Play, where participants’ careers were turned into plays, Wine and Psychological Changes Among Wee Center Program Participants Change in relationship vitality of Healing Canvas, where they could relieve stress by drinking wine and expressing their feelings Program for young job-seekers (Unit : point, 5 being the highest) Class program participants1) 1st Semester of 2019 (181 students) Before After on canvas, and My Career Performance, which involved humanities lectures by famous Before After Control group professors Changok Kim and Wonkuk Kang. Also, the CV writing lectures given by the 3.91 author Yoonah Choi, Personal Color Analysis for interviews, and taking profile photos. 3.79 3.78 3.78 1st Semester of 2019 (438 students) 3.62 3.79 These programs received a great response from the participants. 3.61 3.30 Emotional Play-sharing 3.59 3.57 3.49 relationships2) relationships3) 3.10 3.1 2.9 2.5 2.3 Activities for Local Communities by Life Cycle Self-esteem Personal Self-expression Empathy Cooperation Satisfaction development with initiative school life 1.5 1.9 2.5 2.8 GS Caltex actively engages in social contribution activities for local communities in Yeosu to support children, adolescents, job-seekers and seniors who have difficulty in 2nd Semester of 2019 (337 students) Before After 2nd Semester of 2019 (297 students) Hopeful Energy Class activity supporting themselves financially. 3.96 Emotional Play-sharing 3.91 3.87 Talent Development for Children and Youth relationships2) relationships3) 3.70 3.75 3.86 2.7 3.35 2.8 3.63 3.60 3.60 3.42 2.1 2.1 3.18 GS Caltex Hopeful Energy Class Since 2010, we have organized the GS Caltex Hopeful Energy Class to provide various Self-esteem Personal Self-expression Empathy Cooperation Satisfaction 2.4 2.8 3.5 3.7 learning opportunities to elementary and middle school students from local children’s development with centers around Yeosu. With the Great Stone Face history program, we helped them learn initiative school life about their local culture and history. 62 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 63 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities GS Caltex Native Speaker English Lessons on Islands GS Caltex Soup Kitchen for the Elderly GS Caltex Soup Kitchen Program GS Caltex has been running the GS Caltex Native Speaker English Lessons on Islands since 2007 to help teach English to elementary, middle, and high school students who GS Caltex runs the GS Caltex Soup Kitchen, a free food station for seniors living in Yeosu, live in the island villages of Yeosu. The native teacher resides on the island and visits each as part of our efforts to resolve the nutritional issues faced by socially vulnerable classes. school in turn. Classes are run based on student discussions which have been gaining The center provides 340 meals a day on average, from Monday to Friday. As of 2019, it positive responses from students, schools, and parents. has served over 945,000 people since it began operation. Our employees and retirement club members, as well as dozens of local volunteer groups, all lend a hand to support this Tuition and Meal Fee Support cause. The total number of volunteers has reached 45,000, making the facility a center of Since 2006, GS Caltex has been procuring donation funds with the Labor Union in local volunteer activities. a matching grant to deliver to extracurricular classes operated by Yeosu YMCA and Jeollanamdo Yeosu Office of Education. The funds are used to teach kids that are subject to education and welfare as well as provide them with dinner to contribute to improving Social Contribution Activities with Local Communities their school performance. Support for Soccer Aspirants Volunteer Group Activities Since 2019, GS Caltex has donated operational funds to soccer teams at elementary and middle schools of Yeosu with Youth Soccer Teams. Coastal cleanup activities We launched the GS Caltex Volunteer Group, based around Yeosu, where we operate our business, to promote sharing and giving back to society as a member of the local community. Fifteen volunteer groups have been established in ten cities nationwide, and GS Caltex Soup Kitchen for the Elderly GS Caltex Native Speaker eleven volunteer activities are organized every month aimed to solve problems facing (Unit : Person) English Lessons on Islands (Unit : Person) local communities. The volunteer work includes donating necessities to senior citizens living alone, repairing study rooms for children from low-income families, and providing No. of No. of cultural experiences for people with disabilities. 945,731 2,809 beneficiaries participants In addition to our employees, their family members also join to help people in need. 2008~2019 2007~2019 Organized according to changing lifestyles, the Family Volunteer Groups can volunteer at Cumulative Cumulative welfare facilities near their homes at any time they want during the week or on weekends. These families are committed to their volunteer activities, and some of them even volunteer GS Caltex Hopeful Energy Class GS Caltex Scholarship during their vacation. (Unit : Person) (Unit : Person) In addition, we are actively engaged in volunteer activities to protect the environment No. of No. of around each work site. In Yeosu, we collect garbage around villages, the coast, and 4,519 7,925 participants beneficiaries along rivers near our production facilities. In Incheon, where our logistics center and lubricant plant are located, we organize clean-up activities along with the waterfront 2010~2019 1996~2019 areas of Wolmido Island. In 2019, we came up with a family volunteer activity where we Data┃‌G  S Caltex Social Cumulative Cumulative Contribution Programs disassemble unused bicycles and turn them into new working ones and an upcycling program for the recycling of plastics and clothes. These environmental campaigns are designed to protect our environment and raise environmental awareness. Career Support for Local Talent Ceremony for supporting job applicants from low-income families Since 2005, we have engaged in corporate-wide volunteer programs in addition to No. of Volunteers and individual volunteer group activities. In May of every year, as part of our anniversary GS Caltex entered into an MOU with Yeosu City to recruit Volunteer Activities Yeosu citizens, being the first company to do so in the celebrations, we join in volunteer activities nationwide. We donate rice and household Yeosu Industrial Complex in 2017, to resolve the issue goods worth KRW 100 million to underprivileged residents of Yeosu at a charity event of youth unemployment in the region. The MOU was held during the Chuseok holidays. We also operate support programs that provide 7,590 65,720 implemented in 2018. In addition, we also support the activities volunteers Kimchi, heaters, Christmas presents and fire extinguishers at the end of each year to Warm Table program hosted by Yeosu City. This program neighbors around our workplaces nationwide. provides lunches for job-seeking youths from low-income 2005~2019 families around Yeosu. Following these activities, we collect feedback from volunteers through a survey and use Cumulative it to encourage participation and improve our volunteer activities in the future. 64 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance SHE Customer Ethical Shared Growth ‌ Respect for Social Contribution 65 Management Satisfaction Management with Partners Human Rights Activities Communication with Local Communities Visitors can enjoy a romantic walk across the sea, passing over the Jinseom Bridge, which Public Seminars in Yeosu Paid attendance for concerts in 2019 is submerged twice a day. Moreover, they can experience a magnificent view of Dadohae We continue to discuss major issues with citizens of Yeosu and Jeollanam-do, welfare Garden, which is filled with beautiful flowers all year round, and the grass garden where Residents of towns by manufacturing plants 73 organizations and NGOs by hosting public hearings and seminars. Through active outdoor concerts take place. • ‌Construction of MFC, mutual growth with communication with our stakeholders, we can listen to their input and establish a % residents, etc. framework for sustainable growth. Meanwhile, in Jangdo, there are studios where various artists create artworks and communicate with the local community. At the Jangdo Exhibition Hall, visitors can enjoy Selected as an excellent Welfare organizations Conservation of Marine Resources program by the Korean a variety of exhibitions on the theme of nature and healing, and at the Jangdo Art Café, Cultural & Arts Centers visitors can drink tea with a beautiful view of the coast and the sea pines. They can also • ‌Yeosu Senior Center : Items related to Association GS Caltex contributes to the conservation of marine fishery resources and the sustainable participate in art programs, such as a piano concert and lectures. Hello! Opera operating Soup Kitchen for the Elderly • ‌Regional Children’s’ Center Associations : growth of the fishing industry around Yeosu. As part of our 50th anniversary celebrations Items related to operating Hopeful Energy in 2017, we released into the sea 1.94 million young fish, including black porgies and rock Creating Social Value for Local Communities Class breams, and 155 tons of shellfish eggs, including manila clams and abalones the following Korea National Ballet’s first through High-quality Cultural Contents worldwide showcase year, setting an excellent example for sustainable growth and boosting the local economy. NGO We have operated programs for releasing abalones along the coast of Yeosu for over 20 Hoi Rang Celebrating Yeulmaru’s 7th anniversary in 2019, GS Caltex opened the Jangdo Island of • ‌Yeosu YMCA : Operation of extracurricular years, starting in 1996. Art as its second phase of the project. A wide variety of fun and impressive programs are academy for youth available, which provide rich cultural experience for local residents and make art more • ‌Yeosu Environmental Activity Association : Environmental conservation accessible for everyone. • ‌Yeosu Local Community Research Center : 2019 Concerts at GS Caltex Yeulmaru Operation of Hopeful Energy Class • ‌Foundation for Youth Violence Prevention : Concert Teaching troubled youth 154 shows ┃ 116 days ┃ 78,506 visitors 11 1 Trio Owon 1 13 12 2 Hoi Rang 3 Oedipus 2 4 Don Pasquale 3 10 5 Sarah Chang Recital 9 7 4 6 Liar 7 Mamma Mia 8 8 Jekyll and Hyde 5 9 Sumi Jo Recital 6 10 2019 New Year’s Music Concert 11 Local Artists’ Festival 12 The Story of Under the Sea 13 Ongals GS Caltex Yeulmaru : A Place for Sustainable Growth Aerial photo of Yeulmaru Jangdo Island Exhibitions 16 sessions ┃ 273 days ┃ 76,734 visitors The Grand Opening of Yeulmaru Jangdo 2 1 ‌Large Special Exhibition “Korean GS Caltex Yeulmaru was developed with more than KRW 110 billion in Modern and Contemporary Art 3 Masterpiece investments since 2006 and opened in May 2012. It is recognized as the 2 ‌Yang Hewoong’s Three-Dimensional landmark of culture and arts in the South Coast of the Korean peninsula. Painting Exhibition In 2019, we opened the island of art, Jangdo, as a second phase of 1 3 Hidden Pictures Exhibition the Yeulmaru project, to promote deeper communication with local 4 Junk Art Exhibition communities based on various cultural programs and supports for art. 4 Over a year since its opening, more than 300,000 people have visited the Data┃‌GS Caltex Yeulmaru place, making Jangdo a tourist destination in the region where visitors Performance can enjoy various cultural and art experiences. 67 Governance Corporate Governance p. 68 Risk Management p. 70 Information Security p. 72 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report 68 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Governance Corporate Governance Risk Management Information Security 69 Corporate Governance BOD Management & Prevention of Conflict of Interest As our Board members are executives from different companies, their compensation follows Expertise-Based Composition of the BOD their respective companies’ internal policies, and no additional compensation is granted for their Board-related activities. Board resolutions require a majority attendance and an As the company’s top decision-making body, the GS Caltex Board of Directors reviews affirmative vote of more than two-thirds of all registered directors, as stated in Articles 36 and and makes decisions on major management agendas, such as general policies and 37 of the Articles of Incorporation. To guarantee the independent operation of the BOD and critical business objectives. As of May 2020, the Board is composed of ten directors from prevent possible conflicts of interest, any Board members who have a particular interest in GS and Chevron, including three inside directors and seven non-standing directors, all the agenda will be prohibited from voting with regard to that particular issue. of whom have a high level of expertise in management and risk management. Board members are appointed each year at the General Meeting of Shareholders based on their The Board Support Office conducts regular meetings with the directors of Chevron professional qualifications and expertise, in accordance with the internal policies, and and proactively communicates with relevant divisions to accept feedback and present without any discrimination based on their gender, race, ethnicity, nationality or origin. agendas. Board members are provided with meeting materials before the actual meeting to ensure they have enough time to review the agenda. Composition of the BOD (As of May 2020) In 2019, eight board meetings were held to review and approve key agendas, including Classification Name Job Title the 2020 Business Plans, the Olefins Project FID, long-term loans, and a long-term Chairman contract for using LNG terminals. Jin-Soo Huh GS Caltex Corporation Inside Directors Saehong Hur President & CEO Operation of Committees in Support of the BOD GS Caltex Corporation Hyung Kuk Kim President, Yeosu Complex & MFC Project Three committees are organized under the Board to support its expertise in decision-making GS Caltex Corporation and operational efficiency by delegating authority: the Accountability Committee, Audit President & CEO Soon-Ky Hong Committee (separate from the Audit Committee under the commercial code), and LNG Procurement GS Holdings Corporation Management Committee. The committee members provide support based on their President & CEO Yongsoo Huh GS Energy Corporation responsibilities and roles to ensure the BOD’s reliable and transparent operation. President, International Products, Downstream & Chemicals Brant T. Fish Non-standing Chevron Directors Roles of the Board Committees Navin K. Mahajan Vice President & Treasurer, Chevron Corporation Vice President, Enterprise Health, Env’t and Safety, Technology, Number of J. David Payne Name Composition Role Projects & Services, Chevron Meetings Held William L. Stone CEO, Singapore Refining Company Christopher E. Jablonski Country Chairman, Chevron Korea Accountability Review and discussion of ‌ 3 Directors 1 Committee governance-related issues Review and discussion of compliance ‌ Audit Committee 4 Directors 2 program and major audit issues Shareholding Structure (Unit: %, thousand shares) LNG Procurement Review and discussion of ‌ Management 2 Directors 1 LNG-related issues Committee Chevron Global 10 Energy Inc. GS Energy No. of Shares 2,600 No. of Shares 13,000 50 Shareholding Structure 40 Chevron (Overseas) Holdings Ltd. No. of Shares 10,400 70 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Governance Corporate Governance Risk Management Information Security 71 Risk Management Non-Financial Risk Management As the demand for sustainable business practices has grown, so has the importance of Risk Management Governance social and environmental issues. Our CSR Team coordinates with other teams to manage non-financial risk, while executive officers attend CSR Committee meetings to review We have organized the Crude Oil RM Team, Product RM Team, and Cost Accounting corporate-wide sustainability issues, activities, and performances. Team to ensure a fast and systematic response to the changing business environment. These teams monitor and analyze risks in our internal and external operations, and Based on the ESG database established in 2017, we promoted human rights management, report the results. We hold a Risk Management Committee meeting, comprising the CEO enhanced ESG level of business partners, complied with tax obligations, and strengthened and executive officers, quarterly as part of company-wide risk management. Through safety, health, environment, and quality in 2018. Thereby, we proactively responded to nonthese meetings, we review major risks and plan our mitigation strategies. financial risks that could arise within the scope of its business. In 2019, we established an ESG assessment process in our supply chain to improve its social contribution performance. Risk Management Committee Risk Management Teams Tax Compliance Classification Description Classification Key Activities Chairman CEO • ‌Report on issues and current As part of its CSR initiatives, GS Caltex fulfills its tax obligations in a transparent manner. agenda through daily monitoring Tax Policy Committee Members General Manager of : Supply & Trading, Petrochemicals Business, Finance, Strategic To this end, we established our tax policy in 2018. In 2017, we broke through the KRW Planning, GS Caltex Singapore Pte Ltd of the crude oil and petroleum Risk product market 400 billion limit of reported corporate tax payments, recording our best management Head of : Planning & Integration, Aromatics Business, Risk Management, Treasury, Management Board Members Accounting (Crude Oil RM • ‌Analyze market and prices in the performance. As a result, on March 2019, we won the National Tax KRW 400 billion prize crude oil and petroleum product Secretary/Secretariat Accounting/Cost Accounting Team Team, Product market weekly and monthly at the 53rd Taxpayer’s Day celebration organized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. RM Team) • Conduct risk assessment ‌ Activities Provide guidelines on risk management and review performance • ‌Propose and implement Frequency of meetings Four times a year (quarterly basis) derivatives trading Major Risk Management Trophy from 53rd Taxpayer’s Day Cost • ‌Monitor and report on internal Accounting risk management activities and Price Fluctuation of Crude Oil and Petroleum Products Risk Management and Financial Stability Team compliance • ‌The fluctuation of global oil prices is affected by various factors, including the GS Caltex has a risk management system to cope with changes in the market prices circumstances of major oil producers, the global economic recovery, a strong dollar, Overview and geopolitical risks in the Middle East. of crude oil and petroleum products. Oil refineries run the risk of loss and cash flows • ‌Uncertainties in domestic and foreign monetary policy, trade wars, and local and fluctuation due to changes in the prices of crude oil and petroleum products. To control international politics increase the volatility of the global financial market. and manage these risks properly, a hedging system involving various efforts, such as • ‌During periods of falling oil prices, the delay between the purchase of oil and the time trading derivative products, has been established based on the prospects of the crude oil of input causes inventory valuation loss, leading to a decrease in margins due to the delay between purchase and sales. and petroleum product market. Impact on • ‌When global oil prices surge, the petrochemical industry’s profitability declines due to rising Business raw material prices • ‌The price of raw materials and products purchased by domestic refineries is exposed to In response to the increasing volatility of the business and industrial environment, we are fluctuations in exchange rates as well as crude oil prices. focused on maintaining financial stability. As a result, we have maintained the highest level • ‌We use derivatives such as futures and options to hedge against the risks of volatile oil credit rating in the industry, keeping our borrowing safe based on our stable cash flow. We Activities and product prices while organizing quarterly Risk Management Committee meetings as have also secured sufficient credit lines and diversified our loan sources to create a balanced part of our risk management. loan portfolio and strengthen our competitiveness in financing and risk management. Changes in Regulations and Policies Risk Management Governance Credit Rating Trend • ‌The refinery business, being a national strategic and key industry, is greatly affected by Agency 2017 2018 2019 government policies and regulations. Board of Directors S&P BBB (P) BBB+ (S) BBB+ (N) Overview • ‌IMO (International Maritime Organization) regulations on the sulfur content of ship fuel, Risk Management and GHG emission regulations of The Paris Agreement on climate change have a major Risk Management Moody’s Baa2 (P) Baa1 (S) Baa1 (S) impact on the refining industry Committee Cost Accounting Team AA+ AA+ AA+ • ‌The liberalization of entry into the oil refining industry and free trade agreements have Korea Ratings (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) Impact on led to fierce competition in the market. Korea Investors Business • ‌The increase in the supply of low-priced products and decline in the supply price AA+ AA+ AA+ intensify price competition. Yeosu Complex Supply & Trading Petrochemical Business Strategic Planning Service (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) NICE Investors AA+ AA+ AA+ • ‌We improved our profitability by replacing HSFO (high sulfur fuel oil) with LNG and Activities Finance Overseas Offices Service (Stable) (Stable) (Stable) selling LSFO (low sulfur fuel oil). 72 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Governance Corporate Governance Risk Management Information Security 73 Information Security analysis of unauthorized access and other abnormal signs of the network through various security solutions while strengthening our physical security through infiltration tests and unannounced security inspections as part of security control regularly. Organization and Management of Information Security Access Monitoring System In response to the growing regulatory demand for information security and restrictions on GS Caltex systemically manages its main work sites by classifying them as restricted, collecting unnecessary personal data, we launched our Information Security Committee controlled areas, and so on to ensure security and safety. We run an internally-developed to strengthen the responsibilities and roles of information security. The Information special access control and monitoring system to prevent access by unauthorized Security Committee is composed of executive officers from each division, the CISO (Chief personnel or vehicles strictly. Information Security Officer) as the top decision-making authority, and the chairman. The committee discusses investment activities and current issues to improve company-wide information security regarding personal information protection, prevent cyber-crimes, Protection and Management of National Infrastructure and raise employee awareness. The GS Caltex Yeosu Complex is designated as a Critical National Facility and complies with security requirements specified by relevant laws, including the Unified Defense Furthermore, we have established systematic information security policies to prepare for Act. We have also implemented a national infrastructure protection plan in response various threats related to information security and secure business reliability by safely to emergencies. In the event of a disaster or emergency, we ensure that our petroleum managing the company’s tangible and intangible assets, including customer information. We production and storage are maintained and controlled effectively and prevent any have strengthened various aspects of protection measures for the security environment by interruption of supply or operations. operating an information security management system based on domestic and international laws and standards. Information Security Training Customer Information Protection System Everyone entering the GS Caltex Yeosu Complex is required to complete a security and safety training program according to their purpose of entry. They receive training that To protect our customers’ personal information and ensure security, we have introduced a includes safety compliance and restrictions, and those who work at the site take safety powerful information security system. When storing and transmitting important personal training. Further, for the protection and security of the national infrastructure, the Yeosu data, we apply an encryption process, and access to stored data is strictly limited to Complex strengthened its ability to respond to emergencies through training with local prevent unauthorized access. Additionally, any access to personal data is controlled governments, military forces, police and the coast guard semiannually. through a system where access history and abnormalities are monitored. In order to Data┃‌C  ustomer Information Security prevent any misuse or violation of laws, all teams and third parties with access to personal information are subjected to a security audit every year. Certificates of the Information Security Likewise, we diligently comply with legal obligations regarding the EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) and domestic personal information laws. GS Caltex notifies customers Information Security of their personal information processing status more than once a year to protect and Name Management System guarantee personal information and decision-making rights. We are also working to Scope of Online service for external work improve our personal information protection capabilities through various information Certification processes protection exercises. To this end, we acquired the government-designated PIMS (personal information management system) certification in 2013, the first company in the industry to do Validity Period April 26, 2018 to April 25, 2021 so, and we undergo a strigent evaluation to maintain the status. Internal Security Measures Personal Information At GS Caltex, we examine security issues identified in Korea and other countries through Name Management System our security organization, which is composed of experts in the industry. To prevent security breaches, we conduct employee training and other programs including scenarioScope of GS & Point Services and ‌ Certification GS Caltex Bonus Card Services based simulations (malicious mail training), security seminars, and campaigns. Furthermore, we have maintained a strict ISMS (information security management system) since 2017, we Validity Period September 13, 2019 to ‌ September 12, 2022 conduct an annual vulnerability inspection of our IT systems to upgrade technical security Data┃‌Information Security and we run annual mock hacking programs. We also conduct ongoing inspection and Certification 75 Financial Data p. 76 ESG Data and Performance Appendix p. 77 GS Caltex ESG Policies p. 89 Selection of Material Topics p. 90 GRI Standards Index p. 92 Third Party Assurance Statement p. 94 GHG Assurance Statement p. 96 Global Initiatives p. 97 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Major External Activities to Sustainability p. 98 76 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix Financial Data ESG Data and Performance 77 Financial Data ESG Data and Performance Environment* * If not indicated otherwise, environment data is based on Yeosu Complex Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Income GHG1) Management of Water Resources (Unit : KRW 1 million) (Unit : KRW 1 million) Category 2018 2019 Category 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Assets Sales 36,363,010 33,261,489 Scope 1 : Direct Water Daily average tCO2eq 6,379,481 6,342,643 6,356,466 56,068 53,476 53,852 Current assets Fixed combustion, emissions consumption consumption Cost of sales (34,257,270) (31,458,996) Ton mobile combustion tCO2eq Daily average Cash and cash equivalents 1,043,274 1,157,033 Wastewater 27,488 28,057 31,517 Selling, general and administrative and process Intensity /KRW 21.04 17.44 19.11 effluent Accounts and notes receivable 2,802,538 2,429,876 (871,522) (922,833) emission expenses 100M Volume of Short-term financial assets 1,070,059 957,606 Indirect recycled Operating profit 1,234,218 879,660 Scope 2 : tCO2eq 1,625,674 1,643,893 1,690,788 Recycling rate Inventories 4,293,707 3,964,314 emissions wastewater/‌ % 18.8 17.7 17.6 Externally of wastewater Prepaid income taxes 165 168 Share of profit (loss) of equity method tCO2eq generated 8,441 8,521 purchased steam accounted investees Intensity /KRW 5.36 4.52 5.08 wastewater Assets held for sale 27,442 and power Financial income 1,031,268 1,941,703 100M Other current assets 248,450 144,962 1) GHG is based on all worksites of GS Caltex and reflects partial post-alterations Total current assets 9,485,635 8,653,959 Finance costs (1,241,331) (2,126,984) Non-current assets Other income 1,015,931 399,731 Energy2) Volume of Water Pollutants6) Long-term financial assets 235,541 285,436 (Unit : Ton) Other expenses (1,052,487) (508,267) Investments in associates 299,165 303,893 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Profit (loss) before income taxes 996,040 594,364 Properties, plants, and equipment 9,380,750 11,036,128 Energy Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 169.7 224.0 129.3 Scope 1 : TJ 77,784 86,615 86,914 Investment properties 56,463 54,489 Income tax expenses (292,472) (141,747) consumption Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 202.8 200.0 169.3 Direct energy Intangible assets 70,274 60,233 consumption TJ/KRW Suspended Solids (SS) 71.2 75.0 80.6 Profit (loss) for the year 703,568 452,617 Intensity 0.257 0.238 0.261 100M Deferred income tax assets 3,049 4,593 6) ‌Major Facilities Discharging Water Pollutants : Petroleum Refinery Facilities, Basic Profit (loss) attributable to : Energy Other non-current assets 28,659 29,004 TJ 16,472 16,503 18,124 Petrochemical Compound Production Facilities, Industrial Water Purification Facilities Scope 2 : consumption Owners of the parent company 703,568 452,617 Indirect energy Total non-current assets 10,073,901 11,773,776 consumption TJ/KRW Total assets 19,559,536 20,427,735 Non-controlling interests Intensity 0.054 0.045 0.054 100M Liabilities 2) ‌Source of energy consumption calculation method and unit conversion factor Current liabilities Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income ‌‌Direct consumption : Calculation of calorific value by product after checking the (Unit : KRW 1 million) amount of consumption through the flow meter Accounts payable-trade 2,399,158 2,381,755 ‌Unit conversion source : Unit conversion based on the energy calorific conversion Category 2018 2019 standards of the Energy Act Short-term financial liabilities 3,536,384 2,677,862 Income taxes payable 64,957 85,516 Profit (loss) for the year 703,568 452,617 Volume of Air Pollutants3) Concentration Level of Water Pollutants7) Other current liabilities 79,760 65,903 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax : (Unit : Ton) (Unit : ppm) Total current liabilities 6,080,259 5,211,036 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Category 2017 2018 2019 Legal Category 2017 2018 2019 Non-current liabilities Remeasurements of defined benefit liability (13,309) (11,882) Dust 100.7 122.54) 193.2 Requirement Long-term financial liabilities 2,269,789 3,930,296 Other comprehensive income (loss) Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 3,221.4 3,314.3 2,858.4 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) 30 7.7 8.0 7.3 ‌Financial asset income (loss) from fair value 864 843 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) 40 10.7 11.3 10.7 Employee benefits 6,203 15,392 Sulfur Oxide (SOx) 7,479.9 6,543.1 1,901.5 assessments Deferred income tax liabilities 234,976 226,850 Carbon Monoxide (CO) 649.9 732.6 359.7 Suspended Solids (SS) 30 3.3 3.7 3.9 Changes in equity method accounted Other non-current liabilities 161,345 47,138 (315) 38 7) Effluent standards and concentration level of ocean effluence investee’s capital Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 107.4 137.9 97.8 Total non-current liabilities 2,672,313 4,219,676 Total (12,760) (11,001) Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs) 66.8 73.3 46.0 Total liabilities 8,752,572 9,430,712 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to 3) Major Air Pollutant Discharging Facilities : RFCC CO Boiler, Heater, Package Boiler Equity profit or loss 4) Numbers are subject to change according to modifications in the range and standards Common stocks 260,000 260,000 Changes in equity method accounted 148 96 Concentration Level of Air Pollutants5) Consumption of Hazardous Chemicals Capital surplus 68,330 68,330 investee’s capital (Unit : Ton) Capital adjustments (61,189) (61,189) Effective portion of changes in unrealized fair (4,672) 22,647 Legal Category 2017 2018 2019 value of cash flow hedges Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Accumulated other comprehensive income (17,629) 10,772 Requirement Foreign currency translation differences 4,503 7,100 Caustic soda (NaOH) 29,824 24,201 37,842 Retained earnings 10,557,452 10,719,110 Dust mg/㎥ 30 3.8 4.1 3.1 Total (21) 29,843 Sulfuric acid (H2SO4) 1,155 806 510 Equity attributable to owners of the Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 150 88.8 66 42 10,806,964 10,997,023 Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 690,787 471,459 Hydrochloric acid (HCl) 1,703 1,818 1,727 parent company Sulfur Oxide (SOx) ppm 180 37.4 46.4 9.2 Non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to : Ammonia (NH3) 535 517 344 Carbon Monoxide (CO) 200 27.1 24.4 8.7 Total equity 10,806,964 10,997,023 Owners of the parent company 690,787 471,459 5) ‌Effluent standards and average concentration level of standard boilers (Dust/NOx/Sox) Total liabilities and equity 19,559,536 20,427,735 Non-controlling interests and incineration facilities (Carbon monoxide) 78 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix ESG Data and Performance 79 ESG Data and Performance Environment Waste Material Status of Voluntary Environmental Management Agreements (Unit : Ton) Category 2017 2018 2019 Agreements Terms Activities Designated waste 23,972 20,093 26,325 Reduction of GHG emissions in industrial sectors to achieve the national GHG target Voluntary Agreement against BAU by 2020 2014~2020 Volume of waste material General waste 19,371 22,874 21,315 against BAU by 2020 Subtotal 43,343 42,967 47,640 Voluntary Agreement for Soil Preservation 2013~2023 Prevention of soil contamination by oil spills through voluntary inspection and restoration Recovered fuel (waste oil/solvents) 16,450 13,280 15,076 Joint Agreement for Emergency Establishment of an emergency response plan for the prevention and management of Recovered metal (catalysts) 6,590 5,435 8,132 Response to Chemical Accidents 2013~ chemical accidents (Chemical Safety Association) Fertilizer (for composting) 281 305 320 Recycling Voluntary Agreement for Reducing High Other types of recycling 9,697 9,882 12,675 Dec. 2019~Dec. 2022 Implementation of more stringent emission standards than legal requirements Concentrations of Fine Dust Subtotal 33,018 28,902 36,203 Waste disposal Recycling rate (%) 76.2 67.3 76.0 Incineration 2,316 2,064 1,771 Protected Areas Around Worksites and Relevant Activities Landfill 8,009 10,787 9,117 Comminution 1,214 549 Category Description Note Related Activities Total 43,343 42,967 47,640 Applied internal standards Water Source on water discharge. These One Water Source Protected Area has been designated in Mipyeong-dong, Yeosu 8.8km from the worksite Protected Area internal standards are stricter than legal standards. Investment in Environmental Protection Environmental Label Certification (Unit : KRW 100 million) Wildlife There are four wildlife protected areas in Yeosu. The closest one is located at 6.8km from the worksite Protected Area 190-1, Jungheung-dong Category 2017 1) 2018 2019 Activities to conserve marine Reduction in wastewater and 〮 ‌Hallyeo National Marine Park : life resources (fish/shellfish 6 32 48 Odong Island, located off in the eastern part of the Yeosu Peninsula, is part marine contamination 6.5km from the worksite egg release project) Nature Park of the Hallyeo National Marine Park. Also, the waterfront and certain areas of 〮 ‌Dadohaehaesang National Park : Reduction in air pollution 44 3691) 3801) Dolsaneup are designated as part of Dadohae National Marine Park 29km from the worksite Reduction in volatile organic 14 31 compounds Designated There are twelve designated island areas in Yeosu. The closest one is Gadeok 15.8km from the workplace Prevention of soil contamination 47 106 109 Island Area Island Activities to protect Others 16 40 48 eco-system Special Gwangyang Bay is located in the Special Controlled Area Total 113 561 616 Controlled Area 1) Includes investment in RFCC Wet Scrubber Air Environment Gwangyang Bay Area has been designated an Air Environment Regulated Area Regulated Areas in accordance with the regulations of Ministry of Environment Activities to reduce Environment and Energy Certification air pollution Low Sulfur Oil The sulfur content must be 0.3% or less in LSWR in accordance with Article Supply and Use Area related to the Enforcement Decree of the Clean Air Conservation Act Category Worksite Validity Period ISO14001 Yeosu Complex July 2018 to July 2021 ISO50001 Yeosu Complex December 2017 to December 2020 Inspection of Soil Contamination (Unit : No. of inspections) Category 2017 2018 2019 Gasoline stations inspected for soil 138 147 308 contamination 80 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix ESG Data and Performance 81 ESG Data and Performance Society Customer Satisfaction Certifications Quality Inspection Employees3) (Unit : No. of inspections) Category 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Certification Certification Quality inspection of gas stations 5,217 4,936 5,643 Total 2,969 3,212 3,283 CCM Certification Certified Maintained Maintained Quality inspection of LPG stations 479 458 437 Executive officers 49 45 48 Excellent Excellent Excellent By employment type Full-Time 2,758 3,026 3,136 KSQI 1) Call Center Call Center Call Center Part-Time 162 141 99 Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Ranked 1st Seoul, etc. 1,317 1,448 1,387 NCSI2) Gas Station Category (9 consecutive (10 consecutive (11 consecutive By location Yeosu Persons 1,652 1,764 1,896 year) year) year) Over 50 682 745 884 1) Korean Service Quality Index By age 30~50 1,856 1,912 1,827 2) National Customer Satisfaction Index Under 30 431 555 572 Employees subject to pension system 2,795 2,579 2,796 Retirees 123 131 195 Retirement rate 4.1 4.1 5.9 Percentage of female employees % 9.6 9.9 9.7 Customer Satisfaction Activities Quality Management Certification Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.4 1.3 1.2 Total employee compensation KRW 100 million 3,119 3,891 3,669 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category Workplace Validity Period Average years of employment Years 15.3 14.7 14.7 No. of gas stations 2,563 2,510 2,368 ISO9001 Yeosu Complex July 2018~July 2021 stations 3) As of December 31, 2019 No. of LPG stations 399 400 391 No. of bonus card members 10,000 1,136 1,142 1,139 Domestic market share % 25.0 24.5 24.0 Customer complaint processing time Day 0.7 0.7 0.7 Parental Leave Employee Assistance Program Users (Unit : Persons) (Unit : Persons) Category 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Employees on Male 2 2 4 Personal consultation 262 312 192 parental leave Female 8 15 10 Financial consultation 21 21 51 Information Security Certification Employees who returned Male 3 0 1 Legal consultation 28 11 11 from parental leave Female 13 10 9 Category 2017 2018 2019 Employees who have Male 3 3 2 PIMS (Personal Information Management System) Certified Certified Certified worked for 12 months ISMS (Information Security Management System) Certified Certified Certified after returning from Female 11 13 6 parental leave Customer Information Security Women in Management Positions HR Development (Unit : No. of incidents) (Unit : Persons) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Issues raised by third-party victim and verified 0 0 0 Executive officers 0 1 1 Training cost4) 52 65 62 Customer information related complaints internally by the organization Senior managers 16 18 18 4) Including internal training cost and external training cost (excl. indirect expenses) Issues raised by regulatory institution 0 0 0 Managers 88 80 84 Data leakage, theft and loss 0 0 0 82 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix ESG Data and Performance 83 ESG Data and Performance Society Labor Union Performance Evaluation Occupational Safety & Health Indicators (Unit : %) Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Persons Percentage of employees who received TRIR3) 0.09 0.13 0.15 Members registered (registered/ 1,306 1,398 1,524 periodical reviews on performance and 89 87 87 Employees & partners DAFWR4) Cases 0.01 0.09 0.08 with labor union employee /1,793 /1,934 /1,936 career development2) number) TRIR3) (200,000 working hours) 0.13 0.10 0.09 Percentage of employees who are Discussion and 0 0 0 DAFWR4) 0 0.06 0.03 assessed by their direct supervisors with 89 87 87 Employees negotiation on changes No. of (no significant (no significant (no significant changes in changes in changes in measurable goals2) Work-related death (male) 0 0 0 in business management issues Persons business business business Percentage of employees who received Work-related death (female) 0 0 0 with the labor union management) management) management) 90 95 94 comparative evaluation TRIR3) 0.06 0.16 0.19 Cases Labor disputes Cases 0 0 0 2) Percentage of employees who set goals, reviewed in the middle/end of the year DAFWR4) (200,000 working hours) 0.03 0.11 0.12 Partners Work-related death (male) 0 0 0 Persons Work-related death (female) 0 0 0 New Employee Wages Partners (Unit : %) 3) ‌TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Rate) : No. of incidents (any injuries, illnesses, and fatalities, excluding those equivalent to or less serious than incidents requiring first aid) that occur per every 200,000 working hours. Formula : Number of incidents/ Number of hours worked by all employees x 200,000 Category 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 4) ‌DAFWR (Days Away From Work Rate) : No. of incidents that cause a loss of one or more days’ work per every 200,000 working hours. Formula : Number of incidents that cause a loss of work/Number of hours worked by all employees x 200,000 Ratio of new Production Partners with No. of 213 190 139 1,456 1,347 1,446 employees’ wages to engineer transaction performance companies minimum wage Office staff 271 233 197 KRW 100 Purchase amount 11,283 12,820 33,316 million Accidents Related to the Safety of the Production Process5) Occupational Safety Certification Human Resource Recruitment Low-Interest Loan Support (Unit : Persons) Category 2017 2018 2019 Item Workplace Validity Period Category 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Incidents per 1M work hours Incheon New employees 171 3961) 278 Partners Company 78 81 84 1 0 0 KOSHA18001 November 2017 to November 2020 (Tier 1 Process Safety Event) Lubricant Plant Male 122 325 1) 235 KRW 100 By gender Value amount 531 628 622 5) ‌A severe accident required to report based on process safety standards defined by the Female 49 71 43 million American Petroleum Institute (API) Headquarters, 101 187 136 By site regional offices Yeosu Complex 70 209 142 1) Additional recruits for 52-hour work week, MFC project, etc Occupational Safety Drills Partner Discussion (2019) Category Drill 2019 Performance Corporate-wide Corporate-wide firefighting/response drills 1 time/quarter No. of Attending Category Location Discussion Details Firefighting/response drills 2 times/year (by shift) Companies On & offshore oil spill response drills 2 times/year (by shift) Updates on work processes (safety, environment, business plan), resolutions for Mutual Growth Forum for Construction Partners Seoul 7 zero disaster and discussions Workplace6) Emergency response drills Workplace training, 16 times/year Partners in Western District Daejeon 6 Safety training, resolutions for zero disasters and discussions Process dry training7) 1 time/month (by shift) Partners in Gyeonsang District Busan 8 Safety training, resolutions for zero disasters and discussions Early response drills 1 time/month (by shift) Partners in the Metropolitan Area Seoul 13 Safety training, resolutions for zero disasters and discussions 6) The workplace drills are based in the Yeosu Complex, and internal drills are conducted under individual guidelines for each place. 7) One type of training according to the emergency response scenario Retail Facility Partners Seoul 7 Safety training and discussions Facility Partners Seoul 7 Partner awards, resolutions for zero disasters, and safety training Resolutions for safety, sharing transportation environment and policies, and Tank Lorry Shipment Partners Seoul 7 safety management Construction/Environment Partners and Surveyor of Yeosu Approx. 30 Updates on work processes (safety, environment, business plan) and discussions Yeosu Complex Shippers Busan 6~7 Updates on work processes (safety, environment, business plan) and discussions 84 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix ESG Data and Performance 85 ESG Data and Performance Society Governance Partner Industrial Safety Training1) Fair Trade Issue Category 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Construction safety training program • ‌GS Caltex were fined for the delay in reporting the combination 30 companies/43 participants 32 companies/52 participants 22 companies/60 participants •‌GS Caltex agreed to pay criminal fines and civil damages for supervisors of enterprise between Cardoc and LUFTT Korea. Number of enforcement actions to the US Department of Justice for rigging bids on Practice training for signalmen 45 companies/347 participants 49 companies/324 participants 50 companies/340 participants •‌GS Caltex were fined for failure to register an affiliate for (both ongoing and settled) for contracts for provision of fuel to United States military 0 incidents borrowing our name. ‌ Training & maintenance program for violations of anti-competition installations in Korea. ‌ Yeosu Complex 48 companies/227 participants 57 companies/405 participants 46 companies/300 participants : ‌We are in process of strengthening our employees’ safety managers laws and regulations : ‌GS Caltex will reinforce corporate compliance function education and improving our internal processes to and employee training to prevent recurrence. Safety training for cargo crane prevent recurrence. 51 companies/137 participants 58 companies/178 participants 60 companies/310 participants operators TA special safety training Approx. 2,500 participants Approx. 5,000 participants Approx. 3,000 participants 7 companies/4 times 9 companies/4 times 11 companies/4 times Headquarters Safety training for ship owners/crews (250 participants/time) (200 participants/time) (approx. 200 participants/time) Actions on Compliance Reports R&D Investment9) 1) Based on the total number of participants for the program (multiple participation by program and session) (Unit : KRW 100 million) Reports Category 2017 2018 2019 (Unit : Cases) R&D investment 523 515 510 Social Contributions GS Caltex Investment in Yeulmaru Category Complaint Corruption Petition Total (Unit: KRW 100 million) 9) Excluding government subsidy Customers 21 0 3 24 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Cumulative Category 2018 2019 Partners 1 1 9 11 (2006~2019) Amount of social KRW 100 177 149 157 Employees 0 3 4 7 contribution2) million Input amount in GS Caltex 40 48 1,4786) Foundation5) Others 0 0 9 9 Annual volunteers 3) Persons 2,548 1,766 4) 1,282 5) ‌The amount included in GS Caltex’s social contribution costs as an operating expense Total 22 4 25 51 Domestic Tax Payments10) 2) ‌Amount executed for social contribution purposes. It is different from donations paid by GS Caltex to the GS Caltex Foundation specified in the business report 6) Includes expenses for the construction of Yeulmaru & Jangdo 3) The number of volunteers decreased compared to 2017 due to the 52-hour workweek Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 4) Numbers are subject to change according to modifications in the range and standards KRW 1 Actions Nominal tax 487,618 282,113 133,305 million GS Caltex Yeulmaru Performance Category Cases Nominal tax rate % 25.48 29.35 23.5 Investigation (audit/prevention) 12(10/2) KRW 1 Category Unit 20177) 2018 2019 Effective tax 461,898 218,867 137,064 GS Caltex Soup Kitchen for the Elderly Transferred to relevant unit 39 million (Unit : Persons) Annual number of 67,004 66,864 78,506 Others (rejected, etc.) 0 Effective tax rate % 24.14 22.77 24.2 visitors to performances Category 2017 2018 2019 Persons Total 51 10) individual financial statement Annual number of Meal recipients 84,070 83,474 84,092 23,629 19,477 76,734 visitors to exhibition Annual performances, exhibitions and No. of events 356 387 417 academy events 7) Numbers are subject to change according to modifications in the range and standards Ethical Management Training Total Tax Payments (Domestic and Foreign) (Unit : KRW 1 million) GS Caltex Native Speaker English Lessons on Islands (Unit : Persons) Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 location 2017 2018 2019 Category 2017 2018 2019 Maum Talk Talk Program Participants in ethical Online 2,120 2,212 2,355 South Korea 489,475 290,030 137,802 Participants 142 135 127 management training Offline 842 905 941 Asia 3,312 2,465 2,534 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Ethical management Persons Europe 16 18 1,413 No. of training participants Offline 22 161 Others11) 4,028 (40) (1) Maum Talk Talk Art 31 36 8) 29 from partners organizations Therapy Program Total 496,831 292,47212) 141,74712) No. of children 1,828 2,247 2,211 Official letters sent Online regarding ethical Cases 5,875 5,855 5,774 11) ‌Internal transactions between the consolidated entities are adjusted and reflected in GS Caltex Hopeful Energy Class Maum Talk Talk No. of schools 6 5 5 Offline the Others field management (Unit : Persons) Healing Class 12) ‌Sub-total by region and total tax payments may differ depending on numbers No. of children 897 628 744 presented in “KRW 1 million” Category 2017 2018 2019 Total No. of children 2,7258) 2,8758) 2,955 Participants 1,289 720 770 8) Numbers are subject to change according to modifications in the range and standards 86 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix ESG Data and Performance 87 ESG Data and Performance Other ESG Data and Performance Environmental Indicators and Activities Social Indicators and Activities Indicator Activities Source Indicators Activities Reference Data • Minimum ESG requirements needed for review of partners • Senior position in charge of climate change • Head of Safety and Environment • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Minimum ESG requirements needed for review of new partners • ‌GRI 308-1 • ‌Supplier (partner) social contribution monitoring processes • Inclusion and scope of ESG in contract • ISO26000 6.3.5/6.6.6 • Potential opportunities and risk associated with climate change • F ‌ inancial impact of the GHG Emissions Trading System are established, and related activities are conducted • GRI 201-2 • Social contribution monitoring on partners • UNGC Advanced 2/9~11 • ‌How to respond to opportunities and risk factors related to climate is analyzed in advance, and a consistent response • ISO26000 6.5.5 • ‌Ratio of new partners reviewed for environmental compliance change strategy is established • ‌Water stress level is considered when undertaking a • GRI 303-1 • ‌Official process of identifying sustainability risk in the supply chain •‌ Consideration of water stress level when undertaking a project • ‌Supply chain management information disclosed externally project • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Activities for the enhancement of partner performance • ‌Items for the evaluation of partners’ management • ‌Initiatives for the improvement of energy efficiency and saving and their • Energy saving goals are set • ‌Incentives for suppliers performance (trading performance/credit rating) • ‌IPIECA SE5 A5/SE7 C1/SE9 A2 procedure • ‌Consultation with energy experts and internal TF are in • ‌Corporate policies, programs, and procedures for procuring products, • ‌Sustainability improvement activities (e.g. financial and • GRI 302-1~2,4 • Activities for energy saving and GHG emissions reduction progress services, and human resources technical support and safety and ethics training support) • ISO26000 6.5.4 • ‌Strategies, programs, and procedures for providing assistance to local • Energy used directly for electricity, heat, and vapor • Energy portal system is operated • Energy consumption/saving/sales to outside • No energy is sold outside partners and contractors • ‌100% (work process regulations covering legal compliance, fair • R‌ atio of contracts for the prevention of corruption in a specific language (%) • IPIECA SE12 A4 • Hazardous waste materials under control for emission/disposal process •V ‌ olume of waste material and hazardous chemical material practice, and transparency in Korean) • GRI 306-2~3 • Emission of normal waste materials control process are disclosed through sustainability report • ‌Healthcare programs are provided (e.g. program for • ISO26000 6.3.3/6.5.4,/6.5.6 • Activities for transporting hazardous materials •D ‌ iesel spill in Changwon Logistics Center in 2018; appropriate prevention of musculoskeletal disease, smoking cessation • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • Amount and cases of critical oil spill actions taken for oil cleanup and soil recovery • ‌A description of the processes and programs that recognize the local and program, metabolic syndrome management) global issues related to employees’ health and produce outcomes and plans • ‌Affiliated clinics with medical staff (e.g. doctors, nurses, • ‌Explanation of current healthcare systems and recent improvements medical laboratory technologist, paramedics) are operated • ‌Environmental impact analysis is conducted at new • ISO26000 6.4.4 • ‌MSDS management, protective gear, and analysis of the business sites‌ • IPIECA HS2 C1, C2 work environment are supported -‌ Construction of third product wharf : post-environmental impact analysis • ‌Processes are implemented or changed in accordance -C‌ onstruction of new project site : post-environmental • ‌Availability of formal documents and processes for assessing impact on with company regulations. Through this process, the risk • ‌Availability of formal documents for analyzing the environment risk impact analysis employees’ health and safety when introducing/changing processes of introducing/changing processes is analyzed in detail associated with new processes and process changes -O‌ il tank construction project at Sapo : post-environmental considering impact on employees’ safety and health • UNGC Advanced 9~11 • ‌Operation of official system for implementing, applying and reporting impact analysis • ‌Percentage of the organization’s exclusive employees who are • 100% • GRI 403-1,4 environmental impact assessment -O‌ il and naphtha tank site construction : post-environmental represented in the Occupational Safety and Health Committee • ‌Composed of eight representatives each from • ISO26000 6.4.4/6.4.6 impact analysis • ‌Level of operations of the Occupational Safety and Health Committee management and labor, held once every quarter • UNGC Advanced 6~8 -C‌ onstruction of second product wharf : environmental impact analysis • GRI 102-41 • ‌Number of negotiations/agreements made with the union regarding -R  eplacement of outdated No.2·3 Cogen facilities and • ‌0 (no significant changes in business management) • ISO26000 5.3 changes in business management system upgrade : environmental impact analysis • UNGC Advanced 3~5 • ‌Production engineer 139%, Office staff 197% ‌ • GRI 202-1~2 • ‌Ratio of new employees’ wages against minimum wage by gender (There is no discrimination by gender) • ISO26000 6.8.1~2 • GRI 202-1~2 • ‌Percentage of local senior executives • ‌100% • ISO26000 6.8.1~2 • ‌Actions taken to prohibit child and forced labor • ‌International Labor Organization standards and UNGC • GRI 408-1/409-1/412-2 • ‌Reporting on business sites with a risk of child labor Principles are complied with • ‌ISO26000 • Actions taken to prevent child and forced labor • ‌Forced or child labor is strictly prohibited 4.8/6.3.1~2/6.3.5/6.4.1~2 • ‌Employee training on human rights policies and processes • ‌Voluntary compliance programs to ensure human rights • UNGC Advanced 3~5 • ‌Corporate policies on human rights and prevent sexual harassment have been implemented • ‌Employees are notified 30 days prior to termination of • ‌Minimum notification period for changes in business management that employment with justified cause, and 50 days in advance have a significant impact on employees in the case of termination due to a business reason under Article 24 of the Labor Standards Act • ‌A written notification for renewing collective agreement • GRI 402-1 must be issued at least 2 months before its expiration. • ISO26000 6.4.3/6.4.5 Both parties must respond to the notification regarding • UNGC Advanced 15~18 • ‌Availability of notification period and negotiation terms on collective collective bargaining at least 30 days before the expiration agreement date of the current agreement. However, if there is no request for any changes upon renewal, it is renewed automatically • GRI 411-1 • ‌Number of violation of natives’ rights reported during the reporting period • ‌Not applicable • ISO26000 6.3.4/6.3.6~7 • Reporting of status and measures taken • IPIECA SE2 A1 88 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix ESG Data and Performance GS Caltex ESG Policies 89 ESG Data and Performance GS Caltex ESG Policies Governance Indicators and Activities Indicator Activities Reference Data SHE Management Policy Human Rights Policy • ‌Changes in location and operation (e.g. opening/closing, shutdown, and • GRI 102-41 expansion of facilities) • ‌There were no significant changes • GRI 102-10 • ‌Formation, maintenance, and change in equity structure • ‌Environment : Head of Safety and Environmental • ‌Availability of staff in charge of environment, human rights and labor • ‌GRI 102-11/14/20~21/26~34 Planning issues • ‌ISO260005.2/6.2/6.3.5/6.7‌ • Human Rights/Labor : Head of Human Resources • ‌Appointment of executive officers who are responsible for managing /7.4.2~3/7.8 • ‌Reporting can be done through CSR Committee and • ‌Right to report to the top decision-making body • ‌UNGC Advanced 1/19~20 Sustainability-related committees • ‌Systematic ethical management and compliance • ‌Policies/activities/system/training on fair business practices and antiprogram are implemented bribery and anti-corruption standards • ‌GRI 102-17/205-2 • ‌Corporate ethical management and compliance • ‌Internal/external guidance/grievance handling programs for ethical and • ‌ISO26000 legal compliance program are extended to partners and subsidiaries 4.4/6.6.1~6.6.3/6.6.5~6 Code of Ethics Tax Policy • ‌Ethics education is mandatory for all employees • ‌Percentage of employees that attended ethics training • ‌UNGC Advanced 12~14 • ‌Universal human rights policies for partners and • ‌Scope of application for basic human rights activities/policies customers (UNGC 10 Principles) • ‌Consumer service support and activities to resolve complaints and • Customer Centered Management (CCM) is adopted • ‌ISO26000 6.7.6 disputes • ‌Customer Service Center (CSC) in operation • ‌Potential business impact reported publicly • ‌Risk mitigation measures reported publicly • ‌Quality control is performed on the entire process from • ‌Descriptions of product, health, safety and environmental management production to sale under the ISO Quality Management • ‌ISO26000‌ systems System 6.5.3~5/6.7.1~.2/6.7.4~5/6.8.8 • ‌Describe how to monitor, track, evaluate, and manage product-related • EU-REACH compliance is in progress accidents • ‌Violations of laws governing marketing communication e.g. advertisement, • ‌GRI 417-3 promotion, and sponsorship • ‌0 case (2017~2019) • ISO26000 6.7.3 Code of Conduct for Partners Stakeholder Policy • ‌Violations of laws governing product and service information and labeling • GRI 417-2 • ‌0 case (2017~2019) • ‌If no violations have been committed, simply state the fact • ISO26000 4.6/6.7.1~2 • GRI 417-1 • ‌Communication of information about the product, service, and labeling • ‌MSDS and details are disclosed on the website • ISO26000 6.7.1~3/6.7.5 • ‌Service quality control system is operated • ‌Customer service manuals are distributed • ‌Training and activities to raise awareness about products and services • ISO26000 6.7.9 • ‌Star Service Team is operated • ‌Star Festival is held • ‌UNGC Universal Human Rights Principles are supported • ‌Human rights of public security companies • ‌Security companies licensed by local police • ‌GRI 410-1 • ‌Training for private security providers departments have been hired, human rights are • ISO26000 6.3.5 • ‌Reporting human rights issues related to private and public security protected, and training on confidentiality and security is conducted on a regular basis • ‌PSM (Process Safety Management) is operated • ‌Integrated management system for safety measures and crisis response systematically • SASB NR0101-19 throughout the supply chain and research/production cycle • Corporate-wide Emergency Manual rewed periodically 90 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix Selection of Material Topics 91 Selection of Material Topics Stakeholder Policy Result of Materiality Assessment Material Issues 1 Investment in eco-friendly energy Impact The topics of this report have been selected according to GRI Standards taking into account stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability 1 2 ‌New growth engines/diversification of business context, materiality and completeness. 3 ‌Prevention of industrial accidents and safety 5 2 awareness Sustainability Context and Materiality 3 4 Investment in local communities 4 9 5 Product and service prices Based on our analysis of the internal and external environment in the context of sustainability, we created a pool of 37 issues. The 7 materiality of each issue was evaluated based on Relevance and Impact. The material issues identified based on relevance may have 10 6 6 ‌ Partner’s sustainability assessment and support Reporting Issues an impact on our business performance if they are not managed properly. Those based on impact have a significant effect on business 8 7 Ethical management/fair trade performance and stakeholders. Based on these criteria, we conducted a materiality assessment through a comprehensive review of 8 Energy consumption and efficiency employee surveys, external stakeholder surveys, industry benchmarking, and media analysis. We then selected 3 material issues and 7 topics out of the pool of 37 sustainability issues. 9 Response to climate change Materiality Assessment Process 10 Air pollutant control Relevance Step 1 Create a pool of 37 Completeness 6 issues related to economic responsibility 6 ‌issues related to responsibility towards Issue Definition issues in the context 8 issues related to environmental responsibility customers of sustainability 10 issues related to responsibility towards employees 7 issues related to social responsibility The material issues identified through the materiality assessment are reflected in 2019 Highlights, while Communication with stakeholders is reflected throughout the report. Areas of Reporting Material Issues Impact on Stakeholder Definition of Risk1) Page Issue 1. Eco-Friendly Management Investment in eco-friendly energy Government, Local Community, NGO High impact 16~19 Step 2 Analysis of global We evaluated the importance of issues in accordance with global standards and initiatives, such New growth engines/diversification Shareholders/Investors, Customers, NGO, High probability Issue 2. Preparation for the Future 20~23 standards as GRI Standards, ISO 26000, IPIECA, and UN SDGs, and used this as a basis to proactively reflect of business Subsidiaries High impact Prioritization eco-friendly policies and the social contribution issues of our partners. Prevention of industrial accidents and Government, Local Community, NGO, High probability Issue 3. Safety Innovation in the Workplace 24, 25 safety awareness Employees, Partners High impact 1) ‌High probability : Issues with a high probability of affecting business performance. It is necessary to define and manage the factors in advance  We selected articles related to sustainability management and created a list. Based on media High impact : Issues with a high degree of negative impact. It is necessary to establish a scenario to minimize impact and damage Media analysis analysis, we found that articles associated with new growth engines and diversification of business models appeared most frequently under topics such as investment in local communities as social contribution activities and expanding sales. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Industry We analyzed the 14 sustainability reports of our global competitors to identify common GS Caltex promotes sustainability management activities based on communication with our stakeholders. We categorize our stakeholders benchmarking sustainability issues in the industry. These issues include response to climate change, partner’s into government & relevant authorities, local communities, customers, employees, shareholders/investors, and partners and use the following sustainability assessment and support, prevention of industrial accidents, and safety awareness. communication channels : Classification of Stakeholders and Communication Channels Stakeholder and In December 2019, we conducted online surveys to collect opinions from stakeholders, including employee survey employees, partners, gas station managers, shareholders/investors, local communities, academic circles, and experts. A total of 393 people participated in the surveys and selected new growth Stakeholder Communication Channels Communication Issues engines, prevention of industrial accidents and safety awareness, social/environmental value Government & Public hearing, discussions, seminars, newsletter, local Government policy, tax compliance, trends by industry, trends by local government creation and impact analysis as the most important issues Relevant Authorities government websites Social contribution programs, discussions, briefing sessions Management disclosure, compliance with environmental/social standards, environmental Local Communities on issues protection, contribution to local economy, job creation, social contribution Response to customer requests/feedback, protection of personal information, price setting, Customers Customer service center, social networks, website marketing, product quality, customer safety, networks and future environment Step 3 Company newsletter, internal bulletin board, surveys, Three material issues were selected based on relevance and impact on our stakeholders Employees collective bargaining, joint labor-management conference, Collective agreements and various negotiations, compensation, development of talent, Selection of protection of human rights, occupational safety and health Occupational Safety & Health Committee Material Issues Shareholders/ Business reports, disclosure Sharing management information, protection of investor/shareholder interests Investors Partners Discussions, web-portal for partners, surveys Mutual growth, occupational health and safety, change in government policies, fair trade 92 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix GRI Standards Index 93 GRI Standards Index Other Standards General Standards Indicators Page Note Indicators Page Note Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 58~65 102-1 Name of the organization 6 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 44~46 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 12, 13 Anti-corruption 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 85 102-4 Location of operations 7 85, Refer to the business Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 102-5 Ownership and legal form 68 report 102-6 Markets served 6, 10~13 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 32, 77 Organizational Energy 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 7 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 32, 77 Profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 81~83 Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 77 102-9 Supply chain 82 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant changes Biodiversity 304-1 79 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 70, 71 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 77 102-12 External initiatives 97 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 77 102-13 Membership of associations 98 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 77 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, 5 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 8, 89 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 78 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 68, 69 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 34 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 91 Compliance Collective agreement applies to all 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 82 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 54, 82 Stakeholder employees Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 90, 91 401-2 57 part-time employees 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 90, 91 Labor/Management 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 90, 91 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 54, 82 Relations 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Refer to the business report 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 56, 81 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 90, 91 Training and Education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 102-47 List of material topics 90, 91 404-3 55, 82 reviews 102-48 Restatements of information About this report 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 69, 81 102-49 Changes in reporting Refer to the business report Diversity and Equal Opportunity Refer to the business 102-50 Reporting period About this report 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Reporting Practice report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No such case 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor No such case 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report Forced or Compulsory Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 409-1 No such case 102-55 GRI content index 92, 93 Labor labor 102-56 External assurance 94~96 Rights of Indigenous ‌ 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples No such case Peoples Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 52 Topic-Specific Standards Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Local Communities 413-1 60, 62 development programs Indicators Page Note 103-1~3 Management Approach 20 Supplier Social Economic 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken No such case Assessment Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20~23, 76 Customer Health and Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 103-1~3 Management Approach 24 416-2 No such case Safety products and services 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 28, 29 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 403-3 Occupational health services 25, 29, 83, 84 Customer Privacy 418-1 72, 73, 80 of customer data Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 403-4 29~31, 83, 84 occupational health and safety Occupational‌ 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 29~31, 83, 84 Health and 403-6 Promotion of worker health 30, 31 Safety 2018 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 403-7 25, 29, 30 100% impacts directly linked by business relationships Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 403-8 29, 83, 84 100% management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 83 403-10 Work-related ill health 83 94 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix Third Party Assurance Statement 95 Third Party Assurance Statement Introduction Sustainability Context GS Caltex Corporation(“GS Caltex”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.(“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake The Report describes the business model and the vision for value creation with its stakeholders. The business model and the vision are independent assurance of the GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report (“the Report”). The directors of GS Caltex have the sole responsibility explained in line with UN SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). GS Caltex has established the governance for sustainability management and for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of GS Caltex in has held the CSR committee semi-annually to review related to sustainable management. In addition, GS Caltex has established the ESG accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information (Environment, Social, Gorvernance) Database to systematically manage sustainability performances and actively respond to stakeholders’ request. provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Materiality Scope and Basis of assurance GS Caltex has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. ‘Business impact’ and ‘stakeholder interest’ are considered Based on non-financial data, sustainability activities and performance data of 2019 generated from GS Caltex, we have evaluated the adherence for the materiality assessment, and 3 material topics are prioritized accordingly. The materiality assessment process is described on the to GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Standards and assessed the quality of sustainability performance information. We have Report. DNV GL has reviewed material topics that could have significant impacts on the GS Caltex’s economic, environmental and social reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in the materiality assessment process; performances or that could affect the decision-making of stakeholders. No. Material topic GRI Disclosure Completeness 1 Investment in eco-friendly energy N/A The Report has covered the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances of GS Caltex for the reporting period. 2 New growth engines/diversification of business 201-1 The reporting boundary has been set to include not only domestic operational sites, but also the terminal, lubricant plant, gasoline stations, 3 Prevention of industrial accidents and safety awareness 403 2018-8, 9, 10 LPG stations and local logistics centers, and affiliated companies. Some sustainability performances derived from a specific site are indicated with the reporting boundary of the performance in order to prevent from misleading the readers about the sustainability performance. DNV GL has reviewed that the materiality assessment process and confirms the material topics prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1), which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the Further opinions with the principles of report quality of GRI Standards as follows; limited level and assurance on reporting principles in the assurance engagement. But some social and environmental performances Report quality : Accuracy, Balance, Clarity, Comparability, Reliability and Timeliness have been verified specifically by data sampling. The verification was carried out from March to May 2020. The site visits were made to DNV GL has reviewed the quality of the report based on the 6 principles defined in the GRI Standards. DNV GL also has reviewed the GS Caltex’s Head Office. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: reliability of the disclosure data-water consumption, the amount of waste water discharge and recycling, water pollutants (BOD, COD, SS), • ‌challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying air pollutants emissions (dust, NOx, SOx, CO, VOC, hazardous air pollutants), the amount of waste generation, hazardous chemical consumption data management system, information flow and controls; (NaOH, H2SO4, HCl, NH3) and TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Rate) and DAFWR (Days Away From Work Rate), the we have interviewed the person-in• interviewed representatives from the various departments; charge, reviewed the process of gathering and processing data and information, and the supporting documents and records. GS Caltex • c‌ onducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they presents the sustainability performance for the last 3 years to allow for comparability over time. Any errors or misstatements identified relate to selected content and performance data; during the assurance engagement were communicated and corrected prior to the Report being published. The information in the Report • reviewed the materiality assessment report. indicates the time period to which it relates. Limitations Competence and Independence The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of GS Caltex’s subsidiaries, associated DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17021 : 2015 companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. We did not interview external stakeholders as part of Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss. professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2) during the or.kr) as well as GS Caltex’s website (www.gscaltex.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for environmental and social performance are not verified, while the the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any process. DNV GL did not provide any services to GS Caltex in 2020 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the Jang Sup Lee June 2020 adherence to the Principles GRI Standards. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; Seoul, Korea Country Representative  DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Stakeholder Inclusiveness GS Caltex has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Government, Local community, NGO, Customers, Employees, Shareholders/Investors and business partners. GS Caltex engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. GS Caltex discloses the stakeholder policy including identification and scope of stakeholders, communication principles, communication channels, and management process through the homepage (https://www.gscaltex.com/kr/sustainability). 1) The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL website.(www.dnvgl.com/assurance/reporting/verification.html) 2) DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website(www.dnvgl.com) 96 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix GHG Assurance Statement Global Initiatives 97 GHG Assurance Statement Global Initiatives Statement of Third Party Verification of GS Caltex Corporation’s GHG Emissions in 2019 UN Global Compact Introduction Since we joined the UN Global Compact, we have been fully committed to its ten Korean Foundation for Quality (hereinafter ‘KFQ’) has been engaged by GS Caltex Corporation (hereinafter the ‘Company’) to independently principles covering human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We have verify its 2019 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas from places of Korea (hereinafter ‘Inventory Report’). reported our progress to the COP (Communication on Progress) every year. At GS Caltex, we will continue to improve our compliance with the UN Global Compact and its principles. It is the responsibility of the Company’s management to compile the Inventory Report and the emission quantity report by ‘Scheme on the trading of Greenhouse Gas Emission Permits’ run by the government of Korea and KFQ’s responsibility is provision of opinions on Classification Principles Activities of GS Caltex Page the Inventory Report after verification according to ISO 14064-3 and national scheme. 1 ‌Businesses should support and respect the protection • ‌Implementing education of sexual harassment prevention and human right to all members 45, 51, 52 of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights 2 ‌Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in • Implementing employee welfare system for work-life balance 53, 57, 81 Independence of Verification human rights abuses. KFQ has no conflict of interest with GS Caltex Corporation in terms of profit generation-related activities except providing third party 3 ‌Businesses should uphold freedom of association • ‌Operating a labor union and guaranteeing freedom of engaging in the union 54, 82 and effective recognition of the right to collective verification service on the report. And we do not have any biased opinion on GS Caltex Corporation’s stakeholders. bargaining. • ‌Maintaining a communication channel through the points of contact in the union 54 4 ‌Businesses should uphold elimination of all forms of • ‌Abiding with the regulations of the International Labor Organization and the UNGC principles 97 Labor forced and compulsory labor. Verification Scope 5 ‌Businesses should uphold effective abolition of child • ‌Prohibiting discrimination by gender regarding wages, evaluation, promotion 55 KFQ’s verification was focused on all of the greenhouse gas emission sources controlled by the Company’s places of Korea. labor. 6 B‌ usinesses should uphold elimination of discrimination • Providing equal online recruitment opportunities 54 in respect of employment and occupation. Consideration and Limitation • Establishing and practicing SHE management policy 28, 95 Accuracy and completeness of emission data reported in the Report are subject to inherent limitations due to their nature and the • Certifying energy management system 78 methodology used determining, calculating and estimating such data. 7 ‌Businesses should support a precautionary approach • Building an environmental monitoring system 31~35 to environmental challenges. 8 ‌Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote • Strengthening compliance with new environmental laws 35 Environment Conclusion/Opinion greater environmental responsibility. • ‌Signing and performing voluntary environmental management agreement 79 9 ‌Businesses should encourage the development and Based on verification process according to the ISO 14064-3, KFQ obtained reasonable basis to express the following conclusion on the • Developing eco-friendly bioprocess technology 23 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. greenhouse gas emission data in the Inventory Report. • Developing high-function and eco-friendly products 18~19 1 T  he Company’s 2019 Report on Quantity of emitted Greenhouse Gas was documented in accordance with ‘Scheme on the trading of • Continuing research in Biochemistry 23 Greenhouse Gas Emission Permits (Notification No. 2019-245 of the Ministry of Environment)’ run by the government. • Requesting employees to sign the Pledge of Compliance 44 2  ccording to materiality assessment on quantity of greenhouse gas emitted from every Company’s places of Korea in 2019, material A 10 ‌Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anti-corruption • ‌Expanding the compliance program and strengthening the compliance manager’s role 44~46 discrepancy is less than the criteria of 2% for an organization that emits more than 5,000,000 tCO2-eq in accordance with ‘Scheme forms, including extortion and bribery • Implementing ethical management and compliance education 44~46 on the trading of Greenhouse Gas Emission Permits’. Total Annual Emissions (tCO2eq) UN SDGs Report Year Direct Emissions (Scope 1) Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) Total Emissions GS Caltex agrees with the new SDGs announced by the UN in 2015, and selects some of the 17 sustainability development goals and links 2019.1.1~2019.12.31 6,356,466 1,690,788 8,047,242 them with our sustainable management activities. GS Caltex plans to continue to carry out related activities by establishing a promotion * Total amount and total emissions by GHG may differ (Total amount is the sum of cutting emissions by business unit) strategy that can contribute to achievement. May 1st, 2020 CEO Ji Young Song Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) 1 No Poverty 2 Zero Hunger 4 Quality Education 5 Gender Equality 7 Affordable and 8 ‌Decent Work and 11 Sustainable Cities 12 Responsible Consumption 13 Climate Action Clean Energy Economic Growth and Communities and Production 98 GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Appendix Major External Activities to Sustainability Major Association and Organization Membership Status Kisanhyup (Association for Korea Business Council for Korea Chemicals Management Korea Emissions Occupational Safety and Health) Sustainable Development (KBCSD) Association (KCMA) Market Association (KEMA) Korea Institutional Korean Association of Korean Institute of Korean Society for Atmospheric Committee for Safety Occupational Health Nurses Hazardous Materials Environment (KOSAE) Korean Society for Marine National Assembly Forum The Association of The Korea Fair Environment and Energy on Climate Change Energy Future Forum Competition Federation The Korean Society of WEC (World Energy Council) Korea World Business Council For UN Global Compact Climate Change Research Energy Foundation Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Major Donated Organizations VALUE NO.1 ENERGY & CHEMICAL PARTNER Arts Council Korea Catholic Archidioecese of Seoul Child Fund Climate Change Center GS Caltex 2019 Sustainability Report Community Chest of Departments Participating for Publication Community Chest of Korea Creativity Engineering Institute Ewha Womans University Korea Jeonnam District Office Corporate Branding & Board Support Office Chemical Business Execution Team Compliance Team Jeonjinsang Social Communication Team Good Neighbors International GS Caltex Foundation Hanyang University Welfare Institute Corporate Social Digital Transformation Team Crude Oil Team Emergency Response Team Responsibility Team (Complex) (Complex) Korea Support Foundation Korea Education Volunteer Group Korea Green Foundation Korea Red Cross Energy & Utility Team Energy & Fair Trade Affairs Team Environment Affairs Team Environment Team for Vulnerable Seniors Environment Technical Service Team Finance & Insurance Team Future HR GS Caltex Yeulmaru Korean Institute of Korea University Korea Welfare Services Korea-America Association Chemical Engineers HR Development Team HR Development Team (Complex) HR Management Team (Complex) HR Operation Team HR Service Team Information Security Team Logistics Planning Team Lubricants Business Planning Team Research Foundation of College of School Violence Victims Sangrok Orphanage Seorak High School Performance Innovation Team Engineering, Seoul National University Family Association Marketing Operations Team MFC Management Team Planning & Integration Team (Complex) Planning and Budget Team Platform Business Team Product RM Team Product Tanker Team Sungkyunkwan University Suseo Myeonghwa Welfare Center The Bright Youth The Korea Society Public Relations Team R&D Planning Team Retail Operation Team S&T Biz. Development Team Yeongdeungpo-gu Multicultural Safety Innovation Team SHE Planning Team Special Audit Team Strategic Procurement Team Work Together Foundation Yeodo Educational Institute Yeonam High School Family Support Center Tank truck Operating Center Tax Team we+dea Development Team we+dea Team Yeosu Christian Youth Association Yeosu-si Soccer Association Yonsei University 7th Maneuver Corps Dedicated ┃ Corporate Social Responsibility Team In addition to the above listed organizations, GS Caltex cooperates with various other organizations with a focus on safety, environment, healthcare, anti-corruption, and local community development to support sustainable growth. This report is printed in soy ink and on FSC™ certified paper.
