For the Air We Live in Sustainability Report 2 019 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Company Profile Name: Daikin Industries, Ltd. Address: Umeda Center Bldg., 2-4-12, Nakazaki-Nishi, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan Incorporated: February 11, 1934 Founded: October 25, 1924 Capital: 85 billion yen 1 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 For the Air We Live in Air is something that surrounds us 24 hours a day. In fact, our existence, as well as the Earth’s, depends on it. At Daikin, the future of the world’s air is our greatest concern. We use the knowledge, innovation and technologies, dedicated to air, cultivated over many years, to improve the quality of air we breathe and the quality of lives we live. This is our mission. CONTENTS Our Message / Contents ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 1 CSR for Value Provision Daikin Business Overview ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 3 Environment ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 16 New Value Creation ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 19 Management Strategy and Sustainability Customer Satisfaction ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 21 Message from the President ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 5 Human Resources ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 23 Overview of Sustainability ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 7 Key CSR Theme Formulation Process ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 9 Data ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 25 CSR Action Plan 2020 ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 11 Honors for Daikin ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 28 Long-Term Outlook Policy (Environmental Vision 2050) ∙∙∙ 13 Third-Party Verification Statement ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 29 About This Report ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 30 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 2 Daikin Business Overview Bringing the World Healthy, Comfortable Lifestyles Daikin is a global manufacturer with overseas sales accounting for more than 70% of the group total and overseas employees accounting for 80% of the group workforce. In our businesses of air conditioning and fluorochemicals, we respond to the needs that arise from the diverse cultures and values of the world’s countries and regions by providing products that make people and space healthier and more comfortable. BUSINESS Our Business: Providing Healthy, Comfortable Lifestyles through Air Conditioning and Fluorochemical Technologies Air Conditioning / Refrigeration Equipment Achieving Both Comfort and Environmental Performance to Meet All Global Air Conditioning Needs Residential Air Conditioners Commercial Air Conditioners Air Filters Air Purifiers Hot Water and Space Heaters Air Conditioning Systems Refrigeration Equipment Chemicals Utilizing the Characteristics of Fluorochemicals and Contributing to a Wide Range of Fields Semiconductor Field Automotive Field Information and Telecommunication Field Oil Hydraulics, Defense Systems, and Electronics Proprietary Technologies at Work in a Range of Industries, IT Solutions Machine Tools In-Home Medical Equipment IT Solutions Net Sales (Consolidated) (¥ billion) 2,481.1 2,043.7 2,290.6 2,044.0 1,915.0 Air Conditioning / 1,787.7 FY2018 1,218.7 consolidated Refrigeration Equipment 89.6% 1,290.9 1,024.0 1,160.3 sales by Chemicals 8.1% business segment Oil Hydraulics, Defense Systems, and Electronics 2.3% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 3 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 In this printed version of the Daikin Sustainability Report, “Daikin” refers to the Daikin Group and “Daikin Industries” refers to Daikin Industries, Ltd. United States 16,686 Employees GLOBAL NETWORK 55 Subsidiaries Business Sphere: Daikin Is Active in Over 150 Countries Employees 76,484 Japan Subsidiaries 12,497 Employees 291 31 Daikin Industries China and subsidiaries 19,194 Asia and Employees Oceania 33 15,686 Employees Subsidiaries 50 Subsidiaries Europe Other regions 9,034 Employees (Latin America, Middle East, Africa, etc.) 3,387 43 80 Subsidiaries Employees Subsidiaries Number of Employees (Workforce, Consolidated) (People) 76,484 60,805 Japan 23.6% 56,240 67,036 70,263 44,110 59,179 FY2018 China 15.3% 41,569 51,398 consolidated sales by Asia and Oceania 15.6% 38,874 region Europe 14.8% United States 25.2% Other regions 5.5% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 4 Management Strategy and Sustainability Message from the President Aspire for Greater Growth by Solving Social Issues in the Air and Environment Fields Despite growing uncertainty facing the global economy, including U.S.-China trade friction, the Daikin Group posted its sixth straight year of record high business results in fiscal 2018 through aggressive investments and various measures carried out under the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan. We will continue making strategic investments aimed at business growth while building a robust corporate structure that can grow continuously and give back to society. gases while providing a safe and healthy environment, Achieving Growth by Contributing to with an eye on 2050. In addition to products and Solving Social Issues solutions, we will utilize renewable energy and improve the interaction between air conditioning and buildings, Air conditioners, Daikin’s flagship products, have to achieve greater growth while helping address social revolutionized labor and lifestyles in hot regions, issues such as climate change. contributing to economic growth and higher-quality lifestyles. Today, they have become a key part of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) infrastructure supporting society. I believe Daikin will play an important role in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of common international targets for 2030. Driven by economic growth in emerging markets, demand for air conditioning is expected to more than three times by the year 2050. Increasing the penetration rate of air conditioners will contribute to people’s health by preventing heatstroke and improving the indoor air environment, whereby boosting economic growth by In 2015, the United Nations adopted the SDGs in an effort to solve worldwide problems increasing labor productivity. At the same time, electricity related to issues such as poverty, inequality, and climate change. The SDGs call on governments, companies, and citizens’ groups to play a role in achieving the goals by use will naturally increase as air conditioners spread, which the target year of 2030. will have a growing impact on global warming. As a result, we will focus not only on mitigating global warming impacts of air conditioners, but also spread environmentally Endorsement of the TCFD conscious products using energy-efficient inverter Recommendations technology and R-32, a refrigerant with low global warming potential. This will position us to transform With environment, social and governance (ESG) these issues into an opportunity for business development investment growing, investors are now paying closer and provide energy-saving solutions using networks and attention to how companies address climate change. control technologies. In May 2019, Daikin Industries, Ltd. endorsed the In 2018, we released Environmental Vision 2050 recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related which aims to achieve net zero emissions of greenhouse Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which aims to mitigate 5 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan Co-Create New Value in the Air and Environment Fields with Wisdom and Passion Strengthen Existing Businesses / New Business Domains and New Business Structure / Create More Sophisticated Technologies and Production Methods / Create More Sophisticated Management Control / Implement a Unique Daikin Philosophy Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2020 (Target) Net Sales Net Sales Net Sales 2.04 trillion yen 2.48 trillion yen 2.90 trillion yen Contribution to Greenhouse Contribution to Greenhouse Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions Gas Emission Reductions Gas Emission Reductions 45 million tons-CO2 67 million tons-CO2 60 million tons-CO2 risks of instability in financial markets attributed to strengths toward not only joint research, but also climate change. personnel exchanges and collaboration with venture We will continue to consider climate change to be companies tied to the university. an important issue impacting business continuity. We To beat out global competition and help build a will analyze risks and opportunities to our businesses sustainable society, we will produce innovation around and reflect findings in management strategy and risk the theme of adding value to air, which will be of management. We will also actively disclose information. growing importance for the future, while aiming to Furthermore, we will address the risks we identify and contribute to complex social issues and create new transform them into business opportunities in an effort business ventures. to further enhance corporate value. Acting as a Good Member of Society Since 2008, Daikin has supported the UN Global TCFD was established by the Financial Stability Board in 2015. It recommends that Compact comprised of 10 principles covering the four companies evaluate business risks and business opportunities linked to climate change as well as identify financial impacts and make disclosures. fields of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We continue to take steps to ensure soundness and ethics across our value chain. Business Creation Using Open Innovation As a corporate group that will “Co-create New Value in the Air and Environment Fields with Wisdom In order to achieve further growth and provide greater and Passion,” we will continue to live up to the value to society, it is vital that we move away from full expectations of various stakeholders from customers in-house development and embrace cooperation so that and shareholders to suppliers and local communities, we can speed up development of technologies and while solving social issues through our businesses. products using open innovation. Daikin has focused efforts on collaboration with universities and research institutes, along with companies from other industries, both inside and outside of Japan. In December 2018, we concluded a “University Corporate Relations Masanori Togawa Agreement” with the University of Tokyo. Under this President and CEO agreement, both organizations will contribute their Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 6 Management Strategy and Sustainability Overview of Sustainability Creating New Value and Contributing to Sustainable Development for Society Problems such as climate change and changing demographics are presenting our advancing global society with many challenges. Daikin aims to contribute to sustainable growth for the world by solving social problems and providing society with new value. Daikin’s Social Problems Daikin Can Help Solve Three Business Pillars Intensifying climate change Increase and concentration of demands for electricity and other energy forms Air conditioning Intensifying atmospheric pollution We handle all types of air environments, including air International International Frameworks conditioning equipment and refrigeration equipment, with the aim Frameworks Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of providing both environmental Kigali Amendment to toward Solving the Montreal Protocol performance and comfort. Society’s Problems Paris Agreement Chemicals Filters Utilizing our expertise in We contribute to preventing fluorochemicals, we contribute to a atmospheric pollution and improving wide range of fields including hygiene management in industries such semiconductors, automotive, and as pharmaceuticals and food through, information and for example, dust collection telecommunications. filters and high-performance filters. A strategic management plan formulated An environmental vision for taking action to achieve Our Group Philosophy every five years that stipulates the direction net zero greenhouse gas emissions over the long term of the group’s progress (formulated in 2018) Details on page 13 The basic management philosophy for the thoughts Environmental Vision 2050 and actions of all employees Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan CSR Action Plan 2020 The CSR Action Plan 2020 sets targets for 2020 regarding nine key CSR themes Details on page 11 Daikin’s Management toward Value Creation In aiming to grow by solving social problems, Daikin we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero carries out management toward creating value in the by 2050 and identify possible risks and opportunities short, medium, and long terms. for Daikin in the future. Centered on our Fusion 20 For the short and medium terms, we have Strategic Management Plan, we set concrete targets formulated our CSR Action Plan to assess the impact every five years and propose and implement measures our business has on society. For the long term, we have toward achieving these. formulated Environmental Vision 2050, through which 7 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Daikin’s Aims for Value Creation Provide new value that makes people and space healthier and more comfortable while at the same time reducing environmental impact. Value Creation for the Earth Value Creation for Cities Value Creation for People Reduce environmental impact through Contributing to solving energy-related Pursue new possibilities for air and all business activities and contribute issues arising from urbanization and contribute to healthy, comfortable to alleviating climate change contribute to the creation of lifestyles • Further raise the environmental performance of sustainable cities • Protect people from heatstroke and infectious diseases products • Effectively use energy throughout entire buildings • Protect people’s health from atmospheric pollution • Make effective use of resources and entire cities • Improve indoor environments to support people’s • Protect forests and help sustain their inherent functions • Build systems for recycling-based societies comfortable and affluent lifestyles • Create new types of energy • Raise productivity to contribute to economic advancement Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) targeted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) targeted Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) targeted Human Resource Development Supports Value Creation Foster human resources who spur innovation and who spread newly created value around the world. Contribute to the growth of employees and local citizens • Training of highly skilled personnel • Job creation • Contribution to local economic development • Creation of new products and services that help raise people’s lifestyles 2020 2030 2040 2050 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Daikin Is Contributing to through Its Business Ensure healthy lives and promote Build resilient infrastructure, Ensure sustainable consumption well-being for all at all ages promote sustainable and production patterns Prevention of heatstroke and infectious industrialization and foster Initiatives for energy efficiency during diseases, measures against air pollution, innovation production, recycling, resource efficiency, etc. increase in productivity, etc. ZEB (net-zero energy buildings) initiatives, promotion of energy management and Take urgent action to combat Ensure access to affordable, reliable, demand response, etc. climate change and its impacts sustainable and modern energy for all Spread of inverter products, refrigerants with Increase in energy efficiency, use and lower global warming potential, and heat spread of renewable energy, etc. pump products, etc. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 8 Management Strategy and Sustainability Key CSR Theme Formulation Process Establishing Key CSR Themes toward In understanding society’s challenges, Daikin assesses the impact that its business activities have on society, and identifies key challenges (materiality) from two aspects—“stakeholder concerns and impacts,” and “importance to Daikin.” We have organized these challenges into our key CSR themes, which have been reflected into our strategic management plans. Each key theme has targets that we are working toward. 1 Understanding Stakeholder Concerns and Impacts One important judgment criterion in analyzing materiality is stakeholder concerns and impacts. To fully understand this, Daikin follows international frameworks toward solving society’s challenges (global risks), and it takes into account stakeholder assessments of Daikin and the wishes and opinions that stakeholders have expressed in dialogue with Daikin. Society’s challenges (Global risks) International frameworks Assessments of Daikin, • Extreme weather events and temperatures • Paris Agreement to the UN Framework Convention stakeholder dialogue • Natural disasters on Climate Change ESG assessment • Failures of climate change mitigation and adaptation • Kigali Amendment* to the Montreal Protocol Dialogue with stakeholders • Cyber attacks • Water crises • Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Briefings for shareholders and investors Note: Five most highly probable risks taken from the World • UN Global Compact (UNGC) • Air Conditioner Forums Economic Forum Global Risks Perception Survey * International agreement to phase down the global warming • Dialogue with international organizations, NPOs, 2017-2018 impact (CO2 equivalent) of HFCs. NGOs, etc. Assessing the Impact of Our Business on Society 2 throughout the Entire Value Chain Value chain Business impact, what Daikin to do Efforts of significant materiality Throughout the globally expanding supply chain, Daikin is expected Supply chain management Procurement to respond to various procurement risks involving, for example, quality Anti-corruption control, labor practices, and environmental protection. Free competition and fair business dealings As air conditioner demand grows in emerging markets and other Response to climate change New value creation Development, countries, Daikin must develop products that offer superb Effective use of resources Product quality Design environmental performance and comfort and meet regional needs. and energy and safety Measures against Customer satisfaction atmospheric pollution Information security It is crucial that Daikin increase productivity while at the same time Management of chemical Manufacturing improving manufacturing quality and reducing environmental impact substances at all worldwide production sites. Waste and water-use reduction Sales, Faulty air conditioner installation not only causes quality problems but Response to climate change Anti-corruption Transportation, also leads to environmental problems such as refrigerant leakage. It is Product quality and safety Free competition and Installation crucial that Daikin raises the level of installation skills of employees Customer satisfaction fair business dealings and retailers worldwide. Information security Global warming impact from air conditioner use presents a huge Response to climate change Customer satisfaction Usage challenge. At the same time, air conditioners provide benefits such as Measures against Information security preventing heatstroke and making people more productive. atmospheric pollution After-sales To achieve a recycling-based society, it is crucial that we are thorough Response to climate change Customer satisfaction Service, in recycling air conditioners and recovering/recycling refrigerants. Waste and water-use Information security Recovery, Recycling reduction Business In order to continue contributing to society, we must develop the human Human resource development Labor-management Activity resources who conduct our business, comply with laws and regulations, Workplace diversity relations Foundation and have in place a system of corporate governance. Occupational safety Respect for human rights and health Corporate governance In order to spread Daikin technologies and thus contribute to solving Response to climate change Stakeholder Relationship society’s problems, it is essential that we work closely with numerous Biodiversity protection engagement with Society partners, including governments, United Nations bodies, international Communities organizations, NPOs, NGOs, key individuals, and local communities. 9 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainable Development 3 Identifying Materiality and Organizing It into 9 Key CSR Themes We identified materiality from the two aspects of “stakeholder concerns and impacts” and “importance to Daikin,” and together with the formulation of the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan we organized nine materiality issues as key themes in fiscal 2015: four themes of CSR for value provision, and five themes of fundamental CSR. Note that in fiscal 2018, when formulating plans for the final three years of Fusion 20, we revised some materiality issues based on the changing situation. Materiality analysis Environment New value creation, Customer satisfaction, Human resources Fundamental CSR Most important Measures against atmospheric pollution Response to climate change Respect for human rights Effective use of resources and energy Biodiversity protection Stakeholder engagement New value creation Stakeholder concerns, impacts Communities Product quality and safety Management of chemical substances Customer satisfaction Occupational safety and health Anti-corruption Human resource development Labor-management relations Free competition and fair business Workplace diversity dealings Supply chain management Corporate governance Information security Important Waste and water-use reduction Importance to Daikin Daikin’s 9 Key CSR Themes CSR for Value Provision Fundamental CSR We provide healthy and comfortable air environments for We respond to society’s requests through corporate action based on transparency people around the world while at the same time reducing and sincerity. environmental impact. Supply Chain Environment Customer Satisfaction Corporate Governance Communities Management Respect for Stakeholder New Value Creation Human Resources Human Rights Engagement Formulating a CSR Action Plan and Reflecting This into 4 the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan The nine key CSR themes have been incorporated into the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan as important management items that are being put into action group-wide. In fiscal 2018, we established targets for 2020, which include quantitative indicators for the various CSR themes. These were reorganized as the CSR Action Plan 2020. In implementing this plan, we will contribute to solving society’s challenges and respond to stakeholder demands. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 10 Management Strategy and Sustainability CSR Action Plan 2020 Daikin has formulated CSR Action Plan 2020, which sets targets for 2020 regarding four themes of CSR for value provision and five themes of fundamental CSR that we are working toward across the entire Daikin Group. Here, we report on the 2020 targets and the fiscal 2018 achievements regarding these themes. Key CSR Themes About the CSR Initiatives 2020 Target Provide Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Worldwide •Promote use of energy-efficient air conditioners, including •Through the worldwide adoption of environmentally conscious products, inverter products contribute to reducing greenhouse gas •Promote use of air conditioners using refrigerants with lower emissions global warming potential •Promote use of heat-pump-type heating systems and hot water heaters 60 million tons-CO 2 Environment •Expand our environmental solutions business Introduce state-of-the-art technologies to the market in order Minimize Environmental Impact in •Greenhouse gas emissions during Production Activities development and production for entire to address environmental and Daikin Group energy issue •Reduce greenhouse gases •Make effective use of water and other resources 70 % reduction over fiscal 2005 •Reduce chemicals •Promote green procurement (reduced to 1.58 million tons-CO2) Expand the Green Heart Circle of Love for •Achieve Green Heart Factory certification for all production bases the Earth •Encourage employees to take part in environmental •Preserve 11 million hectares of forest at 7 worldwide locations activities inside and outside work •Promote environmental and social contribution activities •Implement and expand environmental CSR for activities in collaboration with stakeholders Value Provision New Value Creation Create New Value to Meet the Expectations Share dreams and ambitions inside of Customers and Society and outside Daikin to realize a •Value Creation for the Earth •Use IoT and AI for open innovation that creates new value healthy, comfortable lifestyle through air •Value Creation for Cities •Value Creation for People Customer Satisfaction Provide Customers with the Ultimate •Establish a high standard of quality Provide peace of mind and reliability Satisfaction •Establish a service network covering the through a focus on customer globe orientation, experience, performance, •Ensure safety and quality •Grasp worldwide customer needs and and advanced technologies •Pursue customer satisfaction pursue high customer satisfaction •The ratio of excellent or advanced skilled engineers in manufacturing: Create a Work Environment Where 1 in 4 employees Human Resources Employees Can Use Their Talents to the Respect individual personalities and Fullest through People-Centered •100 female managers Management (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) values, and maximize the potential of each employee so that they can •Develop human resources •Increase percentage of overseas bases benefit Daikin and society as a whole •Promote workplace diversity where local nationals are presidents •Promote occupational safety and health •Frequency rate (shows frequency of occurrence of labor accidents): 0 •Degree of independence from the company, Accelerate decision-making and operational execution in response diversity, and transparency of the Board of to management tasks and the changing management environment, Directors (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Corporate Governance and raise the level of management transparency and soundness to raise corporate value •Thoroughness of compliance Respect for Show respect for basic human rights in accordance with all international Human Rights norms based on the laws and regulations of each country and region •Thoroughness of respect for human rights Fundamental Supply Chain Fulfill corporate social responsibility through environmental impact CSR Management reduction, quality assurance, and occupational safety and health •Conduct CSR procurement throughout the entire supply chain Engage in dialogue with all members of society and reflect outside Stakeholder opinions in our business, and continuously examine our actions to •Engage in dialogue with stakeholders and Engagement ensure that we meet society’s demands and expectations reflect this dialogue into management Respect the culture and history of different countries and regions, and •Contribution to environmental conservation, Communities create strong bonds with communities as a good corporate citizen education support, and cooperation with the local community 11 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Quantitative Index Fiscal 2018 Achievements Explanation of Index •Through the adoption of environmentally We measured how much we contributed to reducing conscious products, contribute to •67 million tons-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions through the adoption of reducing greenhouse gas emissions Daikin’s environmentally conscious products. •Environmentally conscious products as We measured how much we increased sales volume of air percentage of group sales (residential •93% conditioners using inverter technology and refrigerants with air conditioners) lower global warming potential. •Reduction ratio of greenhouse gas emissions from development and •75% reduction We measured how much we reduced greenhouse gas emissions generated in the product manufacturing and other processes. production (reduced to 1.31 million tons-CO2) (over fiscal 2005) Gold Rank: 2 •Number of factories certified as Green •24 bases Silver Rank: 10 We measured the increase in the number of production bases that Heart Factories Bronze Rank: 12 achieved Daikin’s in-house standards for environmental action. We measured contribution to CO2 emission reductions through •Contribution to CO2 emission •7 million tons-CO2 forest preservation activities at 7 worldwide locations where we reductions through forest preservation are working together with international NGOs and other groups. •R&D expenditure •65.2 billion yen We measured how much we invested in value creation and •Japanese applications: 904 how many new technologies we came up with. •Number of patent applications •Overseas applications: 434 (FY2017) (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) •Japan: 1.13 •Progress rate of after-sales services, •Singapore: 1.00 We measured how much we improved after-sales service regarding the base year as 1.00 •Indonesia: 1.03 customer satisfaction compared to the base year. •India: 1.09 •Spain: 1.15 We measured the number of employees we trained, out of •The ratio of excellent or advanced •1 in 2.9 employees (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) those involved in manufacturing, who possess advanced skilled engineers in manufacturing skills and knowledge and who can lead production activities. We measured progress in training women to be managers in •Number of female managers •59 (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Japan. •Percentage of overseas bases where •46% (overseas bases) We measured progress in appointing local nationals as local nationals are president presidents of overseas bases. We measured how well we succeeded in the safe operation •Frequency rate •1.38 of production bases. •Number of directors who are outside •3 outside directors, 1 female director, 2 foreign the company, women, and foreign We measured the diversity of the make-up of directors. national directors (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) nationals We measured how well we were in compliance through the •Self-assessment implementation rate •99% implementation rate of self assessments. We measured how thorough we were in respect for human •Self-assessment implementation rate •99% rights through the implementation rate of self assessments. We measured the percentage of suppliers that achieved •CSR procurement rate •94% (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Daikin’s in-house standards. •Number of air conditioner forums held, •6 forums held in 5 worldwide regions; 114 Among the engagement activities, the number of times participants from 37 countries; university dialogue was held with key figures from around the world number of outside participants professors, specialists, etc. on air conditioning, a core Daikin business. •Expenditure for social contribution •1.4 billion yen We calculated the monetary amount, through donations, activities goods, and other ways, that we provided to communities. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 12 Management Strategy and Sustainability Long-Term Outlook Policy (Environmental Vision 2050) Environmental Vision 2050 Adopted in 2015, the Paris Agreement contains a target for the latter half of this century of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to net zero and limiting global warming by less than 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels. In the spirit of the Paris Agreement, Daikin has formulated Environmental Vision 2050, with a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050. Besides reflecting this vision in the final three years of the Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan, we have begun to make a mediumto long-term strategy with targets for 2030. Formulation of Environmental Vision 2050 Looking long term, we have predicted how society will change by 2050 and have made a list of the risks and opportunities for Daikin’s business. Based on this, we have set a direction we must take in using our resources to solve environmental problems. Environmental Climate change Increase in energy demand Atmospheric pollution Problems and • Requests from society to reduce some of the vast • Stricter energy restrictions and higher expectations Business Risks and amount of greenhouse gas emissions caused by for energy-efficient products Opportunities using products • Greater range of needs regarding air quality • The electricity supply-demand balance will be • Stricter restrictions on existing refrigerants and disturbed, which will hinder the stable supply of gas-combustion heating electricity Daikin’s Resources Relationship Technology Information People Global network with society How Daikin Should Creation of products and services Proceed Creation of environmental solutions Creation of air value with high environmental performance Fusion 20 Themes • Promotion of energy efficiency through inverter and • Use of energy management to achieve optimal • Engineering of air environments that protect people’s other technologies operation through a system that integrates air health from air pollutants such as PM2.5 and VOCs • Adoption of R-32 and other refrigerants with lower conditioners and their peripheral equipment, buildings, • Pursuit of value added in air through, for example, global warming potential, development of and renewable energy office environments conducive to high productivity and next-generation refrigerants, adoption of heat-pump • Recovery and recycling of refrigerants in use on the home environments that improve the quality of sleep heaters market • Materials development, reduction of environmental impact throughout entire life cycle from material procurement to disposal and recycling Environmental Vision 2050 We will reduce the greenhouse gas emissions generated Open Innovation IoT and AI throughout the entire life cycle of our products. Furthermore, we will create solutions that link Through Through society and customers as we work with stakeholders products solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero. Using IoT and AI, and open solutions, we will meet Daikin the world’s needs for air solutions by providing safe and Environmental Vision healthy air environments while at the same time 2050 contributing to solving global environmental problems. We will provide safe, healthy air Open Innovation environments while striving to reduce Open Innovation IoT and AI greenhouse gas emissions to IoT and AI net zero. Through the power of air 13 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Making a Mediumto Long-Term Strategy toward Achieving Environmental Vision 2050 As a result of analyzing our future air conditioner business so that Daikin products can bring the world new added value for air, and so that our products and solutions can help achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions, we will formulate targets for 2030, integrate them into the Fusion Strategic Management Plan, and implement measures as action plans. Through products Through solutions Through the power of air Philosophy toward net zero greenhouse gas emissions Image: The power of air • More energy-efficient products Bountiful air • Development and adoption of refrigerants with lower global • Highly productive office Through warming potential environments • Reduce environmental impact throughout the entire life cycle, • Rooms that enhance power products including production of concentration • Rooms that help people Greenhouse gas emissions sleep better • Use of energy management to carry out efficient Advancing technologies Through operation of buildings with centralized systems Health, comfortable air solutions for energy efficiency and renewable energy • Reducing sleep disorders • Provision of energy services throughout the • Rooms that reduce stress value chain • Rooms that reduce heat shock Reductions through energy-efficient construction and spread of renewable energy Offset the remainder by: Safe, secure air • Switching refrigerants, recovering • Protecting people’s health and recycling refrigerants from atmospheric pollution • Spreading use of heat-pump heating • Reducing risk of infectious • Protecting forests diseases • Conducting renewable energy • Preventing heat stroke Currently 2050 businesses Offset • Others Diversifying needs Growth Strategy Based on Risks and Opportunities The forecast for rapidly increasing demand for air conditioning—Daikin’s main business—presents us with a huge opportunity. But along with this come risks for the continuation of our air conditioning business: increased air conditioning means greater energy needs, increasing electricity provision costs, and higher greenhouse gas emissions. We aim to respond to these risks by turning them into opportunities. We will do this by reducing our environmental impact by, for example, developing and spreading the use of high-efficiency air conditioners, creating solutions for buildings that utilize energy effectively throughout the entire facility, and developing and spreading the use of refrigerants with lower global warming potential. In this way, we aim to protect the environment while growing our business. IEA The Future of Cooling Forecast Worldwide air conditioner stock (number of units) and electricity demand (100 million units) Other Middle East Mexico 2050: （TWh） In May 2018, the International Energy Agency (IEA) 60 6,200TWh 6,000 Brazil Indonesia India released The Future of Cooling. The report looks at air China United States 50 conditioning and how the rise in its use is driving global Energy demand for space energy demand. 40 4,000 cooling to triple by 2050 According to The Future of Cooling, estimates are 30 for air conditioning demand to rise rapidly and for energy 2015: 20 2,020TWh 2,000 demand for space cooling to triple by 2050. 10 0 0 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 (Year) Note: Graph figures compiled by Daikin based on IEA The Future of Cooling Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 14 CSR for Value Provision CSR for Value Provision Environment (See pages 16 −18) Introduce state-of-the-art technologies to the market in order to address environmental and energy issue New Value Creation (See pages 19−20) Share dreams and ambitions inside and outside Daikin to realize a healthy, comfortable lifestyle through air Customer Satisfaction (See pages 21−22) Provide peace of mind and reliability through a focus on customer orientation, experience, performance, and advanced technologies Human Resources (See pages 23−24) Respect individual personalities and values, and maximize the potential of each employee so that they can benefit Daikin and society as a whole 15 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 CSR for Value Provision Environment Feature Environment Promoting the Spread of Energy Efficient Technology through Dialogue and Collaboration with Governments and International Agencies Why is it important? Concerns over Rising Environmental Impacts from Sharply Increasing Demand in Emerging Countries Currently, only 8% of the population owns air conditioning appropriate energy conservation standards. in countries that require it due to high temperatures, As the only manufacturer in the world to produce such as those in Asia and Africa. However, the number both air conditioners and refrigerants, Daikin has a of regions requiring air conditioning will increase further responsibility to harness its worldwide operations in in the future due to rising temperatures, while demand helping to find solutions to these issues through the for air conditioning is expected to increase sharply thanks reduction of environmental impacts achieved with to economic growth mainly in emerging countries. air conditioning. According to The Future of Cooling, a report published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) in 2018, the Forecast of CO2 Emissions from Space Cooling in 2050 number of air conditioners in the world is forecast to (Mt-CO2) Predicted values in case of increased roughly triple from the current amount to 5.6 billion 2,500 air conditioner efficiency and spread units by 2050. In addition, this sharp increase in air of renewable energy worldwide conditioners generate new peak electricity demand 2,000 equivalent to all the electricity generated in Japan, the Increased U.S. and Europe today. 1,500 efficiency of equipment Approx. Amid concerns of rising CO2 emissions from electricity consumption, the IEA report cites the need 1,000 90% Spread of reduction to strike a balance between the predicted increase in 500 renewable energy air conditioning demand and reducing electricity consumption. Toward this end, it recommends the 0 greater use of renewable energy along with the spread 2016 2050 (Forecast) of energy efficient air conditioners and legislation on Note: Graph figures compiled by Daikin based on IEA The Future of Cooling Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 16 CSR for Value Provision Environment DAIKIN’S APPROACH In Mexico, where air conditioner demand is growing on the back of the country’s economic Promoting the Spread of Energy development, the government has established a target Efficient Air Conditioners by Creating to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 22% by 2030. However, the low cost of electricity has meant Energy Efficiency Standards little progress is being made in conserving energy. Daikin has promoted the spread of energy efficient air In fiscal 2016, Daikin together with Mexico’s conditioners since before the IEA’s recommendation. National Institute for Electricity and Clean Energy We are committed to spreading worldwide air conducted a demonstration test comparing non-energy conditioners using inverter technologies to reduce efficient (non-inverter) air conditioners, which account electricity consumption through more efficient operation. for more than 70% of the local market, with Daikin’s Until now, we have focused on developing energy efficient (inverter) air conditioners. The results indicators and mechanisms for assessing the energy showed that the air conditioners with an inverter are efficiency of air conditioners mainly in India and about 60% more energy efficient because they use a emerging countries in ASEAN. We have also supported highly efficient refrigerant. With these results in hand, the introduction of cooling seasonal performance factor we presented the effects of reduced electricity demand (CSPF) as an indicator properly assesses the energy from the greater use of energy efficient air conditioners saving effects of inverters. As a result, in fiscal 2015, to the government of Mexico. India rolled out a voluntary energy labelling program With our track record recognized, in 2018 our using CSPF as an assessment criterion. Daikin will environmental conscious air conditioner promotion continue to provide assistance aimed at the introduction project proposed to Mexico was adopted for a of a unified program across ASEAN. Collaboration Program with the Private Sector for Disseminating Japanese Technology administered by the DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), with the support of the governments of Japan and Mexico. Expanding Initiatives to In June 2018, a delegation from the government of Mexico visited Japan to observe Daikin’s Mexico and Brazil manufacturing plant and other facilities, where we Currently, Daikin is implementing initiatives in various shared knowledge related to energy efficiency policy. regions in order to expand its activities in Asia to the We aim to create markets for environmentally rest of the world. conscious air conditioners through workshops and Initiatives to Spread Energy Efficient Air Conditioners in Emerging Countries 2018– 2013–2015 India 2016– ASEAN Mexico / Brazil Explanations for governments and Support for the introduction of Present energy conservation effects technical support for evaluators unified evaluation system from demonstration tests to Explained the effectiveness of CSPF for For governments in ASEAN that have governments and promote its introduction as a method for evaluating decided to introduce an energy labeling understanding the seasonal efficiency of cooling operation system with the help of industry, we and instructed measurement methods. promoted understanding of CSPF and supported the introduction of a unified system in each country. Also, we provided technical support to local engineers on the handling of R-32 refrigerant. Engagement with energy efficiency officials in Mexico Technical support in Malaysia 17 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Panel discussion with Mr. John Dulac of the IEA other opportunities to report the quantification of energy efficiency effects based on the results of the Vo ic e demonstration test in Mexico. In addition, under a similar JICA project in Brazil, we are raising awareness Expectations for Daikin and making policy recommendations aimed at the to Contribute to Global spread of energy efficient air conditioners. Efforts for the Future of Air Conditioning Confirming the Right Direction through Mr. John Dulac Dialogue with International Agencies Energy Analyst, IEA The IEA released a report during the course of Daikin’s I find it very reassuring that Daikin has worked to promote dialogue globally on the future of air initiatives, and in October 2018, Daikin invited Mr. John conditioning. Going forward, it will be more important Dulac, an IEA analyst for building energy technology than ever for industry, government and other air and policy, to be part of a seminar and panel discussion. conditioning stakeholders to work together to find The goal of the seminar was to confirm the direction of simple, high efficiency and low-carbon solutions. initiatives based upon a thorough understanding of the I have high expectations for the role Daikin will play in promoting such global collaboration. report’s recommendations. During the panel discussion attended by persons in charge from Daikin’s operations in Europe, the U.S. and Asia, the IEA presented its stance that there are NEXT CHALLENGE already technologies for balancing growing demand for air conditioning with controlling energy demand, Creating a World Where People in Need but these solutions need to be spread further. On top Benefit from Air Conditioning and of this, the IEA provided three other recommendations. Environmental Impacts Are Controlled First, manufacturers need to not only revolutionize technology for cheaper, higher efficiency air To sustain the air conditioning business globally, Daikin conditioners, but also use creative ingenuity for will need to promote the spread of environmentally spreading the use of products and technologies. conscious products around the world and to introduce Second, the promotion of attractive technologies and solutions to social issues advocated by the IEA from the services for consumers is key to spreading these standpoint of a business. products and services. Finally, third, the spread of For this reason, Daikin will work even more closely these technologies requires that manufacturers on engagement with the IEA and the governments of correctly convey the advantages of technologies to each country to lobby for energy conservation and CO2 government policymakers. emission reduction. Our goal is to create a world without During the seminar, details of Daikin’s added environmental impacts from air conditioning while Environmental Vision 2050 were also shared, and benefiting from the cooling and heating provided, by confirmation was made that Daikin will continue offering products and services that satisfy the needs of cooperating with the IEA going forward through customers, including not only energy conservation, but close communication. also affordable prices and usability. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 18 CSR for Value Provision New Value Creation Feature New Value Creation Creating Air Environments for Increasing Intellectual Productivity with Air Conditioning Solutions Using IoT and AI DAIKIN’S APPROACH Why is it important? Promoting Open Innovation in Pursuit Pursuing Value-Added Air for Further of the Limitless Possibilities of Air Boosting Intellectual Productivity Daikin is promoting open innovation through tie-ups mainly between its Technology and Innovation Center Air conditioning has played a major role in increasing (TIC) and various companies, research institutes, and intellectual productivity, such as enabling people in tropical climates to work just as efficiently as their universities. The goal of these partnerships is to counterparts in cooler climates. Daikin aims to create create new value for air that goes beyond the air new air conditioning solutions that offer more advanced conditioning elements of temperature, humidity, air controls. This will involve using IoT and AI technologies flow and purification. to identify human factors (mental and physical condition In 2016, we began joint research with NEC of individual people) for improving the air environment. Corporation aimed at air and spaces that increase intellectual productivity. By combining Daikin’s strengths Examples of Human Factors Conventional Changes in autonomic nerve balance Linking Sensing (NEC) and Control (Daikin/NEC) air conditioning ≈ Changes in arousal level controls • Temperature, humidity, air flow Activate Activate and purification sympathetic parasympathetic nerves nerves New controls Prevent Relax drowsiness Reduce fatigue • Stimulate the senses Increase Sensing Control (light, aroma, sound, etc.) concentration • Slightly cooler Arousal-level Control technology air flow estimation technology Arousal-level Propose • Changes in air quality Sample applications: Quantify condition air conditioning, Improve performance, etc. of drowsiness estimate lighting and Air conditioning, from camera images aroma settings lighting and aroma settings 19 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 of technology for optimizing air control and knowledge can be stopped with a flow of cool air. However, the concerning the impacts of air and space on people mechanism was unclear and ways of preventing with NEC’s strength of leading IoT and AI technologies, drowsiness while maintaining comfort were unknown. we engaged in research with the goal of providing This research demonstrated that drowsiness new solutions for optimal environmental controls in prevention and comfort can be balanced using order to increase work performance (intellectual effective temperature stimulus, marking a major step productivity) in offices. toward air conditioning solutions that increase intellectual productivity. Looking ahead, we plan to accumulate data and create an air environment that DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE considers various human factors by using IoT and AI. Testing a Balance between Increased Intellectual Productivity and Comfort Changes in Arousal Level Due to Various Stimuli with Effective Temperature Stimulus (Arousal level) Temperature stimulus Aroma stimulus Light stimulus Fixed condition* During this joint research, we focused on arousal level Without control During control Without control 5.0 (an indicator of brain activity) which is correlated to intellectual productivity. This is because studies have 4.0 shown that maintaining the right level of arousal without drowsiness or nervousness is important for 3.0 improving performance. As a result, we examined what methods and 2.0 timing of stimuli help to maintain arousal at the right 5 minutes before 5 minutes 15 minutes 25 minutes 35 minutes 45 minutes after after after after after level when feeling drowsy. During the test, 55 test * Room temperature setting: constant 27ºC, lighting at 700lx, no aroma subjects performed simple two-digit addition to make Source: Atsushi Nishino et. al, Approaches to Environmental Controls Considering Human Factors them feel drowsy. They were then asked to report Annual Meeting Presentation Compilation 2018 of the Architectural Institute of Japan their level of drowsiness on a five-step scale every five minutes. We also estimated their drowsiness using image processing technology to take pictures of eye Vo ic e lid movements. As test subjects became drowsy, we added various stimuli such as air conditioning (temperature), lighting (illuminance), and aroma Validating This Research (fragrance), and observed changes. in Various Fields The results confirmed that temperature stimulus Mr. Toshihiko Hiroaki from air conditioning can sustain the right level of General Manager Data Science Research Laboratories, NEC arousal for longer compared to light and aroma stimuli, since the average arousal level compared to no stimuli was two steps higher and drowsiness was We developed technology for quantifying drowsiness prevented for more than 45 minutes. When signs of using NEC’s AI technology along with control drowsiness first appeared, the right level of arousal technology for air conditioning and lighting to prevent drowsiness. After testing the effects of these was maintained when lowering the room temperature technologies in a work environment, we found that three degrees Celsius. At this setting, room performance increased without sacrificing comfort. temperature can also be returned to the original Going forward, we will continue to support activities setting in a short period of time. Therefore, the balance in the field for validating this technology in real life business settings. with comfort was also confirmed. Past studies have shown that people become drowsy if they are too comfortable and that drowsiness NEXT CHALLENGE Relationship between Arousal Level and Performance Aiming for New Value Creation in Air Yerkes-Dodson Law for More Active Living High Drowsy Appropriate Excited/Nervous Looking ahead, we will work with other companies Intellectual productivity Intellectual productivity is maximized with the and universities to increase the overall quality of right level of arousal indoor spaces, not just office spaces, where people are said to spend 90% of their lives. This will include providing an air environment tailored to people’s Maintain the appropriate needs and condition, while combining the latest condition using Low environmental controls technologies, data and know-how. Low Arousal level High Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 20 CSR for Value Provision Customer Satisfaction Feature Customer Satisfaction Global Product Development Structure to Quickly Address Various Regional Needs DAIKIN’S APPROACH Why is it important? Supplying Localized Products at the Right Prices Using Base Models and Air Conditioning Needs Largely Differ by Region Localized Development With operations in over 150 countries around the world, There is growing worldwide demand for air Daikin not only establishes plants close to markets, but conditioners following economic growth in emerging also hires and fosters engineers locally in each region, countries. However, the required functions and performance largely differs based on various factors thereby enhancing product development capabilities. such as climate, culture, and income level. Additional Moreover, we created a “base model” in Japan costs and time are necessary to develop the products that encompasses the basic functions and components localized to consumer needs. Daikin recognizes that to that comprise products. This is utilized in the “base enhance customer satisfaction we need to supply model development method” where each region can products suited to local needs quickly and at an affordable price. Daikin R&D Centers Mother R&D Center R&D Center Examples of City-Specific Needs Control Tower (TIC) City Regional Needs Heating and cooling needs due to seasonal temperature Delhi differences; compatible with frequent power outages Jakarta Smaller sized outdoor units compatible with urbanization Energy efficient air conditioners for buildings that can Singapore operate extended hours Paris Emphasis on quiet operation and interior design New York Durability for central air conditioning that is always on Production Bases R&D Centers Mother R&D Centers …Demand for cooling …Demand for heating Over90 locations 25 locations 5 of the 25 locations (as of March 31, 2019) 21 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 localize approaches to suit specific needs. This reduces malfunctions caused by damages resulting from costs and shortens product development lead time, off-road transportation were addressed by changing enabling us to deliver products at the right prices to the product baseplate or packing materials. Also, to meet consumer needs. address pipe corrosion due to gas from domestic wastewater released into the rivers, the affected pipes were coated with special rust-proof material. DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE By carefully addressing local needs, our R&D Center in India has honed its product development Commercialization Speed Greatly capabilities, which mainly involves addressing high Increased after the India R&D Center outside temperatures. As the central and coastal Established regions often see days of over 46ºC, which exceeds the limit of the base model, the R&D Center has India is one of the markets where we have successfully developed ways to accommodate temperature up to developed localized products by setting up an R&D 54ºC based on its own research studies. This technology center. Daikin started selling air conditioners in India is not only utilized in India but is also exported to the in 2000 and established the Neemrana Plant in 2009. Middle East. At that time, however, the plant lacked product development capabilities as products that were developed in Japan and Thailand were manufactured and sold in India. As a result, it took time to Vo ic e commercialize products that met market needs and we were not able to fully reflect consumer voices in Consumers Happy with our products. Daikin’s Prices and In 2016, we established an R&D center inside Response to Their Needs the plant responsible for new product and technology Mr. Sanjeev Agarwal development. This makes it possible for Indian President developers who can directly hear consumer needs to A.S. Air System (Daikin Dealer) promptly create prototypes and engage in testing, Daikin excels at development. In the region we cover, greatly reducing the time needed for commercializing consumers are very happy with products that suit products. Consequently, the lead time from identifying their needs at an affordable price. This includes models customer needs to delivering actual products is now with a heating function and models that are energy efficient. I look forward to Daikin’s continued efforts as short as three months. to develop products localized for the India market. Local Development Base Able to Meticulously Meet Local Needs NEXT CHALLENGE The market for air conditioners in India differs greatly than Japan. Firstly, Daikin’s R&D Center in India has Speeding Up Product Development by identified issues unique to each region based on Harnessing Technologies from Around climate and electricity infrastructure. the World across the Daikin Group Using the base model, we first tackled issues that can be addressed with minor changes. For example, Daikin has established a production system headed by a global network of Mother R&D Centers where key technologies developed and consolidated in Japan are Challenges by Region and Examples of Solutions in India allocated to our fields of expertise in different regions. With the goal of making development even more River region Northern capital region efficient, in 2017 we established a total of five Mother Piping corrosion due to Trouble due to frequent domestic wastewater power outages R&D Centers, one each in Europe, the Americas, India, Coated joints resulting from electricity China and Japan, and with the Technology and between parts infrastructure Innovation Center (TIC) in Japan as the control tower, Switched to circuit boards compatible we strategically allocate engineers and mediumto Coastal region with temporary long-term budgets for development. Damages due to high voltage load at off-road transport power recovery Looking ahead, we will continue to supply Modified products localized to customer needs around the packing materials Central and coastal region world in a prompter and more cost effective manner, High humidity Introduced High outside by sharing know-how across our development high-power temperature network, with an eye toward localized product dehumidifier control in the summer development that takes into account the special needs developed in Japan Air conditioner that can operate at 54ºC of each market. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 22 CSR for Value Provision Human Resources Feature Human Resources Developing Human Resources to Promote the Spread of Air Conditioners in the Rapidly Growing Market of Vietnam DAIKIN’S APPROACH Why is it important? Opening a New Plant in Vietnam to Promote the Spread of Energy Key to Cultivate Engineers and Technicians Locally as the Market for Efficient Air Conditioners Air Conditioners Grows Each Year The cost of electricity in Vietnam is high relative to household income, which has spurred demand for In Vietnam, where the average age is 30 years old and energy efficient air conditioners such as inverter air the population and economy continue to grow, demand for air conditioners increased approximately five-fold conditioners. In order to deliver a stable supply of high from 2008 to 2018, and this trend is expected to quality and highly energy efficient air conditioners, continue. However, along with rapid economic growth, Daikin Vietnam opened a new plant in a suburb of there is a lack of engineers and technicians capable of Hanoi in May 2018. We plan to increase annual manufacturing, installing and maintaining air production capacity from 500,000 to 1,000,000 units conditioners. Therefore, it is imperative to start as well as increase the total number of employees in developing human resources in order to support the Vietnam to over 2,000 by fiscal 2020. In addition, spread of air conditioners in Vietnam. Daikin Vietnam is putting efforts into developing the human resources required for marketing and servicing Demand for Air Conditioners in Vietnam air conditioners. (10,000 units) 250 200 Grew by 5 x in 10 years 203.7 Employees in Daikin Vietnam 150 99.8 (People) Production divisions Sales and services divisions 100 41.4 3,000 50 2,250 0 1,779 1,500 1,000 2008 2013 2018 (FY) 819 Source: Estimate for Air-Conditioning Market Trend in the World by the Japan 171 171 0 960 1,250 Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. 0 2008 2018 2020 (plan) (FY) 23 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 DAIKIN’S PERFORMANCE For our dealers, we provide both lectures as well as practical training on installation using actual air Overseas Locations Taking the Lead conditioner units. As of March 31, 2019, a total of in Developing Human Resources 2,100 trainees have participated and our goal is to in Manufacturing, Installation and train a total of 10,000 people by fiscal 2020. Training is not limited to residential air conditioners, but also Maintenance encompasses installation of multi-split type air With operations around the world, Daikin is now conditioners for commercial buildings which require rapidly increasing its plants through business expansion more advanced skills, whereby expanding the number and acquisitions. Our system of production places each of models carried by dealers. region in the leading role. The launch of the new plant in Vietnam was led by Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. (hereinafter called “Daikin Thailand”) and manufacturing personnel at the new Vietnam plant were trained with Vo ic e the support of the Daikin headquarters in Japan (hereinafter called “Daikin Japan”). Contributing to the The new plant in Vietnam faces a lack of Human Resource experienced personnel with basic skills in air conditioner Development across manufacturing. Therefore, before the new plant’s Borders launch, about 60 managerial employees from Vietnam Mr. Phongthorn Yoonutch began training at the Daikin plant in Thailand, with this Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. training still ongoing today. Moreover, with guidance I am proud to be a global trainer who teaches the from Daikin Japan, the plant has adopted the latest essential skills and knowledge for the manufacturing technologies including a production management of air conditioners. On this occasion, I was involved system utilizing IoT, making it our first plant in Asia training brazing technicians at the new plant in Vietnam. The opportunity to be involved in training and Oceania to do so. This not only results in training at my home location as well as another location is a in Vietnam but also cultivates personnel in Thailand, big challenge for myself, and I feel very lucky to have who in turn train workers in Vietnam. Such international been chosen for this task. Going forward, I hope to exchanges enhance instructional and technical skills continue enhancing my skills and teaching abilities as a global trainer in order to continue contribute to as well as increase motivation for both those receiving the development of technicians at the Daikin Group. and providing training. Moreover, as Daikin Vietnam lacks technicians capable of air conditioner installation and maintenance, we established a training center within the new plant NEXT CHALLENGE where personnel from the company and dealers can receive training, with the collaboration of Daikin Japan Developing Human Resources to and Daikin Thailand. Support the Spread of Air Conditioners Personnel from Daikin Vietnam learn the basics and Achieve Sustainable Growth at the training center and move on to more advanced technical training in Thailand thereafter. Following this, with Communities they acquire more practical experience through the At Daikin, we are committed to empowering our local services division and eventually are trained as instructors operations around the world, not just in Vietnam, to for dealers and outside technicians. take the lead in developing their own human resources to support the air conditioning industry, including manufacturing and maintenance, as well as to provide instruction and training both within and across each location, whereby developing a pool of human resources who can play an active role at Daikin globally. Through such efforts, we hope to contribute to the development of each region and country as well as grow sustainably as a Group. Instruction given at the training center Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 24 Data Other data can be found on our website. Environment Overview of Environmental Impact of Business Activities Materials Energy Electricity, Natural gas, etc. Fuel (transportation) Energy consumption during product use *1 Figures have been verified by a IN PU T • Aluminum, Water Water intake • Gasoline, etc. •Energy consumption of Daikin third party Plastics, etc. 12.33 million m3*1 air conditioners on the market 377TWh *2 Figures for Daikin Industries, Ltd. Conduct and expand Sales, Ty p e of Development, Design, After-sales Service, environmental Procurement Transportation, Usage b us ines s Manufacturing Recovery, Recycling activities together Installation with stakeholders •CO2 emissions *1 • CO2 emissions from *1 • CO2 emissions *2 •CO2 emissions from *1 •Fluorocarbon from purchased development from transportation Daikin air conditioners emissions during materials and production 1.31million tons-CO2 and business trips on the market disposal of Dakin 296.78 2.98 •Energy-induced CO2 830,000 tons-CO2 0.042 air conditioners million tons-CO2 •Fluorocarbons 480,000 tons-CO2 million tons-CO2 million tons-CO2 30.63 million tons-CO 2 Plan 3 O U TPU T Emissions *1 •Energy-induced CO2 •Recycled materials 0.14 million tons 284.70 million tons-CO2 •Waste 0.036 million tons •Fluorocarbons Wastewater 10.42 million m3 Chemical substances 0.002 million tons 12.08 million tons-CO2 Plan 2 Plan 1 Environmental Action Plan 2020 Fiscal 2018 target SelfAction targets Fiscal 2020 target Fiscal 2018 results assessment 1 Provide Environmentally Conscious Products and Services Worldwide Contribute to reducing GHG emissions by spreading Contribution to greenhouse gas the use of following products emission reductions*1 55 million tons-CO2 67 million tons-CO2 60 million tons-CO2 •Energy-efficient air conditioners such as inverter products •warming Air conditioners using refrigerants with lower global potential Sales volume of environmentally conscious products as •Heat-pump-type heating systems and hot water heaters Increase in ratio of environmentally conscious products*2 percentage of residential air •Environmental solutions business conditioners 93% (FY2017: 83%) 2 Minimize Environmental Impact in Production Activities 70% reduction over fiscal 2005 75% reduction Emission Reductions 72% reduction (reduction to 1.58 million tons-CO2) (reduction to 1.31 million tons-CO2) Greenhouse Gas Reduction of Unit reduction in energy-induced Energy-Induced CO2 CO2 emissions of 5% against 3% reduction 12% reduction Emissions standard value*3 Unit reduction in emissions of 5% 3% reduction 8% reduction Emissions against standard value*3 Unit reduction in water intake of Water 3% reduction 13% reduction 5% against standard value*3 Unit reduction in chemical Chemicals emissions of 5% against standard 3% reduction 11% increase value*3 Green Procurement Increase in green procurement rate*4 80% (FY2017: 76%) 3 Expand the Green Heart Circle of Love for the Earth Encourage employees to take 24 bases certified Carry out and expand part in environmental activities Certify all production bases as Green Heart Factories*5 inside and outside work (6 in Japan, 18 overseas) environmental activities in Reduce emissions by 7 million collaboration with Promote environmental and Carry out forest protection activities with NGOs and other groups tons-CO2 stakeholders social contribution activities Educate the younger generation about the environment Provide free learning materials to 2,400 students *1 Difference between emissions from all Daikin environmentally conscious products and emissions from non-inverter products, air conditioners using conventional refrigerants, and gas-combustion space heaters and hot water heaters. *2 Products that satisfy either or both of the following conditions: consume at least 30% less electricity than conventional products, or use refrigerants with at least two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants. *3 Average for fiscal 2013-2015. *4 The procurement value of suppliers that met the evaluation criteria as a percentage of the company’s total procurement value. *5 A Daikin standard for assessing and certifying how well each production base is doing in achieving environmental criteria related to energy efficiency, waste reduction, and biodiversity protection. Self-assessment: Shows level of achievement of targets in three designations: : Succeeded : Will soon succeed : Doing all we can 25 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Verified Data Verified by Third Party Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries, Ltd. JG Including Group in Japan OG Overseas Group OJG Including Group companies companies only in Japan and overseas Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission OJG Environmentally Conscious Products* as Percentage OJG Reductions from Daikin Air Conditioners of Sales Volume (Residential Air Conditioners) on the Market* (Million tons-CO2) 80 67.0 Super Green Products Environmentally 60 Conscious Products 54.0 51% 45.0 93% 40 34.8 Green Products 28.0 42% 20 Other products 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *Environmentally conscious products: Name for Super Green Products and Green Products. • * Difference between emissions from all Daikin environmentally conscious products sold and Products that satisfy all of the conditions below are Super Green Products. Products that satisfy emissions from non-inverter products, air conditioners using conventional refrigerants, and at least one of the conditions are Green Products. gas-combustion space heaters and hot water heaters. • Consume at least 30% less electricity than conventional products • Values up to fiscal 2014 are for emerging countries only Example: Air conditioners equipped with inverters • Reviewed by the third-party • Use refrigerants with at least two-thirds less global warming potential than conventional refrigerants Example: Air conditioners using R-32, a refrigerant with lower global warming potential Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verified OJG Total Energy-Induced CO2 Emissions, OJG (Development and Production) CO2 Emissions per Unit of Production (Thousand tons-CO2) Substances designated by Kyoto Protocol Japan Overseas Overall emissions per unit of production 6,000 Energy-induced CO2 HFC PFC (Thousand tons-CO2) with standard value set at 100 (%) 5,000 5,250 100 1,000 93 100 92 88 4,000 800 90 3,400 670 670 690 3,000 600 720 80 2,000 400 70 1,570 500 510 530 560 430 1,350 1,310 1,000 1,190 290 290 200 360 250 180 0 660 780 810 830 0 160 160 160 170 0 2005 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Standard value 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (average for fiscal 2013-2015) Emissions/ OJG Water Intake/ OJG per Unit of Production per Unit of Production Japan Overseas Overall emissions per unit of production Japan Overseas Overall water per unit of production with standard value set at 100 with standard value set at 100 (Thousand tons) (%) (Thousand m3) (%) 100 100 200 95 93 100 10,000 96 100 92 92 150 90 8,000 87 90 120 130 140 80 6,000 6,280 6,510 6,600 80 100 110 6,650 70 90 100 110 4,000 4,430 4,720 4,740 4,760 70 50 80 2,000 0 30 30 30 30 0 0 1,850 1,790 1,860 1,890 0 Standard value 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Standard value 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (average for fiscal 2013-2015) (average for fiscal 2013-2015) Chemical Emissions / per Unit of Production OJG Green Procurement Rate* by Region (%) OJG (total of PRTR substances and VOCs) Japan Overseas Overall emissions per unit of production 2016 2017 2018 with standard value set at 100 Japan 91 92 90 (t) (%) 100 98 95 China 96 92 90 3,000 89 100 Thailand 95 97 97 2,400 80 1,938 2,010 Other countries in Asia and Oceania 58 84 80 1,800 2,155 60 1,603 Europe 93 95 95 1,200 1,489 1,618 40 North America 30 30 32 1,428 1,125 600 20 South America 97 94 100 0 479 510 520 537 0 All regions 74 76 80 Standard value 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria (average for fiscal 2013-2015) *Green procurement rate = Value of all goods procured Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 26 Data Other data can be found on our website. Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries, Ltd. JG Including Group in Japan OG Overseas Group OJG Including Group companies companies only in Japan and overseas New Value Creation Research and Development Expenses OJG Number of Patent Applications D (¥ billion) Japanese applications Overseas applications 80 1,200 1,136 62.1 65.2 948 60 904 53.9 800 787 780 42.9 46.1 40 400 434 20 344 344 329 352 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) Customer Satisfaction Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG Improvement in Customer Satisfaction* (Thousands) Repair inquiries Technical advice Parts inquiries Others (Base year) 2016 2017 2018 2,000 1,918 1,776 1,856 1,874 19 Japan (2015) 1.07 1.11 1.13 1,770 39 18 44 48 393 1,500 318 312 323 295 Singapore (2015) 1.01 1.00 1.00 796 707 Indonesia (2017) — 1.00 1.03 1,000 699 674 723 India (2016) 1.00 1.06 1.09 500 Spain (2016) 1.00 1.21 1.15 715 736 771 765 799 0 *Satisfaction of after-sales services, regarding the base year as 1.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Human Resources The Ratio of Excellent or D Number and Percentage of Overseas Bases Where OG Advanced Skilled Engineers* in Manufacturing Local Nationals Are President or Executives (%) (%) 1 in 2.9 employees (People) Presidents Executives As percentage of all presidents 35.0 150 As percentage of all executives 55 52.4 34.7 47.9 50 29.5 100 46.4 30.0 50.0 28.0 45 71 46.4 43.0 67 1 in 3.4 employees 40 25.0 1 in 3.6 employees 50 64 33 32 32 35 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *High-skilled engineers with knowledge and leadership. Number and Percentage of Women D Frequency Rate*1 OJG in Management Positions Daikin Group Japan (manufacturing U.S. (People) Number of female managers Females as percentage of (%) (including overseas) industry average) (average for all industries)*2 all managers Number of calamities by 100 6 16.0 industrial injuries 5.3 16.0 Frequency Rate = × 1,000,000 4.9 Total actual working hours 80 4.4 15.0 15.0 14.5 4 60 59 14.0 53 14.0 47 40 2.0 1.94 1.90 1.66 1.83 2 1.63 20 1.0 1.66 1.61 1.50 1.33 1.38 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *1 This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities for every 1,000,000 working hours. *2 No data was released for the U.S. in fiscal 2018. (As of end of September 2019) Calculated based on information from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (November 2018). 27 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 Honors for Daikin ( Fiscal 2018 ) Overall CSR (Including SRI) Environmental Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Industries, Ltd. Chosen for inclusion in the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes Won FY 2018 Energy Conservation Grand Prize • Won the Director-General Prize of Agency for Natural Resources and Energy for realization of a system for upgrading Chosen for inclusion in the MSCI Japan medium-sized office buildings to ESG Select Leaders Index zero-energy buildings (ZEB) • Won the Chairman Prize of Energy Chosen for inclusion in the MSCI Japan Conservation Center for the Empowering Women Index (WIN) “multi-cube” air-conditioners unit • Won the Special Judges Selection Award Won Grand Prize (from among for the Smart-Multi hybrid individual air approx. 3,600 TSE-listed companies) conditioning system in the Corporate Value Improvement Award for fiscal 2018 sponsored by Shiga Plant received the highest the Tokyo Stock Exchange rating, 3 stars, in the biodiversity award system sponsored by Shiga Daikin’s Sustainability Report 2018 Prefecture Received an award of excellence in the Environmental Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. Won the Prime Minister’s Industry Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Award (energy efficiency category from Thailand’s Ministry of Industry Won the Prime Minister’s Outstanding Industry Award from Thailand’s Ministry of Industry for continuous contribution to the country’s economic growth Honors for Creating New Value Honors for Customer Satisfaction Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Industries, Ltd. Won Minister of MEXT Award in The Urusara 7 residential air the 1st Japan Open Innovation conditioner for the Japanese Awards, sponsored by Japan’s market won a Red dot award Cabinet Office, for an and a Good Design Award industry-university co-creation starting from the basic research stage Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (China) Ltd. For the fifth consecutive year was Won an award as a model company selected a Derwent Top 100 Global for protecting consumers’ rights, Innovator, by Clarivate Analytics, an honor for offering outstanding for intellectual property activities service, from the China Appliance Maintenance Association Human Resource Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Granted Nadeshiko Brand Won the China Model Human designation for the sixth time, Resources Hiring Company Prize and the fifth consecutive year, by in awards sponsored by 51job, the Ministry of Economy, Trade China’s leading human resource and Industry solutions provider Awarded the highest rating, 5 stars, in the 2nd NIKKEI Smart Work Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. survey conducted by Nikkei Inc., Won a Gold Class 1 Award from which assesses companies based the Malaysian Society for on the adoption of diverse, Occupational Safety & Health flexible work practices Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 28 Third-Party Verification Statement To ensure reliability of the content of this report, Daikin had a third-party verification conducted for data on greenhouse gas emissions, water use, waste water, waste emissions, and chemical substances emissions. Data Covered by Verification Environmental Impact Data on Business Operations in FY2018 Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, water use, waste water, waste emissions, and chemical substances emissions from business operations of four production bases in Japan of Daikin Industries, Ltd.,, eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 47 production subsidiaries overseas. Category 1 (purchased goods and services), 11 (use of sold products), and 12 (final product disposal) emissions of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated in line with the GHG Protocol’s ‘Corporate Value Chain (Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.’ Scope of Review Contribution to CO2 Emission Reduction through the Use of Products Contribution to CO2 emission reduction through the use of inverter air conditioners sold in emerging countries in fiscal 2018. Contribution to CO2 emission reductions through the use of air conditioners sold in industrialized countries and China in fiscal 2018. Contribution to greenhouse gas emission reductions through fiscal 2018 worldwide sales of air conditioners that use R-32 low global warming potential refrigerant. The Daikin website gives the calculation method for environmental performance data. 29 Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 About This Report Editorial Policy of the Report Third-Party Verification: This report covers our basic philosophy for realizing To ensure reliability of the content of this report, the sustainable growth of Daikin, fiscal 2018 achievements, Daikin Group had a third-party verification conducted and future plans. When we formulated Fusion 20 in for data on greenhouse gas emissions, water use, fiscal 2015, we came up with four themes of CSR for waste water, waste emissions, and chemical substances value provision—Environment, New value creation, emissions. (See page 29.) Customer satisfaction, and Human resources—and five themes of fundamental CSR—Corporate governance, Daikin Organizations Covered: Respect for human rights, Supply chain management, This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its Stakeholder engagement, and Communities—aimed consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance at sustainable growth for both Daikin and society. data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd., The report consists of a printed version and a production bases; eight production subsidiaries in website version. The printed version covers Daikin’s Japan, and 47 production subsidiaries overseas. strategies for a sustainable society, the four themes of CSR for value provision, and key information related Term Covered: to the five themes of fundamental CSR on which the This report covers fiscal 2018 four themes are founded. (April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2019). Information shows results for the Daikin Group as a whole unless otherwise specified. Publication Date: The website version goes into more detail than September 2019 (English edition) the printed version, and also gives other information The next publication (Japanese) is planned for July 2020. such as case studies from the past. The next English edition is scheduled for publication in September 2020. Sustainability Website Investor Relations Website Contact Information: CSR & Global Environment Center, Daikin Industries, Ltd. PHONE: +81-6-6374-9304 FAX: +81-6-6374-9321 Email: csr@daikin.co.jp https://www.daikin.com/csr/ https://www.daikin.com/investor/ Please refer to the following website for the latest financial information, annual reports, Note and other IR information. In reporting on fiscal 2018 CSR activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual fiscal 2018 Reference Guidelines: results and information reported for fiscal 2017. This report was created with reference to the GRI Also, because figures are rounded off, totals may Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016 released by the not equal the sum of individual figures. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Guideline comparison tables are on our website. Our CSR activities are Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and conducted in line with ISO 26000. plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Since 2008, the Daikin Group has been taking Daikin Industries, Ltd., and its subsidiaries part in the United Nations Global Compact, an (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be initiative for companies committed to operating aware that these are assumptions and judgments based on 10 universally accepted principles in areas made based on the information available at the including human rights, labor, the environment, and time this report was written and thus incorporate anti-corruption. Daikin also issues this CSR Report a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a as an annual Communication on Progress (COP) to possibility that events occurring in the future may the United Nations, a public disclosure on progress turn out differently from the forecasts, expectations, made in implementing the 10 principles of the and plans stated in this report. Global Compact. Daikin Group Sustainability Report 2019 30 Inquiries CSR & Global Environment Center Umeda-Center Bldg., 2-4-12, Nakazaki-Nishi, Kita-ku, Osaka, 530-8323 Japan PHONE: +81-6-6374-9304 FAX: +81-6-6374-9321 You can also view this report on our website. https://www.daikin.com/csr/ We welcome your thoughts and opinions on this report. https://www.daikin.com/contact/report/csr/ Published September 2019 In all of us, a green heart The Daikin Group Environmental Symbol The symbol of the Earth in the shape of a green heart represents a determination on the part of each and every employee of Daikin to think green (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). UN Global Compact Eco First Daikin strives to contribute to the sustainable For its range of environmentally development of society by reflecting in its advanced efforts, Daikin Industries, business activities the 10 principles of the UN Ltd. has been certified as an Global Compact, which the company has Eco-First Company by Minister of the participated in since 2008. Environment of Japan. Certificated in Japan
