Executive report COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS January 2019 – January 2020 January 15, 2020 Index Page Continuous support statement by the General Management ………………. 3 An introduction to CURINDE and its involvement with the UNGC .……… 4 Measures description …………………………………………………..………................ 6 Results measurements …….………………………………………………………………… 17 P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Curaçao, January 15th, 2020 H. E. Antonio Guterres Secretary-General of the United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Respected Secretary-General: In my condition as General Manager of the Curaçao Industrial and International Trade Development Company N.V., and as adhered, through this communication, I ratify our thoughtfully decided support to the Global Compact of the United Nations. Our compromise dwells not only in the implementation of the ten principles of the Global Compact, but also transcends de broadcasting of them, motivating thus the companies and the clients in our Free Zones and Industrial Park to entail themselves in this important task. Attached to this message you will find our first communication of progress – COP – in which we mention the developed activities in the period from January 2019 to January 2020. Be this an opportunity to reaffirm to the Secretary-General our highest and most sincere feelings of admiration and respect. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] An introduction to CURINDE and its involvement with the UNGC Our Mission Team ur team is conformed by Vision Engage, help and stimulate the highly-trained specialists that give quick and commercial and precise advisory about By the year 2030 Curinde productive companies the operations and will be an international for the fulfillment of procedures of the and highly renowned their goals and, Economic Free Zone in facilitator in the consequently, terms of compliance with production and contribute to the its activities. Our services commercialization oh sustainable social and reach out as far as to the high-value goods, economic growth of reference towards legal, providing excellent Curaçao. customs and financial commercial services advisors, as well as to through gentle and highly engineers, specialists, and skilled professionals. technicians. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Brief description of Curinde Curaçao Industrial & International Trade Development Company N.V., Curinde, is a semigovernmental company with its 85% belonging to the State of Curaçao and its other 15% to the APC General Retirement Funds of Curaçao. Curinde is the handling and operator company of three commercial parks in Curaçao: The port’s Free Zone (Economic), the airport’s Free Zone (Economic), and the Industrial Park. We advise and guide investors interested in establishing a company within one of the mentioned parks. For those companies interested in beginning or expanding their export activities in Curaçao, because of its strategic location it offers interesting possibilities through its Free Zones (Economic) and supports to the companies services. Free Zones (Economic) in Curaçao are fenced areas with customs presence and where the merchandise can be stored, displayed, processed or where they can provide services without the payment of taxes or export fees to the government. Furthermore, it concedes a revenue tax of only 3% to those companies operating within the Free Zone (Economic). Additional information about Free Zones (Economic) in Curaçao can be accessed in our webpage: www.curinde.com P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Measures Description Human Rights Measures Curinde guarantees Human Rights in several aspects: 1. Health and security: The principles related to Human Rights and Labour Standards have been implemented within the organization under the leadership of the Human Resources and Logistics Area. Our facilities are safe for our employees, appropriate and healthy for their wellbeing. By the end of 2019, we have remodeled a hugely important area of the Free Zone that extends to the professional control of the entire park under Curinde’s N.V. management. Under the management of Curinde are CURESECURE and P&P SAFETY GROUP. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] CURSECURE is a private security company that provides its service exclusively to Curinde’s industrial parks. P&P SAFETY GROUP is a private company that provides its safety services to every Curinde’s industrial parks. There are monthly inspections to make sure that the facilities have all of their safety measures in order and properly functioning. Annually there controls held in place in matters of industrial security related to fire prevention. The fire prevention program is undergone under narrow collaboration with the firefighter’s brigade and consists of the inspection of the sheds, hot works, and control over volatile substances. Additionally, all of the Curinde’s personnel are trained for emergencies, as well as for antibribery and ethical conduct guides are made annually as well. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Our security corps, CURSECURE counts with the following training programs (held every 6 months) : · Personal and other's defense · Legal procedures for retention of people and its disposition to legal authorities · Legal procedures for inspection of people and their belongings · Support procedures to legal authorities and retention of people · Correct use of uniforms and distinctions · Incidents management, corrective, preventive and improvement actions · Control and management of security equipment (radios, guns, cameras, etc.) · Curinde must guarantee that the lighting, ventilation and sanitary conditions are kept under strict control. · All offices and facilities where the employees develop their duties have drinking water and the sanitary conditions do not represent any risk for the employees. · According to the risk level of the developed duties, employees are assigned personal protection gear, furthermore, we encourage that the companies working within the P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Park and the Free Zones also encourage their use according to the risk level of their tasks. I case of an accident or eventuality related to the health and safety of the employee, an investigation is set in place for determining the causes and taking the corrective actions for preventing the reoccurrence of such an event. 2. Shifts, salaries, and leaves: The workday consists of 40 weekly hours in a daily shift of 8 hours with a break of 1,5 hours included in the workday. If any extra work is needed, it is paid according to the labor legislation of Curaçao. There is a paid rest day during the week. Salaries paid by Curinde to his employees are fair and within the industry’s standard. It is also paid in time, as well as their social benefits such as holidays, sickness leaves, maternity leaves, social security, labor risks, retirement fund and others required by the local government. All the employees at Curinde are officially employed with formal work contracts. 3. Fair treatment: Activities such as workplace harassment, persecution, physical, verbal, psychological or sexual harassment, are prohibited and are air causes for immediate termination of the contract for the employees committing them. The workplace environment is harmonic, respectful and based on respect for human dignity. The location of the security cameras is openly identified and demarcated to avoid that this security measure invades the intimacy of the workers. The information stored in the records and servers is well preserved and protected to be accessed only by authorized users. There is a policy for data treatment following current regulations. 4. Impacts to the community: Curinde operates on terrains of their property acquired 40 years ago, reassuring that these lands have not been an object of spoilage to any community or particular. For the development of their social reason, Curinde developed, documented, implemented and certified two international standards. The first one of them, the ISO 28001, which implies the identification, analysis, evaluation, treatment, and monitoring of the risks associated with Curinde’s supply chain. The second certified standard is the ISO 18788, Management System for Private Security P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Operations, which Curinde’s associate security company uses for identifying, analyzing, assessing and treating all the associated risk, especially towards possible impacts to Human Rights, handling of firearms and adequate use of force. Curinde is the first company in the whole Caribbean region in obtaining an ISO28001 certification and its security provider is the fifth company in the whole American continent in obtaining the ISO 18788 certification. 5. Management of the product or service: The activity developed by Curinde is characterized by strict accordance with the law and the performing of the best practices that hinder the commission of illegal activities, especially those related to counterfeit, piracy, forgery, drug trafficking and other activities illegal both nationally and internationally. The joint work with customs authorities is a priority for Curinde that aims towards safe and transparent commerce. Curinde keeps continuously developing what in 2014 began towards combating forgery and brand falsification. 6. Country risk: The abidance and respect for Human Rights, human dignity and against discrimination of any kind are part of Curinde’s policy. The implementation of the cited standards allows for the identification of the risk that might occur in this matter, generating thus the opportunity for optimal risk management and the avoidance of the risk itself. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] LABOR MEASURES 1. Freedom of association Curinde recognizes the right of its employees for associating and does not pursuits any actions against that right. The company keeps a constant dialogue with all of their employees and contractors, preoccupating permanently for their well being and safety, procuring a fair remuneration base don an assessment of the service provided and compliance with current regulations (Good Corporate Governance) and an adequate work environment that results in a sense of belonging towards the company and attending in an appropriate attention to any claims of the employees. 2. Forced labor Forced labor is not permitted, there no payments retained for the workers, the payment is always made with due timing and there are no deductions of any nature related to disciplinary issues. With the fair payment that Curinde does to its employees, these can satisfy their basic needs and those of its immediate family. Employees ID documents or Passports are never retained. Curinde performs is personnel enrolling process through DELOITTE. Curinde and DELOITTE are not involved in human trafficking. 3. Child labor Child labour is forbidden. In order to become a Curinde’s employee, the candidate must be 18 years old or older. The organization also monitors periodically that those companies operating within the zones and parks do not hire children as well. 4. Discrimination There is a strict policy against discrimination of any kind. There is a vetting procedure for the selection of the personnel which strictly forbidden discrimination. The profiles for the roles in the company do not have gender, religión, race, color, single or married status requirements that might give occasion to discrimination of any kind. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] From the General Management, they are given permanent instruction related to the knowledge of the no-discrimination policy and how to report any in case of knowing or being a victim of one. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] ENVIRONMENTAL MEASURES 1. Precaution Prevention is one of the main constants in Curinde in matters of awareness and environmental protection, opportunely identifying any contaminant situation, both in its operations or those performed by their occupants. An example of this: The annual visit plan to occupants performed by the commercial and SAFETY areas allows Curinde the recognition and knowledge of the operations of the occupants with the opportunity to visit their facilities for verifying that they don’t perform forbidden or unreported operations that affect the environment or the security of the facilities. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Maintenance for the facilities is both preventive as corrective. An example of this: The environmental risks management is performed base don the ISO 31000:2018 methodology, the same used for security risks in the Supply Chain; reassuring thus a pertinently early detection, analysis, assessment, treatment and monitoring of the risks. Additionally to the preventive activities, Curinde counts with the necessary plans for mitigating the potential risks that might materialize, designing emergency procedures for reducing the impact both in the operations as in the personnel. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] 2. Responsibility and performance The company counts with a work plan designed to reduce the energy consumption, promoting the use of clean energies that reduces the greenhouse effect gas emissions. The water consumption is regulated and the residual water is treated. The residual water control is mainly located in the Industrial Park managed by Curinde and is currently in its pilot phase consisting of contaminated/residual waters recycling. At its due time, purified waters coming from any form of contamination will go back to natural wáter in order to reuse them in agricultural areas. The handling of trash and waste is done through a national recycling company in charge of collecting the wastes of the Parks managed by Curinde. There is a special location in Curaçao authorized for discarding waste and monitoring the process. There are trash bins in management areas for separating organic residues from recyclable ones. The controls over chemicals and dangerous substances are permanent. At the entrance of the Free Zones and Industrial Park, the SAFETY responsible identifies and control these substances by checking that they re properly described and with adequate measures for avoiding the endangering of the environment and people. 3. Technology Before acquiring any kind of equipment, the energy consumption levels are evaluated. The use of LED technology lighting is encouraged. The environmental efficiency criterion is one of the most important ones before authorizing the purchase of any good or the acquisition of a service. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] ANTI-CORRUPTION 1. Culture and company’s procedures Curinde has a zero-tolerance policy against corruption, putting in place clear policies and formal procedures, especially in those cases related to the stakeholders. There is an anti-corruption policy duly broadcasted and socialized. There are no political contributions or payments for obtaining favors or preferential treatment outside the law or the established procedures. The corruption risk is considered in the Curinde’s risk matrix, performing alongside with its recognition analysis in terms of probability and impact, for determining thus the risk level and the actions to perform in order to prevent or mitígate the risk. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] In the Board of Directors and directing committee meetings, the importance of always acting with due diligence against the materialization of risks in any of its manifestations is always highlighted.. 2. Joint actions In addition to the joint actions with the customs and financial authorities of the country, Curinde has begun the implementing process od the ISO37001 – Anti Bribe standard, which is expected to be fully certified in the last trimester of 2020. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] RESULTS MEASUREMENTS The numbers that allow the quantification and objective observation of the results of the implementing of the processes and procedures are the following: Number of companies in the Park and the Free Zones: Total Industrial Park 61 companies Port’s Free Zones 56 companies Airport’s Free Zone 32 companies Distribution of the companies by activity: Fabriles Servicios Industrial Park 13 companies 11 companies Port’s Free Zones 0 companies 03 companies Airport’s Free Zone 05 companies 02 companies Employees distribution by gender : # Curinde’s total number of 17 employees: #Number of male employees: 5 # Number of female employees: 12 Performed trainings: • Good Corporate Governance; • Languages; • Fire Safety & Prevention; • Financial Management; • Money Laundering; • Anti-Fraud & Corruption; • Anti-Counterfeit. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Wellbeing activities: • Cura-Doet • Gym training for the whole Curinde’s team. Visits performed to the clients: Total Industrial Park 29 companies Port’s Free Zones 75 companies Airport’s Free Zone 22 companies *Note: several companies were visite don several occasions Inspection visits performed by the SAFETY department: Total Industrial Park 35 security inspections Port’s Free Zones 93 security inspections Airport’s Free Zone 21 security inspections Images from the Curinde’s Ethical Conduct Guide P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Images of the obtained ISO certifications: Certification Curinde Certification Cursecure ISO 28001:2007 ISO 18788:20015 P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] Images of the acknowledgments obtained by Curinde: CURINDE IS ACKNOWLEDGED AS THE BEST INVESTMENT PROMOTION IN THE 2019 “BEST TO INVEST” GLOBAL REPORT OF THE SITE SELECTION MAGAZINE. Curinde, the biggest agency for the industrial and commercial development in Curaçao (Curaçao Industrial and International Trade Development Company N.V.), was recently named in the Best to Invest report of the Site Selection Magazine as the best Investment Promotion Agency in Curaçao. The Site Selection Magazine is published by Conway Inc. And offers specialized information for expansions planning to 45,000 executives of rapid growth companies globally. With this acknowledgment, Curinde ratifies its compromise with improving furthermore the development of the Free Zones and the Industrial Park in Curaçao. P[Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí] [Escriba aquí]
