CSR Report 2020 Contents (Cover: Miyazu-Yoza Clean Center) Bringing new value to society 3 7 Message from Top Management Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan − An Overview with +TAKUMA 10 Company Outline 11 Business Summary 13 Introduction to Group Company Businesses 15 History 17 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 1.Environmental Plant Business 2.Energy Plant Business 3.Overseas Business Founder Tsunekichi Takuma invented the ﬁrst boiler Main Recent Projects to be produced entirely in Japan by bringing expertise 31 CSR Activities for the Future and technology to a product that had to be E NVIRONMENT ーEnvironmental Initiativesー imported until that time. 33 The Environment Basic Environmental Policy / Environmental Management By passing down this philosophy over time and Takumaʼs CO2 Emission Reduction Technologies augmenting it with Takumaʼs technology, we continue Environmental Reporting to create products with new value today. SOCIAL ーSocial Initiativesー 37 Human Rights and Labor Practices Respect for Human Rights and the Abolition of Going forward, we will continue to provide new value to Discrimination / Working with Our Employees customers through plants that take advantage of Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health the proprietary technologies we have developed since 43 Consumer Issues Initiatives for Product Quality our founding in areas such as combustion, 45 Participation in the Community waste treatment, and water treatment. 46 Contribution to Society G OVERNANCE ーGovernance Initiativesー 47 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Internal Control / Compliance & CSR Promotion Structure Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Plan (BCP) / IR Activities Executive Proﬁles: Directors Messages from New Outside Directors Executives' Proﬁles: Executive Ofﬁcers 54 Fair Business Practices Compliance Measures / Internal Reporting System Compliance & CSR Promotion Education CSR Awareness Survey / Material Procurement Policy 57 Financial Data 67 Outside Expert Opinion 1 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 2 Message from Top Management We continue to help solve social problems and contribute to the sustained Message from Top Management development of the world by creating valuable products and services. We at Takuma offer our heartfelt condolences for all those who have lost their lives as a result of COVID-19, and we hope that all those suffering from the disease will recover quickly and that the pandemic will be brought under control as soon as possible. example due to Japanʼs low birthrate and the shrinking and treatment plants and to carve out a path for expanding aging of its population; increased reliance on those businesses. comprehensive contracts as part of a trend to outsource achievement of our vision and consistent growth Marshaling the Takuma Groupʼs strengths afterwards. government services; and increasing sophistication and diversity in customer needs. to maximize proﬁts and enhance its corporate value In such a business environment, the plants provided by Pursuing sustained growth for society and the Group through its EPC business have garnered our company based on our founding philosophy The Takuma Group, which has adopted the goals of Adapting to changes in the business environment and customer praise and earned the Group a consistent position “aiming to maintain our role of being an indispensable in the markets it serves. Continuing this trend, customers of “Serve society through boiler manufacturing” presence in society as a leading company in the ﬁeld of securing a consistent position in the markets we serve will begin operating sewage sludge-fueled power plants renewable energy utilization and environmental protection” capable of creating energy while reducing greenhouse gas The 12th Medium-Term Management Plan represents the and of achieving an ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10 billion in The Takuma Groupʼs core businesses are the construction emissions this year. ﬁnal stage of our current mediumand long-term vision FY2020, has embraced a vision of building structures of waste treatment plants, energy plants, water treatment As facilities that play an essential role in maintaining (FY2012 to FY2020), which means that FY2020 is a year capable of consistently earning an ordinary proﬁt of at least plants, and other similar facilities (through its EPC peopleʼs lives and our customersʼ business activities, the during which we will formulate the next long-term vision. JPY 10 billion even as the business environment undergoes business*) and the provision of after-sales services for plants we build are called upon to operate for 20 or 30 years The previous mediumand long-term vision sought to a process of signiﬁcant change, and we are pursuing a them, including maintenance, operational management, after delivery. In our after-sales service business, we improve proﬁtability through the selection and variety of business activities to achieve that vision. We and operation. formulate long-term repair plans based on the extensive concentration of resources, while the current mediumand believe that we will be able to do so by marshaling the In the Groupʼs principal business domain, expectations expertise the Group has accumulated over time so that long-term vision seeks to reinforce our business foundation strengths not only of Takuma on a standalone basis, but of with regard to renewable energy and its potential to help customers can use those plants longer and more effectively, for stability and proﬁtability and to achieve a steady the entire Group, and our management is guided by the realize a low-carbon and post-carbon society are rising as and we help them realize stable operation over the long expansion in terms of both quantity and quality in order to basic policy of maximizing proﬁts and enhancing corporate the effects of climate change increasingly manifest term by carrying out optimally planned and timed lead to a strengthening of corporate capability to facilitate value on a consolidated basis. To that end, we are diligently themselves. Additionally, work is being planned to update maintenance based on detailed site inspections. We steady growth based on our development of structures implementing the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan superannuated public infrastructure and to extend its recently launched our ﬁrst 20-year long-term operations capable of consistently securing an ordinary proﬁt of at (FY2018 to FY2020), which takes into account changes that service life. At the same time, the business environment is business at an energy plant, augmenting similar services least JPY 10 billion. In formulating the next long-term are anticipated to occur in the business environment in the expected to undergo major changes over the medium and that we provide for seven waste treatment plants. Our next vision, we will be considering how the Takuma Group can future and which adopts as its core theme the need to long term, including shifts in demand in response to priority is to build implementation and management best forge ahead into the future. enhance our corporate capabilities to facilitate the evolving national policies and the structure of society, for structures for a long-term operations business for water 3 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 4 Message from Top Management Company Motto Value Technology, Value People, Value the Earth Management Principles At the same time, there is broad concern that the COVID-19 pandemic will impact social and economic Takuma will strive for social contribution, corporate value enhancement, long-term corporate development and the satisfaction activity in an increasingly signiﬁcant manner for an of all stakeholders by providing goods and services that are needed and recognized as valuable in society. extended period of time, and there is a growing sense of The founding spirit of Takuma was “Serve society through boiler manufacturing,” which in present-day language means uncertainty with regard to the future. As we face unprecedented difﬁculty in forecasting what is to come, it “contribution to society by supplying goods and services that we provide.” This spirit can also be applied to the concept of will be critical to strengthen our ability to adapt to change Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that in recent years has become a vital issue for corporate management. The and recover from crisis. management principles of the Takuma Group companies are all based on the said founding spirit. Takumaʼs Management Principles state, “Takuma will strive for social contribution, corporate value enhancement, long-term corporate development and the satisfaction of all Takuma Group Ethics Charter stakeholders by providing goods and services that are needed and recognized as valuable in society.” This Takuma and the Takuma Group companies believe that it is essential for the sound development of the group that all of the philosophy can also be found in our founding spirit of directors and employees remain aware of our social responsibilities and the circumstances surrounding us as well as act in Message from Top Management “Serve society through boiler manufacturing*,” and it response to social ethics complying with applicable related laws and ordinances. Bearing the above in mind, we have means contributing to the world through the goods and established and will promote this ethics charter as our code of conduct, aiming to realize our management principles. services that we create. It also informs Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), which we have currently embraced as 1. We shall strive for a proactive social contribution while establishing a harmonious coexistence with the global a key issue in the companyʼs management. We will continue environment as good corporate citizens. to work toward the realization of sustained growth of 2. We shall act in good faith in accordance with sound business custom, while complying with applicable laws and regulations society and our company in keeping with these principles. and committing ourselves to fair, transparent and free competition, as well as conducting lawful business activities. In addition to creating new value in the ﬁelds of renewable 3. We shall never have any relationship with antisocial forces or such organizations, which may pose a threat to the social energy and environmental protection, we will strive to order and security of civil society. address the new challenges arising from the COVID-19 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights and never practice discrimination. pandemic by working to increase the effectiveness of our 5. We shall strive to provide high quality products and services, based on our advanced technologies, to attain high compliance, risk management structures, and Business acclaim and conﬁdence from our customers. Continuity Plan (BCP). 6. We shall strive to disclose corporate information to shareholders and investors through Investor Relations (IR) and other activities on a timely and equitable basis. 7. We shall strive to protect corporate assets as well as information, while never using either for improprieties or any unjustiﬁable purpose other than normal business operations. Takuma has been a signatory to the United Nations Finally, in compiling this CSR Report we have sought not Global Compact* since 2006, and we support its 10 only to provide a resource by means of which a broad range fundamental principles in the four areas of human rights, of stakeholders can learn more about the Takuma Groupʼs labour, environment, and anti-corruption. We will work to activities, but also to help each and every Group employee Takuma Group Code of Conduct develop our business while understanding and respecting think carefully about CSR and bring that perspective to bear Harmony with society Practice of customer satisfaction these globally shared principles. In addition, concerning the in his or her work. We at the Takuma Group encourage implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals readers to offer their candid views and advice, which we will 1. Coexistence with the global environment 12. Safety of products and services as well as ensuring reliability (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations and the provisions carefully review in order that we might better resolve social 2. Coexistence with international society 13. Policies concerning advertising of the Paris Agreement adopted at COP21, the Group is issues and contribute to the sustainable development of 3. Practice of social contribution activities Making appropriate disclosure of information helping resolve social issues with technologies for reducing society. emissions of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide through Practice of compliance with laws and ordinances as 14. Dissemination of corporate information such means as high-efﬁciency power generation using well as sound economic activities 15. Ensuring reliability of ﬁnancial reporting waste and biomass. 4. Free competition and fair trade 16. Prohibition of insider trading July 2020 5. Relationship with politics and public administration Protection of corporate assets and information 6. Policies concerning business entertainment and gift-giving Hiroaki Nanjo 7. Prohibition of involvement in anti-social activities 17. Management and proper use of corporate assets 18. Handling of conﬁdential information President and CEO 8. Appropriate export and import transactions 19. Intellectual property protection Takuma Co., Ltd. Respect for basic human rights 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions 10. Respect for individuality, personality, and privacy of employees Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 11. Safe work environment Takuma is working to further progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through its business activities. *EPC business: A business in which Takuma offers a turnkey * United Nations Global Compact: service extending from plant design to procurement and The Takuma Group has joined the United Nations construction. (Plant Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) Global Compact (UNGC), which is a voluntary effort to create a global framework for * Serve society through boiler manufacturing: implementing sustainable growth by having It was the Company Motto of Takuma, then Takuma Boiler companies and groups exercise responsible and Manufacturing Co., Ltd., founded by Mr. Tsunekichi Takuma, creative leadership while acting as good members one of the ten great inventors of Japan during the Meiji and of society. Taisho periods (1868-1926). 5 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 6 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview (FY 2018 to FY2020) 3.Financial Target 1.Positioning of the 12 Medium-Term Management Plan th Target: 3-year cumulative consolidated 500 (Billion JPY) 50 ● The plan represents the ﬁnal stage of the current mediumand long-term vision (corporate vision), for which FY2020 is the target year. ordinary proﬁt of JPY 33 billion ● During its three years, we will achieve the vision and boost our corporate capabilities to prepare for steady growth in the future in response 400 40 to future changes that are forecasted to occur in the business environment. The 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, which represents the Previous medium-and Next mediumand ﬁnal stage of our current mediumand long-term vision, Current mediumand long-term vision (corporate vision) 300 30 long-term vision long-term vision establishes the above targets to guide our achievement of the visionʼs goal of consistently earning ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10 Aim to maintain our role of being an indispensable presence in society as a leading company in the ﬁeld of renewable 200 20 billion while simultaneously directing the company to utilize all energy utilization and environmental protection. its resources to build a robust business and Order value (left scale) 100 10 Ordinary proﬁt of JPY 10 billion in FY2020 (Build structures capable of management foundation in response to Sales (left scale) consistently earning ordinary proﬁt of at least JPY 10 billion even as future changes in the business environment. Ordinary proﬁt (right scale) 0 0 the business environment undergoes major changes.) 10th Plan 11th Plan 12th Plan 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Consistently secure annual (Billion JPY) ordinary proﬁt of at least Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview (FY2018 to FY2020) 10th Medium-Term 11th Medium-Term 12th Medium-Term JPY 10 billion. Management Plan results Management Plan results Management Plan 11th Medium-Term Management Plan Strengthening of corporate capability (FY2015 to FY2017) to facilitate steady growth 2012 to 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total 2018 2019 FY2018 to FY2020 10th Medium-Term Management Plan Steady expansion in terms of both (FY2012 to FY2014) Cumulative ordinary proﬁt target Order value 371.0 99.9 191.0 177.1 468.0 179.8 148.8 JPY 400 billion (approx.) quantity and quality (3-year cumulative total; 9 Medium-Term Management Plan th JPY 33.0 billion Sales 296.5 113.0 116.3 118.1 347.5 121.9 134.4 reference value) Reinforcement of business foundation (FY2009 to FY2011) Cumulative ordinary proﬁt results for stability and proﬁtability Target: JPY 33 billion JPY 31.9 billion Ordinary proﬁt 25.7 9.6 11.6 10.6 31.9 12.3 10.3 (3-year cumulative total) Proﬁtability through selection and Cumulative ordinary proﬁt results concentration of resources JPY 25.7 billion 4.Core Business Units and Emphasis of Future Activities 2.Policies of the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business Water Treatment Plant Business Japanʼs population and the emergence of more advanced and 1 Strengthening and expanding our revenue foundation diverse customer needs as well as social issues. Business Environment Business Environment Many of the Groupʼs products are used for a long period of time, We will strive to improve productivity, make effective use of ● As facilities age, there is ongoing robust demand for renewal and service life elongation. ● There is growing demand for sludge incineration plants that conserve and create energy. for example for 20 or 30 years from the time of delivery. Offering human resources, and further increase the level of value we provide ● Volume is growing for DBO projects as well as O&M services for existing facilities. ● There is increasing use of PPP/PFI arrangements in the sewer business. high-quality after-sales service in an ongoing manner so that by fundamentally reviewing and rebuilding business processes that Emphasis of Future Activities Emphasis of Future Activities customers can use those products more effectively and over a longer have become increasingly complex in order to accommodate these period of time contributes to both customersʼ and the Groupʼs changes while focusing on businesses with higher added value ● Strengthen the proﬁtability of our plant operation business. ● Strengthen the competitiveness of our sludge-fueled power system. ● Further strengthen initiatives to prolong the service life of facilities. ● Scale our waste management expertise horizontally to other businesses. proﬁts, helping to create a foundation for stable, long-term earnings. (which will help us create and provide value). We will work to further strengthen and expand our revenue foundation by continuing to provide high-quality solutions 4 Using human resources effectively Boiler Plant Business ( Japan) Boiler Plant Business (Overseas) throughout the plant and product life cycle as we meet customersʼ diversifying needs in an individualized manner. We will work to hire and train the diverse workforce that will be Business Environment Business Environment essential as we develop the Groupʼs businesses going forward. At ● FIT demand remains robust. ● Demand for biomass power plants in Southeast Asia remains robust. 2 Achieving sustained growth the same time, we will strive to create an environment that keeps ● The number of plants targeted for maintenance is increasing as ● Our ﬂagship bagasse-ﬁred boiler plants continue to experience intense individual employees engaged in their work and able to make full facilities are completed and transferred to customers. competition. Over the 80 years since the Groupʼs founding, we have built a use of their skills and abilities (by cultivating a healthy workplace ● There is growing demand for plant operational management and O&M. reputation as an essential part of society by providing products culture, reforming individual awareness, and facilitating fulﬁlling Emphasis of Future Activities Emphasis of Future Activities that are recognized for their value utilizing our technologies workstyles). ● Capture new orders for FIT biomass plants. ● Capture orders continually by creating competitive advantages. which are the core part of our company. ● Strengthen our maintenance structures. ● Strengthen the ability of our local subsidiary (SIAM TAKUMA) to carry We will create customer value by continually developing unique technologies, services, and business models based on Takumaʼs 5 Continuing to pursue compliance management ● Scale our waste management expertise horizontally to other businesses. out its business operations. strengths such as the technologies, track record, experience, and The Group considers compliance to be a key foundation of its expertise that weʼve accumulated through our business activities corporate activities, and weʼve worked to spread awareness and Waste Treatment Plant Business (Overseas) Package Boiler Business to date. In addition, we will work to secure sustained growth by foster adoption of good practices by including compliance as a securing and creating competitive advantages as we respond Business Environment Business Environment policy in the last several Medium-Term Management Plans. quickly to changes in the business environment, such as evolving Awareness of the importance of compliance has steadily taken ● There is a growing need for proper waste management and energy utilization ● We are continuing to see a certain level of demand in Japan, particularly customer needs and emerging social issues. root among our employees thanks to ongoing awareness-raising against a backdrop of growing urbanization, increase of waste volume, and in terms of renewal demand. diversiﬁcation of waste characteristics. ● The need for energy-conserving boilers is increasing overseas, and educational activities, and we will continue to pursue such particularly in developing nations. Increasing productivity, for example by reforming initiatives to ensure that the trust weʼve built up in our quality and 3 integrity remains unshakable. In addition, we will work to further Emphasis of Future Activities Emphasis of Future Activities business processes spread and improve compliance awareness throughout the Group ● Build structures to facilitate collaboration with partner companies. ● Maintain and expand our domestic business. The nature of the Groupʼs businesses is undergoing major by effectively implementing and utilizing mechanisms such as our ● Build schemes for entering new markets. ● Expand our overseas business. evolution as the business environment changes, for example due to internal reporting system and CSR awareness survey. changes in social structure such as the shrinking and aging of *DBO: Design, Build, Operate / O&M: Operation & Maintenance / PPP: Public Private Partnership / PFI: Private Finance Initiative FIT: Feed-in Tariff / Bagasse: Fiber remaining after sugarcane is crushed 7 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 8 Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview (FY 2018 to FY2020) 5. Progress in Implementing the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan Company Outline Name: TAKUMA CO., LTD. In this section, members of Takuma's management team present progress in Takuma's business ofﬁces Head ofﬁce location: 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan implementing the goals of the 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, TEL +81-6-6483-2609 FAX +81-6-6483-2751 (operator) 1 Head Ofﬁce (Amagasaki, Hyogo) which began in FY2018. Representative Director: Hiroaki Nanjo, President and CEO 2 Osaka Ofﬁce (Osaka) Established: June 10, 1938 3 Tokyo Branch (Minato-ku, Tokyo) Increasing customer satisfaction by enhancing our technological Capital: JPY 13,367,457,968 (as of March 31, 2020) 4 Hokkaido Branch (Sapporo, Hokkaido) Main business areas: The design, construction and superintendence of a wide variety of 5 Tohoku Branch (Sendai, Miyagi) capabilities and strengthening our corporate capabilities to boilers, plant machinery, pollution prevention plants, environmental 6 Chubu Branch (Nagoya, Aichi) equipment plants, and heating and cooling equipment and feed-water 7 Kyushu Branch (Fukuoka) accommodate change in the business environment / drainage sanitation equipment and facilities 8 Okinawa Branch (Ginowan, Okinawa) The design, construction and superintendence of civil, architecture 9 Harima Factory (Takasago, Hyogo) and other works 10 Taipei Branch (Taipei, Taiwan) Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term Management Plan An Overview / Company Outline Number of employees (non-consolidated): 875 (as of March 31, 2020) Hideki Takeguchi Number of employees (consolidated): 3,816 (as of March 31, 2020) Director & Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Manager, Engineering Group The Takuma Group Network (As of June 25, 2020; see Takumaʼs website for details.) Takuma's business ofﬁces Group companies in Japan Group companies overseas Group companies in Japan 12 Nagaizumi High Trust Co., Ltd. 17 Takuma Energy Co., Ltd. 1 Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. 13 Fujisawa High Trust Co., Ltd. 18 Kurume High Trust Co., Ltd. 2 Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. 14 Iwate-Kenpoku Clean Co., Ltd. 19 Hokutan High Trust Co., Ltd. Strengthening our corporate capabilities so that we can secure which makes it a year in which we must lay the groundwork for 3 Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. 15 Hitachinaka-Tokai High Trust Co., Ltd. 20 Suwako High Trust Co., Ltd. stable annual ordinary proﬁt of at least JPY 10 billion regardless of the next Medium-Term Management Plan. I look forward to 4 Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. 16 Anan High Trust Co., Ltd. 21 Imabari High Trust Co., Ltd. how the business environment in which we operate changes in the closing out the ﬁnal ﬁscal year of the current plan by generating 5 Sunplant Co., Ltd. 22 Energy Mate Co., Ltd. future remains the central theme of our current Medium-Term solid results and starting to develop the next plan. 6 Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. 23 Kashihara High Trust Co., Ltd. Management Plan. Our Engineering Group is responsible for With regard to the policy of “strengthening and expanding our 9 24 Techno Links Inc. strengthening the technological capabilities that are central to revenue foundation” as set forth in the current Medium-Term 7 Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. achieving that goal, speciﬁcally our capabilities in areas such as Management Plan and our effort to strengthen our after-sales 8 Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. 25 Tochigi High Trust Co., Ltd. planning, design, purchasing, construction, manufacturing, and service business to achieve it, we are working to develop 9 Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. 26 Ecos Yonezawa Co., Ltd. 4 3 4 research and development. The plants we deliver bring together technologies for increasing the ease with which facilities can be 10 Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. these technological capabilities, and to provide plants that satisfy maintained and managed as well as technologies for plant 11 Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. our customers, it is important that we improve upon them, along monitoring and operation, including advanced technologies such 25 with the human abilities of those who are involved in associated as ICT and AI. Furthermore, we will add a Supply Chain Lab to the 14 processes. Harima Factory, which we plan to renovate and update in 2022, to 5 15 We operate in the dual business ﬁelds of the environment and serve as an after-sales service facility that can maintain a reliable 2 8 5 energy, and under the current Medium-Term Management Plan inventory of maintenance-critical parts and supply them rapidly. 26 8 1 we have identiﬁed, and are working toward, the targets that need In this way, Takuma will work actively to construct, maintain, 7 12 to be achieved by each department in order to enhance our manage, and operate plants in the environmental and energy 20 technological capabilities and foster the development of ﬁelds and to help realize the Sustainable Development Goals that 24 13 3 18 6 professionals so that we can expand in those ﬁelds. This ﬁscal year society is pursuing by protecting the environment, realizing a is the ﬁnal year of the current Medium-Term Management Plan, recycling-based society, and reducing CO2 emissions. 21 19 TOPICS Building a new factory and after-sales service facility 9 10 ● Takuma had decided to update the Harima Factory and build a Supply Chain Lab. 10 1 Group companies overseas We are planning to further enhance productivity and quality at the Harima Factory while carrying 1 Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. 2 on the high-quality manufacturing policies developed over the last 77 years and to transform the 2 Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. 1 6 7 11 17 22 Harima Factory facility into a sustainable factory that is kind to both workers and the surrounding environment. 2 23 As part of the development and enhancement of our after-sales service structures, the new factory Plan overview will include a Supply Chain Lab in an effort to build structures to maintain a reliable inventory of Planned site At the Harima Factory site parts that are essential to the operation of customersʼ facilities and supply them rapidly. Total ﬂoor space New factory: About 19,000 m2 This new facility will help us meet a broad range of customer needs while contributing to society (including associated facilities) Supply Chain Lab: About 3,500 m2 16 in the areas of renewable energy and environmental protection. Planned start of operations December 2022 9 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 10 Business Summary Environment and Energy Business Municipal solid waste treatment plants Industrial waste treatment plants We support the realization of a Sound Material-Cycle Society using advanced waste treatment technologies Using advanced incineration technologies, we properly treat toxic substances suitably and help that meet the needs of local communities. the industry's environmental protection efforts. ● Waste incineration plants ● Industrial waste treatment plants ● Pyrolysis gasiﬁcation and melting plants ● Resource recycling and recovery plants ● Bulky waste crushing plants ● Bottom ash and ﬂy ash melting plants Business Summary ● Refuse derived solid fuel conversion plants ● Transition and intermediate processing plants ● Raw fuel (biogas) recovery plants ● Various types of pollution prevention equipment Waste incineration plants Bulky waste crushing plants Industrial waste treatment plant Plant that generates power from industrial waste and provides heat to a plantation Energy plants Water treatment plants Takuma's core technologies are utilized in various types of boilers, from biomass boilers, to total systems. We are working to purify wastewater with a holistic perspective through a “dialogue with water.” ● Biomass boilers ● Sewage and wastewater treatment plants ● Fossil fuel boilers ● Various types of advanced sewage ● Waste heat boilers treatment plants ● Power plants ● Sludge treatment plants ● Sewage sludge-fueled power plants ● Landﬁll leachate treatment plants Biomass power generation boiler Waste heat boiler Upﬂow moving-bed sand ﬁltration system Sewage sludge-fueled power plant Package Boiler Business Equipment and Systems Business General-purpose boilers Air-conditioning equipment and clean systems As the convergence of Takumaʼs combustion technologies, our boilers are a reliable brand that has earned We provide comfortable, clean environments to customers in the semiconductor industry as well as the support of a wide range of industries. many locations such as universities, research institutions, and hospitals. ● Steam Boilers (EQOS, Super EQOS) ● Building equipment ● Vacuum-type Water Heaters (Vacotin Heater) ● Air-conditioning equipment ● Heat Medium Oil Boilers (Thermoheater) ● Cleaning and drying devices ● Flue and Smoke Tube Boilers (RE Boiler) ● Clean rooms ● Package Water-tube Boilers ● Clean devices ● Chemical air ﬁlters Super EQOS Vacotin Heater Thermoheater RE Boiler Note: These products are handled by Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., which is one of our group companies. Clean oven Clean booths Chemical air ﬁlters 11 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 12 Introduction to Group Company Businesses (Related SDGs) (Related SDGs) Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. Sunplant Co., Ltd. Established September 15, 1941 Established August 21, 1969 Representative Syusuke Suzuki, President Representative Yoshiki Kita, President Introduction to Group Company Businesses Employees 111 (as of March 31, 2020) Employees 77 (as of March 31, 2020) Head Ofﬁce (LIVMO Rising. Bldg., 2F, Shin-Yokohama) Business Proﬁle: Sunplant Business Proﬁle: Dan-Takuma Tokyo Steam Power Construction Co., Ltd., was established as a boiler installation company when Takuma Steam Power Our products have been used broadly in a variety of industries and social systems over half a century, and we have contributed Construction Co., Ltd., spun off its Tokyo Ofﬁce. We changed our name to Sunplant in July 1976, and we have developed into a to society by creating advanced clean environments that are an essential part of the manufacturing processes for more generally focused facilities company as society has changed over time. semiconductors and electronic devices, which have a major impact on our lives. In recent years, we have carried out numerous installations that are backed by our technological capabilities and reliability at We have world-class technological capabilities and a market share for chemical air ﬁlters for use in clean rooms and sites ranging from commercial facilities such as nursing homes and hotels to research facilities and facilities at U.S. military bases. semiconductor manufacturing equipment and for magnetic shield rooms for use with high-precision electron beam equipment. Next year, we will mark the 80th anniversary of our founding, and all of our employees are committed to working together to create comfortable spaces in buildings through the design and installation of air-conditioning, water and wastewater, and hygienic equipment in keeping with our philosophy of “gratitude and service” so that all people can lead healthy lives. Business Activities ● Manufacture of products used in semiconductor manufacturing processes Business Activities ● Design and installation of air-conditioning, water and wastewater, and hygienic equipment Chemical air ﬁlter Magnetic shield room Polyimide curing oven Wet station Hospital (Adachi-ku, Tokyo) New business domains We are working with national universities to commercialize products by pursuing applied research and development of precision cleaning using microand nano-bubbles for the electronic industry and for the use of Research institution (Tsukuba, Ibaraki) Resort hotel (Niseko, Abuta-gun, Hokkaido) nano-bubble ozone water in the hygiene and healthcare ﬁelds. The pictured system is a washing system featuring next-generation environmental technology that uses ozone and pure water to wash Future business policy semiconductors instead of the heated mixed cleaning liquid used by conventional semiconductor washing equipment. Cleanliness is becoming even more necessary in the environments inside and outside buildings, and companies By using cleaning liquid made from ozone (oxygen) and water while performing installation work are under pressure to do so in a way that helps eliminate pollutants and viruses. We maintaining washing performance that is as good as or better than have the technology necessary to do this kind of work as well as a proven track record (including equipment conventional systems, the product simpliﬁes waste liquid treatment while installation work at university hospitals and clean room construction), and we will continue to work to enhance enhancing safety. our capabilities and provide safer, cleaner spaces in line with our philosophy of “continual reﬁnement.” 13 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 14 History Businesses CSR Legal Founder Tsunekichi Takuma established our philosophy of “Serve society through boiler manufacturing.” The goal of becoming a technologically driven company based on that belief has been 2000 ▶ the basis of Takuma's operations throughout our 80-years history. Takuma continues to provide technology for utilizing and rendering harmless a variety of waste products and biomass energy sources 1985 ▶ through its businesses in the renewable energy and environmental Takuma formulated its ﬁrst Medium-Term Management Plan in order to protection ﬁelds. We established local subsidiaries overseas and adapt to the challenging economic environment. During this period, continue to bring our technologies to customers not only in Japan, but Takuma worked to develop technologies to accommodate a variety of also worldwide, particularly in Asia. 1951 ▶ customer needs, including demand for energy savings in industry, the History Takumaʼs ﬁrst “Environmental Report” issued growing volume and diversity of municipal solid waste, and the need for 2004 The “Takuma Group Code of Conduct” instituted Takuma established itself as a manufacturer not only of improvements in water quality by means of water treatment equipment. 1912 ▶ boilers, but also environmental and sanitary equipment, for example by developing waste heat recovery boilers that use 2005 Takuma Hanyokikai Co., Ltd., a subsidiary involved in the manufacture and sale of small boilers, and Ebara Boiler waste heat from manufacturing plants, developing modern 1985 Takuma formulated the 1st Medium-Term Management Plan. Co., Ltd., merged and renamed Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. Founder Tsunekichi Takuma, who invented the ﬁrst water tube-type boiler entirely technology for incinerating solid waste, and entering the water The “Takuma Environmental Policy” instituted The ﬁrst overseas delivery of a waste treatment 2005 The “Personal Information Protection Policy” instituted produced in Japan, is one of the 10 great treatment market. In 1972, the company changed its name to 1986 Takuma Co., Ltd., which remains its name to this day. facility completed (U.S.A.) inventors of the Meiji and Taisho periods. He The “Compliance Declaration” instituted formulated the philosophy of “Serve society New Company Motto instituted: “Value Technology, 2006 The “Takuma Group Ethics Charter” instituted 1992 Value People, Value the Earth” Takuma participated in the UN Global Compact through boiler manufacturing” in 1938. That 1953 Head Ofﬁce moved to Osaka's Kita-ku District (Dojimahama) (4) philosophy, which calls on the company to 2007 Takumaʼs ﬁrst “CSR Report” issued contribute (render service to) society and the Business expanded into the environmental facility sectors, 1993 Basic Environment Act enacted environment through the manufacture of Tsunekichi Takuma 1958 including waste incineration and water treatment plants boilers, remains the foundation of Takumaʼs 2010 Energy from Waste plant delivered in Europe (U.K.) Management Principles today. Operations began at Kyoto Factory* (5) 1995 Amagasaki Head Ofﬁce Building completed (9) 1961 *Currently operates as a factory of Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. Feed-in tariff (FIT) program launched to facilitate Japan's ﬁrst 24 hour operating waste incineration 2012 ﬁxed-cost purchases of renewable energy 1938 Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., founded (1) 1997 ISO9001 certiﬁcation obtained 1963 plant delivered (6) Sewerage treatment facility delivered Japanʼs largest waste incineration plant delivered (10) 2013 Operation of the Takuma Solar Power Plant began (11) 1942 Operations began at Harima Factory (2) Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act and 1998 (Tokyo Shin-Koto Incineration Plant Capacity: 1970 Water Pollution Control Act enacted 1,800 tons per day) Decision made to build a new factory and after-sales Bagasse-ﬁred boiler, the ﬁrst product of its kind 2019 service facility (12) 1949 in the industry, exported 1999 ISO14001 certiﬁcation obtained for Harima Factory 1972 Company renamed Takuma Co., Ltd. (7) Company listed on the Osaka and Tokyo stock exchanges 1950 Head Ofﬁce moved to Osaka's Kita-ku District (Sonezaki) (3) Mass production began on “Vacotin Heater” 1999 Act on Special Measures against Dioxins enacted 1975 the worldʼs ﬁrst vacuum-type hot water heater (8) Sales (Billion JPY) 150 (11) Takuma Solar Power Plant (12) Conceptional drawing of our new factory （1）Amagasaki Factory (2) Harima Factory under construction （9）Amagasaki Head Ofﬁce Building （10）Shin-Koto Incineration Plant （4）Former head ofﬁce （5）Kyoto Factory at the time 100 (Dojimahama) （3）Former head ofﬁce (Sonezaki) 50 （6）Japan's ﬁrst 24 hour （7）Company name （8）Vacotin Heater FY2019 Sales 1938 operating waste change Takuma Boiler Manufacturing Co., Ltd., incineration plant JPY 134.4 billion founded *Consolidated accounting introduced in FY1990 1938 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2019 (FY) 15 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 16 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 1. Environmental Plant Business (Related SDGs) Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business Primary equipment improvements 70%* of all Japanese municipal solid waste treatment plants, which comprise a key type of infrastructure, have been operating for at Since developing waste incineration technologies using operating to the highest possible standards. least 15 years, and demand for updating plants and extending their service life is growing due to their aging. Using the advanced heat proprietary technology and delivering Japanʼs ﬁrst fully Takuma will continue to contribute to stable regional utilization and energy-saving technologies we have developed as a boiler and environmental plant manufacturer, Takuma helps extend continuous mechanical waste incineration plant in 1963, waste treatment by pursuing integrated initiatives ranging plant service lives and reduce CO2 emissions through high-added-value primary equipment improvement projects. *According to Takuma has built more than 360 municipal solid waste from the construction of municipal solid waste treatment research conducted by the Ministry of the Environment in 2018 and reported in “Municipal Solid Waste Emissions and Disposal.” treatment plants in Japan. Subsequently, we have plants to after-sales service for those facilities through a introduced numerous new technologies and achieved the broad product line and service based on an extensive track Example of a Primary Equipment Improvement Project No. 1 share of plant deliveries in Japan. Today, we continue record as the industryʼs leading company. to reﬁne our technologies and embrace the challenge of Energy Recovery Measures Energy-saving Measures Increasing steam Increasing combustion Plant construction Improving heat recovery turbine capacity equipment efﬁciency Changing control systems Increasing efﬁciency Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses ・Adding boilers to water Increasing generating Increasing combustion stability Implementing Increasing the ● Stoker-type incinerators injection furnaces capacity by increasing and stabilizing evaporation amount inverter-based speed efﬁciency of motors ・Expanding boilersʼ heat intake steam volume and and power generation output and airﬂow control and other equipment Stoker-type incinerators are the most common type of waste treatment plant in Japan, and they are a ﬂagship Takuma transfer area optimizing system design through changes in furnace shape product. Today, most incinerators operated by local governments throughout Japan use this treatment method, and Takuma delivers secure, safe, stable, and highly efﬁcient waste treatment in response to customersʼ needs through advanced technology and expertise based on its extensive track record. Realizing stable combustion Reducing environmental impacts Realizing high efﬁciency power generation 1 Stoker-type incinerators 2 Advanced ﬂue gas treatment 3 Surplus heat utilization equipment Stoker-type incinerators realize stable combustion We help reduce environmental impacts with advanced High-temperature, high-pressure boilers of a variety of waste thanks to proprietary stoker technology, state-of-the-art instrumentation, and ﬂue gas treatment technology that reliably removes toxic substances from ﬂue gas and technology to and other equipment maximize recovery of the energy stored in waste to realize Long-term comprehensive operation business advanced automatic combustion control. reduce the amount of ﬂy ash going to landﬁll. high-efﬁciency power generation. The Long-term comprehensive operation business, in equipment operating status. 3 Surplus heat utilization equipment which customers enter into contracts covering both Additionally, we operate Solution Lab to further enhance Steam operation and maintenance management for a term of 10 our remote monitoring and operational support functions Steam turbine to 20 years, has become the most common approach in the for existing plants. Our Solution Lab provides remote generator Flue gas industry in recent years, for example in the form of DBO monitoring and operational support by monitoring plant Boiler projects. status and operating conditions 24 hours a day. It utilizes Economizer We have currently collected plant operating and the latest Information and Communications Technologies maintenance management data for more than 10 municipal (ICT), including the IoT, big data, and AI, to provide Denitriﬁcation Filter-type dust tower solid waste treatment plants with , which we use optimized solutions for customers and support to help collector to provide real-time integrated management of plant and ensure safer, more secure plant operation. Takumaʼs Solution Lab remote monitoring and operational support facility 1 Stoker-type incinerator 2 Advanced ﬂue gas treatment Stack Optimal solutions that meet customersʼ needs Safe, secure operation and efﬁcient management Human resources and technological development Incineration of solid waste｜ Flue gas treatment｜Reliable removal Utilization of surplus heat | Stable combustion Flue gas, ﬂowing out of the boiler and Effective utilization of energy from waste We provide high-quality solutions that have been We provide even safer, more secure operation In addition to ICT, facilitating the growth of Solid waste introduced into the incinerator economizer, contains toxic substances Heat generated by the waste incineration process is recovered as steam by optimized for customers based on data obtained from and more efﬁcient management for customers the people involved in operations is essential burns consistently at a temperature of which are then reliably removed by a the boiler and economizer and used to generate electricity at a steam ﬁlter-type dust collector and denitriﬁcation remote monitoring and operational support by identifying through remote monitoring and operational in order to ensure plants to be operated in a 850 C or higher as it moves on the stoker turbine generator. The recovered steam is also used as a heat source in the (a step grate combustion equipment). tower, before being released from the stack. plant and nearby facilities, for example for hot water, heating, and cooling. and analyzing issues related to plant operations using the support functions that utilize the latest ICT. stable manner over the long term. latest Information and Communications Technologies (ICT). In the event of the unforeseen circumstances, Solution Lab improves workersʼ technical We also create new value in the form of distinctive our highly experienced engineering staff can skills through highly effective education and ● Methane gasiﬁcation facilities technologies and services so that we can respond to the provide precisely targeted guidance to training using operational training Recently the Ministry of the Environment has been encouraging the introduction of Methane gasiﬁcation facilities for use with municipal social challenges that will face society in the future. customer sites 24 hours a day. simulators. solid waste. Takuma is helping reduce incinerated waste volume and environmental impacts with its combined system of methane fermentation and incineration for municipal solid waste, which recovers the maximum amount of energy possible from waste to realize Plants Solution Lab highly efﬁcient power generation. (The system received the New Energy Foundationʼs Chairman Award at the FY2014 New Energy Awards.) Collecting data server Maintenance Annual maintenance is essential in order to ensure stable operation of municipal solid waste treatment plants. Maintenance demands sophisticated technological capabilities as well as experience, because in Data analysis and Delivery Combustion Power generation visualization addition to a range of expertise drawn on waste treatment plants, the manner in which their equipment amount status status deteriorates over time varies with the properties of the waste they process. Takuma takes maximum ・Combustion status and evaluation ・Equipment performance diagnostics advantage of its accumulated expertise to contribute to stable waste treatment and long-term facility ・Optimization of operation plans Chemicals/ Inspection Maintenance Proposing operation by developing long-term repair plans, carrying out elaborate site investigations, and then analysis history history ・Equipment service life forecasts improvements performing maintenance that has been optimized in terms of both timing and content. Replacing boiler tubes 17 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 18 1.Environmental Plant Business (Related SDGs) Water Treatment Plant Business ● Advanced treatment facility【Principal equipment】・Upﬂow moving-bed sand ﬁltration systems (Uniﬂow Sand Filter) Takuma has delivered numerous systems, particularly in relation to technologies for advanced treatment of wastewater, in an effort to help conserve the aquatic environment. Measures undertaken to improve the quality of public which we have delivered more than 2,700 units in Japan. A The recent trend is for plants to be called upon not only to purify water, but also to reduce power use by treatment water sources and the need to reuse treated sewage are design that combines ﬁltration treatment with continuous equipment and create energy from sewage sludge. In an effort to meet these requirements, Takuma has been focused on spurring demand for more advanced water treatment. backwashing of the ﬁltration sand ensures stable operation developing a step grate stoker type sewage sludge incineration and power generation system and implemented technologies Upﬂow moving-bed sand ﬁltration systems (Uniﬂow Sand and exceptional maintainability. using waste heat from the incineration process to generate electricity. Filter), which eliminate suspended solids (SSs) from water, The product line includes high-speed models with Going forward, we will continue to help conserve the aquatic environment by supplying products that meet the needs of our are used in a variety of ﬁelds, including in ﬁnal processing double or triple the ﬁltration speed of the standard model times. at sewage treatment plants and in pre-processing to remove as well as denitrifying and dephosphorizing variants that solids at water plants. This particular model is a long-selling add functionality for eliminating nitrogen and phosphorus product featuring proven water puriﬁcation technology of to standard SS elimination functionality. Water Treatment Plants Incoming Incoming water path water pipe Puriﬁcation air Water treatment plant equipment ﬂow Filter sand washing cycle Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Catchment water trough Filtered water Primary wash Catchment Sewage intake Reaction tank facilities Advanced treatment facilities Raw water trough Sand is moved toward the top of the ﬁlter while water being vigorously stirred inside the air-lift pump. 【Principal equipment】 Filtered Sand washer ・Aeration systems •Low power agitator (Bio Blade Mix) water Pre-processing Filter layer Secondary wash equipment Air-lift pump Sand is washed by counter-ﬂowing ﬁltered Puriﬁed Initial settling pond Final settling pond Sand ﬁlter water as it falls inside the sand washer. wastewater Discharge The sand returns to the ﬁlter layer surface Filter layer and slowly falls while capturing SSs. Disinfection Anaerobic Anoxic Anoxic Aerobic tank Air-lift pump tank tank tank tank Filter bed surface Aeration panel Crude sludge Excess sludge Aerobic tank ● Sludge incinerator【Principal equipment】・Step grate stoker type sewage sludge incineration and power generation system (step grate stoker furnace and innovative step grate stoker furnace) Drawn-off sludge Because it contains a large amount of energy, sludge generated during the sewage treatment process has been attracting attention in recent years as a biomass resource. We are taking advantage of our core incineration and boiler technologies to make effective use Incinerator of the energy contained in sludge by using it as a fuel to generate electricity. Following the systemʼs selection for inclusion in the Breakthrough by Dynamic Approach in Sewage High Technology Project (B-DASH) by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Digester tanks Sludge treatment Transport and Tourism (Japan) in FY2013, we have received orders for the system from the cities of Tokyo and Sapporo. Power generation equipment Heat produced by incinerating sludge is Dust is removed from Sludge Generator Steam produced by the boiler is used to generate electricity. recovered and used to produce steam. ﬂue gas. Air Flue gas Steam Sludge treatment facility Sludge incinerator Steam turbine Waste heat Binary generator generator boiler Dust collector ● Sludge treatment facility【Principal equipment】 Cleaning nozzle •Rotating drum-type concentrator Sludge fed into the machine Step grate stoker A rotating drum-type concentrator consists of a drum-shaped Dryer furnace Drum screen screen consisting of metal wedge wire that separates and concentrates solid and liquid components from coagulated Steam from a steam turbine generator sludge as the drum rotates. Following solid-liquid separation, Ash bunker is used to dry dehydrated sludge. Flue gas sludge is transported to the exit side of the system as it is Separator treatment tower concentrated and pushed by spiral-shaped vanes on the inside liquid of the rotating drum. Thanks to a simple design whose Concentrated operation hinges on a slowly rotating drum screen, the system sludge Combustion air fan uses less power than its conventional counterparts, yielding N2O, a gas whose greenhouse effect is Induced draft fan high energy savings. 298 times more pronounced than that of Combustion Photograph taken CO2, is broken down by high-temperature After ﬂue gas is cooled with water mist, toxic substances such as sulfur inside the furnace combustion at 900 C to 1,100 C. oxide are removed, and the gas is released into the atmosphere. 19 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 20 1.Environmental Plant Business Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Ine Town Project Story Kyotango City Miyazu Building a regional Sound Material-Cycle Society with advanced biomass utilization technologies Miyazu-Yoza City Construction Clean Center Clean Center construction project by the city of Miyazu This project, through which the city of Miyazu and the towns of Ine Similarly, in planning the facility, we identiﬁed three design Miyazu and the towns of Ine and Yosano Yosano Town City and Yosano are seeking to realize a safe and hygienic living concepts: nature, history, and people. In addition to adopting a design environment, was about more than just fulﬁlling the basic role of a that blends into the areaʼs rich natural environment, we incorporated waste treatment facility. Reﬂecting its belief that the project is one in the distinguishing shapes of the regionʼs traditional arts and crafts into ● Facility overview which a new future can be pioneered through advanced biomass the design, along with features that express gentle hospitality toward utilization technologies, the Takuma Group sought to create a model visitors, for example through the natural warmth of wood. Operator Miyazu Yoza Union Environment Project type DBO (Design, Build, Operate) case demonstrating how a project could help create a Sound As it turned out, the construction phase posed many unexpected Facility name Miyazu-Yoza Clean Center Project period Construction phase: April 2016 to June 2020 Operational phase: July 2020 to February 2040 Material-Cycle Society. In undertaking the project, we identiﬁed three challenges, including the discovery of underground obstructions and core concepts: providing peace of mind and vitality to the region, ﬂooding in a waste pit due to heavy rainfall. Nonetheless, we were Miyazu-Yoza Clean Center is a wide-area waste treatment facility operated by a city (Miyazu) and two towns (Ine and Yosano) in northern Kyoto Prefecture. The complex, which consists of an energy recovery-type waste treatment facility (waste protecting the environment and coexisting with nature, and able to overcome these obstacles to complete a facility whose incineration + methane gasiﬁcation) and a material recycling facility, incorporates the latest biomass technologies and will supporting a sound material cycle into the future. advanced equipment is unique in Japan. contribute to the realization of a Sound Material-Cycle Society. Electricity Combustible company ● Construction site waste Organic waste Energy recovery-type waste treatment facility (garbage, moist paper) Methane gas Power (Waste incineration facility) (Methane gasiﬁcation facility) generation Methane The waste incineration facility uses The methane gasiﬁcation facility recovers fermentation Gas generator high-temperature heat from the waste methane gas released by waste and uses tank Residue of incineration process to make hot water. it to generate electricity. The heat from fermentation that process can be reused. Material recycling facility Other waste Flue gas (sorting residue) The material recycling facility sorts and recycles waste such as noncombustible Crusher and sorter Flue gas refuse, plastic containers and packaging, and cans. Sorting helps extend the service treatment system July 2018 (heavy rainfall) September 2018 April 2019 October 2019 Incinerator Stack life of ﬁnal disposal site by reducing the volume of waste to be landﬁlled. Methane gasiﬁcation facilities Message from the engineering coordinator Message from the construction coordinator The complex consists of an energy recovery-type waste treatment facility (waste incineration + The facilityʼs location next to Yoza-Amanohashidate IC about 10 minutes by car from Amanohashidate, methane gasiﬁcation) and a material recycling facility. The methane gasiﬁcation facility ferments one of the three most famous scenic spots in Japan, makes it a picturesque destination in its own right. waste, paper, and other material that makes up the combustible waste stream to produce Although the greatest concern when construction began in January 2017 was delays caused by methane, which is then used to run a gas generator, allowing it to be recovered as electrical accumulated snowfall during the winter, the project was blessed with a comparatively mild winter. energy. Electricity that remains after certain local load requirements are met can be sold back to However, in addition to boulders and other underground obstructions, a variety of problems, including the grid. inﬂows of muddy water caused by heavy rainfall in nearby mountainous valleys, impacted the In designing the methane gasiﬁcation facility, we worked hard to precisely apply the expertise construction schedule and led to a delay of about 11 months after discussions with the customer. we have gained through past experience and to incorporate the latest information about other We were able to overcome the challenges with the customer in cooperation with a local general state-of-the-art facilities into the plant after a careful vetting process. contractor with whom we shared the construction work, sharing information about problems arising in It is our hope that in addition to its basic role of treating waste in a hygienic manner, the plant each scope of the plant construction and the civil work, and revamping the schedule. will contribute to material recycling and to the effective use of biomass energy. Our hope is that the facility, which was completed thanks to the understanding and cooperation of the Hiroshi Kogita Takahiro Kimura customer and local residents, will continue to operate and develop as a site that can contribute to the Section 2, Environmental Design Dept. 3 Section 2, Civil & region as part of Takumaʼs comprehensive operation business. Engineering Center Architectural Engineering Dept. Takuma Co., Ltd. Construction Center Takuma Co., Ltd. 21 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 22 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 2.Energy Plant Business (Related SDGs) For more than 100 years, Takuma has delivered numerous boilers and plants of various types and speciﬁcations, including for use in power, shipping, and air-conditioning applications, while accumulating extensive experience and expertise as a pioneer Products and services of the boiler industry. We will continue to help realize a sustainable society while working to resolve customersʼ issues as well as social problems through our business activities. Biomass Power Plants These plants produce heat and power from a variety of biomass fuels, including wood fuels such as wood chips and bark, PKS, and bagasse. Contributing to society through business activities Four Advantages Preserving the environment: Promoting renewable energy water, air, and mountain forests We are helping promote renewable energy We are helping preserve the global Advantage 1 Ability to burn a wide range of fuels by supplying biomass power plants. environment by supplying plants that These plants can effectively use a variety of substances that have been difﬁcult to use in the past as fuel. Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses utilize appropriate technologies and systems to protect the environment. Making effective use of unutilized Reducing CO2 emissions resources Wood chips Bark Wood pellets PKS We are helping realize a Sound Material-Cycle We are helping realize a low-carbon society Society by supplying plants that can efﬁciently by supplying high-efﬁciency power plants. burn fuels and waste products that have gone underutilized in the past. Livestock (poultry) Bagasse Rice husks Corn residue etc. manure Value provided by Takumaʼs Energy Plant Business Advantage 2 Custom designs From our four combustion furnace types, we select the model that best suits each customer's plan and design a plant accordingly. 1．Plant engineering ２．After-sales service We supply plants that combust a variety of fuels We offer service designed to ensure that plants can and waste in a stable manner over extended operate in a stable manner over the long term periods of time based on our extensive track based on our advanced technologies and extensive record of deliveries. experience. Biomass power plants Maintenance We supply power plants that can utilize a variety of We offer proposals for, and carry out, plans for biomass fuels to operate in a stable manner over extended periodic inspections and maintenance, functional Step grate stoker Traveling stoker Bubbling ﬂuidized bed Circulating ﬂuidized bed periods of time, including unused lumber, lumber waste, improvements, and preventive maintenance in construction waste, PKS (Palm kernel shells), pellets, order to maintain high plant performance and livestock manure, bagasse, and paper sludge. prevent unplanned stoppages. Advantage 3 Stable operation over the long term We supply plants that can operate in a stable manner for decades with the least number of breakdowns or sudden stoppages by designing them based Industrial waste incineration and O&M* on our extensive experience and expertise and by maintaining them in an optimal manner, even when biomass with inconsistent properties is used. power generation facilities We supply facilities that can recover heat in a highly We accept orders for operation, maintenance, and efﬁcient manner, including by using it to generate electricity, after burning even difﬁcult-to-treat waste management on 20-year terms to reduce workload and life cycle costs so that customers can maximize Advantage 4 High-efﬁciency, energy-saving performance in an appropriate manner. the proﬁtability of their businesses. We supply plants characterized by high transmission end efﬁciency and boiler efﬁciency by selecting the optimal combustion method and boiler for each installation and by reducing auxiliary power and the unburnt portion. * O&M: Operation & Maintenance 23 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 24 2.Energy Plant Business Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Construction This plant, which was constructed on a site of about 30,000 began. The schedule was extremely tight for a plant of this scale, square meters on Mikawa Harbor in the Shinnishihama-cho district but we were able to transfer the facility to the customer after Project Story of the city of Toyohashi, is one of the few wood biomass power completing it without incident (while setting a record of about plants in Japan with a generating capacity of 150 million kWh a 160,000 accident-free hours). The projectʼs successful completion Supporting continuity of the renewable energy industry with a biomass power plant year, equivalent to the power used by 40,000 households. It uses is entirely due to the customerʼs cooperation and the hard work of Biomass power plant construction project in Toyohashi, Aichi Prefecture PKS and lumber from forest thinning in Japan as fuel. Reﬂecting the cumulative total of 20,900 employees of Takuma and of our belief that the project will play a key role in the adoption of partner companies who were involved with the plantʼs renewable energy in Japan, we emphasized an early start of construction. operations and thorough safety management in its construction. We look forward to taking advantage of the experience gained Construction began in April 2018, and commissioning began in from this project to build the kind of plants that are required by our The customer, a wholly owned subsidiary of SALA Energy Co., Ltd., which is April 2019. Work was completed in June 2019, 15 months after it changing times. Customer SALA e POWER Co., Ltd. a central company in the SALA Group and its array of energy-oriented Project name SALA e POWER Biomass Power businesses, was established to operate a wood biomass power plant business. ● Construction site Plant Construction Project The biomass power plant that we delivered in this project uses PKS imported Power output 22,100 kW from Southeast Asia as its primary fuel, and it uses the heat generated by capacity 150 million kWh per year burning a mixture of chips produced from unused lumber and other wood (Equivalent to the power used by from Okumikawa in Aichi Prefecture and the Enshu region of Shizuoka about 40,000 households) Prefecture to generate electricity. Principal fuel PKS, wood fuel, wood pellets In addition to providing a clean, stable source of power that also helps Completion date June 2019 reduce greenhouse gases regardless of the weather, the facility contributes to the appropriate protection of the regionʼs woodland resources by working closely with local communities. Message from the engineering coordinator Stakeholder message Ryoji Higuchi Mr. Naohiro Fujita Section 2, Energy Engineering Dept. 1 President Project Center SALA e POWER Co., Ltd. Takuma Co., Ltd. The energy industry has embarked in an era of consolidation and borderless operations as a result of an across-the-board I currently work in Takumaʼs engineering oversight department, where I am involved with boiler plant planning liberalization of the power and gas retail sector. The SALA Group has responded to these changes by augmenting its natural and design. gas and propane supply operations with power retail and generation businesses. We believe that by putting in place structures Since the project represents SALA e POWERʼs ﬁrst purchase of a Takuma boiler plant, we conducted a series of that allow us to carry out integrated operations extending from power generation to power sales, we will be able to earn the highly detailed meetings, starting during the design phase. I believe that we were able to construct a plant that would trust, and meet the expectations, of regional society as well as of our customers. satisfy the customer as a result of the unity and effort by each and every person who was involved with the project. We look forward to supplying clean, stable renewable energy to the region in a way that also helps reduce greenhouse gases Going forward, I look forward to contributing to plant planning and design so that we can leverage Takumaʼs by operating this biomass power plant built by Takuma and to deepen our partnership with local communities while bringing experience and technology to better meet customersʼ needs. innovation to the infrastructure that underpins society by making effective use of unused lumber from nearby regions. 25 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 26 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 3.Overseas Business (Related SDGs) Our overseas business began in 1949, when we exported attention from the dual standpoints of global warming the industryʼs ﬁrst bagasse-ﬁred boiler to Taiwan. During the prevention and energy policy based on international Kenana Sugar Co., Ltd. (Sudan) subsequent 70 years, we have delivered more than 850 boilers frameworks such as the Paris Agreement, and there is now a to overseas customers. The combustion technologies we have major trend toward using biomass as a source of power at developed since our founding can accommodate not only scale. At the same time, the appropriate treatment of waste is Facility Biomass boiler plant (8 units) fossil fuels, but also special fuels such as bagasse, palm, and becoming a particularly pressing issue in developing nations. Completed 6 units in 1981, 1 unit in March 1999, wood, and we have both supported local industry by providing The path to solutions is by no means a simple one as a result 1 unit in January 2004 a source of power for manufacturing facilities in various of the complexities of environmental awareness, legal Combustion furnace type Traveling stoker countries and promoted effective use of renewable resources. structures, budgets, and other considerations, but there is no Steam conditions 113.4 tons per hour 3.2 MPaG 360 C 6 units We have also delivered 16 waste treatment plants to doubt that plants provided by Takuma make a valuable (normal operation) 136 tons per hour 3.1 MPaG 370 C 2 units customers in the U.S.A., Taiwan, China, South Korea, and contribution to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals Fuel Bagasse England. Takuma technology allows these facilities to (SDGs) in a number of areas, including by providing incinerate a variety of waste products. We help these “affordable and clean energy”, aiding in the development of This bagasse-ﬁred boiler plant was delivered to a customer in requirements, a completely different culture, and a harsh work Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses customers achieve stable operation over the long term by “sustainable cities and communities,” and so on. We will Sudan. Kenana Sugar, which was established in 1976, is a large environment in distant Africa during a time when communications providing optimal solutions for waste streams whose continue to harness such products, which are the embodiment company that manages integrated operations extending from were limited. A number of national presidents and other distinguished properties vary by country and region. of Takumaʼs technologies, to support customersʼ businesses sugarcane cultivation to sugar reﬁning. The project was part of a guests from various countries attended an elaborate dedication In recent years, biomass boilers have received new while contributing to international society. national effort to take advantage of water from the Nile River and the ceremony following the projectʼs completion in 1981. areaʼs extensive insolation to greenify the region and transform it into Deliveries to overseas markets a grain-growing area. Takuma contributed to regional development by delivering six 856 boilers boilers in 1981, followed by one boiler each in 1999 and 2004, while A 10-Sudan-pound note featuring a depiction of Kenana Sugar to Takuma exports the industryʼs Takuma delivers the ﬁrst waste (Including 380 biomass boilers) contending with challenges including the projectʼs scale, demanding commemorate the facilityʼs completion Founding ﬁrst bagasse-ﬁred boiler to Taiwan. treatment plant in its area in Taiwan. 16 waste treatment plants Lakeside Energy from Waste Ltd. (UK) 1986 2009 2010 1938 1949 1992 Facility Waste incineration power plant Takuma delivers its ﬁrst overseas Takuma delivers a waste treatment Takuma delivers a waste waste treatment plant in the U.S.A. plant with one of the highest capacities treatment plant in England. Completed January 2010 per boiler (800 tons per day 2 boilers) Treatment type Step grate stoker in China. Treatment capacity 1,370 tons per day (685 tons per 24 hours 2 units) Power output 36,650 kW (rated) Our Achievements We delivered this waste incineration power plant in 2010 for waste treatment, including municipal solid waste, at to a customer in Slough, a suburb of London, England. The facilities such as this one. Durable plants that can operate at companyʼs website introduces the facility as a plant that is high efﬁciency in a stable manner over the long term are large enough to supply electricity to power all 86,267 essential in order to improve the proﬁtability of revenue households in the area by processing 450,000 tons of waste such as processing fees and power sales when such plants to generate 306 GWh of power every year. are operated as a business, and this facility has earned high Overseas, private-sector companies are often responsible praise in this regard. Message Yasuo Takamatsu LuTsao Incineration Plant, ChaiYi County (Taiwan) TSM Group (Thailand) Deputy Executive Manager 嘉義縣鹿草垃圾焚化廠 TSM Power Co., Ltd. International Division Thai Udonthani Power Co., Ltd. Takuma Co., Ltd. Facility Treatment capacity Waste incineration 900 tons per day Facility Steam conditions (normal operation) The eight boilers we have delivered to Kenana Sugar continue to operate today, close to 40 years after the power plant (450 tons per 24 hours 2 units) Biomass boiler plant (4 units) 150 tons per hour 4.2 MPaG 450 C 2 units ﬁrst units were delivered. Ten years has passed since we delivered the facility we completed in 2010 for 170 tons per hour 4.2 MPaG 450 C 2 units Lakeside EfW, and that plant, too, continues to operate smoothly and earn high praise from the customer as Completed Power output Completed Europeʼs No. 1 EfW plant. Our products contribute to our customersʼ businesses and to society by operating December 2001 28,000 kW (rated) 2 units in November 2012, Fuel in a stable manner over the long term, and their performance is our greatest pride. Although the overseas Treatment type 2 units in January 2019 Bagasse business poses unique challenges that must be met before a plant can be delivered, I look forward to Step grate stoker Combustion furnace type continuing our initiatives in this area as a bridge to the future, based on the willingness to embrace difﬁcult Traveling stoker challenges that we inherit from those who came before us and the experience we have accumulated to date. 27 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 28 Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Main Recent Projects The following are the main plants supplied by Takuma during FY2019. Municipal Solid Waste Treatment Plant Business Water Treatment Plant Business Energy Plant Business Primary equipment improvements Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses Tokyo Kasai Water Reclamation Center CEPO Handa Biomass Power Co., Ltd. SALA e POWER Co., Ltd. Aoki Environmental Enterprise Co., Ltd. Project name Project name Project name Project name Tokyo Kasai Water Reclamation Center Sludge CEPO Handa Biomass Power Plant SALA e POWER Waste Incineration Power Plant Concentration Tank No. 4 Construction Project Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Construction Project Yamaguchi City Incineration Plant Machinery and Equipment Improvement Project Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Fuel: PKS, wood fuel Fuel: PKS, wood fuel, wood pellets Treated waste type: Industrial waste Project name Project overview: Update work on a sludge scraper Steam conditions (normal operation): Steam conditions (normal operation): Treatment capacity: 93.6 tons per day Yamaguchi City Incineration Plant Type: Center-drive post type 190 tons per hour 6.2 MPaG 480 C 85 tons per hour 6.0 MPaG 480 C Power output: 1,050 kW Primary Equipment Improvement Project Capacity: φ28,000 mm 1 unit Power output: 50,000 kW Power output: 22,100 kW Capacity Location Location Location Location Niigata Prefecture Incineration facility: 220 tons per day (110 tons per 24 hours 2 units) Tokyo Aichi Prefecture Aichi Prefecture Power output: 3,600 kW Location Yamaguchi Prefecture Hayashi Plywood Industrial Co., Ltd. Project name Biomass Power Plant Construction Project Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Fuel: Wood fuel Steam conditions (normal operation): 31 tons per hour 5.98 MPaG 415 C Power output: 6,800 kW Uji City Higashiuji Sewage Osaka City Hokko Landﬁll site Kochi Prefecture Urado Bay Eastern SARA Inc. Location Kyoto Prefecture Treatment Plant Project name Basin Takasu Sewage Treatment Plant Project name Project name Hokko Landﬁll site Project name Waste Gas Puriﬁcation System Uji City Higashiuji Sewage Treatment Plant Wastewater Treatment Facility Urado Bay Eastern Basin Takasu Sewage Installation Project Water Treatment Equipment Project No. 17 Restoration Work (Phase 2) Treatment Plant Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Sludge Treatment System Construction Part 15 Equipment overview: Equipment to supply CO2 Project overview: Modiﬁcation to early sedimentation, Project overview: Work to restore operation to a wastewater Equipment capacity and speciﬁcations Waste gas source: Incineration waste gas from reaction tank, ﬁnal sedimentation, treatment facility that was damaged Project overview: Dehydrator expansion work biomass power plant disinfection, and water equipment by Typhoon 21 in September 2018 Type: Pressurized screw press dehydrator CO2 supply volume: 2,750 kg of CO2 per hour Capacity treatment volume: 3,650 m3 per day Capacity treatment volume: 3,000 m3 per hour Treatment method: Treatment method: Treatment capacity: 225 kg-DS per hour Location Biological nitrogen removal with agglomerating agent Coagulating sedimentation Location Okayama Prefecture Speciﬁcations: Aeration system, sludge scraper, etc. Speciﬁcations: Turbid water treatment system Kochi Prefecture Location Location Kyoto Prefecture Osaka Prefecture 29 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 30 CSR Activities for the Future The Takuma Groupʼs relationship Realizing the corporate vision Creating social value through corporate activities and businesses with society Along with trusting relationships with customers and other stakeholders, our technical capabilities and expertise in the areas of the environment and energy that we have accumulated over many years based on our Management Principles lie at the heart of our business Basic approach activities and comprise a core strength that allows us to make a broad contribution to society. Takuma creates value for, and contributes Contributions to SDGs Takuma provides products and services centered on to, society through corporate activities and businesses that draw on these strengths. This section introduces some examples. environmental and energy plants on the basis of its Creation of social value ● Helping reduce CO2 emissions ● Revitalizing the region through local generation environmental, social, and governance initiatives. We believe We help reduce CO2 emissions by burning waste and and consumption of power that the entire range of business activities pursued by Customers Shareholders and investors biomass fuels, recovering the heat that is produced, and The Takuma Groupʼs Takuma Energy strives to increase the added Takuma with regard to social requirements, expectations, Employees Regional society using it to generate electricity. (See page 34 for details.) value of power plants while revitalizing the regions in which those and responsibility in this way collectively constitute CSR. plants operate by supplying power generated by waste power plants The sustainability of society has been called into question Provision of products and services Business partners Environment ● Clean centers as regional facilities and biomass power plants delivered by Takuma to local communities. CSR Activities for the Future in recent years in a trend that is illustrated by the very phrase Waste treatment plant Imabari City Waste Management Center (informally Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs). Going forward, Communities Kizugawa, Kyoto Prefecture Hokutan region, Hyogo Prefecture Water treatment plant known as “Bari-Clean”), which was delivered by Takuma, is Takuma will continue to strive to realize a sustainable served Fujisawa, Kanagawa Prefecture Kasaoka, Okayama Prefecture Energy plant a facility that contributes to its region in many ways, for society along with the Groupʼs Management Principles and example by hosting environmental events attended by local ● Constructing a new building (Training Center) at Takumaʼs head ofﬁce corporate vision by adding new social value to its products Environment Social Governance residents and by serving as a shelter in times of disaster. and services and by contributing to the resolution of social Takumaʼs new building which is scheduled to be completed in October issues. Management Principles 2020, will help realize a sustainable society by augmenting ordinary ofﬁce functionality with a variety of features, including use of Cross-Laminated Timber (CLT) and plant remote monitoring and operational support. Environmental, social, and governance initiatives Facility features ● Enhanced plant remote monitoring and operational support As Takuma looks toward the future and strives to become a sustainable company, we choose key issues involving the environment, ● Effective use of Japanese lumber, including CLT and ﬁre-resistant society, and governance based on the GRI Standards (a set of international guidelines on corporate sustainability reporting) and ISO 26000 laminated lumber, as building materials Bari-Clean Beautiﬁcation Project Shelter training exercise and then work to resolve them. Each department discussed CSR issues in line with those key issues and developed its own action program. ● Disaster prevention functionality for the region, (Planting ﬂower beds) At the end of the year, these departments then conducted self-evaluations to assess how well they had implemented their programs. including a high level of ﬁre and seismic resistance The table below outlines some of the results of that process. ● Employee training and skill development ISO 26000 FY2019 action program Key issue CSR issue Department core subjects Action plan Self-evaluation of results ENVIRONMENT Engineering Enable the optimization of power sales volume without regard to individual We were able to increase power sales volume by using system-generated operational plans and Contributions to resolving Initiatives to save energy and reduce CO2 Division skills and abilities by building an operational plan optimization system. comparing them to power sales volume for operational plans proposed by human workers. Environmental Environment Initiatives environmental problems emissions Engineering Actively contribute to the resolution of environmental problems by pursuing measures We actively proposed improvements incorporating measures to save Page 33 Division to save energy and reduce CO2 emissions at plants during the planning stage. energy and reduce CO2 emissions. Carry out safety-focused design and design review processes so as to eliminate Safety and quality of products Design of facilities that satisfy customers Engineering There were no instances of additional work related to safety measures being accidents at facilities after they have been transferred to customers. Additionally, Consumer issues carried out at facilities that have been transferred to customers or of problems and services through safe, stable operation Division utilize review lists and checklists, and carry out performance veriﬁcations during related to stable operation as of the time of transfer. plant commissioning in order to achieve stable operation of facilities after handover. SOCIAL Initiatives to establish appropriate working General Affairs / Reduce overtime work, for example by streamlining operations and leveling We completed an operational inventory, developed an associated manual, and Appropriate employment Human Resources employee workloads after having all personnel take an operational inventory and Social Initiatives conditions and healthy work-life balance Division put in place an environment in which employees can actively take time off. worked to level employeesʼ workloads. As a result, we were able to achieve the goal. Labour practices relationships and labor conditions Page 37 and human rights With regard to testing and related operations, in addition to verifying safety (including safety and health, Occupational health and safety initiatives Engineering measures at progress management meetings that are held on a regular basis, In addition to verifying safety measures, for example at meetings, we prevented occupational accidents by developing checklists related to safe social dialog, etc.) in areas such as testing Division prevent occupational accidents by thoroughly carrying out advance reviews and reporting of safety and hygiene, for example by using work journals and checklists. work and by thoroughly carrying out advance reviews and reporting. Community involvement Contribution to the communities around Marketing Carry out community service activities that align with issues in the areas Employees participated in volunteer clean-up activities in June in areas Contribution to society and development our worksites Division around worksites. around worksites. Share formulations of Takumaʼs basic approach, for example Management We highlighted the Management Principles, the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, and Compliance Cultivation of a robust corporate culture CSR Division Principles, the Takuma Group Ethics Charter, and the Takuma Group Code of the Takuma Group Code of Conduct in the CSR Report and in internal education Conduct, and work to ensure that they permeate the organization and take hold. and worked to ensure that they permeate the organization and take hold. Organizational Study and implementation of risk Marketing We conducted negotiations with customers to avoid and mitigate GOVERNANCE Risk management Formulate risk reduction measures by working with related departments at Takuma to identify and visualize risks before and after orders are received. identiﬁed risks during the pre-order stage and continued to put in place governance management plans Division structures for managing various risks during the post-order stage. Governance Support for measures to increase Planning Conduct a questionnaire targeting directors in order to increase the Initiatives We conducted a questionnaire targeting directors and held interviews, evaluated Corporate governance effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Evaluate, analyze, and report on the Page 47 the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Division results to facilitate useful discussions at Board of Directors meetings. and analyzed the results, and reported them to the Board of Directors. We offered training on the provisions of the Antimonopoly Act and worked to ensure that Fair operating Compliance with Assurance of understanding of, and Marketing Offer training on the Antimonopoly Act and continue to implement the Regulations employees understand the “Regulations Concerning Management of the Pledge of practices the Antimonopoly Act compliance with, the Antimonopoly Act Division Concerning Management of the Pledge of Antimonopoly Act Compliance. Antimonopoly Act Compliance” and the “Regulations on Managing Contact with Competitorsʼ Sales Departments” and that they will comply with those and other regulations. 31 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 32 E NVIRONMENT ーEnvironmental Initiativesー The Environment Basic Environmental Policy Takumaʼs CO2 Emission Reduction Technologies Our company has established the “Basic Environmental Policy” as follows, aiming to ensure employees contribute to global environmental conservation. This basic policy applies to the activities of all company departments. We convert waste/biomass into energy and reduce CO2 emissions! In 1 year, Takuma products Equivalent to Environmental Philosophy the annual CO2 emissions Takuma is committed to preserving the environment and realizing an afﬂuent society through business activities from the population of Osaka under the Company Motto: “Value Technology, Value People, Value the Earth.” Assuming per-capita CO2 emissions of 1.92 tons cut about 5 million tons! (household emissions for FY2018) Source: Greenhouse Gas Inventory Ofﬁce of Japan Operational Guidelines １. All Takuma Group companies will recognize the importance of maintaining a balance between preservation of the environment and business activities. Reducing CO2 emission with biomass power plants In 1 year, ２. Continuously develop activities to preserve the environment that comply with applicable environmental laws and ordinances, The sugar industry is an example of an industry that generates power using cut approx. 4 million tons! and ensure environmental control and assessment systems conform to international environmental standards. The Environment biomass. Factories that make sugar produce large quantities of residue from ３. Promote development of better technologies and products for society that preserve the environment. sugarcane, the raw material used to make sugar. Sugarcane is crushed into a pulp, and sugar is extracted in a mill. The remaining ﬁber is called bagasse and ４. Address resource conservation, energy efﬁciency, recycling, and minimization of waste generated by all business activities. can be used as plant fuel. The steam and electricity generated by the plant are ５. Enhance emplyees' awareness and understanding about the importance of preserving the environment through CO2 emission reduction achieved by used as sources of heat for the milling process and of power for plant operations, environmental education and internal promotional activities. Takumaʼs biomass power plants while surplus power is sold to a power company. The amount of power ６. Provide the community with information on the activities of Takuma to preserve the environment. generated at sugar factories has grown greatly, with examples of single plant (as of end of FY2019) that generate 50,000 kW. ● How does biomass power generation help reduce CO2 emissions? Wood chips Biomass is any recyclable organic material derived from a living Energy Environmental Management organism, but does not include fossil fuels, such as oil and coal. For Palm Bagasse kernel example, even though CO2 is emitted when wood chips are incinerated, shells ● The situation concerning the acquisition of ISO 14001 this CO2 is offset as it is absorbed through photosynthesis in the growth Our Harima Factory has acquired ISO 14001 process of trees, thus there is no increase in CO2 in the atmosphere. certiﬁcation and has been implementing environmental Biomass power generation helps reduce the amount of electricity management activities based on an environmental generated from fossil resources, helping lower CO2 emissions. Biomass power plant management system established to comply with international standards. Our group companies Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd., Takuma Technos Co., Ltd., Hokkaido Sanitary CO2 emission reduction from waste incineration plants Maintenance Co., Ltd., and Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. have also acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. Waste, is an important source of energy. Approx. 500 kW** of power can be In 1 year, generated from one ton of waste. In Europe and the Americas, waste incineration plants are often called Energy from Waste (EfW) plants, and cut approx. 1 million tons! recovering energy from waste has become the norm. Waste means “resource.” Takuma is seeking to be the best in the world with our technologies to convert waste into energy and reduce CO2 emissions. ** Presumes waste with a caloriﬁc value of 8,800 kJ per kg CO2 emission reduction achieved by Takumaʼs Harima Factory and a plant with electrical efﬁciency of 20% municipal solid waste incineration plants Approx. (as of end of FY2019) 1 ton of Waste 500kW of waste combustion power generated 33 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 34 The Environment Environmental accounting Environmental accounting is the process by which companies We have disclosed our own environmental accounting system and other entities recognize the cost of environmental since FY2006 when we introduced it based on the Environmental Reporting conservation in their business activities as well as the effects of “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” issued by the those activities and measure and communicate them in as Ministry of the Environment. As our business activities mainly Takuma reports the environmental impact of its business activities as well as the manner in which it takes environmental quantitative a manner as possible (either in terms of monetary involve environmental conservation plants and their equipment, considerations into account in accordance with the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (issued by the Ministry of the Environment). amounts or amounts of materials) with the goal of pursuing Takuma Group employees have a signiﬁcant awareness of the This environmental reporting program includes not only environmental information extracted from our overall business activities environmental conservation initiatives in an efﬁcient and need for environmental conservation, and we have been from an environmental standpoint, but also information about related economic and social aspects of those activities. effective manner while maintaining a good relationship with implementing approaches toward such issues within the society so as to facilitate sustainable development. Takuma Group. Environmental data (non-consolidated) ● Environmental conservation cost ● Total energy usage ● Greenhouse gas emissions Investments and expense related to the prevention, reduction, and/or Scope of data collected 90,000 4,500 avoidance of environmental impact, removal of such impact, restoration following the occurrence of a disaster, and other activities are measured ● Period covered: April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020 (Tons-CO2 per year) in monetary value. (“Environmental Accounting Guidelines”) Companies targeted: (GJ per year) ● 60,000 3,000 Investment Costs Item (thousand JPY) (thousand JPY) Business area costs 12 domestic companies 30,000 1,500 Pollution prevention costs 3,764 22,307 ● Takuma Co., Ltd. (Head Ofﬁce, other ofﬁces Global environmental conservation costs 3,125 19,318 including overseas sites and the Harima Factory) Resource circulation costs ― 14,277 0 0 ● Nippon Thermoener Co., Ltd. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Administration costs ― 36,120 R&D costs 14,301 1,637,750 ● Takuma Technos Co., Ltd. The total energy usage of the fuel and the electricity The greenhouse gas emitted by Takuma is limited to The Environment Social activity costs ― 12,863 ● Hokkaido Sanitary Maintenance Co., Ltd. consumed at Takuma during FY2019 rose slightly carbon dioxide (CO2). The amount of CO2 emissions in Total 21,190 1,742,635 compared to FY2018 levels. We will continue to promote FY2019 rose slightly compared to FY2018 levels. We will ● Takuma Technos Hokkaido Co., Ltd. energy savings from here on out. continue striving to reduce CO2 emissions. ● Environmental conservation effect ● Sunplant Co., Ltd. Environmental conservation beneﬁt is measured in physical units and is the ● Takuma Engineering Co., Ltd. ● Total production of waste, etc. ● Water resource inputs beneﬁt obtained from the prevention, reduction, and/or avoidance of ● Takuma System Control Co., Ltd. environmental impact, removal of such impact, restoration following the occurrence 900 60,000 Total production of waste, etc. of a disaster, and other activities. (“Environmental Accounting Guidelines”) ● Dan-Takuma Technologies Inc. Recycling Item FY2018 FY2019 Kyoritsu Setsubi Co., Ltd. (Tons per year) ● Total ﬁnal disposal volume of waste, etc. (m3 per year) 600 40,000 (1) Environmental conservation beneﬁt related to resources ● Kankyo Sol-Tech Co., Ltd. input into business activities ● Takuma Plant Service Co., Ltd. Total energy input volume (GJ) 95,047 100,973 300 20,000 Input volume of water (m ) 3 48,034 47,340 2 overseas companies (2) Environmental conservation beneﬁt related to waste or 0 0 environmental impact originating from business activities ● Taiden Environtech Co., Ltd. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Volume of greenhouse gas emissions (tons-CO2) 3,977 4,273 ● Siam Takuma Co., Ltd. Although total production of waste, etc., grew during FY2019 Water consumption during FY2019 fell slightly compared Total waste emissions volume (tons) 934 1,047 compared to FY2018, total ﬁnal disposal volume of waste, etc., grew only to FY2018. We will continue to work to lower our water use. Final waste disposal volume (tons) 150 155 slightly thanks to appropriate treatment such as recycling. Going forward, Wastewater volume (m3) 48,034 47,340 BOD emissions (kg) 2,565 2,567 we will work to reduce the amount of waste we generate. Although we COD emissions (kg) 2,747 2,760 work to recycle and reuse waste, waste that cannot be reused is disposed T-N emissions (kg) 693 706 of in accordance with the Industrial Waste Control Manifest System. T-P emissions (kg) 121 125 ● The Takuma Groupʼs deﬁnition of PRTR target substance emissions (non-consolidated) eco-efﬁciency Eco-efﬁciency Consolidated net sales (million JPY) Although our business activities do not involve a wide variety of chemical substances on a massive scale, we use a few designated chemical substances. Consequently, we report and register such chemical substances designated under the Pollutant Greenhouse gas emissions (tons-CO2) Even as total environmental impacts must be reduced, it is necessary Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, in accordance with relevant laws and ordinances, with the local government. from a business management standpoint to pursue environmental ● Dichloromethane (CAS No. 75-09-2) ● Ethylbenzene (CAS No. 100-41-4) initiatives that are characterized by a high degree of economic efﬁciency. ● Eco-efﬁciency We report eco-efﬁciency using an index calculated in accordance with 40 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 examples provided by the Ministry of the Environment in its Emissions (tons per year) 0.42 0.43 0.45 0.27 0.08 Emissions (tons per year) 0.34 0.14 0.96 0.98 1.34 29.12 30.66 31.47 Environmental Performance Indicators Guidelines for Organizations. 30 26.82 28.61 At the Takuma Group, we calculate eco-efﬁciency as the ratio of ● Toluene (CAS No. 108-88-3) ● Xylene (CAS No. 1330-20-7) 20 consolidated net sales to greenhouse gas emissions. In FY2019, this value FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 FY 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 improved slightly compared to FY2018. 10 Emissions (tons per year) 0.26 0.09 0.07 0.06 0.09 Emissions (tons per year) 2.22 2.85 1.18 1.12 1.47 0 These materials are used for antirust painting of boiler structures and so on. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 35 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 36 SOCIAL ーSocial Initiativesー Human Rights and Labor Practices Respect for Human Rights and the Abolition of Discrimination Impressions from an employee who has taken advantage of Takuma's telework program We have children ages 2, 6, and 10, and we both work. Until now, when one of our kids gets sick, weʼve used the Our company sets out its respect for basic human rights and ● Takuma Group Ethics Charter (excerpt) childcare program for kids recovering from sickness, and when thatʼs not available, weʼve adjusted our schedules or used prohibition of discriminatory acts in the Takuma Group Ethics 4. We shall respect fundamental human rights annual paid leave or half-day paid leave. The availability of a work-from-home option has been extremely helpful for Charter, Takuma Group Code of Conduct, and labor and never practice discrimination. our family. (Main career track male employee in his 40s) regulations. In addition, we also support respect for human ●Takuma Group Code of Conduct (excerpt) rights, without contributing to human rights violations, 【Respect for basic human rights】 elimination of forced labor/child labor, and the abolition of 9. Prohibition of discriminatory actions discrimination through participation in the UN Global ３．Initiatives that promote diversity 10. Respect for personality, individuality, Compact. We are also working to promote employment of and privacy of employees disabled and elderly individuals. 11. Safe work environment 1 Initiatives to increase female participation In addition to putting in place a workplace environment that provides ﬂexible workstyles and continuous employment, we have Working with Our Employees continued to pursue initiatives that encourage employees to understand Takuma. Our goal is to increase the number of female employees in management positions and the number of female employees on the main career track (including individuals who have been tentatively offered positions) as of March 31, 2021, to 20, which would be double the corresponding number as of March 31, 2016. Making the most of each and every employeesʼ skills and Employee data *As of March 31, 2020 creating workplaces where employees can feel engaged and 【Number of newly hired employees over the last 5 years by gender motivated while working over the long term are top priorities Number of employees 875 (Figures in parentheses: number of newly hired graduates for main career track positions)】 for Takuma. (Including 805 men and 70 women) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 We reorganized our Human Resources Department in April Average age 43.2 2020 to better address manpower shortages, develop Men 26(19) 27(18) 28(19) 34(17) 38(16) Average years of service 15.5 employeesʼ skills, and realize workstyle reform, work-life Women 2(1) ２(1) 2(2) 3(2) 3(2) Attrition rate 1.6% (past 3 years) balance, and diversity. As part of those changes, new Human Total 28(20) 29(19) 30(21) 37(19) 41(18) Resources Development and Ofﬁce Support sections were created to develop workplace environments that value people so that employees can feel more motivated and better take advantage of their skills. 2 Initiatives to increased participation by disabled individuals We added the Ofﬁce Support Section to the Human Resources Department to provide work assistance and management for Employee retention programs disabled individuals and to aid in the “outsourcing” of various internal tasks to these workers as a way to boost employment of Human Rights and Labor Practices disabled individuals. Individuals with disabilities, including serious or mental disabilities, do cleaning and other light work to assist Takuma employees. １．Workstyle reform initiatives ４．Employee health initiatives 1 Initiatives related to improving productivity and streamlining operations ● Stress checks ● Health consultations by industrial physicians (once a month) ● Reassessing workﬂows ● Streamlining and improving operations ● Utilizing chat tools ● Utilizing videoconferencing systems ● Lifestyle disease checkups (added to regular checkups) ● Counseling by clinical psychologists (twice a month) ● Cancer screening and stomach tests (for interested employees) ● Interviews and follow-up conversations with employees who are working ● Automating work using RPA* *RPA: Robotic process automation unusually long hours 2 Putting in place an environment that encourages employees to take annual paid leave Reﬂecting our respect for employeesʼ individuality, we treat simultaneous leave as special leave in line with our employment Initiatives to help develop employee skills and boost motivation rules, which means it does not count against employeesʼ annual paid leave. In addition, weʼve put in place an environment that encourages mutual understanding and cooperation among employees while making it easy for all employees to take annual １．Educational and training programs paid leave by having team members announce in advance their plans to take ﬁve days of allotted annual paid leave each year. ＜Grade-speciﬁc educational programs＞ 【Average number of days of annual paid leave, number of annual public holidays and leave days, and number of special leave days (unit: days)】 Technical Thesis Weʼre working to enhance employee ability, NewPresentation Midpresentation discussion Management FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 technological skills, and management capability by employee by 10-year career by 2-year by 5-year training training employees training offering grade-speciﬁc educational programs, from new employees employees Average days of annual paid leave taken 7.9 6.5 6.7 8.7 8.9 hires to management candidates. Annual public holidays and leave days (except annual paid leave) 129 129 128 129 132 ＜Technical training sessions＞ Of which, special simultaneous leave days 11 11 12 13 9 We hold several technical training sessions a year in order to increase employeesʼ technical knowledge, including lectures by university professors and outside researchers and presentations by Takuma engineering employees about their work responsibilities and research themes. ２．Initiatives related to work-life balance ＜Support for skill development＞ We have introduced the following programs to facilitate healthy work-life balance and to help employees make the most of We reimburse employees for the cost of acquiring various licenses and offer incentives for earning their skills and abilities while balancing their work with child-raising and nursing-care responsibilities. professional certiﬁcations. ● Half-day annual paid leave program ● Childcare leave ● Nursing-care leave ● Flex time program ＜Help for building language skills＞ ● Telework program ● Leave program for husbands whose wives are giving birth To improve employeesʼ language skills, we host the TOEIC test twice a year and offer incentives to employees who earn a high score. 37 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 38 SOCIAL ーSocial Initiativesー Human Rights and Labor Practices Working with Our Employees Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health ２．Career development programs Occupational safety and health initiatives ● Supervisors schedule two interviews with each subordinate every year to review progress toward operational goals and listen to their wishes and advice directly. Since FY2006, we have introduced TK-COHSMS based on an work stoppages (of four or more days); for branches, pursuing a ● A self-reporting program session is held every three years to facilitate long-term career development. occupational safety and health management system for the thorough program of safety and health education, ensuring ● A work group transfer program facilitates movement from clerical and labor positions to the main career track. construction industry and worked actively and independently to adherence to safety inspection guidelines, and implementing the improve our safety and health activities. We believe that among branch safety patrol plan; and for the Safety and Health ３．In-house commendation system these efforts, the manner in which (1) safety inspections, (2) Cooperative Association, strengthening collaboration with partner mandatory safety and health education (education for companies. We will work to revitalize safety and health activities We hold an award ceremony commemorating the founding of the company every construction site representatives), and (3) creation of pre-work throughout the company by carrying out that role. year on June 10, the date on which Takuma was founded, to recognize employees safety procedure checklists known as SSAs have been steadily Rather than contenting ourselves with the status quo, we will who have given exceptional service. adopted by all departments and used to consistently improve the pursue new safety and health initiatives to foster a strong ● Takuma Prize: Employees who have helped ● Takuma Technical Review Outstanding level of knowledge about Takumaʼs safety and health is awareness of the concept that underlies our safety and health improve operations or who have exceptional Paper Award particularly noteworthy. policy -“understanding the need for respecting people and giving achievements in community service We have adopted the following safety and health objectives for top priority to safety and health”on the part of everyone whoʼs ● Qualiﬁcations acquisition commendations, FY2020: for construction sites, eliminating accidents that result in involved in our operations. ● Invention and idea commendations: patent commendations Employees who have earned patents or other ● Length-of-Service Award intellectual property rights (Every 5 years of service after 20 years) Safety and health activities and their results ● Safety and Health Award in Construction Division: Foremen at sites without accidents or damage １．Safety inspection system ● FY2019 Social welfare programs We maintain a system where any construction or Number of safety inspections installation work starts only after the safety and health done: 212 We have introduced a number of social welfare programs, including a cafeteria plan and employee shareholder association, manager or other responsible ofﬁcial in each department designed to meet a diverse array of employee needs. conducts a successful safety inspection based on safety and health plans for the construction or installation work as prepared by our primary partner companies. A safety inspection meeting Employee feedback (from Takumaʼs website) Human Rights and Labor Practices We strive to ensure a safe work environment at all construction sites by eliminating potential hazards and risk Question: Why did you decide to join Takuma? factors identiﬁed by those inspections before work begins. ● I felt it would be appealing to work for a business that plays a supporting role in many peopleʼs lives behind the scenes. ２．Safety patrols and safety lectures ● Number of safety patrols implemented in FY2019 ● When I participated in an internship at Takuma as a student, I saw By Safety and Health Committee (members, advisors)：95 how older colleagues were engaged in their jobs, and I realized Iʼd Based on an annual plan, safety patrols are carried out at By Safety Control Department ：236 like to work here, too. worksites by the Safety and Health Committee (comprised By construction division ：362 ● I liked the way Takuma gives young people lots of responsibility. of committee members and advisors), Safety Control ● Iʼm able to put what I learned as a student to use. Department, and construction division along with safety lectures in a precisely targeted and efﬁcient manner. Question: What do you ﬁnd motivating about your job? Safety patrols focus on identifying and eliminating risks ● The scale of the facilities we build, for example power plants Iʼve as early as possible, while safety lectures are conceived to been involved with that provide enough power for tens of thousands prevent occupational accidents and raise employeesʼ safety of peopleʼs homes awareness by offering an opportunity to hand out and explain materials such as examples of accidents. Both Safety patrols Safety lectures ● An environment that lets you embrace whatever challenges youʼre willing to set for yourself programs help ensure safety at worksites in the ﬁeld. ● Expressions of joy from customers when a plant I helped build starts operating… theyʼre enough to make me forget all the hard work that ３．Safety and health education (education for construction site representatives) went into the facility! We continuously provide specialized safety and health ● April 2004 to March 2020 ● The ability to gain practical experience from a young age education at branches and worksites to increase the levels Cumulative number of trainees ：35,682 of safety awareness and knowledge of our employees and Question: What are your future goals? Number of trainees passing the completion exam：19,099 partner companies. ● To become an engineer who earns the trust of others, both inside As indicated at right, more than 19,000 trainees have and outside the company passed the completion exam. We are involved in a variety of ● To leave concrete expressions of my own experience and skill that initiatives to put in place mechanisms for preventing can be passed down to younger colleagues accidents, including by assigning workers with extensive ● To strive daily to become a manufacturing professional knowledge in areas such as safety-related laws and ● To consistently present optimal proposals to customers despite ordinances to individual construction sites. frequent changes in applicable laws and regulations Head Ofﬁce venue Tokyo Branch venue 39 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 40 Efforts for Occupational Safety and Health Safety and Health Promotion Meeting Message from a partner company Takuma holds a Safety and Health Promotion Meeting to “Creating True Safety in the Context of Japanese Honne and We do a lot of work for Takuma as a construction management company that focuses bring workers with safetyand health-related Tatemae.” In addition, safety and health partner companies primarily on pipe equipment in plants. Last ﬁscal year, we were proud to work closely with responsibilities together to improve and share their safety gave presentations on their safety and health policies and Takuma on the building of a number of plants, including the CEPO Handa Biomass Power and health awareness with the goal of ensuring worker goals, and all participants closed the meeting by chanting Plant, the Ako Plant of Nihonkaisui, the Aoki Environmental Enterprise Energy from Waste safety and health and promoting the development of a the FY2019 slogan and pledging to continue to work toward Plant, and the Hikarigaoka Incineration Plant. pleasant work environment. During FY2019, we presented thorough safety and health management by utilizing With regard to safety management, weʼve put in place construction structures based on awards to businesses that helped achieve a zero-accident TK-COHSMS. what we learned at site manager training offered by Takuma, and we work to identify record at our worksites and hosted a guest lecture entitled, potential hazards when compiling SSAs (safe work procedures that are created by subcontractors before starting each dayʼs work). We develop construction methods that are designed to reduce potential hazards through risk assessment based on a careful consideration of how to transport materials at the site and how to set up temporary staging, before work begins. Mr. Tetsuyuki Okabayashi Then we strive to perform work safely at the site using those predetermined construction Safety Quality Training methods while exercising care with regard to the progress of other companiesʼ work and Department General Manager mixed-company work, all under the umbrella of Takumaʼs safety management. Executive Ofﬁcer Additionally, our sales managers and Safety Management Group conduct safety patrols at Asahi Synchrotech Co., Ltd. least once a month. Those patrols assess conditions at the site, check for problems in terms of Presentation of a zero-accident record award Pointing and chanting of the slogan safety management and construction management, and meet with the employees by all participants responsible for supervising work to take corrective action to address any issues that were Takuma's safety results in recent years identiﬁed. We look forward in the future to improving our employeesʼ construction management skills (Number of casualties, accident frequency rate, and accident severity rate) with the goal of eliminating accidents by offering supervisor training and to working alongside Takuma to implement safety management and construction management at Although the total number of worked hours in 2019 rose posing a serious problem that needs to be addressed. We worksites. about 22% from the previous year, the total number of will work to eliminate occupational accidents through a occupational accidents and accidents leading to missed uniﬁed and redoubled effort by all involved to halt this Human Rights and Labor Practices workdays fell compared to 2018. However, the accident trend while strengthening risk management and enhancing severity rate signiﬁcantly exceeded the national average, our safety and health management structures. Accident Accident From the Takuma department responsible for the project 3.93 * Accident frequency rate 15 4.0 Year frequency severity rate rate Indicates the frequency with which 3.00 accidents occur as the number of We turn to Asahi Synchrotech Co., Ltd., to carry out pipe equipment installation work at 3.0 Takumaʼs 2015 0.92 0.21 fatalities caused by occupational accidents per 1 million actual working hours. numerous construction projects, including Takuma waste incineration facilities and biomass 10 9 Number of 2.16 accident Number of casualties power plants. In the area of safety and health activities, Asahi Synchrotech is an associate 2.03 2016 0.64 0.11 1,000,000 casualties 12 1.76 2.0 frequency Total actual working hours safety and health partner company, and weʼre deeply grateful for the enormous cooperation (persons) 1.76 rate and 2017 0.81 0.18 * Accident severity rate and hard work that they bring to our projects. 5 severity rate Indicates the seriousness of accidents as 3 5 0.87 1.0 the number of work-days lost per 1,000 About seven years ago, I worked as the site manager at the Joso Environmental Center 0.79 2018 1.09 0.30 actual working hours. 3 Third Waste Treatment Facility Construction Project. The site, which uses three pyrolytic 0.03 0.06 Total work-days lost 0 0.0 2019 1.69 0.29 Total actual working hours 1,000 gasiﬁcation melting furnaces to treat waste, was characterized by not only a large number of 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Year) pieces of equipment, but also an extensive amount of work associated with pipe equipment Takumaʼs safety results Reference: Nationwide average accident frequency and severity rates installation. It was an extremely long project, but we were able to complete it without a single for the construction industry (general construction) accident. Out of the many construction projects weʼve worked with Asahi Synchrotech on, there have been only two non-lost-time incidents, and overall the company has an extremely President Sakaguchi of SEIKO Co., Ltd., Jyunichi Hashimoto successful track record. TOPICS General Manager honored at Construction Station Ginosya Kensyo (Engineer Awards) Construction Dept. (Tokyo) Safety management is generally considered to consist of risk management, and the risk of an accident occurring rises as projects involve more time and people, increasing the factors Construction Center and opportunities that could trigger an accident. In theory, accidents can be prevented by In October 2019, President Michiko Sakaguchi of SEIKO Co., Ltd., a partner company in the Sludge Takuma Co., Ltd. identifying these risk factors and eliminating them in advance through safety and health Incinerator Redevelopment Project at the Takuma-built Tamagawa Joryu Water Reclamation Center, management at the site. Although itʼs easy to formulate this approach on paper, in fact its received the Engineering Excellence Award at the 27th CCI Tokyo Construction Station Ginosya successful implementation requires having everyone involved with the construction, Kensyo (Engineer Awards). including all contractors, at a site where conditions change daily carefully examine the site The accolade is conferred by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in recognition of exceptional and develop effective measures accordingly as they painstakingly and methodically utilize engineers who utilize advanced skills and specialized knowledge, exhibit leadership at construction their knowledge to eliminate risk one day at a time. stations, and work to improve safety and quality through better communication. We look forward to having Asahi Synchrotech continue its basic stance toward safety and The honor is especially meaningful for construction sites where a variety of partner companies lend health management in the future as the company cooperates with Takuma on safety assistance on a daily basis. Going forward, Takuma will continue to build plants in close partnership management so that we can achieve our goal of eliminating accidents in all projects. with all stakeholders, including partner companies, in order to improve safety and quality. Ms. Michiko Sakaguchi (center) 41 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 42 SOCIAL ーSocial Initiativesー Consumer Issues Customer satisfaction survey Customer satisfaction survey process Initiatives for Product Quality Takuma has conducted an annual customer satisfaction survey since Decide where to conduct the questionnaire survey FY2007 to solicit the views of customers concerning products we have The amount of attention paid by consumers (stakeholders) version of both standards (the 2015 versions). delivered as well as the Takuma employees they worked with. We use that Conduct the questionnaire survey to quality in a wide range of ﬁelds, including manufacturing In addition to working to improve the quality of our information to improve quality and service. and services, has been growing in recent years. This section products in accordance with our Quality Policy and quality First, we administer questionnaires targeting customers who had introduces Takuma initiatives that are designed to provide management system, we are pursuing activities that construction work done by asking them to assess the overall experience after Investigate the questionnaire results safe, conﬁdence-inspiring products and plants. emphasize customer satisfaction. the work is completed, including the nature of the work performed, suitability Analyze problem factors and investigate Takumaʼs Head Ofﬁce, branch companies, and other In order to produce products and plants that customers truly of delivered equipment, and the level of service provided by Takuma staff. recurrence prevention countermeasures (if results are lower than our standard) business ofﬁces have earned certiﬁcation under the ISO 9001 appreciate, it is necessary not only to boost the quality of the Next, the QM Committee calculates a score based on the survey results as Analyze praiseworthy factors international standard on quality management systems, and product itself, but also to improve the operations and quality well as a report from the responsible department. The committee then (particularly for praiseworthy aspects) the Harima Factory has earned certiﬁcation under the ISO as well as each individualʼs ability to create a good plant in analyzes the resulting data. 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards on quality each process from planning up to delivery (sales, planning, If there are any issues, for example if the score fails to meet our standards management systems and environmental management design, procurement, manufacture, construction, and or if there are individual areas where the customer was dissatisﬁed, the QM Apply recurrence prevention measures and systems, respectively. Operations comply with the latest management). Committee analyzes the cause of the problems based on interviews with the praiseworthy factors across the organization department in question and considers preventive measures. We also evaluate aspects of our products and services that receive especially high praise from Quality Policy customers and work to further enhance customer satisfaction by combining Follow up with recurrence prevention measures problem areas and praiseworthy areas and applying them horizontally across Follow up on results involved departments at the company. Takuma Co., Ltd., has adopted the following Quality Policy in order to provide satisfying products that meet customer For customers targeted for problem analysis and consideration of expectations and earn a high level of trust while continuously improving the effectiveness of its quality management system. preventive measures based on the survey results, we also conduct a follow-up survey to discern whether those measures were reliably implemented and whether their level of satisfaction has indeed improved. Quality Policy With scores averaging higher than 80 points for each of the last 10 years, the questionnaire demonstrates the effectiveness of “Manufacturing products that result in customer satisfaction” our initiatives. In this way, we work to improve product and plant quality so that all customers are satisﬁed. Based on that Quality Policy and the three priority items described below, Takuma is working to improve the quality of its (Points) Number of surveys Average score Permits and registrations (Surveys) products and services through a variety of initiatives that address every process, including in sales, planning, design, 100 40 procurement, manufacture, construction, and management. ● Head Ofﬁce, branch ofﬁces and other business ofﬁces Construction license (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Priority items 90 87.7 88.2 86.8 Tourism license, Special 27-6129, Special 29-6129) 85.6 86.3 86.1 Consumer Issues 85.5 85.9 85.8 Construction consultant registration (Minister of Land, Infrastructure, 30 82.3 36 Transport and Tourism registration, Construction 01-10202) ● Creating value to earn customer satisfaction (ascertaining customer needs and making improvements based on past experience) First-class architect ofﬁce registration (01A02903) ● Carrying out risk management (addressing changes in the business environment and human error) ISO 9001 quality management system certiﬁcation 80 ● Implementing human resources management (implementing human resources development and ensuring skills are passed down to younger employees) 28 ● Harima Factory 27 27 27 25 20 ISO 9001 quality management system certiﬁcation 23 ISO 14001 environmental management systems certiﬁcation Speciﬁc initiatives for improving quality 70 19 Manufacture of thermal equipment for power generation (Ministry of 18 Economy, Trade and Industry) 16 Permission to manufacture boilers and pressure vessels, permission to ● Organizational initiatives for improving quality ● Improving the employeesʼ individual operational skills manufacture cranes (Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) 60 10 Manufacture of speciﬁc high-pressure gas facilities (Ministry of Economy, As an organizational initiative thatʼs designed to boost product To improve employeesʼ individual operational skills, we 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Trade and Industry) quality, we have each department establish quality targets at the have created an operational skill achievement checklist that Questionnaire average score (out of 100 possible points) beginning of the year and then provide regular reports (twice a identiﬁes the skills required by personnel in each process year) on progress towards achieving those goals at QM Committee for use in regular assessments, and we are reviewing the JQA-1952 ISO 9001 certiﬁcation meetings (quality management reviews). targets we have chosen. Head Ofﬁce, Osaka Ofﬁce, Tokyo Branch, JQA-EM0313 As part of the transition to ISO 9001:2015, weʼre working to ISO 9001 Chubu Branch, Kyushu Branch, Hokkaido ISO 14001 ISO 14001 certiﬁcation Branch and Harima Factory Harima Factory further improve quality by identifying an effort to clarify and ● Quality control and process reviews address risks and opportunities as a key quality goal and Message Mitsuo Ishiguro evaluating the effectiveness of that effort. Quality control is an important measure that allows us to provide exceptional products and plants. Section 2, Quality Control Dept. We take action (improvement measures) as outlined by a Construction Center ● Internal quality audits Takuma Co., Ltd. manual (standard) in the event a non-conforming product In addition to increasing the precision of operations by is discovered, but even if an issue doesnʼt lead to a Takumaʼs quality control team works to supply customers with safe, secure plants by means of reliable standardizing operating procedures in each departmentʼs non-conforming product, we conduct a review as a product testing and a rugged commissioning process. processes, we are improving operations as necessary by carrying preventive measure if there are processes that could have Commissioning marks the ﬁrst time a newly built plant will operate, so we strive to check safety and out an internal quality audit of each department to verify the caused the issue. operate the facility with care as we adjust combustion and operation and verify that the plant provides the status of quality management system operation. Furthermore, we actively offer training to new business performance and operational characteristics required by the customer. Internal quality audits are carried out regularly by employees partners and retraining (instruction) for existing business To ensure that the customer will be able to enjoy the beneﬁts of plant operation with peace of mind who have been certiﬁed as internal auditors after completing partners to prevent defects in the products we purchase. over the long term once it has been transferred, we solicit feedback from the customer, compile operating internal quality auditor training seminars offered by instructors documentation that uses photographs and explanatory ﬁgures to ensure content is easily understood, from an outside organization. At the training seminars, employees provide an explanation to the customer, and then operate, or provide guidance on, the plant. master content ranging from basic knowledge about ISO 9001 to We carry out commissioning work at sites day in and day out with the goal of supplying customers with speciﬁc methods for conducting internal audits. plants that satisfy them. 43 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 44 SOCIAL ーSocial Initiativesー SOCIAL ーSocial Initiativesー Participation in the Community Contribution to Society Reﬂecting their dedication to providing safe, reliable facilities that inspire peace of mind on the part of local residents, This page introduces some examples of Takumaʼs community service activities. Takuma and its group companies work actively to disclose information in an appropriate manner, keep the areas around plants clean, participate in regional activities, and engage in exchanges with local residents. Takuma Group coordinated cleanup activities This section introduces some of those efforts. The Takuma Group orchestrates coordinated clean-up activities in the areas around its worksites each year as a way for volunteers to beautify the environment and contribute to Anan High Trust Co., Ltd. society. During FY2019, a total of 570 employees participated in two such activities. The At Ecopark-Anan, which we operate on a contract basis, we use the adjacent activities provided an opportunity for employees to think afresh about waste-related environmental learning facility to hold hands-on classes for parents and children and issues and their connection to the community. Going forward, the Takuma Group will handicraft events on a regular basis. continue this initiative. More than 200 people attended a Summer Vacation Eco Event in July 2019, where they took tours of the plant, made drink coasters, and enjoyed other events. Participation in the Osaka Marathon ʻCleanupʼ Campaign In November 2019, volunteers from Operation & Maintenance Services Department 2 participated in the “Osaka Marathon ʻCleanupʼ Campaign,” a cleanup activity that is held Children making drink coasters every year as part of the Osaka Marathon. The activity brought together organizational, group, and individual volunteers to beautify public spaces throughout the city. Kurume High Trust Co., Ltd. Blood donation campaign Kurume Municipal Environmental Interchange Plaza at Miyanojin Clean Center, which we operate on a contract basis, features the Miyanojin “Manabino” Biotope, a study facility Takuma supports blood donation activities through the Japanese Red Cross Society. designed around the theme of a natural environment that allows the appealing spaces of During FY2019, we held a blood drive at the Harima Factory. Many employees Kurume to be passed down to the next generation. participated on an ongoing basis, and some even received an award commemorating their The biotope provides an environment inhabited by a variety of living organisms that live 10th donation. We plan to continue this activity in the future. Children viewing artiﬁcial ﬁreﬂy habitats and reproduce in the watershedʼs rivers and waterways and in the surrounding region. During FY2019, the facility held a learning event about artiﬁcial methods for keeping WFP fundraising activities insects entitled “Mission: Keeping Fireﬂies!” in May with the goal of enabling ﬁreﬂies of Takuma serves on the Board of Trustees of the Japan Association for the World Food the species Luciola cruciata to live at the biotope. Programme, the ofﬁcial supporting partner of the World Food Programme in Japan. Each year, Many parents brought their children to the event, where they enjoyed a talk by an expert Participation in the Community / Contribution to Society we provide information about fundraising activities during a campaign that lasts from June about methods for keeping ﬁreﬂies, viewed artiﬁcial ﬁreﬂy habitats, and experienced through August, including by displaying WFP posters at the entrances to company buildings and waterway management at the biotope (by catching spirogyra). in cafeterias and run articles in our company newsletter. The campaign serves both to increase Experiencing waterway management employee interest in the worldʼs food problems and to collect donations to address them. (catching spirogyra) Suwako High Trust Co., Ltd. Contributions to NPOs Suwa Lakeside Clean Center (familiarly known as “eco Poppo”), which we operate on a contract basis, held eco Poppo Fellowship Festivals in July and November 2019 to Purchasing UNICEF Christmas cards communicate to area residents the role and importance of the facility along with Takuma purchases UNICEF Christmas cards. A portion of the proceeds is used to fund UNICEF in their work to help children information about the status of waste treatment and other aspects of its operation. The around the world. events were held in concert with the Neighborhood of the Lake Administrative Affairs Association. Report on facility operations Donating unused calendars The festivals were a success, drawing numerous visitors who enjoyed reports on facility operations, a prize drawing, fair stalls, and a chance to take a commemorative Each year, Takuma donates unused calendars to a non-proﬁt organization. The proceeds from selling the calendars at a photograph with the facilityʼs mascot. charity calendar market sponsored by the NPO Nippon Volunteer Network Active in Disasters are used to provide aid for victims of natural disasters and other crises. We also donate calendars to the NPO Community Support Center Kobeʼs Gift on Heart Calendar project for delivery to local residentsʼ associations and other groups, elderly residents, and individuals with Iwate-Kenpoku Clean Co., Ltd. disabilities. In FY2018, Iwate-Kenpoku Clean entered into an “Agreement on Providing a Shelter and Wide-area Temporary-stay Facility” with the Village of Kunohe, where the company is Publications located. Under the agreement, the company gives something back to the community by providing facilities it owns for use as shelters in the event of a natural disaster or other emergency. Publication of the Takuma Technical Review Quiz on environmental topics The facility also participates in an annual fall festival̶the Kunohe Industry, Art, and We publish the Takuma Technical Review twice a year to introduce technologies that Takuma Culture Festival̶that combines local industry, art, and culture. During FY2019, the event has developed. attracted local residents of all ages, who enjoyed a variety of activities, including quizzes on During FY2019, topics included explaining transitions in NOx reduction technology for waste environmental topics, “ﬁshing” for candy, and building models of an incinerator. incineration, reporting on the operation of plant equipment, reporting on overseas tours, and introducing new products. Abstracts are available on Takumaʼs website. [Takuma top page > Technical Information > Technical Review] Incinerator model https://www.takuma.co.jp/english/gijutu/gihou.html 45 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 46 G OVERNANCE ーGovernance Initiativesー Internal Control Corporate Governance Takuma has adopted a Basic Policy for Establishment of emergency headquarters are established with the company an Internal Control System (the full text is available on our president as the director in charge of risk management, and website) in accordance with the Companies Act. We an organization is put in place in order to minimize and Corporate Governance continue to review and improve this policy in response to prevent further damage through prompt action. changing circumstances. Internal control, constructed and evaluated in order to ● Basic policy on corporate governance Working towards thorough compliance, Takuma built a report on and prevent misstatements in our ﬁnancial In order to safeguard and steadily increase Takumaʼs carry out their operational responsibilities by means of a compliance promotion organization in FY2006 in order to reporting, is based on the Financial Instruments and corporate value over the long term, it is essential not only process that is clear, rational, efﬁcient, and legally continuously implement enlightenment and educational Exchange Act. This internal control on ﬁnancial reporting to ensure the development of the companyʼs businesses, compliant. For that reason, we believe that understanding activities that make corporate ethics, related laws and for the Group has resulted in reports that indicate this but also to clearly deﬁne governance in corporate the Corporate Governance Code and putting it into practice ordinances, and internal rules fully understood. To control system has been effective. operations-that is, to ensure that shareholdersʼ oversight of in an autonomous and systematic manner are top-priority the danger of loss, we have also prepared a “Risk In this way, we will continue to work in the future to operations is carried out appropriately and that ofﬁcers management issues. Management Code” that determines the person in charge of ensure thorough compliance while carrying out business each risk, and we set up our risk management organization properly and efﬁciently while also deepening risk ● Board of Directors ● Audit & Supervisory Committee according to that Code. When the unexpected occurs, management. As of June 25, 2020, the Board of Directors was comprised of six An Audit & Supervisory Committee that consists of ﬁve members, directors (excluding directors who are members of the Audit & of whom four are outside directors, is responsible for accounting and Supervisory Committee) and ﬁve directors (of whom four were operational audits. Members of the committee attend important Compliance & CSR Promotion Structure outside directors). The Board of Directors meets regularly once a meetings, including those of the Board of Directors and the month as a rule and whenever else it is necessary to make decisions Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers, and they strive to understand and ● Basic approach ● Regular meetings about important issues related to business management and issues observe the status of business execution in a timely and appropriate established by law and ordinances, as well as to oversee the manner. Drawing on their professional background and experience, Led by the department in charge of compliance and CSR Regular meetings are held once a year. The person in charge of execution of the directorsʼ duties. they express their opinions as necessary from an objective promotion (CSR Department), Takuma aims at encouraging promotion receives reports on the status of compliance and CSR perspective, and they conduct strict auditing of the business proper activities through the Compliance & CSR Promotion promotion company-wide, as well as on the status of the Including the following Organization which was installed for the purpose of implementation of compliance and CSR promotion education for the Directors execution performed by the directors. To facilitate the effectiveness outside directors: of audits carried out by the Audit & Supervisory Committee, the enabling compliance and CSR to concretely permeate past year, etc., and participants deliberate on a promotion plan for the 11 (10 men and 1 woman) 4 (3 men and 1 woman) company-wide through an in-house organization. current ﬁscal year. representative director holds regular meetings with committee members to ensure good communication. This organization is composed of a chairman (the ● Executive Ofﬁcers Executive Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion ● Departmental meetings Division), a secretariat (positioned in the CSR Department), In order to accelerate management decision-making and clarify ● Audit & Supervisory Committeeʼs Ofﬁce Promotion members convene departmental meetings once a quarter, and an executing organization in each division, center, and where management responsibilities are placed, we have adopted with educational training aiming at the permeation of compliance and Takuma has established an Audit & Supervisory Committeeʼs department. As the person in charge of promoting an executive ofﬁcer system in which we appoint executive ofﬁcers CSR in each department. After departmental meetings, promotion Ofﬁce to help carry out the committeeʼs work. compliance and CSR in his or her division, each division or who are entrusted with the responsibility of executing our members implement compliance and CSR promotion education in their center manager is appointed as a Compliance and CSR business activities. As of June 25, 2020, there were 16 executive respective departments using training materials or in-house ● Nominating & Compensation Advisory Committee Promotion Administrator. As persons who implement educational materials and report the results to the Secretariat. ofﬁcers (including those who also serve as directors). Moreover, awareness and education in compliance and CSR in their we have also established a Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers, which To augment the above structures, we have established a respective departments, department managers are Takuma Group Coordinating Committee for is chaired by the president/chief executive ofﬁcer, as an Nominating & Compensation Advisory Committee comprised of ● appointed as Compliance and CSR Promoters. The organization that deliberates matters that are brought up at independent ofﬁcers, representative directors, and the ofﬁcer in Compliance & CSR Promotion meetings conducted within this mechanism include regular meetings of the Board of Directors and other important issues charge of human resources. The purpose of the committee, a We are pursuing awareness-raising and educational activities meetings and departmental meetings. related to the execution of our business activities. This committee majority of whose membership consists of independent outside Corporate Governance targeting group companies through our Takuma Group Coordinating communicates and provides direction about items decided by the directors, is to increase transparency and objectivity in the Committee for Compliance & CSR Promotion to ensure thorough Board of Directors and other important items related to the selection of candidates for director and executive ofﬁcer positions compliance and risk management throughout the Group. During execution of our business activities appropriately to the divisions and in the determination of the compensation and other terms so FY2019, we invited representatives of group companies to participate that are to execute them. as to enhance the oversight function of the Board of Directors. in two meetings of the committee. Reporting Auditing of accounts Education, instructions, and reporting Board of Directors Various Appointment Accounting committees Reporting and removal Auditors Compliance President Committee of Executive Ofﬁcers & CSR Observing and guidance Audit & Promotion Supervisory Reporting Reporting Cooperation Division Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization Committeeʼs Assistance Takuma Group Ofﬁce Reporting Reporting Chairman (Executive Manager of the Compliance & CSR Promotion Division) General Reporting and Internal auditing Coordinating Committee for statement of views Audit & Auditing Divisions Secretariat (CSR Department) Meeting Compliance & CSR Promotion Supervisory and of Internal Audit Internal auditing Divisions and centers Committee Cooperation centers Shareholders Appointment and removal Reporting Department Nominating & Compliance & CSR Promotion Administrator (division or center manager) Auditing and Compensation Department supervision Committee Recommendations Advisory of Executive Discussion of and reporting Committee Representative Ofﬁcers on important matters Compliance & CSR Promoters (department manager) Discussion (Deliberation Execution of Consultations and reporting Director Enlightenment/education Board of of important Executive responsibilities Issuance of instructions and Reporting Directors matters) Ofﬁcers Staff members communication of information Selection, dismissal, and supervision Appointment Appointment and removal and removal Compliance & CSR promotion structure Corporate governance structure (As of June 25, 2020) 47 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 48 Corporate Governance Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Takuma has formulated a “Business Continuity Plan” based on the following policies to ensure proper and appropriate Risk Management Structure continuity of business operations in the event of a large-scale disaster, pandemic, or other emergency: Takuma follows a “Risk Management Policy” that reporting risks related to other corporate business activities. １．In addition to implementing disaster-related measures to secure the safety of corporate ofﬁcers and employees, connects company-wide risks and separately classiﬁes them Group companies also work to develop and strengthen maintain structures so as to enable continuity of business operations while minimizing damage in an emergency. into project risks related to our core business, i.e., plant approaches to risk management through the Takuma Group ２．Strive to respond to customer needs and recover from damage quickly by working closely with suppliers and partner construction; DBO project risks and DBO project operation, Coordinating Committee for Compliance and CSR companies to continue business operations. maintenance and management risks related to our DBO Promotion. ３．Earn the trust of numerous stakeholders, including employees, their families, shareholders, and nearby residents, and business; and potential risks, actualized risks, and ﬁnancial fulﬁll social needs by continuing business operations. 【Disaster rule system diagram】 Risk Management Policy Risk Management Policy Risk Management Code ［Basic purpose of risk management］ Crisis Management Code Risk refers to all phenomena that interfere with the Groupʼs ability to achieve its business objectives or cause losses Overseas Risk Management Code or harm to the interests of stakeholders. Disaster Prevention Management Code The Takuma Group practices risk management with the goal of increasing its corporate value by working to * Based on Fire Service Act maximize returns while minimizing the negative impacts of risk. Fire Prevention Plan enforcement regulations Earthquake Countermeasure Manual ［Risk management action guidelines］ BCP activation Storm and Flood Damage Countermeasure Manual １．The president and CEO is responsible for risk management at Takuma. Novel Inﬂuenza Countermeasure Manual Business continuity plan (BCP) ２．All ofﬁcers and employees participate in risk management activities. Safety Conﬁrmation System Administration Rules ３．Risk management activities are carried out in accordance with applicable guidelines such as the Risk Management Rules. Disaster prevention exercises ４．Risk management activities are carried out in line with the Medium-Term Management Plan and annual plan, and we work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. On November 19, group and partner companies joined head ofﬁce personnel in ５．When risk manifests itself, we respond by taking responsible action quickly to minimize any damage and participating in disaster prevention exercises, which included drills to test readiness for creating provisional organizational entities as necessary. a Nankai Trough earthquake and tsunami, ﬁreﬁghting practice, and an evacuation. The ６．Group companies carry out risk management activities in accordance with their own policies and plans, with head ofﬁce is equipped to serve as a temporary shelter in the event of a tsunami or support from Takuma. other emergency, and the exercises included practice for providing evacuation guidance to residents. On October 9, Takumaʼs company ﬁre brigade competed in the indoor ﬁre hydrant category of a ﬁreﬁghting technique competition organized by the Amagasaki A disaster prevention exercise City Bouka Kyokai (Fire Protection Association) to maintain and improve ﬁreﬁghting skills. The event offered the brigade an opportunity to improve its ability to respond in Risk Management Code, Crisis Management Code the event of a ﬁre. We also held two safety conﬁrmation exercises using a system Corporate Governance Project Risk Management Code DBO Project Risk Management Code developed speciﬁcally for that purpose. Risk Management Code for DBO Project Operation, With regard to the maintenance and restoration of information systems, which is the Maintenance and Management Risks Request for decision/ concerning top priority of the Companyʼs business continuity plan (BCP), we carried out exercises Reporting President reporting Project risk envisioning an earthquake and subsequent power outage. Board of corporate Committee of DBO Project risk Directors Executive Ofﬁcers activities These exercises and related activities served to verify that participants understand the DBO Project operation, maintenance and management risk applicable rules and procedures and that they have the necessary knowledge and skills. Evaluation Request for decision/ We will apply the results to future educational exercises and countermeasures as we reporting Actualized risk work to improve our ability to respond in the event of a crisis. A response exercise Reporting Reporting Each Report on Planning/ reporting division internal control Risk Management Department Potential risk Financial IR Activities Individuals, others: Treasury stock: evaluation reporting 7,540,000 shares 1,857,000 shares concerning risks In keeping with the “Takuma Group Code of Conduct,” we 9.1％ 2.2％ ﬁnancial Evaluation reporting Internal Audit provide our shareholders and investors with accurate Department corporate information in a timely and fair manner. As a part Corporations in Japan: of this, we provide notiﬁcations on the convening of 15,632,000 shares Evaluation General Meetings of Shareholders, balance sheet 18.8％ Group information, timely disclosure information, marketable Takuma Group companies Financial institutions Coordinating Committee for securities reports, shareholders reports, annual reports in Foreign individuals: and stock brokerages: Compliance & CSR Promotion English and other business information, all on our website. 21,636,000 shares 36,332,000 shares (including risk matters) 26.1％ 43.8％ 【Takuma website > IR information】 Risk management structure https://www.takuma.co.jp/english/investor/index.html Distribution by shareholder type (as of March 31, 2020) 49 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 50 Corporate Governance Executive Proﬁles: Directors Messages from New Outside Directors Yoshiaki Ito Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) I am truly honored to have been chosen to serve as an outside director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) at Takuma. Over some 30 years as a certiﬁed public accountant, I was involved with corporate accounting audits at a major auditor. I was responsible for audits of companies in an array of industries, including manufacturers, real-estate companies, and service businesses. At the same time, I also gained experience providing operational support for companies preparing for their IPO. I look forward to taking advantage of the auditing and corporate support experience I have gained to date in order to help Takuma further increase its corporate value. Takuma has consistently traveled the path of a pioneer in the boiler industry since its founding, and more recently it has advanced into the environmental protection ﬁeld while accommodating changes in society. In 2015, the Corporate Governance Code was drawn up to offer publicly listed companies a blueprint for initiatives for securing sustained growth. If you examine Takumaʼs ﬁnancial statements and related materials, you will be left with the impression that the companyʼs corporate governance initiatives are extremely robust in terms of their structures and mechanisms compared to those of other companies. You can infer that these structures are being implemented at a high level of sophistication. As an outside director, I am committed to helping maintain a high level of governance, which is the most important priority of management, by fulﬁlling my positionʼs oversight function with regard to operational execution from the objective perspective of stakeholders, particularly shareholders, after I develop a sufﬁciently deep understanding of the Companyʼs operations. Tetsuya Kaneko Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) During some 30 years as a banker, I gained experience in a number of areas, including domestic and international facility operations and oversight, international monetary Corporate Governance exchange, human resources, and consulting on companies looking to enter overseas Hiroaki Nanjo Yasushi Enomoto markets. After that, I began working for a trading company, where I played a management 1 Representative Director President and Chief 7 Director (Audit & Supervisory role for eight years as the executive in charge of a department that provided general Executive Ofﬁcer Committee Member) support in areas such as reviews, legal affairs, distribution, insurance, and IT planning. Takaaki Kato Osamu Iwahashi Today, I serve as the president of a real-estate holding company. 7 8 2 Director 8 Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory I look forward to taking advantage of the knowledge I gained during my years as a Chairman Executive Ofﬁcer banker and trading company executive to contribute to the growth of Takuma as a leading Committee Member) company in the environmental and energy ﬁelds. 10 Kengo Numata Tomomi Fujita Shibusawa Eiichi, whose face is slated to appear on the new ¥10,000 note, started many 11 6 3 Director 9 Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory companies during the Meiji and Taisho periods, and he also wrote Analects of Confucius and 9 Executive Vice President the Abacus more than 100 years ago to explain the need for both ethics and proﬁt. The Committee Member) 1 4 5 spirit of that philosophy lives on in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that the Tsuyohito Nishiyama Yoshiaki Ito international community is pursuing today, and I believe it will only become more 2 3 4 Director Senior Managing 10 Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory important̶essential, even̶as Takuma looks to help achieve the SDGs through its Executive Ofﬁcer Committee Member) technological capabilities and expertise. It is my fervent hope that Takuma will move to take those capabilities to a new level so that it can meet these rising expectations. Hideki Takeguchi Tetsuya Kaneko I am truly honored to have been chosen to serve as an outside director (Audit & 5 Director Senior Managing 11 Outside Director (Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Committee Member) of a company that has developed businesses in response Executive Ofﬁcer Committee Member) to the needs of its times and in doing so has led its industry. I look forward to taking advantage of the broad knowledge Iʼve gained in Japan and overseas to date to live up to Koji Tanaka the expectations of my role once I have developed a sufﬁciently good understanding of the 6 Director Executive Ofﬁcer companyʼs businesses. 51 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 52 G OVERNANCE ーGovernance Initiativesー Corporate Governance Fair Business Practices Executives' Proﬁles: Executive Ofﬁcers Compliance Measures ● Initiatives to ensure compliance with ● Holding training sessions about the Antimonopoly Act the Antimonopoly Act We hold regular training sessions about the Towards ensuring permanent compliance with the Antimonopoly Act to deepen participantsʼ understanding of Antimonopoly Act, Takuma enacted “Regulations the act and to ascertain the latest information about it. Concerning Management of the Pledge of Antimonopoly Act Compliance,” which provides for the submission of a ● Introducing a Legislation Information Service Takashi Manabe Ryoji Tani written oath in regard to observing the Antimonopoly Act. In order to allow its employees to gain a continuous Managing Executive Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer “Rules on Controlling Contact with Competitorsʼ Sales grasp of the latest changes to laws and ordinances, Takuma Departments, etc.,” deﬁnes the procedure for an employee introduced a Legislation Information Service. In this when interacting with the sales department, etc., of a system, legislation alerts highlighting revisions to, and competitor and speciﬁes that an application should be abolition of, laws and ordinances are sent by e-mail in made to and an approval should be obtained from the advance to employees, who can also review detailed afﬁliated division or center manager in advance to ensure information about the corresponding law or ordinance on fair business contact. the systemʼs website as needed. In addition to current laws and ordinances, the system lets users search for legal precedents and public comments to facilitate an even greater understanding of relevant laws Norito Uchiyama Mitsuaki Adachi and ordinances. Managing Executive Managing Executive Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer Internal Reporting System Takuma has been operating an internal reporting system because he or she ﬁled a report. since FY2006, with the aim of promoting compliance Furthermore, in order for this system to be correctly management by uncovering illegal or unfair acts as early as understood and utilized, we distribute a card to all possible and undertaking corrective measures. employees with information on the reporting hotlines and Reporting hotlines are set up at our Compliance & CSR regularly publicize the system. Although awareness of this Akira Taguchi Promotion Division and at an outside law ofﬁce, as well as a system exceeded 90% according to the results of the Managing Executive Hidetoshi Tomita dedicated outside report hotline for anonymous e-mail FY2019 CSR awareness survey, some respondents indicated Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer reporting. Our “Internal Reporting Code” and the Takuma that they were unaware of the system or uninterested in Group Code of Conduct further declare that no informant utilizing it, suggesting that issues remain for the reporting Corporate Governance / Fair Business Practices shall be subjected to disadvantageous treatment simply system. Internal reporting system Employees who become aware of a legal Persons seeking consultation or making reports violation, improper conduct, or other issue that would be problematic from a compliance standpoint must work to help rectify the Consultation problem and prevent future recurrences by Response reporting it to the Companyʼs hotline, regardless or report of their own involvement. Employees reporting information to the Norio Maeda Kunio Hamada Outside reporting hotline hotline will not be subjected to disadvantageous Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer (Including via anonymous Law ofﬁce treatment simply because they ﬁled a report. e-mail if so desired) *Please see the “Internal Reporting Code.” Hotlines (help lines) Internal reporting hotline Compliance & CSR Promotion Division CSR Department ・・・＠・・・ Compliance & CSR Promotion Division Outside reporting hotline Law ofﬁce (Investigation and response) ・・・＠・・・ Outside reporting hotline Specialized company Internal reporting process ・・・＠・・・ Compliance Card Keiji Nakamura Hiroshi Oishi Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Ofﬁcer 53 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 54 Fair Business Practices ● Internal CSR lecture for executives Date: December 25, 2019 Lecture topic: Understanding and Using the Antimonopoly Act in the Future Compliance & CSR Promotion Education Lecturer: Mr. Kentaro Hirayama Takuma offers compliance and CSR promotion education compliance and CSR awareness and risk management. This Attorney at Law and Representative of Hirayama Law Ofﬁces through the Compliance & CSR Promotion Organization effort, through which we sought to live up to societyʼs Associate Professor (Economic Law), Kyushu University Faculty of Law (see page 48), which was established in order to spread requirements and expectations, while taking into account awareness of compliance and CSR issues among employees. internal circumstances and the characteristics of group During FY2019, we implemented education focusing on companies, was based on the Compliance & CSR Promotion compliance and CSR promotion in four separate stages (see Divisionʼs medium-term policy of continuing to practice CSR Awareness Survey below) in keeping with our policy of pursuing a sustained compliance-focused management in accordance with the and thorough program of spreading and improving 12th Medium-Term Management Plan. We have been conducting a CSR Awareness Survey since received lower scores than in the previous survey. FY2019, FY2008 in order to quantitatively assess the level of responses indicated that 975 (of 993) employees are compliance and CSR awareness along with the effectiveness conducting themselves in accordance with standards such ● 1st term : Insider trading of related promotional and educational efforts. The results as the companyʼs Management Principles and the Takuma of this survey are used when summarizing the activities of Group Code of Conduct, indicating that awareness of the ● 2nd term : Training on compliance with Japanʼs Antimonopoly Act each ﬁscal year and in formulating the upcoming yearʼs importance of compliance and CSR have spread widely ● 3rd term : Overview of security export controls action plan, as well as in future compliance and CSR among employees. Takumaʼs CSR comprehension test promotion activities. The survey was expanded to include We will continue to offer this survey and use its results to group companies in FY2013. improve compliance and CSR promotion education on an ● 4th term : Preventing power harassment We actively use survey results in our activities, for ongoing basis. Forward-looking CSR activities, CSR issues and an action example by offering additional education in areas that program Material Procurement Policy Number of sessions per year: 4 (May, August, November, and January) Our Purchasing Department carries out procurement Number of participating departments: 45 activity in accordance with its Material Procurement Policy. 【Material Procurement Policy】 Total number of attendees: 4,315 We provide fair opportunities for all suppliers, irrespective of nationality, company size, or transaction 1．Treat all candidates fairly when selecting a supplier. history. Suppliers are selected based on our comprehensive 2．Strive to discover new manufacturers. We invited an outside expert to give lectures and training in August 2019 (2nd term) and January 2020 (4th term). evaluation of their reliability and safeness in terms of 3．Strictly control conﬁdential information. quality, price, delivery, etc., as well as their abilities in ● 2nd term lecture ● 4th term training session 4．Strive to acquire new and pertinent information. technological development and supply capabilities. “Training on Compliance with Japanʼs 5．Promote green procurement. Long-term stable transactions with dependable suppliers “Preventing Power Harassment: From the 6．Comply with laws and ordinances related to business Antimonopoly Act: Avoiding Involvement with result in improved product reliability and greater corporate Standpoint of Workplace Mental Health” dealings. Bid-rigging and Cartels” value. We, therefore, seek to establish relationships of mutual trust and mutual development with our suppliers. 7．Always keep VA and VE* in mind. Mr. Yuki Takei Ms. Miyuki Matsuoka 8．Strive for self-development. Fair Business Practices While also respecting relevant laws and regulations as Attorney at Law Certiﬁed public psychologist/Clinical psychologist/Industrial counselor well as social norms, we strictly control and maintain any Midosuji Legal Profession Corporation H2 Consultant Co., Ltd. conﬁdential information that we obtain through our ＊VA and VE : Value Analysis and Value Engineering business transactions. More information about the procurement procedures used by our Purchasing Department is available on the following website: 【Takuma website > Material Procurement】https://www.takuma.co.jp/procurement/ (content in Japanese) TOPICS President Nanjo visits worksites involved in plant operation ● A variety of educational methods We use a variety of methods to foster a high level of awareness of compliance From September to October 2019, President Nanjo visited nine worksites that and CSR, including CSR education and discussions implemented directly by are responsible for the long-term operation of waste treatment plants and promoters (department managers) as well as computer-based e-learning and the biomass power plants (including operational management and maintenance). pursuit of CSR goals and action programs throughout the year at each department. Comprehensive operation contracts for plants have grown more common in Since 2006, we also have been distributing a Compliance Manual that includes recent years, and high-quality after-sales service is becoming more important an explanation of the rules and standards of conduct as well as an FAQ to all than in the past. Through these visits, President Nanjo shared with workers the employees in accordance with the Takuma Group Ethics Charter and the Takuma Groupʼs continued commitment to come together to provide high-quality Group Code of Conduct. This manual is utilized in the course of daily operations after-sales service that aligns with customer and regional needs. and departmental training. 55 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 56 Financial Data Trend in Principal Management Indicators and Other Financial Data ● Value of orders received ● Net sales ( ) ( ) Millions Millions of yen of yen 200,000 200,000 111th 112th 113th 114th 115th 116th 116th 191,026 Fiscal year ( Millions of ) ( Millions of ) ( Millions of ) ( Millions of ) ( Millions of ) ( Millions of ) ( Thousands U.S. dollars ) of 177,116 179,829 yen yen yen yen yen yen 150,000 150,000 148,830 End of ﬁscal year March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 March 2019 March 2020 March 2020 134,454 116,309 118,199 121,951 100,000 100,000 113,763 113,088 Net sales ¥ 103,875 ¥ 113,088 ¥ 116,309 ¥ 118,199 ¥ 121,951 ¥ 134,454 $ 1,235,453 99,919 103,875 50,000 50,000 Operating income ¥ 8,223 ¥ 9,189 ¥ 10,974 ¥ 10,030 ¥ 11,604 ¥ 9,600 $ 88,215 0 0 Fiscal year 111th 112th 113th 114th 115th 116th Fiscal year 111th 112th 113th 114th 115th 116th Ordinary proﬁt ¥ 9,116 ¥ 9,646 ¥ 11,606 ¥ 10,670 ¥ 12,334 ¥ 10,301 $ 94,649 Proﬁt attributable to Operating income ¥ 8,030 ¥ 7,817 ¥ 8,551 ¥ 7,847 ¥ 8,854 ¥ 7,445 $ 68,413 ● ● Net sales composition ratios (FY2019) owners of parent ( ) Millions Domestic Environment and Energy Business of yen Comprehensive income ¥ 9,398 ¥ 7,149 ¥ 9,937 ¥ 10,177 ¥ 7,325 ¥ 5,881 $ 54,041 Overseas Environment and Energy Business 5.8% 20,000 Package Boiler Business Equipment and Systems Business Net assets ¥ 52,516 ¥ 58,809 ¥ 67,727 ¥ 76,726 ¥ 83,088 ¥ 85,040 $ 781,403 15,000 13.2% Total assets ¥ 123,127 ¥ 132,614 ¥ 140,201 ¥ 151,489 ¥ 155,989 ¥ 163,498 $ 1,502,329 0.9% 11,604 10,000 10,974 Net assets per share 9,189 10,030 9,600 （JPY or USD） ¥ 631.53 ¥ 708.18 ¥ 815.77 ¥ 924.25 ¥ 1,000.34 ¥ 1,043.15 $ 9.59 5,000 8,223 80.1% Net income per share ¥ 97.12 ¥ 94.55 ¥ 103.43 ¥ 94.93 ¥ 107.10 ¥ 90.36 $ 0.83 （JPY or USD） 0 Fiscal year 111th 112th 113th 114th 115th 116th Diluted net income per share （JPY or USD） Capital adequacy ratio (%) 42.4 44.1 48.1 50.4 53.0 51.8 51.8 Trend by Segment (Millions of yen) Return on equity(%) 16.8 14.1 13.6 10.9 11.1 8.9 8.9 Segment Orders received Sales amount Operating income Backlog Price-to-earnings ratio 9.7 10.7 10.5 12.3 12.3 13.3 13.3 Domestic Environment and 123,154 108,124 10,619 337,322 Cash ﬂows from Energy Business ¥ 21,727 ¥ 6,728 ¥ 9,590 ¥ 5,141 ¥ 10,817 ¥ (11,733) $ (107,806) operating activities Overseas Environment and 1,351 1,143 （202） 733 Financial Data Energy Business Cash ﬂows from ¥ (160) ¥ (445) ¥ 143 ¥ (328) ¥ (1,382) ¥ (202) $ (1,858) investing activities Package Boiler Business 17,925 17,869 966 3,928 Cash ﬂows from ¥ (3,707) ¥ (2,900) ¥ (1,787) ¥ (1,670) ¥ (9,120) ¥ (4,350) $ (39,971) ﬁnancing activities Equipment and Systems Business 6,790 7,840 384 3,453 End-of-year balance of ¥ 45,008 ¥ 48,335 ¥ 57,132 ¥ 60,283 ¥ 61,027 ¥ 44,753 $ 411,224 cash and cash equivalents Sub-total 149,221 134,976 11,767 345,437 Number of employees 3,266 3,366 3,447 3,609 3,619 3,816 3,816 Adjustment （390） （522） （2,167） （122） Note: 1. U.S. dollar amounts are shown solely for the convenience of readers and are translated at the rate of ¥108.83 to U.S.$1.00, Total 148,830 134,454 9,600 345,315 the exchange rate prevailing at March 31, 2020. 2. Ordinary income is a measure of accounting proﬁt that equals operating income plus other income minus other expenses, except for extraordinary items under Japanese GAAP. 57 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 58 Financial Data Consolidated Balance Sheets TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars ASSETS 2020 2019 2020 LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2020 2019 2020 Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and time deposits ¥ 46,145 ¥ 61,769 $ 424,015 Short-term loans payable ¥ 470 ¥ 645 $ 4,319 Notes and accounts receivable: Current portion of long-term debt 80 117 735 Trade 73,034 49,046 671,083 Notes and accounts payable: Unconsolidated subsidiaries Trade 43,708 37,587 401,622 and afﬁliated companies 556 764 5,104 Unconsolidated subsidiaries Other 785 281 7,216 and afﬁliated companies 301 334 2,761 Less allowance for doubtful accounts (20) (28) (183) Other 1,493 1,227 13,721 Total 74,355 50,063 683,220 Total 45,502 39,148 418,104 Inventories 4,681 4,356 43,014 Accrued income taxes 1,673 3,628 15,374 Other 1,787 1,732 16,414 Advances received 10,029 9,798 92,155 Total current assets 126,968 117,920 1,166,663 Allowance for guarantees on completed work 165 149 1,516 Allowance for losses on sales contracts 3,401 1,739 31,251 Property, plant and equipment: Provision for loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates 833 999 7,656 Land 2,497 3,013 22,945 Other 5,429 6,023 49,881 Buildings and structures 11,955 11,905 109,856 Total current liabilities 67,582 62,246 620,991 Machinery, equipment, lease assets and construction in progress 10,114 8,969 92,932 24,566 23,887 225,733 Long-term liabilities: Less accumulated depreciation (16,146) (15,593) (148,360) Long-term debt 262 342 2,409 Total property, plant and equipment 8,420 8,294 77,373 Allowance for directorsʼ and executive ofﬁcersʼ retirement beneﬁts 220 185 2,022 Net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 10,111 9,746 92,906 Investments and other assets: Other 283 382 2,598 Investment securities 13,815 15,138 126,945 Total long-term liabilities 10,876 10,655 99,935 Investments in: Total liabilities 78,458 72,901 720,926 Unconsolidated subsidiaries Contingent liabilities and afﬁliated companies 2,112 4,163 19,403 Other 5,433 5,460 49,923 Net assets: Less allowance for doubtful accounts (109) (109) (998) Common stock 13,367 13,367 122,829 Total 7,436 9,514 68,328 Authorized: 321,840,000 shares Deferred tax assets 6,529 4,810 59,993 Issued: 83,000,000 shares Net deﬁned beneﬁt asset 54 494 Capital surplus 3,818 3,768 35,084 Other 276 313 2,533 Retained earnings 66,244 60,866 608,688 Total investments and other assets 28,110 29,775 258,293 Treasury stock, at cost (2,178) (235) (20,017) Financial Data 1,857,894 shares in 2020 and 331,644 shares in 2019 Total shareholders' equity 81,251 77,766 746,584 Total assets ¥ 163,498 ¥ 155,989 $ 1,502,329 Unrealized gains on securities 3,764 5,390 34,590 Deferred gains and losses on hedges 4 8 35 Foreign currency translation adjustments (3) (4) (24) Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans (373) (463) (3,431) Total accumulated other comprehensive income 3,392 4,931 31,170 Non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries 397 391 3,649 Total net assets 85,040 83,088 781,403 Total liabilities and net assets ¥ 163,498 ¥ 155,989 $ 1,502,329 59 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 60 Financial Data Consolidated Statements of Operations Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 Net sales ¥ 134,454 ¥ 121,951 $ 1,235,453 Proﬁt ¥ 7,417 ¥ 8,952 $ 68,152 Cost of sales 108,592 94,491 997,817 Other comprehensive income： Gross proﬁt 25,862 27,460 237,636 Unrealized losses on securities (1,625) (1,772) (14,934) Selling, general and administrative expenses 16,262 15,856 149,421 Deferred gains and losses on hedges (5) 58 (41) Operating income 9,600 11,604 88,215 Foreign currency translation adjustments 5 (9) 42 Other income (expenses): Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt plans 89 96 822 Interest and dividend income 485 419 4,459 Total other comprehensive income (1,536) (1,627) (14,111) Interest expense (17) (59) (155) Comprehensive income ¥ 5,881 ¥ 7,325 $ 54,041 Gain on sales of investment securities 710 6,521 Comprehensive income attributed to: Settlement package (565) (5,196) Owners of the parent ¥ 5,907 ¥ 7,227 $ 54,275 Provision for loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates (999) Non-controlling interests (26) 98 (234) Loss on sales of investment securities (214) (1,965) Loss on valuation of investment securities (92) (155) (842) Commitment fee (29) (17) (263) Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (53) (58) (490) Provision for doubtful accounts (49) Equity in earnings of afﬁliated companies 222 473 2,044 Other, net 92 (19) 840 Other income (expenses), net 539 (464) 4,953 Income before income taxes 10,139 11,140 93,168 Income taxes: Current 3,891 4,179 35,756 Deferred (1,169) (1,991) (10,740) Total income taxes 2,722 2,188 25,016 Proﬁt 7,417 8,952 68,152 Proﬁt (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries (28) 98 (261) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent ¥ 7,445 ¥ 8,854 $ 68,413 Financial Data Yen U.S. dollars Per share: Net income ¥ 90.36 ¥ 107.10 $ 0.83 Diluted net income Cash dividends applicable to the year 31.00 22.00 0.28 61 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 62 Financial Data Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Foreign Total Noncurrency Remeasureaccumulated controlling Treasury Total Unrealized Deferred translation ments of other interests in Common Capital Retained stock, shareholders' gains on gains and losses adjustdeﬁned comprehensive consolidated Total stock surplus earnings at cost equity securities on hedges ments beneﬁt plans income subsidiaries net assets For the years ended March 31, 2020 Millions of yen Millions of yen Balance at the beginning of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 60,866 ¥ (235) ¥ 77,766 ¥ 5,390 ¥ 8 ¥ (4) ¥ (463) ¥ 4,931 ¥ 391 ¥ 83,088 Cash dividends (¥25.00 per share) (2,068) (2,068) (2,068) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 7,446 7,446 7,446 Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) Disposal of treasury shares 50 57 107 107 Other changes during the year, net (1,626) (4) 1 90 (1,539) 6 (1,533) Balance at the end of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,818 ¥ 66,244 ¥ (2,178) ¥ 81,251 ¥ 3,764 ¥ 4 ¥ (3) ¥ (373) ¥ 3,392 ¥ 397 ¥ 85,040 For the years ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Balance at the beginning of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 52,949 ¥ (235) ¥ 69,849 ¥ 7,161 ¥ (46) ¥ 2 ¥ (559) ¥ 6,558 ¥ 319 ¥ 76,726 Cash dividends (¥19.00 per share) (1,571) (1,571) (1,571) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 8,854 8,854 8,854 Change in scope of consolidation 657 657 657 Change in scope of equity method (23) (23) (23) Purchase of treasury stock (0) (0) (0) Other changes during the year, net (1,771) 54 (6) 96 (1,627) 72 (1,555) Balance at the end of current period ¥ 13,367 ¥ 3,768 ¥ 60,866 ¥ (235) ¥ 77,766 ¥ 5,390 ¥ 8 ¥ (4) ¥ (463) ¥ 4,931 ¥ 391 ¥ 83,088 For the years ended March 31, 2020 Thousands of U.S. dollars Thousands of U.S. dollars Balance at the beginning of current period $ 122,829 $ 34,625 $ 559,274 $ (2,165) $ 714,563 $ 49,522 $ 76 $ (38) $ (4,252) $ 45,308 $ 3,590 $ 763,461 Cash dividends ($0.23 per share) (19,000) (19,000) (19,000) Proﬁt attributable to owners of parent 68,414 68,414 68,414 Purchase of treasury stock (18,377) (18,377) (18,377) Disposal of treasury shares 459 525 984 984 Other changes during the year, net (14,932) (41) 14 821 (14,138) 59 (14,079) Balance at the end of current period $ 122,829 $ 35,084 $ 608,688 $ (20,017) $ 746,584 $ 34,590 $ 35 $ (24) $ (3,431) $ 31,170 $ 3,649 $ 781,403 Financial Data 63 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 64 Financial Data Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows TAKUMA CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Thousands of Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 Cash ﬂows from operating activities: Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities: Income before income taxes ¥ 10,139 ¥ 11,140 $ 93,168 Net increase (decrease) in short-term bank loans (175) (7,030) (1,608) Adjustments to reconcile income before income taxes Payment of long-term debt (117) (470) (1,072) to net cash provided by operating activities: Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (0) (18,377) Depreciation 917 798 8,426 Payment of cash dividends (2,068) (1,571) (19,000) Impairment loss 40 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (24) (28) (219) Loss (gain) on sales of investment securities (496) 7 (4,557) Other 34 (21) 305 Loss (gain) on valuation of investment securities 92 155 842 Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (4,350) (9,120) (39,971) Increase (decrease) in allowance for bonuses 183 4 1,683 Increase (decrease) in allowance for losses on sales contracts 1,662 1,367 15,267 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 11 (11) 102 Increase (decrease) in provision for loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates (166) 999 (1,523) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (16,274) 304 (149,533) Increase (decrease) in net deﬁned beneﬁt liability 494 470 4,539 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 61,027 60,283 560,757 Interest and dividend income (485) (419) (4,458) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from change in scope of consolidation 440 Interest expense 17 59 155 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year ¥ 44,753 ¥ 61,027 $ 411,224 Equity in losses (earnings) of afﬁliated companies (222) (473) (2,044) Net decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable and advances received (23,614) (2,229) (216,984) Decrease (increase) in inventories (312) 3 (2,864) Decrease (increase) in other current assets (529) (27) (4,858) Net increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable and advance money 6,146 1,865 56,474 Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities (551) 431 (5,059) Other 211 (3,197) 1,935 Subtotal (6,514) 10,993 (59,858) Interest and dividend received 563 647 5,175 Interest paid (19) (60) (170) Income taxes received (paid) (5,763) (763) (52,953) Net cash provided by operating activities (11,733) 10,817 (107,806) Cash ﬂows from investing activities: Net decrease (increase) in time deposits (650) (14) (5,973) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,520) (482) (13,967) Sale of property, plant and equipment 508 2 4,666 Purchase of intangible ﬁxed assets (36) (51) (334) Purchase of investment securities (1,253) (802) (11,513) Financial Data Sale of investment securities 2,621 105 24,087 Disbursement for loans receivable (50) (459) Collection of loans receivable 140 112 1,284 Other 38 (252) 351 Net cash used in investing activities (202) (1,382) (1,858) 65 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 66 Outside Expert Opinion Outside Expert Opinion Response to the Outside Expert Opinion Takuma CSR Report 2019 Questionnaire Survey Results Survey period: July 2019 to June 2020 Number of respondents: 1079 Q1 Did you understand the activities of our company? I couldnʼt understand very well. 0% / I couldnʼt understand. 0% Koji Tanaka Kazuhiko Takano Director & Executive Ofﬁcer I basically understood. I understood. Executive Manager 43% Professor, Ph.D. in Law (LL.D.) 57% Compliance & CSR Promotion Division Graduate School and Faculty of Societal Safety Sciences, Kansai University Corporate Services Division Senior Director Japan Society for Business Ethics Q2 What is your level of satisfaction regarding this Report? Senior Researcher Business Ethics Research Center I would like to thank Professor Takano of Kansai (1)Volume of information (2)Design Somewhat insufﬁcient 1% / Entirely insufﬁcient 0% Poor 1% / Very bad 0% University for offering his valuable insights on the CSR Too much 3% Report 2020. Somewhat Average excessive 18% In compiling this report, we have worked to offer 20% Satisﬁed 1．Characteristics of the Takuma CSR Report 2020 In this way, I am pleased to see that the Takuma CSR Report stakeholders an easy-to-understand introduction to a Satisﬁed 76% Mostly 50% 2020 demonstrates the continued evolution of the Companyʼs variety of activities carried out by the Takuma Group with satisﬁed 31% The Takuma Group is a key part of the foundation on which programs. the goal of resolving social issues and increasing corporate Japanese industry operates and one of Japanʼs leading plant value by achieving sustainable growth as well as to the (3)Quality of information (4)Readability engineering groups, and its continued operation is of critical Groupʼs 12th Medium-Term Management Plan, through Somewhat unsatisfactory 0% / Unsatisfactory 0% Difﬁcult to read 0% Somewhat difﬁcult importance to society. Consequently, in rendering my opinion 2．Towards further development which we are working to achieve our corporate vision, and Average 15% to read 1% of this report I would like to focus particularly on its we have focused on inviting involved parties to express their Average 21% Satisﬁed characteristics with regard to the concept of sustainability. Iʼd like to describe some of my expectations toward the thoughts on related subjects in their own words. Satisﬁed Mostly 49% 43% Mostly The ﬁrst characteristic is the ability to manage operations Takuma Groupʼs future CSR management. In “1．Characteristics of the Takuma CSR Report 2020,” satisﬁed satisﬁed 36% based on an understanding of societal issues. For example, The ﬁrst involves studying the value creation process. The Professor Takano offers valuable insights from the 35% Takuma works to resolve issues such as greenhouse gases and year 2020 was identiﬁed as a year in which the next long-term standpoint of business continuity, which the Group takes renewable energy through its core businesses, for example the vision would be formulated, and I expect to see the Company very seriously. We will continue to pursue these initiatives Q3 Which items were you interested in? (Select up to three.) development of biomass power plants and energy from waste develop a vision that seeks to realize the sustainable society of in order to realize the Groupʼs sustainable growth. Message from Top Management 57% plants. I believe that these products will continue to earn social the future by resolving societal issues such as those identiﬁed In “2. Towards further development,” Professor Takano Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses 37% Takuma Group 12th Medium-Term 35% support in the future as companies become the focus of in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through suggests measures that ought to be pursued as part of CSR Management Plan − An Overview Feature 30% stepped-up scrutiny due to the need to realize a low-carbon business activities that draw on the Groupʼs strengths, as management. I am grateful to him for suggesting directions Business Summary 14% society. President Nanjo described in his message at the beginning of for future initiatives. They say that even a journey of a CSR Activities for the Future 13% The second characteristic is a rich selection of content related this report. thousand miles begins with a single step, and we are The Environment 9% to the development of programs and an organizational culture The second involves further deepening global compliance committed to building an even more resilient foundation Company Outline 8% Introduction to Group Company Businesses 8% that make it easier for employees to work at Takuma. The report structures. In the “Introduction to Takumaʼs Businesses” for our operations so that we can realize the Groupʼs new Human Rights and Labor Practices 6% contains extensive descriptions of programs that are designed section, the report introduces how the Company is developing vision. Financial Data 5% to ensure employees continue their employment over the long its businesses overseas, and this effort will continue in the We value Professor Takanoʼs observations and take them Contribution to Society 5% term, including workstyle reforms and work-from-home future. One major risk associated with overseas businesses is seriously, and I would request stakeholdersʼ continued History 5% programs. The report notes that President Nanjo visited nine that Western laws in areas such as bribery and data protection support and encouragement as we work to practice CSR Outside Expert Opinion 4% Participation in the Community 4% worksites that are responsible for plant operation as part of an extend outside their home jurisdictions. Takuma is pursuing an management and enhance our CSR Report. Corporate Governance 2% initiative that was presumably conceived to help develop a advanced series of compliance initiatives at present, but I hope Consumer Issues 2% culture that is characterized by good communication. The to see those efforts expanded in the future, including with Fair Business Practices 1% report also offers a glimpse of managersʼ belief that valuing regard to the unique risks that face global businesses. 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% employees helps increase the Companyʼs competitiveness. The third involves additional resilience initiatives. The The third characteristic is the Companyʼs pursuit of initiatives COVID-19 pandemic has become a societal problem, and Iʼd to improve resilience. In last yearʼs Outside Expert Opinion, I like to see Takuma treat it as an opportunity to increase ● Editorial Policy ● Data Collection Period Outside Expert Opinion suggested that enhancing risk management structures could sustainability by reassessing and improving its BCP. We have prepared this document as a CSR From April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, in principle. Report that details our CSR activities. In addition, some activities in FY2020 are included. provide a way to further increase the effectiveness of the I believe that the Takuma Group is carrying out a high-quality program of CSR activities in a serious manner. ● Publisher and Contact for Inquiries ● Coverage Business Continuity Plan (BCP) by facilitating regular exercises CSR Department, Compliance & CSR This report applies to Takuma Co., Ltd., and its afﬁliates in principle. simulating a natural disaster. This yearʼs report describes an Going forward, I expect to see the Company develop further by Promotion Division ● Time of Issue effort to increase crisis management capability by holding contributing to the resolution of societal problems through its TEL: +81-6-6483-2673 Current issue: July 2020 disaster prevention exercises and BCP training with the goal of core businesses. FAX: +81-6-6483-2620 Next issue: Scheduled for July 2021 maintaining and restoring information systems. Last issue: July 2019 67 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 TAKUMA CSR Report 2020 68 2-2-33 Kinrakuji-cho, Amagasaki, Hyogo 660-0806, Japan Website: https://www.takuma.co.jp/english/ This publication features an environmentally friendly, universal design that is made possible by the following initiatives and programs: ■Printing ■Paper ■Fonts MIX Paper from responsible sources C020841 Printed using “waterless Printed using environmentally Printed on FSCTM-certiﬁed paper Printed on paper made with wood This publication uses universal printing,” which does not friendly vegetable oil ink. (made from trees from from forest thinning. “Morino design fonts that are easy to read. generate hazardous waste. responsibly managed forests). Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association)Supporting sound forest management. The cover of this report features an antibacterial treatment.
