2020 Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | OVERVIEW A Message From Our Chairman & Our CEO DEAR STAKEHOLDERS, The global COVID-19 pandemic and acceleration of the movement to end racial injustice in America and around the world have powerfully highlighted business’ interconnectivity and responsibility to its teams, communities, consumers, partners and investors. At Ralph Lauren, we are challenging ourselves to re-examine how we deliver on our Purpose – to inspire the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style – in a way that continues to create value for all of these stakeholders. Within this context, and as we mark one year since the launch of our Design the Change strategy, we recognize the importance of staying true to the values that define us, while embracing the opportunity to listen, to engage and to evolve. Ralph Lauren Our mission is to create a positive impact on society and a more sustainable future. We made some notable progress this year – from achieving gender parity in our leadership positions, to setting science-based targets to reduce emissions across the Company and value chain by 30 percent by 2030. However, in this profound inflection point in human history, our mission takes on new meaning, and we recognize that there is greater, deeper work ahead. As we continue our journey, we will take from this time both lessons and inspiration and weave them into the spirit of optimism, togetherness and caring that are at the heart of our beliefs — things that are beautiful, that last and that give us hope. Ralph Lauren Patrice Louvet Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer President and Chief Executive Officer Patrice Louvet 2 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | OVERVIEW Introduction “Our Company is built on not what we did yesterday or even today, but what we dream of for tomorrow.” Global Citizenship & Sustainability at Ralph Lauren For more than 50 years, Ralph Lauren has inspired the dream of a better life through authenticity and timeless style, and we approach citizenship & sustainability with this in mind. This core purpose informs our every day at Ralph Lauren and extends across our entire business. It is inextricably linked to how we create a better future for our Company, the people we come into contact with and the world. One year ago, we launched our renewed citizenship and sustainability strategy, Design the Change. Our strategy was built on the values and purpose that have defined our business for more than half a century, and it is based on our belief that, together with our industry, we can deliver the change required to create a positive impact in society and a more sustainable future. When we set out on our journey to Design the Change, we set ambitious goals and dedicated ourselves to integrating our strategy into every part of our business with a clear focus on three pillars: Creating Timeless Style, Protecting the Environment and Championing Better Lives. We are one year into our journey and while we, along with the world, face an unprecedented challenge and global crisis, we are optimistic about the future and are committed to doing what we can to create a better tomorrow. 3 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | OVERVIEW DESIGN THE CHANGE Design the Change accelerates our work across Global Citizenship & Sustainability. Fundamentally, we believe that, together with our industry, we can deliver the change required to create a positive impact in society and a more sustainable future. In June 2020, Ralph Lauren signed onto the United Nations Global Compact, joining other companies across industries committed to implementing universal sustainability principles. “We are proud of the progress we have made since the launch of our Design the Change strategy last year and will continue to deepen our work, building on our strategies with clear targets and credible partnerships to effect meaningful change in our business and the wider world.” Through Design the Change we: • Create Timeless Style: We believe one of our greatest commitments to sustainability is designing products worn and loved and made to last. We are committed to responsible sourcing and using state-of-the-art materials that allow us to create our products more sustainably, without compromising the quality we’re known for. • Protect the Environment: We’re using partnerships and technology to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and supply chain across energy, emissions, water and waste. We believe collaboration is key to finding solutions, which is why we joined leading groups and support nonprofits dedicated to mitigating the environmental impacts of business. • Champion Better Lives: We aim to positively affect the lives of those touched by our business, including people in our communities, workforce and supply chain. 4 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | OVERVIEW OUR GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Each Design the Change pillar is supported by a set of goals to drive our progress in citizenship and implement our work across each pillar. Over the last 12 months, our teams focused on building and sustainability. Integration of Design the Change into our business is key to our success. Since a strong program and systematic foundations needed for us to achieve our goals. The progress the launch of our strategy, we have established internal cross-functional working groups to define toward our goals is highlighted in summary below and shared in more detail throughout the report. CREATE TIMELESS STYLE PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT CHAMPION BETTER LIVES All of our design, production and merchant teams will Set science-based greenhouse gas reduction targets for our Increase volunteer hours 25 percent compared to a receive annual training on sustainable, circular, inclusive operations and supply chain by 2020 FY18 baseline by 2025 and culturally aware design by 2020 AC H I E V E D AC H I E V E D O N T RAC K NEW 30 percent reduction in absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse Achieve gender parity with equal representation in Achieve 100 percent sustainably sourced key materials gas emissions by 2030 compared to a FY20 baseline leadership positions at the VP level and above by 2023 by 2025 O N T RAC K AC H I E V E D O N T R AC K Set a 100 percent renewable energy goal for our owned and Increase female representation in factory management Achieve 100 percent certified or traceable animaloperated facilities by 2019 by 25 percent by 2025 derived materials—as covered in our animal welfare AC H I E V E D O N T RAC K policy—by 2025 O N T RAC K NEW Power our owned and operated offices, distribution centers Make empowerment and life-skills programs available and stores with 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025 to 250,000 workers across our supply chain by 2030 Eliminate the use of hazardous chemicals in our supply O N T RAC K O N T RAC K chain by 2025 O N T RAC K Achieve at least a 20 percent reduction in total water use Roll out our Wage Management Strategy to all of our across our operations and value chain by 2025 strategic and key suppliers to address fair and timely O N T RAC K compensation for factory workers by 2023 O N T RAC K Achieve zero waste to landfill across our distribution centers by 2023 O N T R AC K Achieve 100 percent of our packaging material recyclable, reusable or sustainably sourced by 2025 O N T R AC K 5 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | OVERVIEW Global Citizenship & Sustainability Governance Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Formal governance of Global Citizenship & Sustainability at Ralph Lauren sits with our Board of In FY19, we conducted a materiality assessment to help identify and prioritize the sustainability issues, Directors (the Board). The Nominating, Governance, Citizenship & Sustainability Committee (the risks and opportunities that matter the most to our business and stakeholders. The assessment Nominating Committee) of the Board has oversight of our environmental, social, and governance was conducted by a third party and included extensive engagement with internal and external (ESG) risks and opportunities. stakeholders including employees, selected licensees, suppliers, partners, NGOs and consumers. The Nominating Committee receives quarterly updates, reviews initiatives, goals and policies and Based on this assessment, we set goals for each of our priority material issues as well as selected makes recommendations to the Board on ESG matters. Each quarterly update to the Nominating issues in other categories. These goals are shared throughout the report. Committee also includes a deep dive on an ESG topic, allowing the members to bring their expertise to the subject at hand. The Finance Committee of the Board and the Nominating Committee advise on the incorporation of goals into our corporate strategy and engagement on those business initiatives that influence corporate citizenship and sustainability. The Audit PR I OR I TY MATER I A L I SSUES Committee of the Board reviews ESG risks as part of its overall Enterprise Risk Management review. • Chemical Use & Discharge • Climate Change • Diversity & Inclusion The full Board receives a report on citizenship and sustainability progress at least once annually • Employee & Worker Health, Safety & Well-Being and reviews the Company’s annual Global Citizenship & Sustainability Report. • Raw Material Sourcing & Traceability • Sustainable Product Design & Packaging To further drive Company engagement, our Global Citizenship & Sustainability Senior Steering • Waste Management • Water Stewardship Committee meets monthly to prioritize and resource our approach in this area. The steering committee—composed of leaders from across the Company—are responsible for defining, tracking and championing this work with the teams. It is chaired by our Chief Sustainability Officer, who also oversees our sustainability program. 6 Create Timeless Style One of our greatest commitments to sustainability is creating products that are timeless and lasting. We are furthering that commitment by working toward more responsible sourcing of our materials and creating our products more sustainably, without compromising the quality we’re known for. 7 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE Sustainable Product Design By the end of 2020, all of our design, production and merchant teams—totaling nearly 1,000 employees—will participate in the training. In FY21, we will expand the resource internally and We commit to designing more sustainable products and experiences continue to create new modules to remain up-to-date with relevant sustainability and citizenship by sourcing responsibly, manufacturing efficiently and investing in issues and opportunities, as well as innovations, emerging standards and best practices. innovation to advance these efforts. 2 02 0 GOAL All of our design, production and merchant teams will receive annual training on sustainable, circular, inclusive and culturally aware design We have embarked on a transformation in how we approach product sustainability, beginning with a fundamental rethink of our mindset. Everything that goes into making our products, from ideation to materials, is open to challenge and up for innovation. As part of our Design the Change strategy, we are educating employees on the foundations of sustainable design. In FY20, we began the development of workshop content, e-learning modules and other tools to provide structured learning for our teams as they create sustainable products in tune with Ralph Lauren’s core attributes of timelessness, authenticity and quality. We developed the training program in collaboration with external experts and educators, focusing on foundational, raw materials and job-specific aspects of sustainable product design. Learning opportunities will be offered across five formats to maximize participation: • Instructor-led training • Required independent e-learning • Expert guest speakers • Evergreen tools and resources • Experiential learning 8 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE Cultural Awareness We strive to create and communicate with respect and we continue to educate our teams and celebrate the cultures and influences that inspire our brands. Our designs are inspired by the world around us, including the landscapes, people and places we see each day. The breadth and reach of our brands across generations and cultures create a style that is authentic, timeless and truly personal. We take seriously our responsibility to use the inspiration that captivates our imagination in a way that is culturally aware and appropriate. As part of our sustainable design goal, we committed to training all of our design, production and merchant teams on cultural awareness. This past year, we created a custom educational program for our teams that included in-person workshops as well as remote learning modules covering Native American cultural awareness among other topics and sources of inspiration. More than 200 team members have already participated, and moving forward, the program will be expanded across additional teams, require annual re-certification, and be included in new employee onboarding. Beyond our educational program, our work in this area is driven by our Cultural Awareness Guidelines, which we update annually with new insights and reflections. In the last year, we formally established an internal council with team members that brings diverse perspectives and expertise to inform and advise on the guidelines, and ensures that cultural awareness is integrated from concept design through to marketing campaigns. Our guidelines are distributed and reviewed with all teams that have a role in creating our products and brand image, including our design, advertising and marketing departments. Our purpose-led commitment to authenticity guides our desire to ensure that the sources of our inspirations are respected and strengthened when they are represented through our brand. Our advisors, who support our work in cultural awareness, are some of the most respected Native American organizations in the U.S.: the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian and the Johns Hopkins Center for American Indian Health. 9 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE Sourcing & Traceability targets to help us make progress toward our goals and put in place performance expectations and detailed methods for data collection. To support learning and understanding, we conducted a Our Supplier Engagement Strategy drives transparency and efficiency, survey with supplier partners on social and environmental issues. The evaluations, expectations and while building partnerships to deliver mutual long-term positive commitments are shared with our strategic and key suppliers, and actions and road maps are shared to track progress. impacts across our supply chain. Looking ahead, we are developing a supplier relationship management tool to distribute to our strategic and key suppliers, factories and fabric mills in 2021. The tool aims to deepen our relationships, secure transparency and facilitate communications. We will continue to host our Engaging With Our Suppliers Biannual Supplier Summits to encourage open dialogue about our priorities, learnings, opportunities and challenges and how we can partner together to continue to create value and uphold our standards. Our sustainability journey is a story of collaboration and shared ambition. We are forming deeper partnerships with core suppliers to solve long-standing sustainability challenges. By 2022, we aim for 80 percent of our business to be with strategic and key suppliers. As of FY20, that figure is at 47 percent. We recognize that making a meaningful positive impact will require continuous engagement with our suppliers. As times and expectations evolve, the evaluation of the relationship and the level of engagement expand. Working with partners that share the same values and perspectives enables OU R A PPROACH TO SUPPL I ER EN GAG EMEN T better results for our business, for our communities and for the environment. In FY20, we launched our new Supplier Engagement Strategy to establish and maintain collaborative partnerships and systems that foster increased transparency and accountability. Our Supplier Engagement Strategy is built on our long-term strategic approach for value creation. Our segmentation principles and criteria are based on business execution, citizenship and sustainability, and product integrity. Business results are evaluated through measured performance as well as conversations that allow two-way feedback so we can improve together. Product Integrity is assessed and secured at various stages of our value chain operations through a robust Global Testing and Quality Assurance Program. We built long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with partners that share our values, are committed to continuous improvement and provide the best products to our consumers while protecting the environment and enhancing the lives of people who contribute to it. During FY20, we worked with our strategic and key suppliers to set social and environmental Graphic adapted internally from “Five Critical Components of Supplier Relationship Management.” BravoSolution, 8 Feb. 2016. 10 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE Sustainable Materials We focus on integrating social, ethical and environmental factors in the 2 02 5 G OA L process of developing and sourcing our key raw materials. 100 percent of animal-derived materials—as covered in our animal welfare policy—will be certified or traceable Across the apparel industry, more than 97 percent of the materials used are from virgin sources, which is resource-intensive to produce. As a brand with a deep history in quality and authenticity, Although animal-derived materials only make up a small portion of our total material use materials have always mattered to us. We’ve prioritized durability, craftsmanship and performance (approximately 2 percent), and are primarily by-products from other industries, we remain committed to create products that stand the test of time. Since setting our 2025 goals for our key raw materials to ensuring the respectful treatment and well-being of animals. Our Animal Welfare Policy guides our (cotton, wool, cashmere, leather, viscose, polyester and down), we have continued to refine our teams in sourcing these materials only from responsible suppliers. In FY20 we made great progress sustainable sourcing criteria. The impacts that our raw material sourcing have on water, land use, on our sustainable material goals for down, wool and cashmere, furthering the introduction of thirdanimal welfare and labor practices are just some of the reasons this is such an important part of our party animal welfare and sustainability standards. Design the Change strategy. In addition to working to meet the sustainability criteria we have set for each of our key raw materials, we are continually exploring and assessing sustainable material In the coming year, we will increase our use of sustainable materials through the partnerships, innovations with a focus on reducing our negative impacts and scaling our positive impacts. innovations and programs described below. F Y 2 0 MAT ERI A L USE* 2 02 5 GOAL 100 percent of our key materials will be sustainably sourced1 Polyester 6.2% Our raw material sourcing strategy is guided by our commitment to sustainability and ensuring 2.4% Cashmere visibility and influence in our supply chains through traceability efforts. In FY20, we created a 1.9% 0.2% 0.5% Animal Derived sustainable raw material road map to outline the pathway to achieving our 2025 goals. We have Nylon 0.1% Leather/ Skins 5.8% already begun to make progress against our road map, increasing the volumes of more sustainable Viscose 0.2% Other cotton, polyester and leather used across our brands and products. 82.1% Cotton Other** 1.9% Wool We are working to develop systems and protocols to track and measure the total volume (by weight) of sustainable materials as a portion of total raw materials sourced. Until these measures are in place, we will track our progress in terms of the number of units that use a material with a sustainability attribute. In FY20, 11 percent of units met our sustainability criteria for cotton, polyester or wool. *In FY20, we expanded our assessment of raw material use from apparel to other products such as home, footwear and accessories. Material use for these categories was previously not available and therefore was not included in the material use data shared in the FY19 Global 1 We define ”sustainably sourced” with specific standards and certifications for each raw material we have set goals for: cotton, wool, cashmere, Citizenship & Sustainability Report. Percentages do not add up to 100 percent due to rounding. leather, polyester, viscose and down. We leverage trusted, third-party standards such as the Responsible Wool and Down Standards. **Primarily includes additional materials used in our accessory and footwear products. 11 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE COTTON POLYESTER By 2025, 100 percent of our cotton will be sustainably sourced, which we define as cotton that is By 2025, 100 percent of the polyester we source will be recycled polyester. either: from the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), Fair Trade certified, organic, recycled, transitional or aligned to the U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol. Currently, polyester only makes up 6 percent of our total material use. As of FY20, 1 percent of our polyester was recycled as we began making the transition from virgin polyester. We have Cotton is our primary material, accounting for 82 percent of our total material use. In FY20, 13 incorporated recycled polyester in over 100 styles, including our Earth Polo, which is made percent of our total cotton units met our sustainable sourcing criteria, putting us on track to meet entirely from fiber derived from postconsumer-recycled ocean-bound plastic bottles. The Earth our 2025 goal. We are focused on transitioning our core products, such as polos, knits, chinos and Polo is produced in partnership with First Mile, an organization with a global mission focused shirts, to sustainably sourced cotton first. In FY20, 41 percent of these core products (as measured by on sustainability and positive social impact. First Mile works with entrepreneurs in low-income units) used sustainably sourced cotton. communities to collect the recyclable plastic bottles, which are then processed using unique and eco-friendly manufacturing techniques. To help us sustainably source our cotton, we became members of the BCI in support of their mission to address the environmental, social and economic issues associated with growing cotton. In 2019, The transition to recycled polyester is significant. It uses 45 percent less energy and emits 30 we sourced 6,500 tonnes of Better Cotton, which is equivalent to an estimated 8 percent of our total percent less carbon dioxide compared to virgin polyester.3 The introduction of recycled polyester cotton use. 2 into our materials use is part of our commitment to use 170 million recycled plastic bottles in our products and packaging by 2025. In FY20 alone, we repurposed more than 20 million recycled This year, we updated our definition of sustainable cotton by replacing U.S.-grown cotton with U.S. bottles.4 Cotton Trust Protocol. This change brings a needed third-party standard to cotton grown in the U.S. We also added “Fair Trade certified” to round out our definition of sustainable cotton. In FY20, 13 percent of our total cotton units met our sustainable sourcing In FY20 alone, we repurposed more than 20 million recycled bottles criteria, putting us on track to meet our 2025 goal 2 Eight percent is a percentage of our total estimated cotton lint consumption for FY20 and not based on unit estimations which are 3 According to data provided by REPREVE used to calculate the percent of our total units that are using more sustainable cotton. 4 This number was determined based on data provided by Primaloft and First Mile for our branded recycled polyester. For our generic GRS-certified recycled polyester, data is based on the bottle consumption conversion provided by the mill. 12 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE NYLON VISCOSE We have focused on transitioning to recycled nylon for shells and other fabrics that are 100 percent By 2025, 100 percent of our viscose will be sustainably sourced and verified through CanopyStyle nylon. Most of our Polo outerwear styles use recycled materials. In select RLX outerwear styles, audits. we have started adopting Econyl®—a 100 percent regenerated nylon made from preand postconsumer waste like fishing nets, industrial plastic waste and fabric scraps. The sourcing of viscose, a plant-derived fiber, has been connected to the deforestation of ancient and endangered forests. We stand with many industry peers and have communicated our expectation to suppliers that any viscose used in our products does not contribute to In select RLX outerwear styles, we have started adopting Econyl®—a 100 deforestation. We recently formalized our commitment to sustainably sourcing viscose with the publication of our Forest Protection Policy. percent regenerated nylon made from preand post-consumer waste Ralph Lauren is committed to achieving the highest level of transparency and sustainability within its viscose supply chain. Beginning in FY21, Ralph Lauren will be asking suppliers to provide information on the origin of cellulosic fibers to evaluate the associated sourcing risk. We will also ask suppliers to put in place their own sourcing policies which commit them to not source fibers from ancient and endangered forests or controversial sources. Finally, we will partner with suppliers to confirm the status of our viscose supply chain and use the results of the CanopyStyle audit to create a roadmap to achieve our 2025 goal, including prioritizing the use of the highest-ranked fiber producers as published in Canopy’s annual Hot Button Report. L E ATH E R By 2025, 100 percent of our leather will be sourced from Leather Working Group (LWG)-certified tanneries, with the aim that all tanneries achieve LWG Gold certification by 2030. To achieve gold certification, our tanneries must rank in the highest bracket across critical sustainability issues such as restricted substances and water use. As of FY20, 43 percent of our leather suppliers are certified by LWG (gold, silver or bronze rating), accounting for 90 percent of our total leather use. While our current sustainable leather goal is focused on tanneries, our long-term ambition is to trace our leather back to the farm to verify their animal welfare practices and impacts on land use, specifically deforestation. Through our membership in the Textile Exchange, we are supporting the burgeoning work of the Leather Impact Accelerator, a program dedicated to aligning members of the leather value chain to achieve meaningful sustainable impacts. This approach aligns with our commitment to the G7 Fashion Pact, which aims to reduce the environmental impact of the apparel industry, including a focus on stopping the decline of biodiversity. 13 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE DOW N WO O L Currently, all of the down we source for products manufactured by Ralph Lauren suppliers is By 2025, all of our wool will either be recycled or certified by the Responsible Wool Standard (RWS). certified by the Responsible Down Standard (RDS) or the Traceable Down Standard (TDS). In FY20, we continued incorporating recycled and RWS-certified wool into selected products. We In FY20, we made significant progress in using also actively engaged with our suppliers to better understand the barriers associated with sourcing alternative down from recycled materials. RWS wool in various geographies, with the aim of increasing the availability of this wool in the future. We became the first brand to incorporate a Primaloft® down alternative—ThermoPlume™— We are also exploring the use of other certified wools, such as Nativa and Cradle to Cradle, that into our products. ThermoPlume™ is made meet RWS standards for animal welfare and take additional social and environmental impacts into entirely from recycled plastic bottles and consideration. provides the same quality and function as conventional down. As of FY20, ThermoPlume™ was incorporated into our Ralph Lauren C AS H ME R E packable down outerwear. We aim to make sustainable cashmere more readily available in our supply chain. In FY20, we made progress toward transparency by beginning to map the countries of origin for our cashmere. We are also engaging with the Sustainable Fibre Alliance and the Textile Exchanges’ Responsible All of the down we source for Cashmere Round Table to identify the best avenues to advance the development and adoption of products manufactured by existing standards. Ralph Lauren suppliers is certified by the Responsible Down We are also working to incorporate recycled and Cradle to Cradle-certified cashmere into our Standard or the Traceable products. Down Standard 14 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CREATE TIMELESS STYLE Chemical Management In FY20, we adopted the ZDHC manufacturing restricted substances list (MRSL) and began communicating to our suppliers through our vendor compliance program. The MRSL is key to We will monitor and reduce hazardous chemical use and discharge, enabling suppliers to track and report on all chemicals used in the development and manufacturing ultimately eliminating all hazardous chemicals from the manufacture of our products as well as prioritize harmful chemicals for removal. In FY20, we identified perfluorocarbons (PFCs) for removal from our garments. PFCs are used in apparel production to of our products. create high-performance water-repellant materials but if not managed correctly, could lead to adverse impacts on people and the environment. In FY20, we began a pilot program to explore phasing out PFCs across all Ralph Lauren brands. While it remains an industry challenge to achieve full visibility of chemical usage throughout the 2 02 5 GOAL supply chain, we are working with our suppliers toward this objective. We are prioritizing our chemical transparency initiative with strategic and key suppliers, which made up 47 percent of Eliminate the use of hazardous chemicals in our supply chain our production in FY20. As we progress toward our 2025 goal, we set an interim objective with our strategic and key suppliers to achieve full chemical transparency by the end of 2020. We also identified a chemical inventory management tool to help suppliers track and directly report the chemicals used in production against the ZDHC MRSL. We will begin rolling this tool out to our Modern textile production relies on chemicals—our mission is to identify the safest substances for strategic, selected key suppliers and fabric mills next year. people and the environment. Guided by our Sustainable Chemical Management Policy, no chemical will be overlooked—if it’s a cause for concern, we seek a safer option. Responsible chemical management is key to meeting our social and environmental supply chain standards, and we believe broad industry collaboration is required to achieve widespread implementation. S U STA I N A B L E DE N I M In FY20, we joined the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Programme as Friends In addition to our goal to source sustainable cotton of ZDHC. The ZDHC Programme is a collaborative group of contributors and stakeholders in for all of our denim, discussed on page 12, in FY20, we the textile and leather industry that work collectively to eliminate the usage and discharge of began our transition to sustainable denim production hazardous chemicals from the supply chain. We are adopting ZDHC standards and tools to guide across our global facilities. Key initiatives include: the way our supply chain selects, purchases and manages chemicals. This approach will help • Reducing our use of potassium permanganate in all reduce supplier assessment fatigue and maximize the implementation efforts. of our denim laundries, with the goal of reaching zero • Increasing laser technology applications to replace We also partnered with the Apparel Impact Institute and five of our largest fabric mills to manual sanding in selected facilities implement the Mill/impact Initiative. Through this program, the mills will have access to expert • Replacing the use of pumice stones with alternative guidance in identifying and implementing measures to enhance on-site energy and water efficiency, abrasives including synthetic stones or switching to as well as chemical management practices. enzyme processes for our core denim washes, with the goal of eliminating pumice stones by 2025 15 Protect the Environment We’re using partnerships and innovative technology to reduce the environmental impact of our operations and supply chain across energy, emissions, water and waste. 16 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT Carbon and Energy Our Carbon Strategy Our goal was approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), indicating that our ambitions align with reduction pathways to limit global temperature rise across the planet to 1.5°C. By selecting We commit to addressing the issue of global climate change and the FY20 as our baseline, we leveraged our most accurate carbon data and aligned our goal to SBTi contributing impacts of our business by reducing greenhouse gas guidelines.5 The goal is consistent with our commitment as a signatory to the UN Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action and our membership in RE100. emissions across our value chain. SCI EN CEB ASED TA RG ET Ralph Lauren is supporting a wave of change in our industry, taking action to reduce the climate impact of our business and our value chain. There is a consensus amongst industry leaders—we Thirty percent reduction in absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 2030 must move quickly and collaboratively to decarbonize the fashion sector, which is responsible for compared to a FY20 baseline. As part of this goal, Ralph Lauren also commits 10 percent of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We are working with coalition groups and to the goal of sourcing 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025. industry experts to reduce our carbon footprint. We are signatories to the We Are Still In declaration and the UN Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action, pledging to limit our emissions in line with the Paris Agreement goals. We are also Setting a value chain carbon reduction target is a significant milestone for Ralph Lauren. We believe members of the G7 Fashion Pact, a group of fashion leaders working to stop global warming, restore that companies must establish ambitious, science-based targets to ensure that society averts the biodiversity and protect the oceans. As part of our carbon reduction strategy, we joined RE100 and disruptive effects of climate change. Our commitment represents our long-standing values, reflects committed to the goal of powering our owned and operated offices, distribution centers and stores the evolution of our thinking and will help decarbonize the fashion industry. with 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025. We are working on a detailed plan to implement our goal by sourcing renewable energy for our operations and reducing the carbon intensity of manufacturing and production in our supply chain. G H G REDUCTION GOA L In FY20, we established a science-based target to reduce our absolute GHG emissions by 30 percent by 2030, compared to 2020 levels. This target includes reducing emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and 2) by sourcing 100 percent renewable electricity and reducing emissions from our supply chain (Scope 3). 5 SBTi guidelines recommend that the most recent year is used as a baseline. 17 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT O UR FOOTP RIN T Energy in Our Operations A comprehensive carbon footprint is the foundation for our science-based target. In FY20, we improved our methodology to ensure that our calculations are representative of our value chain and S O U R C I N G R E N E WA B LE ENERGY consistent year-over-year. For the first time, we expanded our footprint to include our supply chain emissions, which account for 92 percent of our total footprint, with Scope 1 and 2 accounting for the Around the globe, renewable energy is increasingly available and cost-competitive compared to remaining 8 percent. conventional power sources. Our strategy for achieving our Scope 1 and 2 GHG reduction goal is focused primarily on renewable energy. In FY20, we joined RE100 and committed to the goal Our Scope 1 and 2 carbon footprint consists primarily of emissions from electricity and fuels for of powering our owned and operated offices, distribution centers and stores with 100 percent heating and cooling the facilities in our direct operations and a smaller portion due to refrigerant renewable electricity by 2025. emissions. In FY20, our operational energy consumption was 319,586 MWh, which resulted in 126,665 MTCO2e. The energy intensity of our owned and operated stores was 36.3 kWh/sq ft. To achieve this goal, we plan to implement virtual power purchase agreements in North America and assess our U.S. locations for onsite solar power installations. For our remaining electricity use, we plan Our Scope 3 carbon footprint consists of indirect emissions from our global supply chain. In FY20, to purchase high-quality green electricity credits, such as renewable energy certificates. As of FY20, our total Scope 3 emissions were 1,538,079 MTCO2e. 2 percent of electricity used in our operations was from renewable sources. We expect this number to significantly increase as we put our renewable energy strategy into action. In future reports, we will share progress toward our 2030 GHG reduction goal. Energy and Emissions*,** 2 02 5 G OA L Energy Use (MWh) at our own facilities in FY20 Our owned and operated offices, distribution centers and stores will be Operational Energy Use 319,586 powered by 100 percent renewable electricity Carbon Footprint (Scope 1, 2 and 3) (MTCO2e) in FY20 Total Emissions 1,664,744 Scope 1 Emissions 16,248 E N E R GY E F F I C I E N CY I N STO RES Scope 2 Emissions 110,417 We use environmental management systems to monitor and control energy-intensive building Scope 3 Emissions 1,538,079 components including lighting, heating and cooling. In FY20, we opened 11 stores globally designed with LED lighting and we retrofitted the lighting in 16 existing stores to be more energy efficient. In Carbon Intensity (MTCO2e/$ million revenue) 270.26 FY21, we will retrofit the lighting at the remainder of our Polo and Ralph Lauren branded stores in * Due to improvements in our carbon footprinting methodology for FY20, we are unable to draw comparisons to historical data for FY18 North America and we are evaluating additional opportunities at our Asian and European stores. In and FY19. Our previous footprint did not account for all of our owned and operated facilities and energy use, and our carbon accounting system did not allow for easy recalculation of previous years. Therefore, we chose to use FY20 as our baseline to ensure accuracy and FY20, our stores consumed 190,324 MWh and their carbon intensity was full inclusion of all emissions sources. Previously reported carbon data, which leveraged a different methodology, is available in the 2019 Global Citizenship & Sustainability report. 0.014 MTCO2e/sq ft. ** We measure and calculate our emissions according to the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the industry standard and international tool for carbon accounting. For a more detailed methodology, see our 2020 Standards Supplement. In FY20, we joined RE100 and committed to powering our owned and operated offices, distribution centers and stores with 100 percent renewable electricity by 2025. 18 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT Reducing Our Supply Chain Footprint S H I P P I N G O U R P R O D U CTS Product transport—including train, truck and air—is included in our Scope 3 footprint. We aim to use By mapping our Scope 3 footprint, we identified priority areas for emissions reduction, including raw the most efficient transportation possible to mitigate cost and environmental impact when shipping material manufacturing and garment finishing where the final touches are added to our products. products to our distribution centers. We expect our suppliers to deliver products in the most cost-efficient and environmentally friendly T IE R 1 SUP P LIERS way possible. Only in rare circumstances, when production does not meet delivery deadlines and we are in urgent need of that supply, do we allow vendors to deliver product via air. In FY20, vendorWe are gathering environmental data, including energy use, from tier 1 suppliers through the managed air accounted for only 3.8 percent of total shipments, compared to 5.8 percent in FY19. Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) Higg Facility Environmental Module. The data will inform how we reduce the carbon emissions associated with our supply chain. As of FY20, 216 supplier facilities Logistics* provided energy use and emissions data, representing an estimated 63 percent of our total supply chain spend. FY19 FY20 Air Freight (% of shipments) 5.8% 3.8% In FY21, we will collect data from more suppliers and create road maps to help reduce our supply * Inbound shipment from factory to global point-of-receipt chain carbon footprint, starting with our strategic and key suppliers.6 In FY20, Ralph Lauren signed the Ocean Conservancy Arctic Shipping Pledge to protect the Arctic T IE R 2 FABRIC MILL S marine ecosystem from the negative impacts of commercial shipping. As a signatory, Ralph Lauren commits not to hire carriers to ship our products through Arctic Trans-Shipment Routes. We also In FY20, we partnered with five of the largest fabric mills we work with to help them join the Apparel engage with organizations such as Clean Cargo, a BSR collaboration for sustainable transportation, Impact Institute (AII) Mill/impact program. Building upon the Clean by Design methodology, the and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWay program on efficient logistics. program provides training and resources to help suppliers reduce their carbon, water and chemical footprint. Our participating fabric mills receive on-site visits from environmental experts, consultation on goal-setting and technical support for environmental impact reduction projects. In FY20, 216 facilities that supply us, representing 63 percent of our supply chain spend, provided their energy use and emissions data through Higg 6 Strategic and key suppliers are those suppliers that have a strategic relationship with Ralph Lauren aligned to our business strategy, develop business-critical products and meet our standards at a gold (strategic suppliers) and silver (key suppliers) level. 19 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT Water Stewardship Our Water Strategy In addition, we entered into a collaboration with World Wildlife Fund to accelerate progress toward our goal of reducing our water use. In this first year of the collaboration, we are analyzing our water We commit to reducing water consumption across our value chain, and to footprint, identifying areas of water risk, and outlining strategies to decrease our water consumption while also identifying opportunities to address water quality and access needs across our value chain. safeguarding and preserving water resources in our communities. Through our partnerships with GiveMeTap and DigDeep, our water stewardship initiatives extend to our communities. Read more about our work to safeguard and preserve water in Community Engagement and Philanthropy, on page 26. 2 02 5 GOAL Achieve at least a 20 percent reduction in total water use across our operations and value chain, compared to a FY20 baseline All life depends on water, and we can’t overstate the importance of our industry protecting this finite resource. We are in the process of transforming the way water is used in our supply chain, introducing the best new technologies that minimize consumption and protect the world’s water resources. As of this year, our water stewardship initiatives include: • Leveraging the SAC Facility Environmental Module to capture water data from our tier 1 suppliers. • Enrolling five of our tier 2 fabric mills in the Apparel Impact Institute (AII) Mill/impact program to reduce their environmental impact, including water use. • Working with seven knit and woven manufacturers to minimize water use and improve effluent treatment by upgrading factory equipment. We estimate these projects helped our knit and woven partners avoid 168,000 cubic meters of water use in FY20. • Manufacturing all Earth Polos with a waterless dyeing technology. • Reducing the use of water-intensive chemicals in the production of core denim products. 20 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT Waste Management We commit to integrating zero waste principles across our business. We aim OU R EXCE SS I N V EN TORY MA N AGEMEN T PRI N CI PL ES to divert waste from landfill through increasing recycling and upcycling, reducing waste at its source, and implementing other best practices. Mo p st Prevent Excess at Source d rre fe re Toward our goal for zero waste, we are designing waste out of our processes, in our own business Pursue Expanded Sales Channels and throughout our supply chain. From manufacturing to distribution centers, retail operations and events, we are identifying ways Maximize Product/Material’s Next Life to replace, improve and create processes that will eliminate waste and help us progress toward our zero waste distribution center goal, as well as our commitment to bring zero waste principles into all aspects of our business and value chain. Our approach addresses waste associated with products Donate for Positive Impact and our operations. Recycle Managing Excess Inventory a Le In FY20, we developed a set of guiding principles to support our waste management strategy. st p Dispose d These principles were created to minimize waste, maximize the value of our products in their first rre fe and next life, keep all materials at their highest and best use and maintain the integrity of our re brand throughout all of the above. To help put our principles into practice, we established a waste management hierarchy for inventory and commercial waste to guide decision-making across the organization. 21 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT PREVEN T EXCESS AT SOU R C E E MP LOY E E ACC E SS In FY20, we started to develop a global approach to reducing inventory waste and standardized the While we have historically held employee sales of excess inventories, access has been limited to steps we take to prevent excess product from becoming waste. employees in the immediate geography of the inventory. In FY21, we will begin exploring new ways to provide employees access to excess inventories and are in the process of creating a pilot digital Accurately predicting product demand is a common challenge in our industry. As a result, in the employee sale. traditional manufacturing model, production routinely exceeds demand. We envision a future where we produce only what is needed—eliminating any overproduction altogether. To do this, we have taken steps over the last few years to better balance our inventory with demand. We have D O N ATE F O R P OS I TI VE I M PACT continued to shorten value chain lead times and implemented agile production models, while applying buying techniques that more closely match manufacturing to demand. Over the last three In FY20, we made donations to a number of partners across our global networks, including Delivering years, we have produced fewer units while increasing our revenue and profit margins. This success Good and Material for the Arts. shows it is possible to maintain financial performance while minimizing overproduction. We donated over 40,000 units of products. Our donation strategy is focused on helping as many In FY20, we launched a pilot to minimize overproduction of our wholesale orders in our European communities as possible where our employees and customers live and work and aligning our market. Working together, our merchandising, sourcing and global manufacturing teams manage partnerships with nonprofits to that strategy. commitment dates to ensure that they occur after we confirm customer orders. This cut-to-sales model decreased the number of extra items made, and in FY21, we will implement the same process improvement in North America. R E CYC L E Taking the learnings from a garment recycling pilot in Europe, where we recycled garments to make PURS UE EX PANDED SA L ES C HA N N EL S raw materials for insulation and soundproofing boards, we are continuing to find opportunities to recycle excess product when all other, more productive and more sustainable options have been After offering our products in full price omni-channel across regions, we evaluate pursuing explored. Textile recycling does have technical and product eligibility challenges, such as the inability alterantive sales channels for products that are not sold within the planned time frame, including to process blended fabrics and limited options for shoes and handbags. In FY21, we will continue to our outlet stores and various clearance partners around the world. explore recycling options and partners. We are also using service-based revenue models like rental platforms, also known as ‘shared closets’. We are on platforms including Rent the Runway and Nuuly with our Polo, Lauren and Club Monaco brands. D I S P OS I TI O N After we have exhausted the channels and avenues described above, we reserve product disposition MAXIMIZE P RODUC T OR M AT ER I A L’S N EX T L I F E (or destruction) as a last resort. We prioritize waste-to-energy disposal methods wherever possible. As visualized in our hierarchy on page 21, our aim is to reduce waste as much as possible through the We have begun to expand the potential “next life” opportunities for our products by expanding strategies we have outlined and ultimately eliminate product disposition or destruction. our use of re-commerce and upcycling. In FY20, we launched RE/SOURCED a uniquely curated collection celebrating vintage Polo with Depop and are pursuing additional vintage and resale As we look to the future, we will be ramping up our donation partnerships as well as exploring new opportunities for FY21 and beyond. recycling partners for eligible products. Building on our various Upcycling capsules and collaborations in the past, we are continuing to find creative ways to use products and fabrics to make new, one-of-a-kind products. 22 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT Operational Waste The teams at our distribution centers, offices and stores are focused on waste avoidance and minimization. We are analyzing our waste streams, improving signage and establishing new Operational Waste in FY20 partnerships to avoid sending materials to incineration for energy or landfill. Metric Tons Diversion Rate Distribution Centers 5,507 85% 2 02 3 GOAL Stores* 2,917 78% Offices* 1,434 35% Achieve zero waste to landfill across our distribution centers Total Operational Waste 9,858 75% * Comprehensive site-specific waste data was not available for all offices and stores. Waste data was modeled for these sites. We reduce waste at our distribution centers to drive efficiency and minimize our environmental impact. In FY20, we conducted a global assessment of waste generated at our distribution centers and calculated the baseline diversion rate across selected global sites. In FY20, we achieved 90 In FY20, our distribution center diversion rate was 85 percent, percent diversion at our owned distribution centers in North America. In FY21, we will work to achieve on track to meet our 2023 goal similar diversion rates in our third-party-operated distribution centers in Europe and Asia. To reach our zero-waste goal, we recycle or reuse most of the cardboard, plastic, pallets and paper material that enter our facilities. We are working to ensure that every distribution center also has a solution in place for items such as electronics and light bulbs. In FY21, at our third-party-operated distribution centers in Europe and Asia, we will focus on excess inventory diversion. In FY20, we generated 5,507 metric tons of waste at our distribution centers and diverted 4,658 metric tons of waste from landfill. In FY21, we will work with our haulers to improve our distribution center diversion rate by further reducing the waste we send to landfill. One area of opportunity we plan to address is recycling or eliminating the hangers and polybags which our suppliers typically include in product shipments. Our retail stores continue to recycle to divert waste from landfill. In FY20, we were directly responsible for waste management at 86 of our retail locations, and 100 percent of our stores in North America continue to have recycling programs. Our employees want to play an active role in our sustainability program, and we are harnessing that energy in a new community group—the Green Ponies. Formed in FY20, the Green Ponies advance environmental improvements at our offices by driving internal awareness, collecting innovative ideas and implementing solutions. 23 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Packaging For more than a decade, Ralph Lauren has recognized the importance of environmentally responsible Customers can select a reduced packaging option for any orders placed through RalphLauren.com. packaging. Our 2025 company-wide goal is to only use recyclable, reusable or sustainably sourced For these orders we do not include plastic or paper inserts, hangers or garment bags, promotional packaging materials.7 As of FY19, over half of our packaging met this criterion, with the share of materials and paper invoices. In FY20, we proactively removed and recycled all of the polybags sustainable packaging continuing to increase in FY20. from reduced packaging orders, representing 12 percent of all orders placed through RalphLauren.com that year. To make this possible, we updated our customer service website, changed our packing process and trained employees in our customer service and distribution centers on the new 2 02 5 GOAL procedure. We are also developing a reusable shipping package pilot as part of our effort to reduce shipping packaging waste. In FY20, we identified a viable reusable packaging solution and we plan to test the concept in FY21. 100 percent of our packaging material will be recyclable, reusable or sustainably sourced In FY20, we took several steps toward achieving our sustainable packaging goal, including formalizing our Forest Protection Policy. This policy underscores our commitment to reduce the environmental and social impacts of our packaging. During the year, we inventoried every material used in our product packaging. Our top three items by volume of usage are stickers, decorative tags, and polybags—individual plastic bags used to protect products. Through our inventory, we identified over 250 unique items that met our sustainability criteria, including our recyclable tags, reusable shopper bags and polybags that contain 50 percent postconsumer-recycled content. We have identified 20 priority packaging materials that we will either stop using or transition to more sustainable sources. In FY20, we developed guidelines for decorative tags which will reduce nonessential tags and require that FSC-certified paper is used for tags that are not eliminated. We also worked with suppliers and other retail brands on how we can eliminate, reduce or replace polybags. In FY20, we piloted a program with selected suppliers to reduce the number of polybags used in transporting products and tested 14 alternatives to polybags including recycled content bags, As of FY19, over half of our packaging was recyclable, reusable or biobased bags and bags with lower impact at end of life. sustainably sourced 7 In FY20, we updated our goal to include reusable packaging options. Sustainably sourced includes packaging that is post consumer or post industrial recycled content or FSC certified. 24 Champion Better Lives We aim to go beyond reducing our impact to positively affecting the lives of those touched by our business, including people in our communities, workforce and supply chain. 25 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES Community Engagement and Philanthropy Giving Time and Talent We make a meaningful difference in our communities through our F Y 2 0 EMPLOY EE VOLUN T EERI N G 9 global employee volunteerism and our dedication to social and environmental causes. 3,726 14,252 244 150 employees hours events attended organizations participated volunteered supported 2 02 5 GOAL Increase volunteer hours 25 percent compared to a FY18 baseline AC H I E V E D Our employees are passionate about volunteering and fundraising in their communities, which we encourage by connecting them to inspiring opportunities. In FY20, we achieved our volunteering goal ahead of schedule due to the thousands of Ralph Lauren employees who supported their local nonprofit organizations. During the year, they donated more than 14,000 hours of their time, an increase of 50 percent compared to our FY18 baseline. As part of the Ralph Lauren Gives Back program, we host three8 dedicated volunteering weeks annually that encourage teams company-wide to give back to their communities. We also participate in community engagement activities year-round with focus events like our Pink Pony campaign, Earth Day and our Season of Giving that takes place in December. 8 Only two dedicated volunteering weeks were held in FY20 due to COVID-19 restrictions. 9 Our third volunteering week in FY20 was cancelled due to COVID-19 restrictions affecting our FY20 volunteering efforts. 26 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES Philanthropy The Ralph Lauren Corporation (the Company) makes monetary and product donations to support local community groups. The Company also provides funding, including a portion of cause marketing proceeds, to the Ralph Lauren Corporate Foundation10 (the Foundation), a distinct charitable entity established in 2001. Combined FY20 contributions from the Company and the Foundation totaled more than $7 million.11 To support COVID-19 relief efforts, the Foundation donated $10 million in aid to employees, partners and communities by: • Providing financial grants through the Emergency Assistance Foundation for Ralph Lauren employees facing special circumstances like medical, eldercare or childcare needs. • Contributing to the World Health Organization COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund, a global effort supporting countries to prevent, detect and respond to the pandemic. • Supporting our long-standing network of international cancer institutions that care for people with cancer who were especially vulnerable during this time. • Committing an inaugural gift to the Council of Fashion Designers of America (CFDA) and Vogue Fashion Fund to support the American fashion community affected by the pandemic. • Partnering with the CFDA Foundation and U.S. manufacturers to donate 250,000 masks and 25,000 isolation gowns for healthcare and frontline workers. Additionally, Ralph Lauren committed around 1.5 million units of clothing, 25,000 meals and other critical supplies including face masks and hand sanitizer to frontline workers and nonprofit organizations around the world. Throughout the year, the Foundation also prioritized support for cancer care and prevention, LGBTQIA+ equity and access to clean water. Contributions were also made to the California and Australia wildfire relief efforts by supporting the American Red Cross. Combined FY20 contributions from the Company and the Foundation totaled more than $7 million 10 Previously known as the Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation 11 In FY20, the Company sold our corporate jet and donated the proceeds, approximately $21 million, to the Foundation. This donation is not reflected in our FY20 total contributions to avoid skewing the data. 27 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES C ANCER CARE A N D P R EV EN T I ON LG BTQ I A + E Q U I TY A ND I NCLUSI O N For almost 20 years, the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care (RLCCC) has worked to reduce Since 2003, the Foundation has proudly supported and invested in the LGBTQIA+ community. To healthcare disparities in New York City by providing high-quality cancer prevention and treatment for further our aim of creating a culture of belonging, we partnered with the Stonewall Community underserved populations. Foundation. As the beneficiary of our gender-neutral Pride capsule, Stonewall received 100 percent of sales from our “Pride” T-shirt, 50 percent of sales from all other capsule items and donations In FY20, RLCCC formally joined the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, serving vulnerable and collected at registers for a total donation of more than $338,000 in FY20. With a global reach, minority populations and providing access to cancer screening, prevention and treatment services. Stonewall carries out its mission of strengthening the LGBTQIA+ movement through the deployment of targeted, values-driven investments to impactful organizations, projects and leaders. Our global Pink Pony campaign is the cornerstone of our fight against cancer. Now in its 20th year, Pink Pony is recognized for its contribution to raising awareness, encouraging conversation and education and driving donations. In FY20, the corporation donated 100 percent of sales from our pink “Live Love” T-shirt—totaling $2 million—to the Foundation’s Pink Pony Fund supporting cancerfighting organizations. ACC E SS TO C L E A N WAT ER Through our partnership with GiveMeTap, we donated $37,500 in FY20 to fund drinking water projects in rural Africa by providing stainless steel water bottles to our employees across the globe. Additionally, for every Polobranded bottle sold on RalphLauren.com, a minimum of $2 has been committed to help fund the installation of water pumps across rural Ghana.12 To date, the program Our cancer work benefits an international network of charities. The Ralph Lauren Corporation has provided 13 water pumps and positively affected over reinforced a long-standing partnership with The Royal Marsden Cancer Charity, dating back 10,000 people. to 2014, by pledging £1 million by FY22. Contributions will come from product sales, in-store donations and employee fundraising events and will be used to establish a research area within This year we also provided Navajo families with home the Oak Cancer Centre which is slated to open in 2022 at The Royal Marsden in Sutton, United water systems through our partnership with DigDeep, Kingdom. a nonprofit focused on increasing access to water and sanitation throughout the United States. 12 Purchase does not affect funding. All pump funding is by GiveMeTap. Learn more at GiveMeTap.com 28 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES Diversity and Inclusion Our FY20 global workforce was 64 percent female, consistent with our FY19 levels. Sixty percent of our FY20 U.S. workforce identified with one or more diverse groups, an increase of 2 percent We are committed to creating a culture where everyone has a sense of compared to FY19. belonging and can thrive to be their best. EMP LOY EES BY G EN DER ( % OF TOTA L ) FY18 63% Female 37% Male We celebrate diverse cultures and backgrounds and aim to make everyone feel included and respected in our extended family. FY19 64% Female 36% Male The diversity of our people and our culture of inclusivity—from our retail employees to our executives—is a business advantage for Ralph Lauren. We become more innovative, creative and successful with each unique individual who joins our Company. In FY20, we updated our recruitment FY20 64% Female 36% Male and retention tactics to increase the gender and ethnic diversity of our workforce. U.S. EMPLOYEES BY ETHN I CI TY (% OF TOTA L) 3% 3% 3% Two or More Races Undeclared Two or More Races Undeclared Two or More Races Undeclared Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander American Indian or Alaskan Native American Indian or Alaskan Native American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.4% 3% 0.5% 3% 0.5% 4% 37% 0.5% 41% 0.5% 39% 0.5% White White White Hispanic or Latino Hispanic or Latino 22% 23% Hispanic or Latino 24% FY18 FY19 FY20 56% 58% 60% All diverse All diverse All diverse talent* talent* talent* 22% 23% 24% 8% 8% 8% Black or African American Asian Black or African American Asian Black or African American Asian * Employees who identify with one or more diverse groups 29 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES In FY20, we reached a milestone in our diversity and inclusion (D&I) journey. We achieved our 2023 gender parity goal for equal representation in leadership positions at the VP level and above three years ahead of schedule. In FY20, women held 50 percent of VP level and above positions at the Company. Moving forward, we will continue to uphold our Parity.org commitment to include women and diverse candidates in the interview process for all open VP level and above roles. 2 02 3 GOAL Achieve gender parity with equal representation in leadership positions at the VP level and above AC H I E V E D We strive to increase opportunities for women in our workforce globally, and also for female factory workers in our supply chain. On average, women make up half of the apparel supply chain workforce, yet in many markets, the vast majority of supervisor positions are held by men. Recognizing that we can fundamentally influence the lives of women workers (and their families) by helping them achieve career progression, we are committed to increasing women in factory leadership by 25 percent by 2025. To achieve this, in FY20 we partnered with the International Finance Corporation to launch the Gender Equality and Returns (GEAR) Program to provide training to female workers on the skills needed for supervisory roles. See Worker Empowerment and WellBeing, on page 35, for more information on GEAR. 2 02 5 GOAL Increase women in factory leadership by 25 percent We achieved our 2023 gender parity goal for equal representation in leadership positions at the VP level and above three years ahead of schedule 30 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES Supporting Diversity N EW HI RES BY G EN DER ( % OF TOTA L ) DIVERSE RECRUITM EN T FY18 56% Female 44% Male Our University Relations program recruits at colleges and career fairs to sustain a robust and diverse talent pipeline. In FY20, 59 percent of our global new hires were female, an increase of 2 percent compared to FY19, and 68 percent of U.S. new hires identified with one or more diverse groups, an FY19 57% Female 43% Male increase of 2 percent compared to FY19. We partner with nonprofits to expand opportunities for young people from marginalized or FY20 59% Female 41% Male underserved communities. In FY20, we formed a partnership with SEO Scholars, a nonprofit that mentors public school students through high school and college. In FY21, we will continue to work with SEO students in mentorship opportunities organized with our D&I employee groups. U.S. N EW HI R ES BY ETHN I CI TY (% OF TOTA L) 4% 4% 3% Two or More Races Undeclared Undeclared Two or More Races Undeclared Two or More Races Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander American Indian or Alaskan Native American Indian or Alaskan Native American Indian or Alaskan Native 0.5% 0.5% 0.4% 4% 5% 0.5% 33% 1% 5% 31% 0.4% 29% White White White Hispanic or Latino Hispanic or Latino Hispanic or Latino 26% FY18 26% FY19 27% FY20 62% 67% 68% Diverse new 6% Diverse new Diverse new 7% hires* 6% hires* hires* Asian 25% 27% 29% Black or African American Asian Black or African American Asian Black or African American * Employees who identify with one or more diverse groups 31 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES AT T RACTIN G AND RETA I N I N G TA L EN T F OSTE R I N G A N I N C LU SI VE CULT URE We design our talent management initiatives to attract prospective employees and retain our Our Company is home to people from different backgrounds and we celebrate the varied valued workforce. perspectives they bring to Ralph Lauren. We are creating a culture where all employees have a sense of belonging and thrive—as individuals and as a part of our team. We continue to offer early career opportunities through our paid internship program. In FY20, we enhanced our formal corporate and creative internships by extending the program to new In FY20, we joined Open to All, a national nondiscrimination coalition. By taking the Open to All international schools and increasing opportunities for direct placement post graduation. Gender, pledge, we promise to maintain a safe and inclusive environment for people in our stores and offices. ethnic and socioeconomic diversity are among the criteria we use to select candidates for the program. As a member of the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion group, we are committed to advancing D&I within our industry. We are contributing to a CEO Action white paper on how the apparel To retain our employees, we support career mobility through development opportunities and industry can support and engage employees on D&I—from concept to the shop floor. The white by encouraging internal recruitment. The impact of this is most evident in our appointments to paper will be published and shared with CEO Action signatories in FY21. leadership roles. In FY20, 78 percent of open U.S. Director-level and above positions were filled with internal candidates, consistent with our FY19 levels. In FY20, we scored 100 percent on Our Navigating Your Career program provides e-learning, workshops and career coaching for all the Human Rights Campaign employees. In FY20, we expanded the program to include networking events, career panels and Corporate Equality Index, open office hours with leadership. earning the designation of Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality In FY20, Ralph Lauren was recognized for our workplace culture: E M B E DD I N G DI V E R S I T Y AMERICA’S BEST WORLD’S BEST Working together to embed a culture of diversity and inclusion in our Company, our employee EMPLOYERS FOR EMPLOYERS groups described below promote dialogue, help define focus areas and develop solutions. WOMEN • Diversity & Inclusion Synthesis Board — Our CEO and leaders from regional D&I teams advance our D&I strategy. • Diversity & Inclusion teams — Regionally organized teams meet regularly to address the needs of local employees. In FY20, 78 percent of open U.S. Director-level and above positions were filled with • Ralph Lauren Communities — Ralph Lauren has five global, employee-led communities: RL Gender internal candidates Parity, RL Pride, Generation RL, RL Mosaic and RL Wellness, Disability and Mental Health Community. In FY20, we hosted nearly 100 global employee events to celebrate identity and heritage in our community. Thirty of those events took place during Pride Month. We brought our Pride campaign to customers with in-store messaging and themed products that raised funding for our nonprofit partner Stonewall. 32 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES EDUC ATION A N D COM M U N I C AT I ON G LO B A L P E O P L E P R ACT I CES Training at all levels ensures that our employees know how to contribute to a healthy and inclusive Our Global People Practices team upholds the Company’s Fair Treatment Policy, managing: workplace culture where they feel safe and respected at work. • Workplace Compliance — ensuring that employees and vendors comply with all workplace laws, regulations, and Company policies In FY20, all global employees, including our Board members, completed unconscious bias training. • Policies and Practices — co-creating people-related policies, practices, and educating employees In addition, all design, production and merchant teams will receive cultural awareness training by • Progressive Work Practices — evolving policies and practices to give employees flexibility on FY21. We continued to host the D&I Salons, a learning opportunity for Ralph Lauren Executive where and how they work Leaders to convene with global industry and diversity experts, with FY20 content focused on • Safe and Impartial Review — handling all workplace issues in a confidential, consistent and fair gender parity in fashion. manner In FY21, we will expand our work with Parity.org by developing a road map for achieving gender Our Fair Treatment Policy helps us maintain a professional and productive Ralph Lauren work parity in the retail and fashion industry. This will be published in a white paper and shared with environment that is free from discrimination and harassment. Anyone who is covered by the policy industry peers who have joined our D&I Salons in the U.S. and Europe. can raise a concern through our open door policy and the RL Global Hotline. We investigate, resolve and track concerns so we can prevent recurrence and implement proactive strategies We will also launch a new unconscious bias training in FY21 on allyship and advocacy, focusing on throughout our organization. inclusive behaviors. Employees must adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies. We provide training on these items annually to help employees make W E L L N ESS, BEN EFI TS A N D PAY EQU I T Y good decisions in their day-to-day work. We take a holistic view of well-being, attending to the physical, emotional, social and financial needs of employees and their families. Our support includes comprehensive employee resources, I N V E STI N G I N A L L E M PLOY EES progressive benefits and competitive compensation. Our success depends on how capable and committed our people are, so we invest in programs In FY20, we launched an enhanced global wellness program, THRIVE, for Ralph Lauren employees. that make Ralph Lauren a great place to work. We engage employees through educational The resources available through THRIVE vary by region and include flexible work arrangements, opportunities and feedback mechanisms which strengthen the Company from within. sabbaticals, volunteer events, exercise and mindfulness classes and educational series. We continually review and improve our benefits package to ensure that we are meeting the needs of our employees. Our FY20 pay equity assessment confirmed that our male and female employees We are committed to equal pay for equal work across our Company. We take a proactive approach based in the U.S. receive equal pay for equal work to gender pay equity and continually monitor our compensation programs to ensure fairness. Our approach includes a biennial assessment with a human capital management firm to analyze employee compensation. Our FY20 assessment confirmed that our male and female employees based in the U.S. receive equal pay for equal work. In FY21, we will begin expanding the assessment to our global workforce. Ralph Lauren also publishes an annual U.K. Gender Pay Gap report, in line with U.K. legislation. Our mean and median gender pay and bonus gaps remain substantially better than U.K. average figures. 33 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES L E ARN IN G AND DEV ELOP M EN T AC TI N G O N F E E D B AC K We’ve expanded our learning and development program to build skills and prepare for the future. In FY20, 94 percent of employees responded to our annual all employee survey. Through the survey, In FY20, we opened our mentorship program to all employees and launched a tuition assistance employees indicated that our top strengths inlcude our strong consumer focus and our culture of fund to support continuing education. More than 760 employees participated in mentorship, four diversity, inclusion and respect. Employees also indicated that they feel a strong commitment and times as many as in the prior year. In FY20, we awarded $197,000 through our new scholarship pride in the Ralph Lauren brand. The survey highlighted areas for improvement, such as increasing program to support employees enrolling in courses that build their professional skills. career advancement opportunities and decision-making responsibilities for employees in lower-level positions within the organization. All employees can accelerate their growth through the Ralph Lauren Learning Portal and in FY20, 92 percent completed a learning event through the platform. The portal is one way corporate Due to COVID-19, employees based in China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan did not participate employees can use their benefit of 10 hours of Company-sponsored learning time. in the FY20 Employee Engagement survey. We will invite employees based in these countries to provide their feedback in FY21 for a total global view. In FY20, we continued to scale our mentorship cohort programs, RUNWAY, UNLOCK and BESPOKE. The 12-month, in-person learning experiences are tailored for employees at different levels of the organization. EMPLOYEE EN G AGEMEN T SURV EY RESPON SE RAT E • BESPOKE — Available to leaders at the VP level and above, focused on developing new leadership skills • RUNWAY — Available to people-managers, building communication and soft skills needed to FY18 93% successfully manage a team • UNLOCK — Available to employees after one year at the Company, focused on ways to work within our culture and business FY19 95% In FY20, more than 760 employees participated in a mentorship program, FY20 94% four times as many as in the prior year 34 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES Worker Empowerment and Well-Being Championing Workers We are committed to conducting our global operations ethically and SUPPLY CHA I N OV ERV I EW ( F Y 2 0) with respect for the dignity of all people who make our products. We aim to enrich the quality of work and life for all workers in our supply 519 40 113 chain, ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to reach their full New factories Active factories Countries onboarded in potential in a safe work environment. FY20 We appreciate and value the talent and commitment of nearly half a million factory workers in our supply chain who make the timeless style and quality of Ralph Lauren pieces a reality. We FACTORI ES PER G EOGRA PHI C LOCAT I ON S believe our efforts to enhance the lives of workers must embody, protect and promote universally accepted human rights, freedoms and norms. We continuously refine our supply chain over decades to deliver the technology, flexibility and quality we require while respecting worker rights. During FY20, 519 factories manufactured for us in 40 countries. These factories in turn received materials from tier 2 suppliers, such as textiles from mills and dye plants. As part of our Supplier Engagement Strategy, we maintain long-standing relationships with our strategic and key suppliers, enabling us to partner closely and transparently for the benefit of the people who make our garments. 35 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES We take our responsibility for ensuring a safe and healthy working environment very seriously and continually conduct our business according to high ethical and legal standards. Our Operating Standards are the basis for our relationship with suppliers, communicating our standards across legal and ethical matters, labor, animal welfare and environmental compliance. We regularly review and update the Standards to make sure they are current with emerging issues and expectations. Our Standards are available in 42 languages and must be displayed prominently in factory areas where workers congregate and in the languages understood by the workers. In FY20, we strengthened our Operating Standards to require factories to have formal grievance mechanisms in place. All new suppliers must meet our standards before they receive an order from us. If we find a supplier in violation of our standards, they must adequately remediate the issue before any production orders are placed. We ensure that suppliers maintain compliance with our program of auditing, remediation, monitoring, supplier engagement and capability building. BET T ER LIFE P ROGR A M S In addition to ensuring compliance with our Operating Standards, we are also coordinating with In FY20, we partnered with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the International factories to improve the overall well-being and career progression of workers through our Better Labour Organisation (ILO) for their Gender Equality and Returns Program (GEAR), to support the Life programs. We aim to make these empowerment and life-skills programs available to 250,000 achievement of our vision to increase the number of women in leadership positions in our factories workers across our supply chain by 2030. by 25 percent by 2025. GEAR tailors its program for women working in garment factories to progress from factory workers to supervisors. The program is run by the IFC in partnership with the ILO’s Better Work 2 030 GOAL program. They train female workers in the people management and technical skills necessary to be promoted to more supervisory roles. They also work with factory management and training Make empowerment and life-skills programs available to 250,000 workers managers to identify, promote and support high-potential workers. across our supply chain We launched the GEAR program in selected Bangladesh factories at the end of FY20 and plan to roll it out to additional factories in the region throughout FY21. E MPOWERING WOM EN As of FY20, the HERproject has benefited about 20,000 workers to date in the In FY20, we continued our work with BSR’s (Business for Social Responsibility) HERproject™ in supply chain, half of whom were women in the HERhealth program Bangladesh sponsoring the HERhealth program. The program provides information on women’s health topics such as healthy eating, personal and menstrual hygiene and maternal health. In total, the HERproject has benefited about 20,000 workers to date in the supply chain, half of whom were women in the HERhealth program. In FY21, we plan to expand the HERhealth program to Cambodia. Our aim is for 40,000 workers to benefit from HERhealth by FY23. 36 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES E XPANDING THE REAC H OF BET T ER L I F E Our Policy instructs suppliers to minimize the use of recruitment agents. When an agency must be used, it is forbidden from charging workers fees to obtain a job. If suppliers are using an agency, Our Better Life programs complement the monitoring, auditing and capability building we they must: undertake through our social compliance program. In FY21, we will expand the Better Life • Work with only one agency per country. programs by continuing to: • Conduct background checks and due-diligence monitoring. • Promote effective factory grievance mechanisms in all factories through our Operating • Have service agreements with the agency that prohibit discrimination, fees and using subagents. Standards and also confirm a process of escalation that ensures our involvement and The agreement must also grant the supplier the right to audit the agency. appropriate follow-up. This RL Grievance Mechanism Program for factory workers was started in • Make grievance mechanisms available to workers during recruitment with the agency. FY20 and continues to expand factory by factory. • Work with suppliers to develop transparent human resource systems for wages in their Our social auditing protocol includes foreign migrant worker interviews to verify compliance with factories, and we will undertake several wage studies in our key sourcing regions to deepen our our Policy. In FY20, our monitoring identified issues with two factories in Taiwan, where the law understanding of workers’ pay levels and needs. permits agents to charge workers fees. Our Policy provides protection above the Taiwanese legal requirement, and we therefore took action to eliminate this practice at the two factories. One factory has since stopped producing for us and was removed from our approved finished 2 02 3 GOAL goods factory list. The second factory has changed its practices and is now paying the fees, so the workers are not charged. We will monitor compliance going forward and the factory’s continued Roll out our Wage Management Strategy to all of our strategic and key relationship with us will be contingent on full compliance. suppliers to address fair and timely compensation for factory workers We respect universally accepted human rights and assess our supply chain for risks including forced labor, human trafficking, deceptive recruiting and child labor. People exploited in these ways cannot refuse or cease work because of coercion, threats or deception and may also be deprived In FY20, we created our wage management strategy to focus on developing human resource of personal freedom. systems with suppliers that will support the opportunity to advance compensation for workers. As part of this work, we started in-depth wage analyses and data gathering in key sourcing countries. We have a long history of preventing and, in rare cases, remediating when necessary a wide range We will continue to engage factory management on the results of this assessment and next steps. of issues in our supply chain, including forced labor, child labor and other human rights abuses. We We look forward to sharing more details about this strategy in coming years. strictly prohibit all such practices and have made modern slavery a zero-tolerance issue among other zero-tolerance issues discussed on page 38. F O R EIGN MIGRANT WOR KER P OL I CY A N D ER AD I C ATI N G M O D E R N When we evaluate potential new factory partners, we undertake risk assessments as part of our S L AVERY social auditing program. If a potential issue is uncovered, that factory will not be approved until the issue is satisfactorily remediated. For current partners, if we identify and validate a noncompliance Migrant and foreign migrant workers can be particularly vulnerable to exploitation and unfair with our requirements for eradicating slavery or human trafficking, we will work with that supplier employment terms. Because of this, we have a robust Foreign Migrant Worker Policy to secure to make immediate changes; otherwise we will cease business relations. fair employment terms for these groups, no matter which country they have traveled from to seek work. We also fully support the efforts of a growing number of nongovernmental organizations and local and national governments to shed light on human trafficking, slavery and child labor in the supply chain. 37 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES S O C IAL COMP LIA N C E P R OG R A M Z E R O -TO L E R A N C E I SSUES From the first day a factory starts work for us, our social compliance program seeks to protect Our Operating Standards identify 10 categories of zero-tolerance issues. We will not accept these the rights of workers. We monitor compliance with our Operating Standards through independent in our supply chain and will de-list factories that do not rectify any instances identified during third-party audits together with audits conducted by our in-house team and assessments from monitoring or through our grievance work. Better Work. Our overall monitoring system is shown below. • Pervasive nontransparent record keeping • Child labor • Not paying minimum wage • Abuse (physical, verbal) Historically, our program has focused on tier 1 suppliers, factories and their direct subcontractors • Monetary fines • Harassment (including sexual harassment) that provide us with finished goods. We plan to expand our monitoring of tier 2 suppliers in FY21 • Locked emergency exits and discrimination with a focus on key mills and raw material suppliers. We prioritize which facilities to audit based on • Unauthorized subcontracting • Bribery risk assessments, including factors such as business volume, country and the associated supplier • Forced labor / Human trafficking risk ratings. SOCI A L COMPLI A N CE PR OGR A M A N D B ETTER WOR K ASSESSM EN TS Onboarding Approved Suppliers Social Social audit + 3rd-party Audits Advisory and 3rd-party compliance QA and Security remediation conducted by training visits audits for RLC reviews on-site site visits Better Work conducted by conducted by evaluation Better Work RLC Assess business, quality, Social audit for compliance Follow-up visits, longValidate the consistency of Social audits in specific Better Work follows up on security, and social standards with Operating Standards term capability-building 3rd-party audits and develop countries where the Better issues and provides guidance prior to onboarding engagements, and training supplier relations Work program operates and training 38 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES AUDIT FIN DINGS Seventy-five percent of factories supplying us were audited in FY20. We conducted a total of 466 The most common categories of nonconformance were health and safety (55.7 percent), legal audits between our tier 1 factories and subcontractors. Of these, 392 were at tier 1 factories and 74 and ethical standards (13.9 percent), wages and benefits (13.7 percent) and working hours at subcontractors. Independent third parties conducted 333 of the audits, Ralph Lauren conducted (10.1 percent). We review all nonconformance issues with the supplier and require that they be 48 and Better Work 85. addressed in a timely manner. Every audit has corrective action plans that are later verified. We also screened potential new suppliers with 106 initial on-site evaluations and 65 social audits. During the year, independent third-party remedial experts started nine long-term capabilityNON CON F ORMA N CE BY CAT EG ORY building remediation programs to confirm that corrective action was implemented and to provide Other trainings and support where needed. Working Hours 6.62% Audit/inspection type* FY19 FY20 10.06% Initial on-site evaluations 144 106 Wages & Benefits 13.69% Audits conducted by 3rd party 334 333 FY20 55.70% Audits conducted by Ralph Lauren 14 48 Health & Safety 13.93% Audits conducted by Better Work 75 85 Legal & Ethical Standards Percentage of total audits that were fully unannounced** 71% 72% *We had to cease the majority of our auditing in the last quarter of FY20 due to COVID-19 restrictions. **Percentage excludes audits performed in countries where unannounced audits are not permissible as well as pre-approval audits. Less than 1 percent of audit findings revealed zero-tolerance issues (34 of 4,501 total findings). Ten 75 percent of factories supplying us were audited in FY20 suppliers were deactivated due to their inability to remediate zero-tolerance or other Operating Standards requirements. FY2 0 CO RRE CTIVE AC TIO N STATU S 1 2 12% 33% currently in remediated 55% pending remediated remediation verification 12 Corrective action status is solely based on our third-party audits. 39 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES A CULTURE OF OWNER SHI P A N D I M P R OV EM ENT LICENSEES Our social compliance program builds on the trust established with our suppliers. Our mutual aim In addition to our own products, we license the Ralph Lauren brands to selected companies. is for factories to be responsible for managing worker and environmental issues and to embed All licensees are required to have social compliance programs and standards equivalent to our systems for continuous improvement. own. While these companies are outside the scope of our program, we assess licensee supplier compliance programs and review their audits to ensure that they meet our requirements. In FY20, We expect to see progressive improvement in standards across our supply chain, implemented 32 suppliers used around 346 factories to make licensed products. pro-actively by our suppliers. We create risk segments within our suppliers based on their audit results (see chart). This is part of the supplier scoring in our Supplier Engagement program and directly influences our sourcing and business decisions. In FY20, there was a reduction in the C A PA B I L I TY B U I L DI N G percentage of high risk and unrated factories. We targeted our capability building training events to help suppliers in regions where there is a shared compliance problem. In FY20, we held two summits for suppliers, targeting regional issues. FACTO RY RATINGS In Cambodia, The Better Factories program identified a pattern of repeat issues, where remediation was often temporary, and the same problem would recur in a subsequent audit. We held a full day FY18 24% 13% 48% 11% 4% summit for Cambodia suppliers to explain our social compliance and Operating Standards in detail and discuss strategies for improving and maintaining compliance at factories. We encouraged them to lower their rating by one full category within a year—factories failing to achieve this will be FY19 4% 14% 60% 18% 4% required to participate in additional remediation and capability training. In Italy, we identified a potential risk of unauthorized subcontracting and the associated risk of forced labor among their immigrant workers. We immediately held a supplier summit to bring awareness FY20 1% 14% 63% 20% 2% and address the issue. We are currently working on an enhanced supplier mapping and verification process to ensure that there are no unauthorized facilities in our supply chain. This will ensure our No Rating Low Risk Medium Risk High-Medium Risk High Risk presence in all of our subcontractor facilities and ability to monitor them on a regular basis. 40 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP & SUSTAINABLITY REPORT | CHAMPION BETTER LIVES C APACITY ASSESSM EN T Achieving consistent working hours within acceptable limits remains a top issue in our industry. Excessive working hours have many causes, and we acknowledge that apparel brands like ours can be part of the problem but also part of the solution. If we place orders at short notice with a factory, we can exceed its capacity to supply us on time. As a consequence, the factory might subcontract the work without our authorization—which we do not allow—or impose longer hours on its workers to fulfill our orders. To avoid this, we plan our orders early, providing enough time to review the capacities and capabilities that exist in our supply chain, as well as anticipate new capabilities that might be needed for upcoming seasons. We then confirm available capacities ensuring that product orders are allocated to the right manufacturing partners that possess the adequate time and skills. To further our capacity assessments, we established an internal Manufacturing Excellence team that works closely with factories in implementing the best production control processes and quality systems, ultimately improving their efficiency and productivity. We also use local teams, which are trained with Ralph Lauren quality standards, to ensure that no unauthorized subcontracting is used. When they recognize signs of overload they will partner with the capacity and merchandising teams to overcome the existing bottleneck and mitigate potential future problems. We conduct quarterly capacity reviews that take into account our suppliers’ social compliance scores, capacity, quality metrics and outstanding orders. Our sourcing team confirms supplier capacity to fulfill our orders by reviewing order placements on a weekly basis to ensure that commitments given to suppliers ahead of time are adhered to. 41 About This Report Our report covers fiscal year 2020 (FY20), from March 31, 2019, to March 28, 2020.* The report is supported by our Standards Supplement, which includes two best-practice reporting indices: the Global Reporting Initiative and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. For information on our Company and financial performance, please see our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Throughout this report, references to Ralph Lauren, ourselves, we, our, us, and the Company refer to Ralph Lauren Corporation (RLC) and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. This report contains goals, initiatives, and forward-looking statements (“Forward-Looking Statements”) based on current expectations. Various statements in this report or incorporated by reference in this report, in previously submitted and future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases, and in oral statements made from time to time by us or on our behalf constitute Forward-Looking Statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-Looking Statements are based on current expectations and are indicated by words or phrases such as anticipate, outlook, estimate, expect, project, believe, envision, can, commit, will, aim, seek, goal, target, and similar words or phrases. These Forward-Looking Statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from the future results, performance, or achievements expressed in or implied by such ForwardLooking Statements. These Forward-Looking Statements are based largely on our expectations and judgments and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are unforeseeable and beyond our control, that could cause actual results, performance, or achievements to materially differ. These risks include, but are not limited to, those identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any Forward-Looking Statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. The information indicated herein is subject to the precision of our data collection and analysis method, which is subject to future evolution and calibration. Such information is subject to additional uncertainties, as there are limitations inherent in our data collection and analysis method. While we consider information from external resources and consultants to be reliable, we do not assume responsibility for its accuracy. Additionally, all numbers referenced are subject to the quality and comprehensiveness of the reporting received by the Company from internal and external sources and therefore are approximate and/or estimated values. It is also important to note that the availability of data varies from section to section of this report. * Availability of data varies with respect to fiscal or calendar year format. References to fiscal year will be represented as follows: Fiscal followed by the year; for example, Fiscal 2020. References to calendar year will be represented by the year alone; for example, 2020. In general, throughout this report, metrics and data are presented in a fiscal year format, and activities and events are presented in a calendar year format. We use a 52to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to March 31. All references to Fiscal 2018 (FY18) represent the fiscal year ended March 31,2018; Fiscal 2019 (FY19) represent the fiscal year ended March 30, 2019; references to Fiscal 2020 (FY20) represent the fiscal year ending March 28, 2020. 42
