Doing the Right Thing Smallest Footprint Better Lives Our Strategy Our Business Leadership Message 2019 Global Sustainability Report Leadership Message 3 Message from Mike Hsu 16Making Lives Better Social Impact Our Business 4 23 Message from Lisa Morden Smallest Environmental Footprint Table of 5 Our Business Plastics Footprint Our Strategy Forest Footprint Contents 6 Carbon Footprint Our Strategy for the Decisive Decade Water Footprint Better Lives Decisive Action for the Decisive Decade Making a Difference in Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value to Solve Global 47Doing the Right Thing Smallest Footprint Challenges Ingredients & Transparency Focusing on the Essentials Environment, Health & Safety Converting Words to Action Human Rights & Ethical Practices Our Aspirations and Goals Inclusion & Diversity Doing the Right Thing Talent Development Cover Caring for the Community Our Toilets Change Lives program and long-time partner Water For People is impacting communities in Honduras and across Latin America by providing sustainable water, sanitation, and hygiene services. Photo Credit: Anthony Adams, Water For People For more detailed data, metrics and disclosures, see the 2019 Sustainability Report Addendum. Living Our Values Leadership Message Message from Mike Hsu A Message from Mike Hsu Message from Lisa Morden Our Business Each day, Kimberly-Clark and its employees around the concerned too. That's why we will focus on the areas where world are driven to provide the best for our consumers, our we can make the biggest difference – climate, forests, water, customers and the communities where we work and live, all ingredients and plastics. Our Strategy while minimizing the impact on our planet. Just as important, and incredibly inspiring to me, we will Yet as we share an ambitious strategy for 2030 and new advance the well-being of one billion people by 2030 through sustainability goals for the company, we do so against the innovation, access and programs that support underserved backdrop of an unprecedented challenge, the COVID-19 communities around the world. We will continue innovating our Better Lives pandemic. products, which service peoples' essential needs throughout their life journeys. This global health crisis is changing the way we think about the health and safety of our teams and the accessibility of I’m proud of the work our company is doing to meet the Smallest Footprint our products. These extraordinary times have reminded us challenges of today and prepare for the challenges of why our purpose to deliver the essentials for a better life is tomorrow, and I’m enthusiastic about what the future holds. more important than ever, as the values that have guided us for nearly 150 years continue to shape our response to our Mike Hsu people, our consumers and those in need. CEO Doing the Right Thing As you will see in this report, we know that the next 10 years will be decisive. We know our consumers are concerned about the impact our products have on the environment, and we are Setting Up the Journey to 2030 Leadership Message Message from Mike Hsu A Message from Lisa Morden Message from Lisa Morden Our Business When we look back at 2019, it was a pivotal But we recognize that the world around us is 26,300 metric tons of product and packaging year for sustainability at Kimberly-Clark. changing rapidly and that we need a bigger waste to higher-value alternatives. ambition designed to positively impact more Our Strategy Our Sustainability 2022 strategy, introduced in people and the planet. But the challenges of plastics and single2015, provided the framework to drive programs use products require us to think beyond just and initiatives that protect our planet and In 2018, Kimberly-Clark surpassed our energy recycling schemes, so we’ve set our sights on build stronger communities. And with so many and climate goal four years early, so we innovative new materials that use less plastic, sustainability challenges facing the world, doubled down and set a new goal to reduce less natural forest fibers and more ingredients Better Lives these efforts were imperative to our business. absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 40% that consumers expect. by 2022. Our teams were up to the challenge, The past year saw our social impact programs achieving a 34.7% reduction in 2019. While we’ve made strong progress against reach some big milestones. We celebrated five our goals, we know we must do more. Our Smallest Footprint years of Toilets Change Lives, a program that Looking forward to 2030, we are thinking even 2030 ambitions are a recognition of the has brought improved access to sanitation bigger in pursuit of science-based climate targets. risks and opportunities that lie ahead, and to nearly 4 million people in need. Huggies’ a challenge to make lives better with the “No Baby Unhugged” expanded into Latin In 2019, we reduced our natural forests smallest environmental footprint. America which will add nearly 2 million babies footprint by 31% and our water footprint in and young children across 16 countries to its water-stressed areas by 28.9%. And our brand We’re ready to take it on. Doing the Right Thing global impact. And we continued to combat and innovation teams launched innovative stigmas and fight period poverty by providing and impactful initiatives to reduce waste, Lisa Morden education and period products to those who allowing Kimberly-Clark to divert 96% of its Vice President, Safety, Sustainability, need them most. manufacturing waste and consumers to send and Occupational Health Our Business Leadership Message Net Sales Our portfolio of brands, including Huggies, Kleenex, 148 Kimberly-Clark and its trusted brands are an 52% North America Scott, Kotex, Cottonelle, Poise, Depend, Andrex, Our Business years in indispensable part of life Pull-Ups, GoodNites, Neve, business for people in more than 175 countries. 48% Plenitud, Viva and WypAll, hold the No. 1 or No. 2 share outside North America position in 80 countries. 1/4 We are headquartered in Our Strategy Dallas, Texas, with approximately of the world’s 40,000 employees worldwide and Personal Care Consumer Tissue K-C Professional population manufacturing operations in use one of 34 countries. Diapers Facial Tissue Facial Tissue, Bathroom our products Better Lives Tissue and Paper Towels Training/Youth/Swim Pants Bathroom Tissue every day Fueled by ingenuity, creativity, for away-from-home use and an understanding of Baby Wipes Paper people’s most essential needs, Towels $6.0 Wipers Feminine Care 9.1 bilion 3.3 $18.5 Safety Products $ we create products that help Incontinence $ bilion Smallest Footprint individuals experience more of bilion Care bilion sales what’s important to them. in 2019 For nearly 150 years, we’ve had the foresight to find new ways to +175 make lives better. From creating Doing the Right Thing new categories to starting new countries, conversations, we are constantly regions and innovating our products and our territories where practices to serve and care for the our brands ever-changing needs of the people are sold we touch at all stages of life. Leadership Message Our Business The Decisive Decade Our Strategy Our Strategy for the Decisive Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value Focusing on the Essentials Converting Words to Action Our Aspirations and Goals Better Lives Decade Smallest Footprint Doing the Right Thing Kimberly-Clark switched on one of Singapore's largest solar energy installations at its manufacturing facility in Tuas. Mr. Masagos Zulkifli, Singapore's Minister for the Environment and Water Resources, was the guest of honor at a ceremony to inaugurate the solar roof. Decisive Action for the Leadership Message Decisive Decade Our Business In 2016, Kimberly-Clark established our Sustainability and change things for the better, starting now. By 2030 we will: 2022 goals, which focused on improving the well-being The Decisive Decade of underrepresented and vulnerable communities That’s why, as we look further ahead to 2030, we have Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value while reducing waste, greenhouse gas emissions and reevaluated our Sustainability 2022 goals. Refreshing Advance the well-being of Focusing on the Essentials Converting Words to Action forest impacts associated with the manufacture of our products. As this report shows, we are making our materiality assessment helped us to understand how the operating environment around the world has 1 billion people Our Aspirations and Goals significant progress. To date, we have helped improve shifted and sharpen our focus on areas where we can the lives of 17 million people through programs such as make the greatest difference. Reduce our plastics footprint by Better Lives Toilets Change Lives and the Kotex Period or Not, She Can promise. We have reduced our GHG emissions by With our refined strategy, we challenged ourselves 50% 34% and decreased our use of natural forest fiber by 31%. to reset our ambition level to drive action that we believe is proportionate to the challenges and Reduce our Natural (Northern) Forest Smallest Footprint These are important achievements; however, much opportunities that lie ahead. Fiber footprint by has changed in the world since 2016. Science 50% (by 2025) has highlighted the potential impacts and rapid Kimberly-Clark’s new commitment is to acceleration of the twin climate and biodiversity improve the lives and well-being of one billion crises, leading many to dub the 2020s the decisive people in underserved communities around Reduce our absolute GHG emissions (Scope decade – our last chance to avoid the worst the world, with the smallest environmental 1 and Scope 2), over a 2015 base year, by 50% Doing the Right Thing consequences of environmental degradation. It is footprint. also clearer than ever that we cannot effectively and equitably address these environmental challenges if we don’t also tackle poverty and inequality and build Reduce our water footprint in access to education, health care and sanitation. We water-stressed areas by can’t wait. We must think bigger, move faster 50% Making a Difference Leadership Message in Our Value Chain Our Business Our direct environmental and social Forest-dependent Sustainable water use​ Sustainable water use​ impacts are only a part of the full life communities​ Water stewardship​ Water stewardship​ The Decisive Decade cycle impacts of our products. Human rights and Our Strategy Our Value Chain Forest carbon footprint​ ethical practices​ Zero waste to landfill​ Creating Shared Value Social compliance audits​ Focusing on the Essentials We have considered the United Nations Converting Words to Action Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Biodiversity Scope 3 emissions Scope 1 & 2 emissions Our Aspirations and Goals against our value chain to better understand risks and opportunities and Better Lives drive positive change. Raw Materials Supplier Mfg.​ Kimberly-Cla rk M fg That is why our strategy is . focused on addressing key Recovery Residual Smallest Footprint sustainability impacts and waste D is Scope 3 emissions opportunities throughout our value chain. Post-consumer P ro d u c t tribu waste E n d o f L i fe ti o n Health and Doing the Right Thing well-being of people​ Progress of women s er Improving access and ending stigmas​ Co m o ns st um e rs Cu Access to clean Scope 3 emissions water and sanitation Creating Shared Value to Leadership Message Solve Global Challenges Our Business An important lesson from our We believe we can make programs over the last decade is meaningful contributions The Decisive Decade that we can only have the scale of to gender equality, clean Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value positive impact we now seek when water and sanitation, Focusing on the Essentials we align our commercial plans climate action and Converting Words to Action with what the world really needs. responsible consumption Our Aspirations and Goals So, sustainability is not a brake and production. on our business – in fact quite the Better Lives Photo Credit: Jannatul Mawa, WaterAid opposite – and our new strategy puts our brand and innovation teams to work to create shared value by solving global challenges. The United Smallest Footprint Nations' Sustainable Development Goals are now accepted as the best shared definition of what needs to be done over the next decade, and we have aligned our own goals with that framework. Doing the Right Thing Focusing on the Essentials Leadership Message Kimberly-Clark Brands at the Our Business Leading Edge of Social Impact The Decisive Decade Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value Kimberly-Clark delivers essentials Between 2015 and 2019 we reached 17 million MAKING LIVES WITH THE SMALLEST Focusing on the Essentials for a better life to one quarter of people through our social impact program, so BETTER ENVIRONMENTAL Converting Words to Action the world’s population every day, our new goal advancing the well-being of 1 FOOTPRINT Our Aspirations and Goals yet millions around the world still billion people in underserved communities by lack basic products and services 2030 – is certainly ambitious. Better Lives that could dramatically improve their quality of life – either because Our work to achieve it has three elements: they can’t access or afford them, or because of associated social 1 Caring for the health and well-being of Smallest Footprint stigmas. Meeting these societal people at all stages of life. needs is a moral imperative. We make lives better when we break down barriers and create 2 Challenging stigmas and championing the progress of women everywhere. opportunities with our purposedriven brands and products. 3 Championing a world where all enjoy Doing the Right Thing access to clean water and sanitation. CR S EA TE N GE SH A HA LLE RED VALUE T AL C O SOLVE GLOB Safeguarding Leadership Message Natural Systems Our commitment to reach a billion people relies on growth in our business, but it’s vital that growth doesn’t come at the expense of the environment. Our Business To achieve the smallest footprint The priority environmental topics that form the – and start to rebuild the natural backbone of our 2030 strategy are: systems we all depend on – we The Decisive Decade must focus our efforts and raise our Plastics Footprint Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value ambition level in the impact areas our Reducing our use of new fossil fuel-based plastic, Focusing on the Essentials stakeholders and the latest science while enabling circular systems to recover the Converting Words to Action tell us to prioritize. In some cases, this materials in our products and packaging. Our Aspirations and Goals means shifting the emphasis – for example from waste reduction to Better Lives circular solutions, or from minimizing Forest Footprint water use to water stewardship in Reducing our products’ forest carbon footprint, while communities facing the greatest risk. protecting forest biodiversity and supporting forestdependent communities. Smallest Footprint Carbon Footprint Reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions along our value chain, in line with climate science. Doing the Right Thing Water Footprint Building resilience to water risk at our facilities and in our communities. Doing the Leadership Message Right Thing Our continued commitment to doing the right thing underpins our Our Business social impact and smallest footprint ambitions. Making lives better begins with The Decisive Decade ensuring the health and safety Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value of our customers, consumers, Focusing on the Essentials and employees, promoting Converting Words to Action diversity and inclusion within Our Aspirations and Goals our business, and protecting the rights of workers across our Better Lives supply chain. Ingredients and transparency are important parts of our 2030 Smallest Footprint sustainability strategy. As part of our efforts we strive to use the safest ingredients (as defined by a sciencebased approach to product safety) and provide open and transparent details about those ingredients. Doing the Right Thing Converting Words Leadership Message to Action Our Business We implement our strategy by further integrating sustainability objectives The Decisive Decade into our business and capital planning Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value processes; aligning the priorities of our Focusing on the Essentials supply chain, brand and innovation teams; It’s great to see Kimberly-Clark setting such an ambitious new social goal to 2030. There is also no doubt that Converting Words to Action and establishing meaningful performance we have entered a decade where action on climate change, biodiversity, resources and protecting the natural Our Aspirations and Goals indicators. environment will be critical if we hope to survive and thrive through the next century and beyond. The current COVID-19 crisis is proving again that we need a just transition to a more sustainable future, so it’s exciting Better Lives Our sustainability program and function are led by to see such strong focus in these pages on human well-being, from a business with so many touchpoints to Lisa Morden, Vice President of Safety, Sustainability, health. Achieving such goals while rebuilding natural systems will not be easy, but Kimberly-Clark has a strong and Occupational Health. Her team of global track record on keeping its promises. I look forward to tracking their progress. program leaders works at the global, regional and Smallest Footprint local levels to drive actions, address gaps and fuel Sally Uren progress toward our long-term goals and ambitions. Chief Executive, Forum for the Future Two additional groups support, oversee and guide Kimberly-Clark Sustainability Advisory Board member our sustainability efforts: our Sustainability Steering Committee, comprised of top Kimberly-Clark leaders, and our Sustainability Advisory Board of prominent Doing the Right Thing external thought leaders. Our Aspirations and Goals Leadership Message Strategic Our 2030 Our Target Year SDG Focus Aspiration Goals 2022 2025 2030 Focus BETTER LIVES Our Business Advance the well-being of 1 billion people Make lives better through Social Impact through innovation and programs that deliver purpose-driven brands. The Decisive Decade essentials to underserved1 communities. Our Strategy Our Value Chain Creating Shared Value Focusing on the Essentials Converting Words to Action SMALLEST ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Our Aspirations and Goals Reduce our plastics footprint 50% reduction in the use of new, fossil fuelBetter Lives by 50% through delivery based plastics. Plastics Footprint of solutions that use more renewable materials and can 75% of the material in our products will be be regenerated after use. either biodegradable or will be recovered Smallest Footprint and recycled. 100% of our packaging will be reusable, recyclable or compostable. 20% average recycled content across plastic Doing the Right Thing packaging. 100% of our manufacturing waste will be diverted from landfill to beneficial uses. 1. We identify underserved populations based on (1) inability to pay for existing products, (2) inadequate distribution; (3) under-developed wastemanagement infrastructure; or (4) other disparities such as lack of education, social stigmas, etc. Strategic Our 2030 Our Target Year SDG Focus Aspiration Goals 2022 2025 2030 Focus Leadership Message Reduce our natural forest Reduce our Natural (Northern) Forest Fiber2 footprint by 50% while unlocking footprint by 50% from a 2011 base year. Forest Footprint the power of the world’s forests to help solve the climate and Source 90% of our tissue fiber from biodiversity crises. Environmentally Preferred Fiber (EPF) sources. Our Business In the near future, set a science-based goal to reduce Scope 3 land-use emissions by 2030. Do our part in the fight against Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG The Decisive Decade climate change by minimizing the emissions by 50% over a 2015 base year. Carbon Footprint Our Strategy Our Value Chain carbon footprint of our products Creating Shared Value Focusing on the Essentials and brands and reducing our Reduce absolute Scope 33 GHG emissions by Converting Words to Action direct emissions by 50% and Our Aspirations and Goals 20% from a 2015 base year. value chain emissions by 20%. Better Lives Reduce our water footprint Achieve sustainable water use at 100% of our by 50% in water-stressed sites in water-stressed regions. Water Footprint regions by creating significant improvements in our supply Create positive and measurable watershed Smallest Footprint chain and the surrounding impact in 30 watersheds/water basins. communities, ensuring ongoing access to fresh water for all. Achieve responsible and efficient water use at all Kimberly-Clark manufacturing facilities. Collaborate with key supplier partners to Doing the Right Thing amplify our impact in water-stressed regions around the world. 2. Natural forests are composed of native species that self-regenerate and contain key elements of native ecosystems 3. Reduction target is focused on emissions from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol's Scope 3 Category 1 (Purchased Goods such as wildlife and biological diversity. To us, this primarily includes boreal fibers known as Northern Bleached and Services) and Category 12 (End of Life Treatment of Sold Products). Softwood Kraft (NBSK). Leadership Message Our Business Making Lives Our Strategy Better Better Lives Social Impact Our products change lives. We help people around the world access essentials for a dignified life and we aim to do more. We have aligned our growth plans with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals, and we are putting Smallest Footprint Kimberly-Clark's brands to work on some of the most pressing challenges facing the world. Doing the Right Thing We partner with Water for People to provide communities in Honduras and around the world with access to essentials like sanitation and hygiene. Photo Credit: Water for People Social Leadership Message Impact Our Business We deliver essentials for a Yet millions around the world still lack Our Social Impact ambition aims to serve these unmet societal better life to one quarter of the access to basic products and services needs, with the goal of advancing the well-being of 1 billion people in world's population every day. that could dramatically improve their underserved communities through programs and innovation focused on Our Strategy quality of life. delivering essentials for a better life. Better Lives Social Impact Smallest Footprint Photo Credit: Jannatul Mawa, WaterAid Doing the Right Thing Program Ambition Aspiration Goal Leadership Message and Strategic Focus Advance the well-being of As we look ahead to 2030, 1 We care for the health and well-being of Make we are in a unique position people at all stages of life. lives better 1 Our Business to support three of the UN We address diaper need around the world through Sustainable Development initiatives like the National Diaper Bank Network and billion people Goals: SDG 3 Good Health the Singapore Diaper Bank. We enable cleaner and through through innovation and Well-being; SDG 5 safer working environments through education. We and programs that Gender Equality; and SDG 6 are innovating to develop baby diapering and adult purposedeliver essentials Our Strategy Clean Water and Sanitation. incontinence solutions. to underserved* Our history demonstrates our driven brands communities by 2030 commitment to act on these goals and our 2030 strategy 2 We challenge stigmas and champion the progress of women everywhere. seeks to accelerate our We fight menstrual stigmas around the world through Better Lives Social Impact contribution. brand communications and education programs. We work to alleviate period poverty through product *We identify underserved We have identified three donation and brand-led programs like SheCan. populations based on strategic areas of focus (1) inability to pay for Smallest Footprint that will help us unlock the greatest societal benefit and 3 We champion a world where all enjoy access to clean water and sanitation. existing products, (2) inadequate distribution; (3) will guide our efforts during In partnership with others, we help deliver solutions to under-developed wastethe coming decade. the global sanitation crisis that affects 2 billion people. management infrastructure; We advocate for societal change to promote water, or (4) other disparities such sanitation and hygiene (WASH) access for all. as lack of education, social Doing the Right Thing stigmas, etc. 2019 Performance Leadership Message In 2019, our brands continued to deliver programs and initiatives that made a difference to people and communities around the world. Many of these programs were aligned to the work of the Kimberly-Clark Foundation, which helps carry out efforts 3.9M access to 11.4M helping children Our Business through social and community investments that increase sanitation thrive access to sanitation, help children thrive and empower women and girls. 1.7M 17M Since 2015 we have made significant progress Our Strategy towards our 2022 goal to improve the lives of 25 empowering million people in need. women & girls lives impacted since 2015 Better Lives Social Impact Increasing Our Ambition and Broadening Our Scope Smallest Footprint Done right, the benefits of social impact initiatives ripple outward from As a result, we have updated We have also added the impact Since 2016, this program direct to secondary and tertiary beneficiaries. Our Touch of White Angels the impact of the Touch of of a program in Australia and New has reached: program provided training and professional support to maternal and White Angels from Zealand schools. U by Kotex® has newborn health professionals in over 200 hospitals across China. Initially, been providing a standardized 734,000 we only accounted for hospital workers who received training, but have 150,000 to 7.1 M curriculum where none existed girls in Australia Doing the Right Thing since recognized that each of these hospital workers was then able to over the life of the program before, along with teaching materials offer better care, improving the lives of mothers and babies. and sample packs. 300,000+ students in New Zealand Five Years Leadership Message of Toilets Change Lives E F Our Business Two billion people around the world lack The program has since A access to basic sanitation, leading to the touched 10 countries spread of infectious disease and impacting and impacted 4 million C B human dignity. people in need. Our Strategy Without proper facilities, children fall ill and miss A Latin America: Our Scott and D E school. Millions of girls also miss school when Suave brands partner with Water menstruation becomes too hard to manage because for People to bring community India: We partnered with of a lack of toilets at home or at school. Women often sanitation services, hygiene Charities Aid Foundation (CAF) C lack safety and privacy when the only toilets are out education and access to clean to repair and maintain existing Better Lives Social Impact in the open. water, impacting more than Angola: In a country where 78% of toilets in over 100 schools the rural population lacks access and daycare centers, and to To create positive change, in 2014 Kimberly-Clark 96,000 people to a toilet, Andrex and UNICEF recruit children to be change launched Toilets Change Lives, a multinational 6 countries have given access to safe and agents for sanitation. The Smallest Footprint program that funds solutions to the global 233 communities clean facilities to effort impacted more than sanitation crisis. Through consumer awareness, NGO partnerships and on-the-ground activations, we’re 145 schools 464,000 people 133,000 people B D F bringing toilets, sanitation education and increased health, safety and dignity to many of the world’s most Brazil: Neve partnered with UNICEF South Africa: Our Baby Soft brand Bangladesh: Andrex partnered vulnerable communities. to support their WASH programs, partnered with WaterAid to support with WaterAid to build and Doing the Right Thing impacting more than the WASH agenda and implement renovate public toilets in three The program began in the United Kingdom in 2014 as a partnership between our Andrex brand, UNICEF 1M people WASH best practices in five schools. The project is expected to benefit urban centers, which has resulted in more than and retailer Sainsbury’s to donate a portion of each Andrex sale to UNICEF sanitation efforts in Angola. 7,000 people 1.65M uses No Baby Unhugged Alliance for Leadership Message in Latin America Period Supplies We know that those first moments of a baby’s The Program: One in four American women Overall Impact of U by Kotex® life are some of the most important, and struggle to purchase period Donations to the Alliance for Our Business that Early Childhood Development (ECD) products due to lack of income. To Period Supplies programs are critical to helping babies meet Ensures babies receive address that need, our U by Kotex® their full potential. That’s why our Huggies® quality services, including brand partnered with the National brand partnered with UNICEF in 2019 to neonatal care Diaper Bank Network in 2018 to 26.8 K launch No Baby Unhugged in Latin America. become the founding sponsor of the clients helped every month Our Strategy Alliance for Period Supplies (APS). No Baby Unhugged supports Creates baby-friendly UNICEF’s ECD programs, which aim to environments at hospitals The Alliance distributes 1.1M improve children´s lives and engage and clinics period products to existing worry-free days parents in nurturing care and network partners throughout Better Lives Social Impact positive parenting practices. the United States, and from Trains frontline workers to there to women and girls who 225 K The UNICEF / Kimberly-Clark Partnership provide essential services need them. worry-free cycles spans 16 countries in Latin America and the for young children Smallest Footprint Caribbean and is expected to improve the Each month, APS Allied Programs lives of nearly 2 million babies and young serve 42,000 individuals. 18,750 children. Ensures that families have clients with a worry-free year the support they need to care for their children 441,489 and provide a safe and 11.8M Doing the Right Thing enriching environment for lives impacted in 2019 child development period products donated in 2019 #SheCan Fund Leadership Message Our Kotex® Malaysia team is helping women turn their ambitions into reality with the #SheCan fund. Following the theme “Open Doors for Her” in mind, the Kotex® Malaysia Our Business team created the #SheCan fund to inspire women throughout Malaysia. Using the Kotex® website and social media, the digital campaign invites women to submit an online Our Strategy application detailing their passion. A panel of judges reviews the entries. Winners are shortlisted and selected every three months. Better Lives Social Impact One #SheCan fund winner designed The #SheCan fund has a limited-edition Batik packaging motivated women to to create greater relevance in the break down barriers and marketplace. Another winner debuted pursue their passion Smallest Footprint her clothing collection during Kuala because – period or not – Lumpur's fashion week. Kotex® believes they CAN. Doing the Right Thing Leadership Message Smallest Our Business Environmental Our Strategy Footprint Better Lives Better lives happen in healthy environments. Kimberly-Clark's success is dependent on innovating new ways to give consumers the essentials they need while safeguarding natural systems and the life they support. That means Smallest Footprint eliminating waste and recovering resources; protecting Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint forests of high carbon, biodiversity, and cultural value; Carbon Footprint cutting greenhouse gas emissions in line with climate Water Footprint science; and building strong water stewardship practices where it matters most. Doing the Right Thing Leaders from Kimberly-Clark, General Mills and Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. broke ground on the Maverick Creek Wind Project in Eden, Texas. The project will help offset 100% of the electricity we purchase for our Family Care business in North America. Plastics Leadership Message Footprint Our Business Waste has no place in business – or in tomorrow’s We aspire to be at the forefront of the transition to a circular, By improving resource efficiency and reducing waste, we can circular economy. reuse economy – contributing to human and ecosystem meaningfully contribute to the objectives of UN Sustainable health by reducing waste, improving waste-handling systems Development Goal 12, Responsible Consumption and Our Strategy For the past two decades, we have been diverting and innovating new ways of giving consumers the products Production. manufacturing waste to higher value alternatives. We are taking they need. We realize getting there will take game-changing the lessons learned from our efforts to address manufacturing innovation, and we know we're up to the challenge. waste and applying them to our plastics footprint aspiration. Better Lives Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint Water Footprint Doing the Right Thing Helping People Aspiration Goals Leadership Message Live Their Best Lives with 100% 100% of our manufacturing Reduce our of our packaging will be the Smallest reusable, recyclable waste will be diverted from or compostable landfill to beneficial plastics Our Business by 2025 uses by 2022 Footprint footprint by 50% through delivery Our Strategy 50% In 1995, we launched our first sustainability plan, which focused on reducing the of solutions manufacturing waste we sent to landfills. Today we are an industry leader, with a that use more reduction in the use of new, fossil fueldiversion rate of 96%. More recently, we turned Better Lives based plastics our focus to diverting post-consumer waste renewable by 2030 (PCW) materials to higher value uses – and through 2019 we diverted 26,000 metric tons materials of PCW materials. and can be Smallest Footprint 75% Plastics Footprint 20% Forest Footprint Looking ahead, we are shifting our efforts and Carbon Footprint expertise to tackle single-use plastics in our regenerated Water Footprint products and packaging and support innovation of the material in our in waste collection and circular systems. after use products will be either average recycled content across biodegradable or will be Doing the Right Thing Our ambition to be a leader in driving plastic packaging recovered and innovative solutions is supported by by 2025 recycled by 2030 aggressive goals for 2025 and 2030. How We Will Deliver Leadership Message on Our Strategy To expedite our move to more sustainable materials 1 Packaging Packaging is one of the most visible sustainability challenges. In 2019, we undertook a Our Business and processes, we’re comprehensive evaluation of our packaging and products that led to our new multipartnering with stakeholders pronged strategy of reducing new, fossil fuel-based plastic, which includes replacing across our value chain to hard-to-recycle components with recyclable, renewable or reusable options. Moving drive innovation and action forward, where it makes business sense, we willl explore opportunities to extend our in three key areas. strategy to incorporate alternative materials that are compostable. Our Strategy 2 Product Our program is highly focused on the footprint of our plastic-containing materials. We are shifting to recovered or renewable materials to reduce our consumption of traditional plastics and designing products to be recyclable or biodegradable to Better Lives provide secondary value to post-consumer waste. By designing products that are either technical inputs (return for recovery) in the Circular Economy or compostable or biological (return to nature), we are better serving the diverse waste management systems around the world. Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint 3 Waste Management Systems We will continue to nurture circular systems around the world that are necessary to Water Footprint recover the materials in our products and packaging when a consumer is done with them. By creating partnerships and building on existing waste management infrastructure, we develop new business models that can support management of waste from our products Doing the Right Thing and packaging and be scaled in emerging or mature markets. Moving forward, we will continue to conduct life cycle assessments (LCA) and other environmental or social impact assessments to build an innovation approach based on science. How We Define Our Materials Leadership Message Fossil Fuel-Based Compostable Is ‘Traditional’ plastic made from fossil fuel Is Material that can be broken down to biomass in Our Business feedstock industrial or home composting environments To reduce Minimize mass Is not The same as biodegradable, where materials break impact down naturally in soil or marine environments Our Strategy we will Replace single-use with reusable components Recovered and Recycled Use bio-based feedstock and recycled content Better Lives Is Material that is collected and used as feedstock for new Use compostable or biodegradable plastics production or as organic input to biological systems Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Biodegradable Is not Material that is recyclable but ends up in landfill or the Forest Footprint environment Carbon Footprint Water Footprint Is Material that breaks down in soil or marine environments without creating To grow Establish post-consumer waste systems for collection microplastics impact and recovery Doing the Right Thing we will Build partnerships throughout the value chain Is not Oxo-degradable Follow recognized industry standards for A “license to litter” biodegradability 2019 Performance Leadership Message Throughout 2019 we focused on refining and establishing our new waste ambition and The year also marked our first full-year participation in the UK Plastics Pact, a trailblazing, collaborative effort between industry, NGOs and the UK government to tackle the 99% fiber-based packaging from 2030 goals, while making problem of plastic waste and create a circular economy. Our virgin fiber certified suppliers or progress against our existing involvement helped inspire our 2025 commitments to utilize recycled fiber Our Business commitments. an average of 20% recycled content across all our plastic packaging and to make 100% of our packaging reusable, recyclable or compostable. We made progress on our 2022 goal of sourcing only recycled 26,300 MT of product and packaging Our Strategy fiber or virgin fiber from certified suppliers for our fiber-based waste diverted to value-adding packaging, achieving a 99% rate in 2019. alternatives We were also able to divert 26,300 MT of product and packaging waste to value-adding alternatives. While we are Better Lives not currently on pace to achieve our target of 150,000 MT by 2022, we believe that our new goals focused on reducing plastic and packaging waste will help us to drive more meaningful change. Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint Water Footprint Doing the Right Thing Operational Waste and Zero Leadership Message Waste to Landfill In 2019 we continued By 2022, we intend We're focusing on the top ten largest waste our strong focus on to achieve zero streams we currently send to landfill each Our Business eliminating waste waste to landfill year and are supporting regional and mill from our day-toacross all of teams in diverting smaller streams. At our day operations and our operations, facilities, we’re creating waste inventories were able to divert including that document the quantities, consistency, 96% of operational manufacturing location and visual management of each Our Strategy waste from landfills facilities, offices, waste stream, a process that helps identify to higher value warehouses and opportunities and prepare a glidepath for alternatives. distribution centers. hard-to-divert waste streams. Better Lives Waste Diversion Rate* 94% Smallest Footprint 2016 Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint 2017 95% Water Footprint 2018 95% 96% Doing the Right Thing 2019 * We calculate landfill diversion using the most recent three months of data. Brand-Driven Waste Leadership Message Reduction Initiatives Some of Kimberly-Clark’s most Huggies Tiniest Footprint campaign: In the United Kingdom, our boxes, which saves 43 tons of plastic annually. The brand also inventive and impactful wasteHuggies brand conducted an LCA to assess the environmental began labeling all baby wipes with their natural fiber and plastic Our Business reduction efforts in 2019 were impact of baby wipes. The brand announced plans to completely content ahead of regulatory requirements. launched by our brands around phase out plastic from its baby wipes line by 2025 and to make the world. its packaging recyclable in home recycling bins. In 2019 alone, the Huggies explores plant-based plastics: Huggies North America brand removed 15 tons of plastic from Huggies Extra Care wipes introduced Huggies Special Delivery, the first diaper that incorporates and curtailed the use of inner plastic bags in its 12and 18-pack plant-based materials (23% by weight) in its liner and waistband. Our Strategy Materials reuse in Latin America: In Latin America, Kimberly-Clark launched a partnership between its professional and consumer businesses to divert used stretch wrap film waste from our Tocancipa, Colombia mill to one of our packaging suppliers. The material is now Better Lives reused as plastic film packaging for our products, replacing 30% of virgin plastic film packaging with post-consumer recycled content. Inclusive recycling in Sao Paulo: Kimberly-Clark began working Smallest Footprint with the Inclusive Waste Recycling Consortium (iWrc) to develop Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint a socially responsible program focused on improving the lives Carbon Footprint of waste-picker cooperatives in Sao Paulo, Brazil – teaching Water Footprint management, networking, and technology skills to improve personal outcomes while connecting us with the socially responsible materials they’re producing. Doing the Right Thing Renewable polyethylene packaging in Brazil: Our Neve Tissue brand in Brazil expanded its program to replace fossil fuel-based plastic content with renewable polyethylene packaging produced from sugarcane. Forest Leadership Message Footprint Our Business Protecting our forests is critical to conserving We are keenly aware that both the global biodiversity crisis We are increasing our ambition and refocusing our efforts on terrestrial biodiversity, safeguarding forestand the climate crisis have worsened, with their potential the primary mission of reducing our products’ forest carbon dependent communities around the world and impacts coming into even starker relief. footprint, while protecting forest biodiversity and supporting Our Strategy mitigating climate change. forest-dependent communities. Better Lives Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Photo Credit: Forest Stewardship Council® Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint Water Footprint Doing the Right Thing Redefining Responsible Aspiration Goals Leadership Message Fiber Sourcing Leadership for the 50% reduction of our Natural Coming Decade (Northern) Forest Fiber* Reduce our footprint by 2025 from Our Business a 2011 base year natural forest More than a decade ago, KimberlyWe've made significant progress in footprint by 50% Clark launched an industry-leading both areas, but we recognize the while unlocking Our Strategy 90% fiber procurement policy that sought challenges posed by the dual climate to minimize our impact on the world's and biodiversity crises. We also know forests. We focused on two strategies: that our fiber sourcing footprint the power of the of our tissue sourced overlaps with communities that will 1 Increase our use of be disproportionately impacted by world’s forests from Environmentally Better Lives Preferred Fiber (EPF) environmentally preferred climate change and biodiversity fibers – e.g., recycled and loss: Indigenous communities and to help solve sources by 2025 alternative fibers and communities that depend on forests virgin fibers certified by for their livelihoods. That's why, the climate and Smallest Footprint the Forest Stewardship looking ahead, we are realigning our In the near future, Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Council®. efforts to tackle these issues. biodiversity set a science-based goal Carbon Footprint to reduce Scope 3 land-use Water Footprint 2 Reduce our use of natural crises emissions by 2030 forest fibers, which for Kimberly-Clark are Doing the Right Thing * Natural forests are composed of native primarily fibers from species that self-regenerate and contain key northern boreal and elements of native ecosystems such as wildlife and biological diversity. To us, this primarily temperate forests. includes boreal fibers known as Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft (NBSK). Forest Carbon Footprint Leadership Message Measuring the life cycle impacts of biological materials – from their natural carbon cycle through harvesting and utilization – is extremely difficult. Robust land-use carbon accounting tools and methodologies have Photo Credit: Forest Stewardship Council® Our Business been slow to develop, making it challenging to create an accurate baseline against which to gauge the full carbon impacts of our supply chain’s forestry activities, and how they vary across different fiber and product types. Our Strategy However, new tools are starting to come online that will better enable companies to account for both their biogenic and fossil carbon footprints. Better Lives Kimberly-Clark has been This new knowledge will help us evaluate ongoing efforts to reduce our use of natural tracking the development of the relative biogenic carbon impacts of our forest fiber from high-carbon value forests Smallest Footprint these new tools and will be using fiber mix across virgin wood fiber, recycled and increase our use of environmentally Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint recent methodological advances fiber and sustainable alternative fibers. Once preferred fibers (such as alternative and Carbon Footprint to develop an initial baseline of we finalize a baseline of our forest carbon recycled fibers) will continue to be important Water Footprint our forest carbon footprint. footprint, we plan to integrate forest landlevers for lowering our forest carbon footprint. use emissions into our future Scope 3 GHG We also believe Forest Stewardship Council emissions reduction objectives. (FSC)® certification has the potential to Doing the Right Thing provide future forest carbon and climate Despite the methodological and accounting benefits. In short, our 2025 goals will serve as challenges left to be solved, we feel confident milestones for achieving our forthcoming 2030 that we are already on the right path. Our forest carbon ambition. Protecting Biodiversity and Supporting ForestLeadership Message Dependent Communities Our Business As both Kimberly-Clark and society at large look to the world’s forests as an important climate change mitigation pathway, we must ensure safeguards are in place that simultaneously provide protection for forest biodiversity and the rights of local, forestdependent communities. Our Strategy We believe Forest Stewardship We will continue to look beyond Council® certification applies our FSC® commitment for the most rigorous criteria for the additional ways Kimberly-Clark Better Lives conservation of biodiversity and can support the well-being and the protection of the rights of land tenure rights of indigenous indigenous communities. These are and other under-represented two important reasons why FSC®forest-dependent communities Smallest Footprint certified virgin fiber is the only within our sphere of influence, while Plastics Footprint virgin fiber we consider to be an simultaneously delivering climate Photo Credit: Forest Stewardship Council® Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint environmentally preferred fiber and and biodiversity benefits. Water Footprint allow to count toward our 2025 goal. Doing the Right Thing 2019 Performance 2019 Tissue Fiber Sourcing Leadership Message Through 2019, our use of environmentally preferred tissue fiber was 31% 84%. While this represents a 3% year-over-year decrease from 2018, recycled we remain on track towards meeting our goal of 90% by 2025. fiber We were also able to achieve a 31% reduction in our use of Our Business natural forest fiber compared to our 2011 baseline, as we continue to drive towards a 50% decrease by 2025. Additionally, 100% of the fiber used in Kimberly-Clark products in 2019 was 100% of the fiber used in sourced from suppliers who met our certification standards. Kimberly-Clark products in 2019 was sourced from 54% Our Strategy These accomplishments demonstrate our continued progress suppliers who met our in creating a more sustainable and resilient supply chain. certification standards FSC® virgin fiber Better Lives 31% Use of Natural Forest Fiber (MT) reduction Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint Water Footprint 572,456 574,843 575,606 565,105 534,644 526,483 522,201 Doing the Right Thing 756,531 559,437 16% other certified virgin fiber 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Forest Partnerships Leadership Message We continue to advance Forest Management with the Appalachian Woodlands Alliance Expanding FSC® in Canada many important partnerships that In 2019, Kimberly-Clark joined the Rainforest The program was developed by the Support for FSC® certification is foundational to our help us reduce the Alliance, the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Appalachian Woodlands Alliance, a forest footprint strategy. environmental and social and corporate partners in announcing the launch partnership between the Rainforest Alliance Our Business impacts of forestry. of the Smallholder Access Program (SAP). and forest product leaders across the United In 2019, the Kimberly-Clark Foundation provided States who share a commitment to practicing support to FSC® Canada for the successful This two-year FSC® pilot project is designed responsible forestry. Kimberly-Clark joined the introduction and uptake of the new FSC® Canada to provide the benefits of FSC® certification Appalachian Woodlands Alliance in 2015. National Forest Management Standard, which to forest-dependent landowners who manage provides important new protections for at-risk species Our Strategy 100 hectares (250 acres) or less of woodlands. and indigenous rights. WWF Partnership 10-Year Anniversary Better Lives In 2019, we celebrated the 10-year Kimberly-Clark has pledged to support anniversary of our partnership with WWF’s efforts to protect high conservation the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). value forests by funding the development of Smallest Footprint tools for identifying, mapping and monitoring Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint As a member of WWF’s Global Forest these forests in priority regions. We have also Carbon Footprint and Trade Network, we are committed worked closely with WWF to support the Forest Water Footprint to increasing our use of wood fiber from Stewardship Council® in its mission to protect sustainable sources to help protect the forest ecosystems by boosting consumer world’s forests. demand for responsibly-sourced forest products. Doing the Right Thing Through the partnership, WWF has helped us We are currently working with WWF to implement our global fiber procurement policy develop a forest protection project in two and has provided support as we increased the watersheds in Alabama and Mississippi, amount of responsibly harvested fiber used for and look forward to another ten years of our tissue products. collaboration and conservation. Carbon Leadership Message Footprint Our Business We have seen firsthand the impacts climate Kimberly-Clark has been focused on shifting the current We exceeded our 2022 target to reduce absolute greenhouse change is having on our planet and we know that trajectory and doing our part to build a low-carbon economy. gas emissions by 20% over a 2005 baseline three years early. Yet the next decade is critical. we aspire to do more. Our Strategy Better Lives Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint Water Footprint Doing the Right Thing Doing Our Part in Aspiration Goals Leadership Message the Fight Against Climate Change Minimize the 50% Our Business To future-proof our growth, Kimberly-Clark’s 2030 carbon reduction of absolute footprint strategy is based on carbon-reduction goals that have been approved by the Science Based Targets carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030 from initiative (SBTi). a 2015 base year of our products Our Strategy This certification ensures that Kimberly-Clark's efforts align with the Paris Climate Agreement's principal goal of limiting global temperature and brands and rise to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. reduce our direct The deployment of our science-based strategy and climate ambition Better Lives emissions by 20% is good for the earth and good for Kimberly-Clark’s business. In a changing climate and changing economy, it gives us an avenue toward ongoing competitive advantage. 50% and value reduction of absolute chain emissions Smallest Footprint Scope 3* GHG As we go forward, we have established a new baseline year of 2015 for Plastics Footprint emissions from a Forest Footprint Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions versus our previous baseline of 2005. Carbon Footprint by 20% 2015 base year Water Footprint Doing the Right Thing * Reduction target is focused on emissions from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol's Scope 3 Category 1 (Purchased Goods and Services) and Category 12 (End of Life Treatment of Sold Products). How We Will Deliver on the Strategy Leadership Message Reducing the carbon Driving Greater Energy Embracing Tomorrow's Taking Responsibility for footprint of our Efficiency Throughout Our Enacting Innovative Alternative/Renewable Driving Emissions Reductions products means owning Operations Conservation Efforts Energy Technologies Across Our Full Value Chain comprehensive climate objectives based on At Kimberly-Clark, Lean Energy In an effort to continuously improve Our carbon footprint strategy also The carbon footprint of KimberlyOur Business four pillars. means working with Lean efficiency sustainability and cost efficiency involves significant investment in Clark products goes beyond our inprinciples and continuous for each product, we identify and renewable and alternative energy house operations to include indirect improvement tools to promote an operationalize capital projects that generation. We look for attractive value-chain emissions from our energy conservation mindset at our deliver manufacturing cost savings conditions to install renewable suppliers and customers (Scope 3). manufacturing sites. To do that, we by improving energy efficiency and energy on site, such as solar panels. Our Strategy employ an energy management reducing consumption. We uncover We have also had success installing As part of our commitment to system that’s embedded into opportunities while conducting new cogeneration units, burning natural help avoid the worst impacts the daily accountability process, energy assessments, workshops, best gas on-site to generate electricity from climate change, we have a positioning energy as a priority at the practices analysis and benchmarking, and using the waste heat to goal to reduce Scope 3 emissions same level as safety, quality, delivery all while implementing our Lean produce steam that can be used in by 20% by 2030 compared to our Better Lives and cost. We focus on: Energy initiatives. the manufacturing process. Green 2015 baseline. electricity generation from large-scale Operational systems – process power purchase agreements is being To drive this change, we are focused improvement and standard integrated into our sustainability brand on areas such as land-use, renewable Smallest Footprint changes to deliver efficiencies strategies as we continue to find ways materials, transportation efficiency Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint to reduce the overall carbon footprint and partnerships with key suppliers. Carbon Footprint Management infrastructure – of our products. Such interdisciplinary work requires Water Footprint energy meters and dashboards to a high degree of coordination and aid real-time energy management collaboration between our teams to ensure we are always considering Doing the Right Thing Mindset, behaviors and the life cycle carbon impacts of any capabilities – improve training, decision we make. awareness and recognition 2019 Performance Leadership Message Kimberly-Clark has had a goal to reduce absolute With the establishment of these new 2030 targets Our 2019 progress was driven by a variety of energy carbon emissions by 40% by 2022 compared to a (50% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions management actions: 2005 baseline. In 2019, we were able to establish between 2015 and 2030), our existing 2022 goal the necessary global processes to pursue new 2030 becomes a key milestone along the way. carbon reduction goals approved by the Science 200 energy conservation projects, representing Our Business Based Targets initiative (SBTi). In 2019, we made great progress against a total GHG emissions reduction of 85,000 MTCO2e the 2022 objective, achieving a 34.7% GHG emissions reduction (Scope 1 and 2) versus the 2005 baseline. Our Strategy Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Footprint This represents a total reduction of 435,000 MTCO2e, More than 35 Lean Energy operational systems (Million MTCO2e) a 10.7% emissions decline since 2018. improvement activities, representing GHG 34.7% emissions reduction of 5.6 30,000 MTCO2e Better Lives reduction 2.0 Scope 1 3.0 4.9 Scope 3 emissions account 4.6 Eight alternative and renewable energy Smallest Footprint for the majority Plastics Footprint 1.7 Scope 2 projects, providing GHG emissions reduction of 2.7 of our 2019 130,000 MTCO2e Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint 2.5 4.1 GHG footprint 3.7 Water Footprint (Million MTCO2e) 12.3 Scope 3 2.0 2.6 1.7 Doing the Right Thing Structural asset changes, manufacturing footprint optimization, and other non-energy 2.2 2.1 2.1 and climate-related activities, representing GHG 2.0 emissions reduction of Direct (Scope 1) 2005 2015 2017 2018 2019 Indirect (Scope 2) 190,000 MTCO2e Pursuing Energy Efficiency Initiatives Leadership Message In 2019, Kimberly-Clark undertook 200 energy conservation projects at our global manufacturing sites, leveraging energy best practices to realize reductions of 85,000 MTCO2e. Projects included LED lighting retrofit, compressed air systems improvement, Our Business automation of the drying section on tissue assets, replacement of low-efficiency vacuum generation technology and installation of variable frequency drives in process pumps and fans, among many other initiatives. Our Strategy Investing in Alternative Energy Investing in Wind Investing in Solar Better Lives In 2019, Kimberly-Clark manufacturing sites In 2017, Kimberly-Clark made a major commitment to renewable energy by In 2019, we completed photovoltaic in Mobile, Alabama; Cauca, Colombia; and entering its first utility-scale virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) with solar installations at four Kimberly-Clark Puente Piedra, Peru, began operation of new, two wind power projects in Texas and Oklahoma, intended to offset electricity manufacturing and distribution sites located state-of-the-art combined heat and power purchased by Kimberly-Clark Professional™ manufacturing sites in the United in Tuas, Singapore; Pune, India; Cauca, Smallest Footprint cogeneration plants, with a fourth (in Chester, States. In 2019, these facilities delivered 966,700 MWh of renewable electricity. Colombia; and Guatemala City, Guatemala. Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Pennsylvania) expected to come online in Combined, these four projects are capable of Carbon Footprint early 2020. Together, these units are capable With the success of this arrangement, we entered another utilitygenerating 3.9 MWh of green electricity (peak Water Footprint of producing 88 MWh of electricity. scale VPPA in 2019 with a second Texas wind project. capacity) and contributing 3,150 MTCO2e emissions reduction. Through reuse of waste heat from the Starting in late 2020, this contract will deliver approximately 670,000 MWh Doing the Right Thing generating process, we are also able to of renewable energy annually and will account for 100% of the electricity produce process steam that can be used purchased by our family care manufacturing facilities in North America. This for manufacturing. We anticipate these sites equates to a 300,000 MTCO2e reduction, bringing the total reduction from our will account for aggregated GHG emissions three VPPAs to 830,000 MTCO2e annually. reductions of approximately 100,000 MTCO2e. Water Leadership Message Footprint Our Business Water insecurity and water water stress affect The impact is felt across our value chain, from the sources This increasing impact on our communities and our planet led billions of people around the world. of our fiber to the facilities that create our products to the us to elevate the issue’s importance in Kimberly-Clark’s 2030 communities where our employees and consumers live. sustainability strategy. Our Strategy Better Lives Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint Carbon Footprint Water Footprint Doing the Right Thing Ensuring Access to Aspiration Goals Leadership Message Fresh Water for All Reduce our By 2030, we intend to: water footprint Achieve As we look to 2030, relentlessly pursuing short-term milestones and making meaningful by 50% in watersustainable water use at improvements in our own operations, in our surrounding communities and in our supply Our Business chain will help us achieve our long-term aspirations for sustainable water use. Although a global challenge, water stress is inherently a local issue. Our strategy stressed regions by creating 100% of our sites in watermaximizes the benefit we can drive by targeting the majority of our efforts on regions stressed regions at greatest risk and customizing our approach and ambition for the specific needs of significant Our Strategy each water basin. improvements Create positive and measurable Our holistic approach We developed a methodology that engages privatemeans we focus not just public groups composed of local government, NGOs, in our supply watershed impact in on our facilities but on and business to review scientific assessments of the 30 Better Lives creating greater water watershed's challenges, share best practices and chain and the watersheds/water basins security for the entire approaches, and implement solutions that drive water basin. economic, social, and environmental value at the surrounding community and watershed level. communities, Smallest Footprint Achieve responsible and efficient Plastics Footprint water use at all Kimberly-Clark Forest Footprint We recognize the need for strong water stewardship Carbon Footprint practices within our supply chain and are helping ensuring ongoing manufacturing facilities Water Footprint suppliers apply the methodology we’ve developed for our own operations to their facilities. By working with access to fresh Collaborate with key supplier suppliers to set and achieve sustainable water use water for all partners to amplify our impact Doing the Right Thing targets for their facilities in water-stressed regions, we in water-stressed regions can magnify the impact of our efforts. around the world Leadership Message Driving Sustainable Water Use at Our Sites Achieving sustainable water use in Based on this assessment, we our operations begins by ensuring establish customized sustainable that all our sites comply with relevant water use targets. local permitting and with KimberlyOur Business Clark’s global water, wastewater and Our facilities then mobilize to environmental performance standards. implement best practices for reducing, reusing and recycling water in pursuit We are working to understand of our sustainable water use targets. what sustainable water use looks Our Strategy like in water-stressed regions, By taking what we've learned from expanding our work beyond the 12 our initial focus on tissue mills, we can manufacturing sites identified in our now apply this process to all water2022 strategy to all 30 manufacturing stressed manufacturing locations. locations in regions that are, or are Better Lives projected to be, water-stressed. To achieve our 2030 goal, we will ensure that all qualifying facilities Our process includes a achieve their individual sustainable scientific watershed analysis water use targets, thus creating Smallest Footprint for each location that meaningful improvements in the Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint factors in water availability, surrounding communities and ensuring Carbon Footprint biodiversity considerations, ongoing access to fresh water. Water Footprint socio-economic trends and the regulatory landscape. Doing the Right Thing 2019 Performance Leadership Message Water is an essential input to our In 2019 we enacted sustainable water-use plans for all 12 mills. Four of tissue manufacturing process, so them have now achieved their sustainable water-use target, and our the majority of our initial watergoal is for the remainder to meet their targets by 2022. responsibility efforts have been focused on 12 Kimberly-Clark Last year, these 12 mills achieved a 5.8% reduction in water use Our Business tissue mills identified as operating compared to 2018. In the years since 2015, they have reduced absolute in water-stressed areas. water use by 28.9%. We will continue to address water as a location-specific issue as we expand beyond tissue mills and set goals for all Our Strategy Kimberly-Clark locations in water-stressed areas. Better Lives Water Use at Tissue Mills in Water-Stressed Regions (m3) 2015 10,249,290 Smallest Footprint Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint 2016 8,531,505 Carbon Footprint Water Footprint 2017 8,327,470 28.9% reduction 2018 7,728,604 Doing the Right Thing 2019 7,282,511 WaterLOUPE Leadership Message Kimberly-Clark takes a local approach to water, because truly understanding water risks in the community better enables us to create positive solutions. We host water scarcity workshops to bring stakeholders to the table to discuss water risks and use tools like WaterLOUPE, which we Our Business developed with Dutch research group Deltares, to generate actionable insights. The WaterLOUPE tool allows us to understand who is most exposed to water risk, who is most vulnerable, Our Strategy and what is the hazard they face. The information provided by the tool enables us to identify Jim Bath, Director of Environmental risks and bring together a holistic group of local businesses, Sustainability, in front of the Theewaterskloof government and NGOs in a watershed to determine Better Lives Dam, which provides water to the city of Cape Town, South Africa. community-based solutions. In February 2019, Kimberly-Clark and a WaterLOUPE water scarcity risk This work in Cape Town has become Deltares gathered over 30 individuals dashboard was created and utilized a model for the rest of the business. Smallest Footprint representing local governments, to scientifically model potential Instead of just focusing on reducing Plastics Footprint Forest Footprint businesses and NGOs at our Epping solutions. water at the facility, local teams in Carbon Footprint mill, just outside of Cape Town, South water-stressed areas are using this Water Footprint Africa, for a water scarcity workshop. We reconvened in Cape Town in holistic, analytics-enabled approach to The workshop engaged stakeholders August for a second session to understand water risk across their entire to look at risks for the entire evaluate the data we received at the watershed and find solutions that work Doing the Right Thing watershed and align on objectives. first WaterLOUPE workshop and create for all stakeholders over the long term. Using the data from the workshop, collective action towards solutions. Leadership Message Our Business Doing the Right Thing Our Strategy The foundation of Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability program is our deep commitment to running our business with the highest Better Lives ethical standards and meeting all our compliance obligations. We aspire to make a lasting, positive impact on people throughout the world – and that includes the people Smallest Footprint close to home. We take seriously our obligation to ensure the health and safety of our consumers, customers and employees; promote inclusion and diversity within our business; and protect the rights of workers and communities across our supply chain. Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Human Rights & Ethical Practices Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Ingredients & Leadership Message Transparency Our Business Our brands produce essential products As a company, we want to continue to serve our consumers We’re also committed to transparency: sharing our practices that people use every day to make and grow our brands to help even more people. That’s why we and providing ingredient information that is clear, reliable and their lives better – healthier, cleaner take ingredient safety and product quality so seriously. accessible. That’s one of the ways we give consumers peace of Our Strategy and more convenient. mind and build trust in our brands. Better Lives Smallest Footprint Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Human Rights & Ethical Practices Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Program Ambition Leadership Message and Strategic Focus Kimberly-Clark has always been focused on product safety. It's We continue our work replacing a set of ingredients that we recognized some how our brands and products earn the trust of so many families consumers preferred to avoid. We have now removed 100% of these ingredients Our Business around the world. from Kimberly-Clark Professional skin care products (including microbeads, nonylphenol ethoxylates and triclosan) and from baby and feminine care wipes Looking ahead, we plan to take this commitment even further, accelerating our (including parabens and phenoxyethanol). efforts to improve our formulations, simplify our ingredients and incorporate more naturally sourced alternatives. Our approach is guided by rigorous Our North America website includes a master list of all ingredients used in our Our Strategy science and supported by meticulous internal and independent safety North America products, and we are piloting a new smart-label system to evaluations that ensure the quality and safety of all our products. provide consumers easier access to ingredient information. In Europe, lists of baby and child care ingredients can now be found on our brands’ websites. As we make changes, we’re also focused on increasing ingredient transparency to give our consumers peace of mind. But with hundreds of Better Lives products around the world, incorporating thousands of ingredients, the path to transparency isn’t quite as easy as it sounds. We’re focused on publishing ingredient information in our high-priority markets. In the future we plan to disclose all our ingredient information, giving consumers the data they need to Smallest Footprint make smart, informed choices. Our aspiration is to use the safest ingredients, as defined by a science-based approach to product safety, and provide open and transparent details about those ingredients. Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Human Rights & Ethical Practices Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Ensuring Product Leadership Message Quality and Safety Our policy is to design, manufacture and deliver Our product safety policy lays out our products that are safe and meet or exceed customer commitments in three key areas: Our Business and consumer expectations. Each Kimberly-Clark business, function and facility is charged 1 with aligning to enterprise standards and maintaining quality Management Accountability systems that support these expectations. Our business unit presidents are responsible Our Strategy for ensuring the safety of our products and Kimberly-Clark also has programs and systems to ensure services, from initial introduction to ongoing we meet regulatory requirements in all regions where we reviews for regulatory compliance and operate. These requirements, along with industry best alignment with public safety expectations. practices and our own internal standards, define our quality Better Lives and compliance criteria. We maintain programs to measure compliance against these standards and report results to 2 senior management. The process of assuring compliance Safety Assessments across these stringent requirements drives continuous All our products undergo safety assessments Smallest Footprint improvement activities that ensure Kimberly-Clark products by qualified experts, in accordance with are safe and effective for consumers. international standards of human health risk. We will never put anyone at risk with a product we Across all our brands we are dedicated to meeting the 3 cannot appropriately highest standards for safety, Chemical Management Doing the Right Thing ensure is safe for people and our consumers rely on Safety and environmental data is carefully Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety and the environment. this commitment. collected and used to develop business Human Rights & Ethical Practices strategies for reducing, restricting or Inclusion & Diversity eliminating chemicals of concern, and Talent Development Caring for the Community advancing safer alternatives. Here a diaper is being inspected for quality at our Paris, TX facility. Environment, 0.179 Leadership Message Health & Safety Total Reportable Our safety vision is to Incident Rate realize an incident-free (TRIR) in 2019 workplace Our Business * The Environmental Compliance Score 98%* is comprised of four different variables: (1) on-time closure of major audit findings; (2) Kimberly-Clark’s industry-leading performance we launched a transformation program on-time completion of audits; (3) on-time closure of environmental compliance in workplace safety and environmental to elevate our EHS performance across EHS Compliance exception reports; and (4) completion of management are points of pride at our all Kimberly-Clark locations, including Score EHS self-assessment. Our Strategy company, yet we aspire to do better. manufacturing facilities, distribution centers, warehouses and office sites. This We are committed to protecting the lives of the standardized approach reinforces that Our Six EHS Imperatives people working in our facilities and living in our employees are accountable for doing the 1 4 communities, which is why we work tirelessly right thing when it comes to the health and Better Lives to improve our safety programs and set strict safety of our people and environmental requirements modeled after the ISO 14001 quality. Each site’s EHS maturity is measured Consistent EHS Workforce standard to assure that our operations do not across three dimensions: leadership empowerment adversely impact the local environment. to drive impact Smallest Footprint 2 5 In 2019, we reorganized our Environment, 1 Mindsets, behaviors and capabilities Health & Safety (EHS) function to streamline Positive EHS Consistent and improve our processes for providing a safe working environment and conducting 2 Risk reduction and compliance interactions critical EHS work practices 3 6 operations in compliance with laws, Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety regulations and best practices for health, safety and environmental protection. 3 Management systems modeled after the ISO 14001 standard Risk tolerance Aligned incentives Human Rights & Ethical Practices In conjunction with the reorganization, reduction and metrics Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Human Rights & Leadership Message Ethical Practices Our Business Kimberly-Clark’s values of authenticity, Our Code of Conduct and Human In recognition of our accountability, innovation and Rights in Employment Policy establish ethics policies and caring enable us to lead the world in Kimberly-Clark’s expectations and create practices, KimberlyOur Strategy essentials for a better life. Our Ethics accountability with respect to human Clark was named one and Compliance Program fosters a rights and other ethical concerns. of the World's Most culture of integrity that supports our Ethical Companies in employees in living out these values This commitment extends beyond 2019 by the Ethisphere and ensures a workplace where all are our corporate walls to include our Institute, an independent Better Lives treated with respect. suppliers’ employees and workplaces. research center that promotes best practices in corporate ethics and governance. Smallest Footprint Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Human Rights & Ethical Practices Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Social Compliance Leadership Message & Human Rights Our policies guide our interaction with suppliers, partners, Key Elements in Our Human Rights Risk Mitigation Process for Kimberly-Clark customers and consumers worldwide, and are communicated Operations and Suppliers to them through our Supplier Social Compliance Standards. Our Business These expectations are an extension of KimberlyClark’s commitments to our own people. 1 2 3 4 Defining and Building internal and Using audits, selfSharing supplier and Centered on our values, these supplier standards are aligned prioritizing our salient supplier capability to assessments and mill social compliance Our Strategy with international principles such as the International Labor human rights risks. proactively manage other tools to monitor data with internal and Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and these risks. performance and external stakeholders. Rights at Work. implement corrective measures to address gaps. The objective of our social compliance program is to Better Lives proactively manage salient human rights risks across our supply chain. By holding ourselves and our suppliers accountable, we help ensure that the hundreds of thousands of workers in our supply chain enjoy safe, fair and equitable Smallest Footprint working conditions. Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Human Rights & Ethical Practices Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Auditing Against Leadership Message Our Standards To ensure that our manufacturing or training; development of new policies facilities and key suppliers are or procedures; or provision of remedy for meeting our standards for social affected workers. If needed, KimberlyOur Business and environmental performance, we engage third-party auditors who use a risk-based approach to measure Clark may provide support to the supplier by sharing good practice examples or connecting them with consultants or other 150 facilities are compliance across key issue areas expert resources. We track completion of regularly including child labor, forced labor, the agreed corrective action plans through assessed Our Strategy discrimination, workplace health and evidence provided by the supplier and/or safety, and business integrity. through a follow-up audit. Our audit program assesses more than 150 In 2019, we met our social compliance targets, facilities annually in high-risk geographies with 100% of audited Kimberly-Clark facilities Better Lives and industries, helping us identify nondemonstrating compliance with the core compliance and drive improvements. To avoid requirements of our Social Compliance audit fatigue among suppliers, we adhere to the principle of mutual recognition and may Standards, as well as customer and licensor requirements. And 84% of suppliers that were 100% Smallest Footprint accept recent audit reports that have been audited in 2019 also conformed with the core of audited completed by accredited audit firms utilizing social compliance requirements. We continue Kimberly-Clark internationally recognized standards. to engage with the remaining noncompliant facilities suppliers to implement corrective action demonstrate When a supplier is found to be in nonplans and improve their performance. compliance compliance with our Social Compliance 84% Doing the Right Thing Standards, Kimberly-Clark engages with the Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety supplier to develop a corrective action plan. Human Rights & Ethical Practices of audited Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Depending on the concerns raised, suppliers Caring for the Community corrective actions could include supplier demonstrate investments in infrastructure, equipment compliance Supplier Engagement Leadership Message We believe strongly that working with Beyond simply policing supplier compliance against our By working closely with suppliers to improve social compliance suppliers to improve their practices is the standards, we aim to work with them to drive meaningful practices, we strengthen our relationships and help to build most effective way for us to improve the improvement, through both direct engagement and long-term strategic partnerships. This not only allows us to have lives of the people working in their facilities. participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives like AIMgreater confidence that human rights are being respected across PROGRESS, a group of leading consumer goods companies our supply chain, but also helps to drive innovative solutions that Our Business that seeks to promote responsible sourcing practices and meet our consumers’ and customers’ needs, creating value from sustainable supply chains. source to shelf. Our Strategy Going Beyond Audits We recently deepened our emphasis also provided in-depth training on social discuss common challenges for responsible Better Lives on building employee knowledge and compliance to nearly 100 manufacturing and sourcing and find ways to improve their capabilities on human rights. Through procurement colleagues in Asia-Pacific. business practices. The forum provided us an training and other tools, we are enabling opportunity to promote responsible sourcing our operations and supplier-facing teams to Our commitment to capacity building standards throughout the supply chain and 350 Smallest Footprint understand, identify and act on forced labor extends beyond our own operations. help suppliers gain a better understanding of and other potential human rights risks in the audit requirements. supply chain. That is why we were proud to co-sponsor the Kimberly-Clark AIM-PROGRESS Responsible Sourcing Forum employees from our For example, in 2019, over 350 procurement in Shanghai in October 2019. global procurement team members completed our Forced Labor team completed Doing the Right Thing Awareness and Risk Mitigation Training Over 200 delegates from various Chinaour Forced Labor Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety to recognize the signs of modern slavery based suppliers, including 30 delegates from Awareness and Risk Human Rights & Ethical Practices and understand how to raise concerns. We Kimberly-Clark suppliers, came together to Mitigation Training Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Inclusion & Leadership Message Diversity Our Business For Kimberly-Clark to grow and prosper, we must build a more inclusive CEO Action & Check Your Blind Spots global organization that applies its diverse experiences and passions to brands that make life better for people all around the world. Kimberly-Clark is a signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion Our Strategy coalition, which commits businesses to advance inclusion and diversity That’s how we grow, and that’s how we make a difference. in the workplace. In 2019, more than 120 employees in Dallas, TX, Roswell, GA, Knoxville, TN, and Neenah, WI participated in CEO Action “Caring Our ability to gather insights, foster innovation and deliver Conversations” designed to build trust, encourage compassion and openessential products hinges on having people that can mindedness, and reinforce our company’s commitment to inclusivity. Better Lives understand our brands as well as the culture, context and mindset of all consumers. Kimberly-Clark locations were also stops on CEO Action’s “Check Your Blind Spots” bus tour, which offers an immersive, interactive experience where Kimberly-Clark is purposeful about creating a culture and environment participants explore ways to mitigate unconscious bias in their everyday lives. Smallest Footprint that values every voice and utilizes every perspective. We work hard to attract and retain diverse talent, and to grow the representation of women (globally) and ethnic minorities (U.S.) in senior management Inclusion Weeks in Latin America positions. We welcome different ways of identifying solutions, and encourage healthy, respectful disruption of the status quo. In 2019, our Latin America HR teams partnered with regional leaders to launch a series of Inclusion Weeks at our facilities in Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency We are proud to have earned recognition from leading Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Peru and Puerto Rico. Over the Environment, Health & Safety organizations for our approach to promoting and nurturing course of a week, all employees participated in workshops, talks and activities Human Rights & Ethical Practices a diverse and inclusive workplace. exploring multiple aspects of inclusion and diversity, including unconscious Inclusion & Diversity bias, women in leadership roles, generations in the workplace and other topics Talent Development Caring for the Community of local relevance. Talent Leadership Message Development Our Business Developing leaders and top Employee Resource Groups Core Values talent is critical. To attract, engage, develop, reward and Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) Authentic: Our heritage is Our Strategy retain top talent, we value are an integral part of our talent one of honesty, integrity and a work environment that development strategy. These courageously doing the right fosters personal, professional voluntary organizations foster career thing. and corporate growth while development and mentorship, bring building a performancetogether diverse backgrounds Better Lives driven organization. and perspectives and serve as a Accountable: We take platform to advance talent goals. ownership for our business and To ensure our leaders These groups also give back to our our future. are ready for more senior local communities through regular Smallest Footprint roles, we’ve implemented volunteer activities. several programs Innovative: We are committed including Culture Kimberly-Clark is proud to offer 10 to new ideas that add value to of Coaching, Team ERGs, with 60 chapters worldwide our customers, our business and Leader Development that are open for all Kimberly-Clark our world. and General Manager employees to join. Doing the Right Thing Development. Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Caring: We respect each other Human Rights & Ethical Practices and care for the communities Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development where we live and work. Caring for the Community Caring for the Leadership Message Community Our Business Our caring value drives The Kimberly-Clark Foundation supports the social our culture, and we are responsibility efforts of the company and strives to committed to supporting help those in need gain essentials for better lives Our Strategy communities through through a range of health, humanitarian, economic company giving and and environmental initiatives. The Foundation, employee volunteerism. together with funding from the corporation and our employees, responds to causes and programs with financial contributions, donations of Kimberly-Clark Better Lives products and volunteer time. Each year, employees from Kimberly-Clark facilities around the world participate in a variety of volunteer $28.3M total giving in 2019 Smallest Footprint activities with local nonprofit organizations. The Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Community Partners program recognizes the volunteer efforts of U.S. employees and their spouses by making $500 grants to the charitable organizations at which they $1.32M Doing the Right Thing volunteer for 30 or more hours per year. Through our Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Matching Gifts program, Human Rights & Ethical Practices U.S. employees are able to double their donations to employee gifts Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development qualified charitable organizations. matched in 2019 Caring for the Community United Way AmbientaDOS Leadership Message For nearly 70 years, we have been a strong Our AmbientaDOS program has been Through the program, we have: supporter of United Way. In Kimberly-Clark communities throughout the United States we raise money through enthusiastic campaigns $2.5M contributed to investing in and promoting a culture of recycling in Costa Rica for ten years. Kimberly-Clark Costa Rica was Prevented more than 21,000 tons of material from entering landfills and participate in volunteer events. United Way in 2019 one of the first companies to adopt a responsible waste management Positively impacted 53 communities Our Business program in the country. Over the past decade, Kimberly-Clark Costa Rica, Established alliances with 13 private companies in alliance with Telenoticias de Canal 7, has collected valuable recycling Partnered with 14 municipalities and materials throughout the country. 36 collection centers Our Strategy Providing Products for Those Who Need Them Most We provide essentials for a better life to one quarter of the world’s population every day, yet Better Lives billions of people still lack access to products. All over the world, our employees are responding to that need. From Diaper Repack events at our Neenah, Wisconsin, campus to packing bags with necessities for Share the Dignity's It's In The Bag initiative in Australia, we are working hard to give back in the communities where we work and live. Smallest Footprint Doing the Right Thing Ingredients & Transparency Environment, Health & Safety Human Rights & Ethical Practices Inclusion & Diversity Talent Development Caring for the Community Doing the Right Thing Smallest Footprint Better Lives Our Strategy Our Business Leadership Message 2019 Global Sustainability Report
