SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AINABLE D ST EV U S E S L N O NA P TI M O T EN DBL UNITED GOALS SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS crafting happiness, since 1991 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Chairman's Message.......................................................................................01 Materiality Test................................................................................................03 Materiality Mapping........................................................................................05 Reporting Parameters....................................................................................06 GRI Content Index.................................................................................115 Chairman’s Message It is my immense pleasure to present to has been a great year for sustainability as we you DBL Group’s Sustainability Report have ventured into newer partnerships and for the year 2019. We continue with have received recognitions, which includes a our contribution to the UN Sustainable unique one in the form of the UN Global Development Goals. The year 2019 Compact SDG Pioneer. 01 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE In our 2016 Report, we introduced how DBL’s Apart from the SDG Pioneer recognition, activities are linked with the SDGs for the very we were also identiﬁed by the ﬁrst time. This year’s report takes a deeper look Business Call to Action (BCtA) of the at this as we have been able to contribute to UN Development Programme (UNDP) fourteen SDGs with our programs and initiatives, as an Impact Champion for our contriwith a special thanks to our diversiﬁed Knowledge bution to our base of the pyramid Partners. This report has been arranged so that employees. We have also received the diﬀerent SDGs are linked with our ﬁve recognition for our contribution to Sustainability Pillars of People, Process, Product, sustainability from Puma and Tom Community and Environment. Each of our Tailor. Locally, we have once again program focusing on issues such as women emreceived awards from the Institute of powerment, process eﬃciency, product innovation, Cost and Management Accountants of community contribution and environmental Bangladesh, the ICMAB Corporate Award conservation. for Excellence in Corporate Governance, and the Institute of Chartered Secretariats Regarding newer partnerships, DBL has become of Bangladesh, the ICSB National Award. a member of the prestigious World Economic Forum, a privilege which is only achieved via As we move toward 2020, we provide our invitation. The Forum engages the leaders from latest updates on our highly ambitious business, politics, culture and others for shaping “2020 Goal” which we introduced in our global, regional and industry agendas. Further2017 Report. These seven goals, which are more, we are now a signatory of the esteemed in alignment with seven diﬀerent SDGs, Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action give us further motivation to set up more under the secretariat of the UN Climate goals in the future which are ambitious: as Change. The Charter has the vision of achieving the SDGs themselves are ambitious. net-zero emissions within 2050. In addition, to engage with women-owned businesses and In alignment with the 10 principles of UN thus further contribute to gender equality and Global Compact, we are committed to inclusivity in supply chains, we have joined the ensure sustainable future for people and Corporate Connect program, a global initiative environment and to stand against corruption. by The World Bank Group, being implemented We also respect human rights as part of our by WEConnect International and LightCastle commitment to the UN Guiding Principles Partners in Bangladesh. We signed the pledge for Business and Human Rights. letter in November 2018 and have also joined their Supplier Diversity Advisory Committee in We strive for excellence as we continue 2019. with our aim to sustain with our endeavors and generate satisfaction for all our workers, The UN Global Compact SDG Pioneer is probably our employees and our stakeholders. In our highest recognition till date. Mashook Mujib this regard, I sincerely thank all our stakeChowdhury, our Manager, Sustainability, was holders for their ongoing understanding initially chosen by the Global Compact Network and continued support for our company. Bangladesh as the SDG Pioneer from Bangladesh who then became eligible for participating in the global round. On September 2019, it was a highly auspicious moment when it was announced by Ms. Lise Kingo, CEO and Executive Director of the Global Compact, that Mashook Abdul Wahed was chosen as one of the ﬁnal ten SDG Pioneers Chairman for the year 2019. He was chosen for the DBL Group empowerment of working women. This has motivated us further to focus not only with the gender issue, but to all the SDGs. CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 02 MATERIALITY TEST Most material Material Least material Any impact: 1 No impact: 0 Sustainability Category Aspects impacts, risks, or opportunities Economic Performance 1 Economic Indirect Economic Impacts 1 Procurement Practies 1 OHS 1 Equal Remuneration For Men & Women 1 Supplier Assesment for Labor Practices 1 Social Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms 1 Local Communities 1 Compliance 1 Energy 1 Water 1 Environment Emissions 1 Eﬄuents & Waste 1 Compliance 1 Supplier Environmental Assessment 1 03 MATERIALITY TEST Sustainability interests, Future challenges for Organizational values, topics, & indicators the sector, reported by Legal compliance Total policies & strategies raised by stakeholders peers & competitors 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 MATERIALITY TEST 04 MATERIALITY MAPPING Economic: Economic: Procurment Practices Economic Performance Indirect Economic Impacts Inﬂuence on Stakeholder Assessments & Decisions Social: Equal Remuneration for Social: Men & Women OHS Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Environment: Labor Practices Grivevance Mechanism Compliance Compliance Local Communities Environment: Energy Water Emissions Eﬄuents & Waste Supplier Environmental Assessment Signiﬁcance of Economic, Social & Environmental Impacts 05 MATERILITY MAPPING Reporting Parameters Period: 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Reporting cycle: Annual Most recent previous report: DBL Group Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Guidelines followed: GRI Standards ‘In Accordance’ option chosen: In Accordance “Core” Contact person: Mohammed Zahidullah Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer Mobile: +880 1711 677 626 Email: zahid@dbl-group.com Deﬁning the Report Content and the Aspect Boundaries The content of the report is based on the social, environment, economic and product sustainability practices at DBL Group. Identifying of the Aspects has been as per the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and indicators have been selected based on the availability of information on those practices. Some of the sustainability projects of DBL Group are beneﬁcial to the organization itself and some others are beneﬁtting the community as well. We have tried to create meaningful connection between the sustainability practices of DBL Group with the reporting guidelines of GRI. This is our sixth reporting on sustainability and second adhering to the GRI Standards: our previous ones followed the GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Through this report we have focused our insights on setting goals, measuring performance and managing change in order to implement better performances. We would like to take our sustainability reporting practice to the next level by continuous improvement in our future endeavors in reporting. Through this report, DBL Group continues its journey in sustainability reporting on the economic, environmental and social dimensions of its business activities. Through progressive advancement in reporting, DBL Group is committed to report transparently on how it manages its economic, environmental, social, and governance performance. REPORTING PARAMETERS 06 01 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL DBL Group has a ﬁve-pillar strategic approach to Sustainability: People, Process, Product, Community, and Environment. 07 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL This Earth is our only home. Together, we must protect and cherish it. Ban Ki-moon, 8th Secretary-General of the United Nations SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 08 TIMELINE OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 2013 Introduction 2014-15 Continuity 2016 SDGs introduced 2017 Introduced 2020 Goal based on the SDGs 2018 Continuing with SDGs and the 2020 Goal 2019 SDGs further focused 09 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 10 PILLARS OF DBL’S SUSTAINABILITY DBL SUSTAINABILITY PILLARS DBL Group’s Sustainability strategy is based on ﬁve pillars: People, Process, Product, Community and Environment; thus, integrating a holistic approach towards Sustainability. For each pillar, there are several Sustainable Action Programs in place both on large and small scales and short and long terms – through which the sustainability plans are translated into actions. Several of our activities are in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): details are mentioned on our Sustainability page: www.dbl-group.com/sustainability. PEOPLE PROCESS As an organization, we realize our We are committed to continuously improve responsibility towards our people: our all our business processes: ranging from employees. Our company understands sourcing raw materials to transporting how the business practices impact ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We give a strong our employees and we work to serve emphasis on eliminating non-value-added in their best interests. activities while delivering quality products on time with greater eﬃciency and least eﬀect on the environment. 11 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL PRODUCT DBL Group is continuously working towards improving the quality of the products, and all the processes that go into making the ﬁnal ﬁnished product and ensuring to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. The R&D department is actively involved in creating new and researching existing products and the processes associated with them. COMMUNITY We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create real and longterm changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. We can extend this impact from improving the livelihood of our employees to the development of the local community where we conduct our businesses. ENVIRONMENT Environment is an integral part of our compny, and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. We dedicate ourselves in conserving energy, managing waste eﬀectively and replenishing the environment to the best of our capacity. SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 12 ABOUT DBL GROUP Apparels Textiles Based in Bangladesh Started in 1991 Packaging Ceramic Tiles Telecommunications Headquartered OR T in Dhaka EXP 100% Knitwear Exporter Semiconductor Operations in Dredging Design Pharmaceuticals Gazipur VALUES VISION Integrity We envision to sustain Passion and grow as a diversiﬁed Adaptability global conglomerate. Care Excellence APPARELS AND TEXTILES CONCERNS Color City Ltd. Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. DB Tex Ltd. Mawna Fashions Ltd. Dulal Brothers Ltd. Mymun Textiles Ltd. Flamingo Fashions Ltd. Parkway Packaging and Hamza Textiles Ltd. Printing Ltd. Jinnat Apparels Ltd. Textile Testing Services Ltd. Jinnat Fashions Ltd. Thanbee Print World Ltd. Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. 13 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DBL GROUP OFFERS THE FOLLOWING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES: Yarns, Fabrics Casual knitwear (T-Shirts, Polo Shirts, Tank Tops, Joggers, Hooded Jackets, Cardigans, Leggings, Trousers, and Dresses) Fashionable wear (Skirts, Gowns) MANUFACTURING PROCESSES DBL GROUP MAKES USE OF THE FOLLOWING IN THE MANUFACTURING PROCESSES: State-of-the-art machineries Best grade cotton in our spinning products Knitting makes use of low proﬁle materials Oeko-Tex 100 Standard with Product Class I Dyeing operation makes use of low water ratio Garments manufacturing processes make use of CAD, CAS and CAM systems Washing operations make use of machines which consume less water and have best ﬁltering and spinning systems We use a new wave of technology to put our yarn through a series of Quality Control checks, to ensure strict quality standards. This is then supplemented by concentrating on process manufacturing and process improvements. We have set-up Industrial Engineering and Work Study departments. Root cause analyses are done by using statistical quality control tools. The R&D department and in-house Design Team help in developing new products and process improvements for incorporating the production with good quality at the lowest cost possible in the shortest time. This desire for quality is also shared by our team of highly qualiﬁed and competent professionals, who under the capable and dynamic leadership of the Board of Directors have made our remarkable growth possible. It is with this shared vision that we are marching towards our goal of attaining acknowledged leadership in providing quality products at competitive price. SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 14 PROCESS FLOWCHART COTTON IMPORT SPINNING KNITTING DYEING AND FINISHING ALL OVER PRINTING CUTTING SCREEN PRINTING SEWING WASHING PACKAGING TRANSPORTATION 15 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL MAJOR BUYERS KNOWLEDGE PARTNERS SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 16 Good business is done with compassion towards humanity. If we take care of our people, our people will take care of our organizations. Abdul Wahed Chairman BOARD OF DIRECTORS The highest governing body in DBL Group is the Board of Directors. Our current Board consists of four Directors and one Advisor. The Vice Chairman is also a director and currently serving as Vice President, Finance, of the Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA). The company has deﬁned guidelines and established framework for the board meetings and other proceedings. These guidelines help decision-making processes of the board members in a systematic, informed and eﬃcient manner. The Board evaluates: Strategic decisions of the company Management policies and their eﬀectiveness Strategic review from each of the board members Financial, production and other business performance through relevant reports. DBL Group’s senior management are chosen by the Board of Directors because of their vast experiences, immense knowledge, fascinating competence, cross-industry exposure, local and overseas footage, and well accepted market reputation. This cohesive team wants to make a diﬀerence, develop and inspire others, drive innovative ideas and deliver results, and live with DBL Group’s values. The distinguished Board is cultivating a sustainable work culture through them. DBL credits its strength, the sustainability of a consistent approach to managing the business and the constant growth of its people to this senior management team. 17 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL An empowered organization is where individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective success. M. A. Jabbar Managing Director OUR COMMITMENT TO STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DBL Group adheres to the deﬁnition of Corporate Governance of the International Finance Corporation (IFC). Corporate governance is deﬁned as the structures and processes by which companies are directed and controlled. Good corporate governance helps companies operate more eﬃciently, improve access to capital, mitigate risk, and safeguard against mismanagement. It makes companies more accountable and transparent to investors and gives them the tools to respond to stakeholder concerns. The company also considers a sound system of corporate governance as an important contribution to the rule of law in Bangladesh and an important determinant of the role of the company in a modern economy and society. Through implementing the recommendations by IFC, DBL Group aims at bringing its corporate governance framework up to best international practices and standards to the extent possible. This is critical to DBL Group given the company’s expected growth. The desire to attract new investors will heavily rely on the existence of a concrete corporate governance system. DBL Group intends to establish a sound corporate governance system which will facilitate the organization to attain: Better access to external capital Lower ﬁnancing costs Higher credit ratings Strong investor conﬁdence. SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 18 Business is not only about making money but also about protecting the fruits of our labor. Management excellence and discipline ensures ﬁnancial stability. M. A. Rahim Vice Chairman FAMILY BUSINESS GOVERNANCE Family Business Governance is an important issue for DBL Group since it is a family-owned business comprising of family members vested with signiﬁcant decision-making authority. The company is investing its time and eﬀort on implementing Family Business Governance for the greater good of the company and sustainable business. COMPLIANCE DBL Group’s Corporate Governance framework is based on Bangladesh legislation as well as internationally recognized best practices and principles, such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Principles of Corporate Governance. The company’s corporate governance framework is based on the following principles: Accountability Fairness Transparency Responsibility 19 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL Operational excellence takes a business from average to extraordinary. This can be achieved through an integrated approach, engaging all stakeholders. M. A. Quader Deputy Managing Director and Group CEO INTERNAL AUDIT AND CONTROL The Board’s Audit Committee: The audit committee focuses on three key areas: ﬁnancial reporting, risk management, and internal and external audits (legal compliance and risk management). Risk Management: The company places great importance on a risk management, and it is the board of directors that is tasked with ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are established. Internal Auditor: The internal auditor (or oﬃce of the internal auditor) is responsible for the daily internal control of the company’s ﬁnances and operations. External Auditor: An external auditor audits the company’s ﬁnancial statements. Disclosure: DBL’s current disclosures through its website are adequate for a non-listed private company in Bangladesh. However, once companies of DBL Group go public, there will be a much higher level of expectations – market and regulatory. DBL will improve its disclosures in two primary areas: Annual Report information and website disclosures. Matin Spinning Mills Ltd., a concern of DBL Group is enlisted under Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission and is available for public trading. A stock enlisted company needs to comply with regulatory requirements for disclosure and the company is ensuring essential disclosures of the concern thorough Annual Reports and its own website. SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 20 GENERAL GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE COMPANY HAS THE FOLLOWING GOVERNING AND OTHER BODIES: Allows the shareholders to participate in the governance of the company Ensures that the governing bodies follow internal rules and external regulations to facilitate clear communications between the governing bodies, and acts as an adviser to directors and senior executives General Responsible for the strategic direction Assembly of the company, and the guidance and oversight of management Company Secretary The Board Internal Auditor CEO Develops and monitors Assigns the day-to-day task of the internal control procedures management of the company and for the business operations Structure and Committees carries out strategy as approved by of the company the board DBL Group has established the following Board Committees: The Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee The Nominations and Corporate Governance Committee Other committees deemed necessary by the Board 21 SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL SUSTAINABILITY AND DBL 22 02 PEOPLE As an organization, we realize our responsibility towards our people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. 23 PEOPLE Technology is nothing. What's important is that you have a faith in people, that they're basically good and smart,and if you give them tools, they'll do wonderful things with them. Steve Jobs, Co-Founder, Apple Inc. PEOPLE 24 PEOPLE As an organization, we realize our responsibilit towards our people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. PEOPLE PROGRAMS Bandhan Fair Price Shop “Bandhan” – a Bengali word which refers to “bonding” – is a fair price shop which serves low income workers with all the essentials and commodities at factory price of manufactures. The shop is aimed at reducing workers monthly expenditure and sheltering them from the economic inﬂation. Any employee of DBL can buy items through zero-cash and on-credit transaction: the bills are simply adjusted with their salaries at the end of the month. The entire system has been designed and managed in-house. Bandhan was recognized by the Business Call to Action (BCtA) as an inclusive business model and gained DBL a membership of the BCtA. The case is further detailed on the BCtA website (www.businesscalltoaction.org/member/dbl -group). 25 PEOPLE BANDHAN FAIR PRICE SHOP SALES OF $1,428,567 in 7 shops in 2018-19 PEOPLE 26 FEMALE SUPERVISOR LEADERSHIP PROGRAM The Female Supervisor Leadership Program is an in-house training program for the women workers. Over a period of 2 months, training on both hard and soft skills is provided to potential in-house female workers having worked in sewing or quality departments within DBL. After successful completion of the training program, they are promoted as Supervisors. As per the 2020 Goal, DBL aims to have 50% of its garments sewing lines led by these Supervisors. As such, the program aims to generate a total of 150 female Supervisors. 64 women workers promoted to Supervisors SHOBOLA: EMPOWERMENT FOR BETTER BUSINESS In partnership with amfori and the CSR Centre, DBL Group has signed an agreement for the Shobola project. The project aims to empower female workers to take up supervi sory positions. CSR Centre with is the implementing partner with amfori being the funding and with is partner. DBL being the knowledge sharing partner will be providing in-kind support with its technical expertise. The project began in 2019 in DBL’s Mawna Fashions Ltd. factory. Both management and workers will be trained on the diﬀerent soft skills focusing on team building. DBL GROUP’S VISION FOR WOMEN To be the most attractive employer for the women workers in the garments industry of Bangladesh 27 PEOPLE FEMALE SUPERVISORS PEOPLE 28 WOMEN HEALTH INITIATIVE Starting from March 2013, the program targeted all the female workers of DBL Group with a long-term objective to ensure good health and hygiene for all female workers. The initial activity was providing women with sanitary napkins at highly discounted price of 12 cents per pack: thus, not only limiting to educating women but also providing opportunities for ensuring their safe health. Analysis and follow up are done to encourage women to make proper use of these products. For instance, to maintain the privacy of workers, the pads are now made available in the female washrooms. Due to the sensitivity in purchasing such products, the Bandhan Fair Price Shops have female staﬀ for the convenience of the female workers. Counselling sessions are also done regularly to aware women regarding the health beneﬁts of the products. The eﬀectiveness of these initiatives has been visible from the substantial increase in sales. AVERAGE 1,972 SALES per month in 2018-19, up from 511 in 2014-15 23,663 sales in 2018-19 29 PEOPLE WOMEN HEALTH 6,500 women have received training on SRHR NIRAPOD NGO Phulki, in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is working towards promoting health awareness among the female RMG workers of DBL Group involving peer educator group. Starting in August 2013, Phulki has expanded the reach of this project through partnership approach. These trainings are provided during orientation. The second phase of Nirapod was completed in two newer factories of DBL. PEOPLE 30 MOTHERS@WORK DBL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with UNICEF to promote and improve breastfeeding practices in the workplace. The Mothers@Work program is expected to reach female workers, pregnant and lactating women and 340 infants and young children over the 3-year span of program implementation. Infants from both the Day Care Centre and the community are availing the service. The program is being implemented by BRAC. Some of the key achievements from the program are outlined below: Two dedicated private lactation stations, with proper ventilation and comfortable sitting arrangement Facility to express breast milk and store breast milk in breastfeeding rooms Two additional 30-minute time slots for breast feeding 175 mothers are using breastfeeding bottles to preserve breast milk in factory and at home 313 124 pregnant and lactating mothers workers and received counselling on the management trained to importance of breastfeeding support breastfeeding The women workers are now being able to focus further on their work as they are attending to their children two extra times every day. The program’s concepts are now being expanded to other factories of DBL. BETTER BUSINESS FOR CHILDREN The second program with UNICEF, being implemented by Phulki, focuses on the Children’s Rights and Business Principles (CRBP). This program aims on improving the following: Daycare services available to employees Community living conditions for employees Employee and child health and nutrition 31 PEOPLE 52 workers & management were trained on CRBP PEOPLE 32 $1,254,238 233 scholarship provided to students received recognition for 20,535 outstanding results students from 2016 to 2018 from 2016 to 2018 33 PEOPLE CHILDREN EDUCATION SUPPORT INITIATIVE A set of programs exist under the Children Education Support Initiative which focuses on accessibility to education Recognition for meritorious students Providing career path counseling to students who have passed Higher Secondary education Children’s Education Support Allowance (CESA): Sponsoring two children of each employee whose monthly income is below BDT 25,000 PEOPLE 34 FAMILY PLANNING CORNER A Family Planning Corner has been set up in one of the RMG manufacturing complexes of DBL Group in 2016. In addition to family planning services, the setup provides antenatal care and pathological tests. Due to the popularity, the setup has been expanded to DBL’s diﬀerent facilities as well, along with support from the Directorate General of Family Planning (DGFP) of the Government of Bangladesh. The DGFP is providing free family planning products which are being distributed to the workers at free of cost. 5,708 family planning services availed In 2018-19 35 PEOPLE DISABILITY INCLUSION PROGRAM To include people with disabilities within the workforce, DBL Group has partnered up with the Center for Disability in Development (CDD). CDD has provided training and conducted awareness programs for the factory HR departments. This way, the importance of the inclusion of the people with disabilities has been brought into realization. The Disability Inclusion Program is growing with a vision to have a one percent of our workforce to consist of people with diﬀerent types of disabilities. As such, DBL targets to have 330 disabled people in its operations. 164 Disabled people recruited till 2018-19 PEOPLE 36 EMPLOYEE DISTRIBUTION Male: Female 23,238; 12,762; 65% 35% Total employees: Ratio of basic salary 36,000 and remuneration, female to male (all full-time) =1:1 NEW HIRES Above 50 years Male 0.04% 30 to 50 years 64.13% 10.90% AGE GENDER GROUP Female 18 to 30 years 35.87% 85.15% 37 PEOPLE DISTRIBUTION BY RELIGION Hindus 3.77% Buddhists/others Christians 0.07% 0.16% RELIGION Muslims 96.00% DISTRIBUTION BY AGE Above 50 years 0.80% 18 to 30 years 66.27% AGE 30 to 50 years 32.93% PEOPLE 38 TRAINING In addition to the training provided through the diﬀerent Sustainability programs, a variety of generalized trainings are provided to DBL’s employees every month. These include, but are not limited to, the following: TRAINING TOPICS Orientation for newly recruited workers and employees on company rules and regulations Company Code of Conduct Buyer Code of Conduct Working hours, Overtime, and Calculation of Wages and Overtime Payments Compensation and Beneﬁts (including leave facilities) Threat Awareness Worker Rights and Responsibilities Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) and Chemical Handling Procedure Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Lifting and Carrying Procedures Electric Safety and Operation of Boilers First Aid Fire Safety Machine Operating Process and Safety Awareness on Health and Nutrition for Pregnant Women Disciplinary Procedure as per Bangladesh Labour Law Environment, Energy, and Water Saving Awareness Waste-handling Procedure Participation Committee (PC), OHS, and Environment Committee's Functions Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discrimination, Harassment, and Abusive Behavior Anti-harassment, Anti-abuse, and Grievance Procedure Awareness on AIDS and Transmittable and non-transmittable diseases 39 PEOPLE The speciﬁc trainings target mid-level management, workers, chemical handlers and spot removers, loaders, quality inspectors, ﬁrst aiders, ﬁre ﬁghters, evacuators and rescuers, cleaners, etc. In 2017-18, the total training (man) hours spent amounted to 188,256 with female and male employees receiving 103,727 hours and 84,529 and hours respectively. The average training hours per female employee was 8.24 and male employees was 6.28; the overall average per employee was 7.03. PEOPLE 40 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS A variety of activities are present in DBL for the welfare of employees including the following. Some of these have Others include already been mentioned in the beginning of this chapter. Life insurance and disability and invalidity coverages as per Bangladesh Labour Law and Group Insurance Policy Retirement provisions Stock ownership (currently one business unit of DBL is listed under the Dhaka and Chittagong Stock Exchanges) In-house day care center with trained professionals In-house medical center with a wide range of tests and even providing outpatient medical services In-house pharmacy providing medicines at fair price even for employees’ family members Participating and organizing in-house sports tournaments such as cricket, football, and volleyball Promoting culture through the encouragement of music and art competitions Worker-Management Relationship program where personal issues and needs are discussed every month through the Participatory Committee (PC) meetings MATERNITY FACILITIES AND BENEFITS All the female employees of DBL Group are entitled to take parental leave. The pregnant women can also avail the following services: Training on maternity beneﬁts Awareness training on maternity protection 112 days of paid maternity leave Apart from lunch breaks, two extra times, with a total of 60 minutes, breast feeding breaks within working hours Provision of riskless work for pregnant female employees Gift hamper for new babies Breastfeeding kit for lactating mothers provided by UNICEF Facility for using lifts for pregnant women Consideration to work on the ground ﬂoor and the ﬁrst ﬂoor of any building Free antenatal and postnatal treatments 41 PEOPLE PEOPLE 42 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE At DBL, we train our Welfare Oﬃcers to exercise grievance procedures very professionally and encourage employees to express their concerns without hesitation through the complaint management system. Workers feel comfortable sharing any concern that they might have with the Welfare Oﬃcers. We process grievances both formally and informally. These include: THE SUGGESTION/GRIEVANCE BOX Written down issues dropped conﬁdentially Boxes checked every week by designated people Grievances recorded in register THE BANDHAN NEWSLETTER Complaints placed in monthly newsletter Section of newsletter can be detached Written down issues dropped conﬁdentially in suggestion/grievance box VERBAL COMPLAINT Verbal complaints by workers Made to Oﬃcers from the Welfare, Compliance, Human Resource (HR), and /or Admin departments Made also to their Supervisors or Line Chiefs PARTICIPATION COMMITTEE (PC) MEETINGS Expressing through a PC member PC member puts forward the complaint during meetings Grievances of all employees regarding any topic are considered by the management. This includes violations of rights of indigenous people. In 2018-19, there were no incidents reported where the rights of such people were violated either through formal grievance mechanisms or through informal ones. DBL Group’s grievance procedure addresses labor practice issues as well as human rights and societal topics. In overall, 2018-19 recorded 218 grievances of which all were addressed and 217 resolved. 1 grievance of 2017-18 was resolved this year. 43 PEOPLE OHS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) DBL Group aims on creating a healthy, environment make rise to illness such as cough or cold, headaches, friendly and safe workplace and educating the work back pains, allergies, neck pain, as well as sinusitis. force regarding health and safety issues. A good work Most of these diseases can be cured or even prevented environment not only has direct impact on the employees’ through the proper use of personal protective equipment health but also plays a vital role on the productivity (PPE). level. A dedicated medical center is present in each factory Our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and related complex which manages and treats all kinds of occuprocedures encompass all national and international pational diseases. In addition, the center also deals standards. This includes, but is not limited to: with non-occupational but common diseases such as fever, measles, tooth pain, and so on. 1) Bangladesh Labour Law 2006 including the amendments and the rules Furthermore, to aware employees and workers regarding 2) Other national laws various health issues, awareness programs, meetings, 3) ILO Conventions trainings, and workshops are conducted on a regular 4) Buyers’ Codes of Conduct basis. The topics of these sessions also deal with issues such as personal hygiene, for example washing All employees are covered under this policy and this is hands, thereby dealing with a preventive measure for applicable to any unit of DBL. Dedicated teams are various diseases. Health and safety committees are present to oversee the diﬀerent health and safety present in each of the factory complexes: who comprise needs and maintain safety standards. of 3.70% of the total workforce. All instances of accidents, injuries, and occupational Fire safety is one of the most important issues regarding diseases are kept in record in DBL. Each record of an occupational safety. The Compliance department occurrence is categorized into multiple types to performs audits to ensure unobstructed evacuation analyze the speciﬁc type of injury and disease. paths, properly designed evacuation maps and lighting present in required areas. To tackle the events Occupational diseases are prevalent in the workplace of ﬁre, four teams – the ﬁre ﬁghters, the rescue team, due to the existing surroundings. The presence of dust, the cordon party and the ﬁrst aiders – are involved. heat, chemicals, work stress, posture of working, etc. PEOPLE 44 RISK MANAGEMENT Given the nature of business, the raw materials and products that DBL handles and the scale of operations, our risk management systems are designed to ensure that all our assets are safeguarded and protected against any kind of loss including mankind and property. For worker safety, speciﬁc risk analyses are done based on their workplaces. These workplaces include a wide variety of areas within the factories such as the chemical store rooms and the Eﬄuent Treatment Plants (ETPs), as well as the zones containing diﬀerent machines such as compacting machines and generators. Pregnant women are also considered under risk management: to avoid the risk to the fetuses, they are to be seated when working, allowed leaving early during the lunch breaks, and not allowed to work overtime. Each type of analysis includes the description and consequence of the hazard, the person at risk and the control or preventive measures that can be taken. In addition, hazards are given ratings, calculated by using the frequencies of occurrence and the severity, thereby eﬀectively identifying the risks or hazards to prioritize on. OHSAS 18001:2007 STANDARD The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) is an international management system speciﬁcation for occupational health and safety. Implemented by the GIZ, one of DBL Group’s dyeing units acquired this certiﬁcation in April 2016. OHSAS was chosen to further reduce illness and incidents through continual improvement, increase awareness about health and safety, and establish a health and safety management system within the factory. The multidepartment committee formed has enabled multiple beneﬁts including increased hazard awareness, safety culture, and reduced risk behavior. DBL is planning to replicate the standard to other units. 45 PEOPLE SAFETY MEASURES Fire extinguishers Fire hooks Fire blankets Gong bells Stretchers Lock cutters Smoke detectors Emergency lights Sprinklers Safety equipment such as gloves, Fire hose cabinet boxes helmets, gas masks and gumboots Water drums and buckets Mini Fire Station (details under Fire beaters Chapter 5: Community) Top quality cabling and accessories Trained technicians for maintenance International safety features for equipment Maintenance and risk analysis records Safe disposal of waste materials Detailed structural assessments Bangladesh National Building Code (BNBC) during construction Certiﬁcation with Architectural and Structural Design Standard Scaled as-built drawings and details Skilled engineering teams for construction and maintenance Material strength before construction Careful assessment of chemicals Chemical purchase and usage policy Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Regular trainings Chemical risk assessment using ILO toolkit Automatic dispensers for worker safety Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for chemical management PEOPLE 46 HUMAN RIGHTS Signiﬁcant investment agreewhich is being implemented by Phulki. This ments repetition include participrogram provides training on UNICEF’s pation in training, creation and Children’s Rights and Business Principles with implementation of a new policy focus on community improvement. or procedure, and other activities that DBL Group undertakes to The Nirapod program is Phulki’s approach promote labor practices, human rights, societal supported by the Embassy of the Kingdom of the and environmental concerns, as well as any Netherlands for saving women from unwanted sustainability issue. DBL has dealt with multiple and unsafe pregnancy. The second phase of activities that promote human rights. These are Nirapod is already under implementation in two summarized below. factories. In addition, Phulki is also providing training on UNICEF’s Children’s Rights in BusiDBL Group has made investment in various training ness Principles. sessions. The Mothers@Work program is designed by UNICEF and implemented by BRAC to train Further details of these and other programs pregnant and lactating mothers on maternity have been explained earlier in this chapter of protection and breastfeeding. The Better Business the report. for Children is another program by UNICEF DBL is not engaged with any form of child labor. At the time of DBL does not use involuntary or hiring, psychological interviews forced labor. The Code of Conduct are done to determine the age of emphasizes that all employees potential employees. In addition, should be working at factory documents such as proofs of age voluntarily and no means should are collected from all potential be adopted as a measure which eployees and the authenticity of age documents may indirectly result in an employis veriﬁed. In the absence of age documents, the ee working forcibly. The freedom of movement potential employee is to be veriﬁed and conﬁrmed of employees is not restricted except for the by the registered doctor available at the factory. protection of property and security of factory personnel. Additionally, no employees are recruited on contract basis and an employee may resign from the company by giving one month’s notice. 47 PEOPLE SECURITY PRACTICES All security personnel in DBL are of our own: there are none from third party organizations. Human rights topics are communicated to all security personnel via trainings that take place every month. PEOPLE 48 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Suppliers of DBL are also assessed for labor practices, human rights, societal and environmental impacts. The DBL Compliance team conducts supplier assessment through speciﬁc standards questionnaire on social and environmental areas based on the DBL Code of Conduct. Before making a business relationship with a supplier, it is compulsory that the supplier abides by our Code. 49 PEOPLE NON-DISCRIMINATION DBL employs, pays, promotes, and terminates workers based on their ability to do the job, rather than based on personal characteristics or beliefs. Discrimination on any ground is not allowed. Due to the strength of the practice, there have been no cases of discrimination. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING DBL recognizes and respects the right of employees to exercise their lawful rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. No discrimination is done against employees who form or participate in lawful associations and or collective bargaining. The presence of the Participation Committee (PC) allows the workers to freely communicate regarding any issue. To ensure these rights are exercised, monthly audits from the Compliance team take place, noting the composition of the committee members, frequency of meetings, topics discussed, and so on. DBL management has been able to form PCs according to the guidelines which is very eﬀective for conveying information to both labor and management and resolving any grievances if present. Signiﬁcant operational changes are communicated with the concerned employees a minimum of 3 months prior to the change. PEOPLE 50 03 PROCESS We are committed to continuously improve all our business processes: ranging from purchasing raw materials to transporting final finished goods. 51 Excellence is a continuous process and not an accident. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, Aerospace Scientist 52 PROCESS We are committed to continuously improve all our business processes: ranging from sourcing raw materials to transporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We give a strong emphasis on eliminating non-value-added activities while delivering quality products on time with greater eﬃciency and least eﬀect on the environment. PROCESS PROGRAMS RESOURCE SAVING DYEING AND FINISHING Starting from procuring energy eﬃcient machineries, multiple initiatives have been taken by DBL Group to reduce the consumption of energy for the dyeing and ﬁnishing processes. The energy meters ensure proper measurement of power consumption. Relevant temperature adjustments are done depending on the fabric for the dyeing, scouring-bleaching and soaping processes to optimize the energy usage. The dyes used allow consumption of less energy as well. DBL also makes use of Novozymes’ CombiPolish, a world leader in bio-innovation. These enzymes have provided multiple beneﬁts including saving 4 liters of water and one full hour processing time for every production batch. Eﬄuent amount and requirement of treating them has also decreased due to the lower water usage. The wicking ﬁnishing process converts hydrophobic fabrics (such as polyester) to hydrophilic: which intake water much better and thus enable optimum consumption of water. Weight loss of fabric during processing is also reduced: which allows better hand-feel and increased fabric strength. DBL’s practices allow use of low water to dye ratio. Currently, the dyeing operation makes use of only 55 liters of water, whereas 120 liters were used in 2010. DBL aims to reduce the usage of water for dyeing to 50 liters per kg of fabric within 2020. USE OF ENZYMES PROVIDE SPECIAL FINISHING PROCESS 1 hour 4 liters processing Reduces water usage time saving water saving and fabric loss 53 PROCESS AUTOMATION OF FABRIC MANUFACTURING OPERATION PROCESS The Management Information System (MIS) team of DBL Group developed an in-house system in the Fabric Knitting section to transfer the manual operation practices into an automated one. Earlier, on-time and on-line information were unavailable which lead to wastage and indecisiveness in the process. The new system automates the manufacturing process operation to make eﬀective decisions, reduce wastage, and ensure convenience. Workers are now using electronic tabs and computers to input production and operational information. The management now has a digital dashboard to understand the most recent status of diﬀerent machines and can hence make instant decisions related to the operation. Some of the key features include: Barcode and On-line and on-time Supply chain labeling system production and eﬃcient monitoring system traceability for fabric tracking On-line and oﬀ-line Simpliﬁed electronic Eﬃcient inventory quality control delivery system system “Smart” centralized Signiﬁcant reduction Completely paperless production planning: in fabric wastage operational system system suggests what to do PROCESS 54 LEAN MANUFACTURING Lean Manufacturing is a business model and collection of tactical methods that emphasize eliminating non-value-added activities (waste) while delivering quality products on time at least cost with greater eﬃciency. The project was launched following the guidelines and support of Walmart in Jinnat Fashions Ltd. and various methods were implemented for the garments cutting, sewing, and ﬁnishing operations. Replication of the practices are ongoing at other garments and non-garments units including fabric knitting, fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing, and garments printing. 55 PROCESS DBL IDEA CLUB DBL encourages ideas from any employee, regardless of their designation. Their eﬀorts are recognized through a monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the Month”. In 2015, a yearly recognition system was launched as well, named the “Employee of the Year”. The program has been inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for other units too. This encourages employees to work at their full potential and gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. 275 Employee of the Month presented since 2016-17 DBL QUALITY CONTROL (QC) CIRCLES The Quality Control (QC) Circles promote employee engagement in workplace decision making. The bottom-up approach to quality empowers employees and workers to make eﬀective decisions which inﬂuence production directly. Each of the diﬀerent operations has their own QC Circles. These teams have participated in both national and international QC Circle competitions and won the highest recognitions on multiple occasions. 122 QC Circles in diﬀerent units of DBL Group up from 2 in 2014 PROCESS 56 REDUCING RESOURCE CONSUMPTION EFFICIENT MACHINERIES DBL believes in investing in the best quality machines as these not only provide longevity but also resource saving. We have installed state-of-the-art dyeing machines that consume 50% less water in comparison to the average dyeing machines. This in turn has a direct eﬀect on the receding water table and energy consumption and the associated carbon emissions. 57 PROCESS REDUCED WATER CONSUMPTION Water consumption in the fabric dyeing process has been reduced from 120 liters per kg of fabric to 55 liters per kg. Less water directly impacts the consumption of dyes, chemicals, steam and electricity and reduction in waste water discharge. As such the environment impact is reduced and production cost is also lower. In 2018-19, a total of 6,487,360 cubic meters of water were used in all operations. PROCESS 58 OTHER WATER SAVING PRACTICES Rain water harvesting Low liquor ratio machines which contributes to up to 46% lower water consumptionn Repair leaking taps Educate staﬀ on saving water Replace water taps without aerators by taps with aerators Replace single ﬂush cisterns with dual ﬂush Reusing hot water from boilers Using Exhaust Gas Boilers Rain Water Harvesting Plant Exhaust Gas Boiler 23.51 million 2.64 million Liters ground water Normal cubic meters saving in 2018-19 natural gas saving in 2018-19 Heat recovery from Stenter machines Hot water recovery 6,270,536 1,051,200 Mega Joules energy Liters of diesel saved annually saving per year 59 PROCESS ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy is an essential part of the industrial sector to achieve sustainability as it is directly related to ﬁnancial matters and global climate change. Energy consumption within the organization is monitored and tracked to reduce wastage of the energy. The following steps are currently implemented to reduce energy consumption: Preparation of energy management policy Collecting consumption of water, steam, diesel, gas and electricity along with monthly production Benchmarking and regulating energy consumption in consultation with the production team by doing process re-engineering and innovations Reducing carbon emission Reducing diesel consumption in generators Taking initiative to reduce energy consumption by choosing alternative sourc es of non-renewable resources Training employees on energy and environmental aspects within the industry DBL primarily makes use of non-renewable energy sources for its operations. In 2018-19, 49,509,151 cubic meters of natural gas and 6,566,424 liters of diesel have been used. For transportation, 868,034 cubic meters of natural gas, 481,866 liters of diesel and 152,584 liters of octane were used. A cumulative total of 125 kW solar power generation has been set up in multiple facilities which in 2018-19 generated approximately 107,100 kWh power. Further renewable energy projects will be implemented in the coming years. Condensed water recovery 1,051,200 Liters diesel saving at diesel boiler per year 3,765 499,320 Tons GHG emission Cubic meters gas saving reduced per year at gas boiler per year PROCESS 60 ENERGY EFFICIENT MACHINERIES High-end energy eﬃcient capital machineries from Europe, USA and Japan are used in our production processes. These world-class machineries have greatly reduced the energy consumption for diﬀerent production processes by up to 15%. As an example, the machines in the Spinning Mill procured to date provides signiﬁcantly high eﬃciencies. The Programmable Logic Control (PLC) systems allow the machines to make the necessary adjustments and thereby provides signiﬁcant energy savings. Some of the other features of our energy eﬃcient and environment friendly machines are as follows: The dyeing machines have individual heat recovery unit resulting in lower power consumption and energy saving by 15% Water consumption saving of 20% compared to normal dyeing machines, which in turn reduces the need for water extraction Heat recovery from Captive Power Plant is providing energy saving of about 15% 61 PROCESS OTHER ENERGY SAVING PRACTICES Using rooftop solar panels Hot water recovery (lowering the consumption of fossil fuel) Reducing light intensity in certain areas Switching oﬀ unnecessary lights during day time Replacing T8 and T5 lights with the more eﬃcient LEDs (light emitting diodes) Recovering steam condensates Purchasing Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in-built air compressors Regular maintenance PROCESS 62 04 PRODUCT We continuously work towards improving the product quality and the processes that go into making the ﬁnal ﬁnished product to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. 63 PRODUCT A good company oﬀers excellent products and services. A great company also oﬀers excellent products and services but also strives to make the world a better place. Philip Kotler, Author, Marketing Professor, Economist and Consultant PRODUCT 64 PRODUCT DBL Group is continuously working towards improving the quality of the products, and all the processes that go into making the ﬁnal ﬁnished product and ensuring to minimize the negative impact on the environment and the consumers. The R&D department is actively involved in creating new and researching existing products and the processes associated with them. PRODUCT PROGRAMS Innovation in yarn production Our Spinning Mill makes use of diﬀerent processes that reduces the consumption of cotton. Recycled textile materials are used instead of raw cotton. The yarns for loop and brush use reduces the consumption of raw materials by up to 60%. Up to 30% recycled materials can be used with virgin ﬁber to produce ornamented products known as Cotton Neppy Mélange yarns. Diﬀerent colored neps (produced from recycled polyester) are visible in the yarn body and this works an ornamentation on the fabric surface. Mixing of spinning waste produces Snow yarns, which create a snow eﬀect in the ﬁnished fabrics which takes its place in the new fashion trade. Furthermore, in collaboration with the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC), traceability is being introduced for the viscose used in the processes. The FSC promotes the responsible management of the world’s forests. In addition, under the Global Recycled Standard (GRS) certiﬁcation, recycled polyester blended yarn is being produced to create a variety of sustainable products. Currently, our Spinning Mill is producing 18% of such yarns. As part of the 2020 Goal, it targets to have 20% of total production made from these recycled products by the year 2020. Dedicated 300+ Innovating Yarn Development Analyzing Researching samples created since 2012 Team special fabrics on production every month 65 PRODUCT BETTER COTTON INITIATIVE The program has been adopted to support the global standards for Better Cotton and to promote our commitment to make global cotton production better for the producers, environment and the sector. Of the total production, 60% is from BCI. ORGANIC COTTON It is an initiative to reduce the negative impact on the environment and consumers. Organic cotton is imported from India to process organic yarn. This comprises of about 35% of the total yarn production. OEKO-TEX STANDARD 100: PRODUCT CLASS 1 For our Spinning, Dyeing, Printing and Garments processes, we follow the Restricted Substances List (RSL) speciﬁed by Product Class 1 of the Oeko-Tex Standard 100 certiﬁcation. GLOBAL ORGANIC TEXTILE (GOTS) The GOTS certiﬁcation is a worldwide leading textile processing standard for organic ﬁbers. This includes ecological and social criteria, backed up by independent certiﬁcation of the entire textile supply chain. PRODUCT 66 $266,029,407 exports in 2018-19 15.33% More exports than in 2017-18 EUROPE AFRICA ASIA & OCEANIA NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA AUSTRIA MOROCCO AUSTRALIA CANADA ARGENTINA BELGIUM SOUTH AFRICA CHINA EL SALVADOR BOLIVIA CROATIA HONG KONG MEXICO BRAZIL DENMARK INDIA USA CHILE FRANCE INDONESIA ECUADOR GERMANY JAPAN PANAMA GREECE MALAYSIA PARAGUAY ITALY NEW ZEALAND PERU NETHERLANDS PHILLIPPINES URUGUAY NORWAY SINGAPORE VENZUELA POLAND SOUTH KOREA RUSSIA TAIWAN SERBIA THAILAND SPAIN UAE SWEDEN TURKEY UK 67 PRODUCT ECONOMIC SUMMARY All amounts in million US$ (USD 1 = 83.75 BDT) 2018-19 Revenue (gross) 568.64 Other income 1.92 Direct economic value generated 570.56 Operating costs 400.81 Employee wages and benefits 83.31 Payments to providers of capital 27.44 Payments to government 6.14 Community investments 0.61 Economic value distributed 518.31 Economic value retained (direct economic value generated 52.25 less economic value distributed) TAX RATES Garments: 12% Textiles: 15% Corporate: 35% PRODUCT 68 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY The apparel manufacturing industry continues to contribute to Bangladesh’s total exports. At the end of 2018-19, the industry stands at $34.1 billion: which is 84.21% of the total exports [1]. Within the last ﬁve years, the industry rose by 42.29%, while the knitwear exports grew by 44.99%. DBL Group’s knitwear exports have been rising signiﬁcantly in par with the country’s rise. Constant expansions and a variety of sustainability initiatives has contributed to the rise. However, the industry in Bangladesh has changed signiﬁcantly and is changing. With the inclusion of health and safety, focus on social and environmental impact is being addressed as well, even from the end of the buyers. The ﬁnished product is now being tracked way back to the cotton ﬁelds and all raw materials used, including the chemicals, in the entire supply chain. Companies are now to report on how they are addressing social issues including the communities that they are operating in. The end-product is now a socially and environmentally addressed one. And the need for producing sustainability reports are increasing as these provide transparency and trust. Economic sustainability is also being addressed through these social and environmental ventures. In our previous report, some discussions were made regarding these, with a focus on the environmental side. From the social side, the direct business impacts occur as there is increased production. For instance, an in-house study showed that female Supervisors are about 3% more eﬃcient than the males and hence this has a direct relation to increased production. Indirect impacts include decreased turnover and increased retention. Source: http://bgmea.com.bd/home/pages/TradeInformation, Accessed: 15 April 2020 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES Business Call to Action (BCtA) 2019 Impact Champion Puma Sustainability Award 2019 UN Global Compact 2019 SDG Pioneer for the empowerment of working women Tom Tailor Sustainability Award, 2019 ICMAB Best Corporate Award 2018 6th ICSB National Award 2018 69 PRODUCT UN Global Compact 2019 SDG Pioneer for the empowerment of working women Mashook Mujib Chowdhury from the Sustainability department of DBL Group, Bangladesh, was selected by the UN Global Compact as one of the 2019 SDG Pioneers for the empowerment of working women. After being selected as the 2019 Global Compact Network Bangladesh SDG Pioneer in May 2019 by the Global Compact Network Bangladesh (GCNB), he was automatically included to compete in the 2019 SDG Pioneers Global Round hosted by the UN Global Compact. He was chosen after a rigorous and competitive selection process which involved reviewing of many applications from diverse regions of the world. In the end, a multi-stakeholder selection group including representatives from civil society, academia, Global Compact Board, the UN and previous SDG Pioneers voted for his inclusion as a 2019 SDG Pioneer. Details on his story is available on our webpage: http://www.dbl-group.com/mashook-mujib-chowdhury-bangladesh-2019-sdg-pioneer-for-the-empowerment-of-working-women http://www.dbl-group.com/mashook-mujib-chowdhury-bangladesh-2019-sdg-pioneer http://www.dbl-group.com/mashook-mujib-chowdhury-bangladesh-2019-sdg-pioneer http://www.dbl-group.com/mashook-mujib-chowdhury-bangladesh-2019-sdg-pioneer-for-the-empowerment-of-working-women -for-the-empowerment-of-working-women -for-the-empowerment-of-working-women PRODUCT 70 USE OF MATERIALS Depending on the diﬀerent production processes, diﬀerent raw materials are used. All input materials are weighed and tracked to control unwanted wastage. Systems such as Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen and 5S are included to make proper use of materials thereby reducing waste. Electronic tabs are used for data input with in-house developed software and hence moving a step closer to paperless systems. External assessments by government and private organizations are made on noise and air pollutions and the quality of wastewater before discharging. DBL performs its own assessments as well. All recommendations are implemented to reduce impact on the environment. 71 PRODUCT The primary raw materials for the diﬀerent production processes PROCESS INPUT MATERIAL(S) OUTPUT FROM PROCESS Spinning Raw cotton Yarns Fabric Knitting Yarns Fabrics Fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Dyed fabrics All-over printing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Printed fabrics Garments manufacturing Fabrics, accessories Finished garments Garments printing Finished garments, dyes and chemicals Printed garments Garments washing Finished garments Washed garments Corrugated carton Cardboard Cartons Materials used by weight or volume MATERIALS UNIT AMOUNT Cotton kg 6,842,828 Yarn kg 29,029,656 Fabric kg 26,176,270 Dyes kg 862,208 Chemicals kg 8,411,525 Salt kg 6,717,439 Cut panel pieces pieces 59,204,011 Paper kg 7,378,816 PRODUCT 72 WASTE MANAGEMENT Wastages in DBL are tracked and monitored regularly. Both non-hazardous and hazardous are given to government authorized waste collectors for proper disposal. Diﬀerent types of wastes are disposed in diﬀerent ways. Before disposing any waste, they are categorized according to their characteristics. In general, they may be categorized as hazardous and non-hazardous. CATEGORY WISE LIST OF WASTES IN DIFFERENT SECTIONS: SECTION/AREA TYPES OF WASTE NON-HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS Cotton fabric, paper, carton, Synthetic fabric, poly bag, Cutting tubes of fabric roll cutting knife, scissors, blade, pp van Synthetic fabric, synthetic thread, Cotton fabric, cotton thread, Sewing synthetic label, poly, cutter, scissors, cotton label, paper needle, plastic cone, button, zipper, rivet Finishing Needle, poly, used gum tape, Cotton thread, cartons tag pin, empty bottle of spot lifter Syringe, synthetic packaging materials Medical Centre Gauge, unused cotton of medicine, empty, medicine bottle Canteen Gauge, unused cotton Plastic packets, water bottle etc. Lab Cotton, paper boxes, etc. Detergent (liquid and solid) Tube lights, electric bulbs, oil, electric wires, Common Wood, paper, etc. rubber mats, metal, empty chemical drums TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE: TYPE OF WASTE UNIT AMOUNT Hazardous Kg 237,022 Hazardous Pieces 73,920 Non-hazardous Kg 11,775,702 73 PRODUCT There are 3 separate dustbins clearly labeled set in the medical center for depositing all types of bottle/strips, cotton/bandages and syringes/needles respectively. All concerned staﬀ are instructed to deposit waste in those speciﬁc dustbins. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH, SAFETY AND PRIVACY DBL respects the privacy of all customers and henceforth there has been no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customerdata. DBL does not engage itself into incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Additionally, there were no incidents of non-compliance with any regulations or codes that deal with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Furthermore, DBL incurred no ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. DBL ENSURES THE FOLLOWING FOR EACH PRODUCT CREATED: Pull-testing of buttons to avoid choking hazard Fusing process for embroidery to safeguard human skin Button strenght test for children-wear Created according to brand’s speciﬁcations Restrictions on use of certain substances and methods PRODUCT 74 05 COMMUNITY We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. 75 COMMUNITY I am often asked what can people do to become a good global citizen. I reply that it begins in your own community. Koﬁ Annan, 7th Secretary-General of the United Nations COMMUNITY 76 COMMUNITY We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create real and long-term changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. We can extend this impact from improving the livelihood of our employees to the development of the society where we conduct our businesses. COMMUNITY PROGRAMS MINI FIRE STATION The Mini Fire Station (MFS) is DBL Group’s ﬁrst public private partnership, which is in collaboration with GIZ (German Cooperation) and the Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD). Already in operation, the objective of the MFS rapid response and risk reduction unit is to prevent ﬁre in the industrial buildings around Kashimpur, Gazipur area. The unit is located outside the Jinnat Complex of DBL Group which is also serving the community in the Kashimpur-Konabari industrial cluster. The facility is staﬀed 24 hours a day with a target to respond within the ﬁrst 10-15 minutes to both industrial ﬁre and building collapse. 77 COMMUNITY BANGLADESH FIRE SERVICE AND CIVIL DEFENCE (BFSCD) Fireﬁghters Operation and Maintenance Costs Equipment Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and Protocols Advising Factory Management and Training Factory Fire Teams DBL GROUP Land Utilities Costs Building, Fittings and Furniture Support Staﬀs Fireﬁghters GERMAN DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION Technical Cooperation Training Via Bonn Fire Brigade Concept and BFSCD Fire Truck and Equipment 98 $5,351,363 factories and establishments Controlled and extinguished Estimated value of assets ﬁre in the industry and recovered from the 98 factories community since 2017 and establishments COMMUNITY 78 COMMUNITY KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE PROGRAMS DBL continues to hold Community Knowledge Exchange Programs in the diﬀerent communities where DBL’s operations are taking place. These programs focus on a wide variety of issues that DBL has learnt through the “People” programs (Chapter 2), including the following. Personal hygiene for women Sexual and reproductive health and rights Community Knowledge Exchange Programs Maternity protection & breastfeeding Empowering women through ﬁnancial literacy COMMUNITY EDUCATION SUPPORT As part of endorsing the need for achieving SDG-4: Quality Education in Bangladesh, DBL Group has been involved with multiple initiatives. A four-storied building has been constructed by DBL for Hatimara School and College. Computers with audio-visual systems were installed to equip the college auditorium with latest classroom facilities. The building can accommodate about 1,000 students. DBL also donated 100 sets of benches to Sardagonj Government Primary School to accommodate 300 students. A renovation of an existing building in the school has also been done to further facilitate the students. 79 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY 80 INDUSTRY-BASED TRAINING CENTER With a vision to establish a Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Center in the industry cluster, the Industry based Training (IBT) Center was initiated in DBL’s spinning factory complex. The Center has already developed training modules and the curricula: these have been submitted to the Bangladesh Technical Education Board (BTEB) for accreditation. The BTEB is a government board which is responsible for regulating, developing and certifying technical education throughout Bangladesh. On the initial phase, 1,070 workers in the Spinning Mill were trained in 2018-19. FEATURES OF IBT 20% 80% Classroom training On-the-job training 81 COMMUNITY COMMUNITY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM To further focus on SDG-3, Good Health and Well-Being, DBL is continuing with Community Health Development Programs in the diﬀerent communities where DBL’s operations are taking place. Children, women, men, and the elderly of the community visit to take free treatments. 150 community people were provided free treatment and blood grouping in 2018-19 OTHER INITIATIVES 500 saplings planted in the local community Discussion session with community to prevent harassment of women, mugging and substance abuse Involved with UNICEF for improving community education and sanitation systems COMMUNITY 82 WAGE AND ITS IMPACTS ENTRY LEVEL WAGE DBL Group always abides by the minimum wage as set by the government. The levels of wages are a common standard for the industry regardless of gender or area of operation: this is constant throughout Bangladesh. Each worker is recruited in one of seven grades (apart from trainees). For all grades, DBL pays at a higher rate than the minimum: experience is also considered in relevant cases – the lowest grade usually comprises of people with little or no prior experience. The surplus amount depends on the amount of prior experience the recruit has. In addition, we are also making use of H&M's Wage Grid during recruitment and promotion. 83 COMMUNITY SENSITIVITY OF THE WAGE ISSUE The Bandhan Fair Price Shop of DBL Group plays an important role towards the positive contribution through its product lines. Products from reputed brands such as Unilever are available for the workers at prices which are more aﬀordable to them: hence they now have access to better quality as well as healthier products. Items include food, cooking oil, toiletries, house-keeping goods, tea and beverages, along with others, including sanitary napkins. An inclusive business model, Bandhan was established as a strategic approach. Back in 2007-08 when the global ﬁnancial crisis aﬀected everyone, DBL decided to increase the salaries of our workers by 15%. This had a negative eﬀect as the other industries in the cluster started to demand the same in their factories. In response, Bandhan was established which not only reduced the expenditure burden of the workers, but also prevent any unrest. Bandhan acts as an inclusive business model since it includes the low-income workers as consumers. COMMUNITY 84 SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES Apart from the machinery used in the diﬀerent operations, DBL procures all other products and services from Dhaka. When DBL began its operations in Kashimpur and Mawna (Gazipur), the entire area/locale was undeveloped. The progression was escalated by industries and the locality has gone through a signiﬁcant transformation. Popular local branded shops and local and global branded products are now available in the community. DBL Group has also contributed to the economy through the following ways: 24/7 medical facilities for workers and Providing access to medicine at manufacturer’s consultation services for family members price for workers and their families Conducting surveys to Contribution to educational understandthe needs Financial assistance institutions in the community of the community to various hospitals OTHER IMPACTS ON COMMUNITIES To minimize the impact on communities, the industries of DBL are situated in remote locations. Potentiality, however, is still present to create negative impacts on the local communities. Other impacts on communities Noises from machines, particularly generators, tend to reach out of the factory premises. Quality machines are procured which produces lesser noise than the inexpensive alternatives. These machines are also placed in ideal places within the facilities to reduce the impact. Although Eﬄuent Treatment Plants (ETPs) are present, there is dumping of the treated wastewater. Programs such as the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals are present which improves the quality of wastewater discharged. The quality of sludge produced is also equivalent to that of municipal waste, which contributes further in reducing the negative impact on the community. Carbon emissions from the diﬀerent machines inﬂuences the air quality and temperature of the local environment. With the goal of planting 100,000 trees by 2020, DBL has started to oﬀset the carbon emissions within the diﬀerent communities where we are operating. These trees will also be mitigating the increase in temperature. 85 COMMUNITY ANTI-CORRUPTION DBL has no conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and has not made any ﬁnancial and in-kind political contributions. In addition, there have been no legal actions for anti-competitive behaviors, anti-trust and monopoly practices. An always compliant organization, DBL did not incur any ﬁnes or been involved in non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. The reputation of DBL Group for lawful and responsible business behavior is of prime importance and is one of its greatest assets. DBL Group is committed to the prevention, deterrence and detention of corrupt business practices, fraudulent activities and bribery. DBL Group has zero tolerance toward any unethical business practice. DBL Group has strictly enforced policies on anti-corruption, anti-fraud and bribery which apply to all businesses within DBL Group. The Management seeks to promote the adoption of regulations consistent with the principles set out in the diﬀerent company policies on anti-corruption. It is required that all personnel: Act honestly and with integrity and safeguard the company resources for which they are responsible Respect customers, suppliers, and other parties to achieve DBL’s objectives by conducting business in an ethical, lawful, and professional manner. At DBL, we have an eﬀective compliance program which includes but is not limited to, the following components: Communicating code of conduct to employees; Reporting and investigating any allegation of fraud, bribery, and other corrupt practices; Appropriate disciplinary procedures for employees who are found to have engaged in such practices; and Monitoring of the eﬀectiveness of such controls Monitoring DBL Group and each of its business take the appropriate steps to ensure all its employees and those acting on its behalf: Meet all legal and regulatory requirements governing the lawful and ethical conduct of business Make all employees aware of their personal responsibilities and strictly adhere to this policy Provide information to all employees and further guidance if they have any query or uncertainty regarding these requirements COMMUNITY 86 06 ENVIRONMENT Environment is an integral part of our company, and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. 87 ENVIRONMENT We cannot choose between growth and sustainability – we must have both. Paul Polman, Former CEO, Unilever and Co-Founder, Imagine ENVIRONMENT 88 ENVIRONMENT Environment is an integral part of our company, and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. We dedicate ourselves in conserving energy, managing waste eﬀectively and replenishing the environment to the best of our capacity. ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMS PARTNERSHIP FOR CLEANER TEXTILE (PACT) A program by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), PaCT is a holistic program supporting textile wet processing factories to adapt to cleaner production. It engages with brands, government, communities, ﬁnancial institutions and other stakeholders in bringing about systemic, positive envronmental change for the Bangladesh textile sector, the workers and the communities of operations. The program contributed to water, gas, electricity, steam, dyes/chemicals and GHG emission reduction. DBL Group has signed up for the second phase of PaCT and are implementing the various suggestions. These include: Replacement of E-ﬂow technology in Installation of 20 kW existing pumps by garments washing which allows solar PV panel energy eﬃcient pumps spraying of chemicals inside the washing machines Insulation of Exhaust Gas Water recovery from the Boiler (EGB) surface and backwash process in the water feeding tanks Water Treatment Plant (WTP) 89 ENVIRONMENT NEED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY TEXTILE (NEST) The NEST Program is designed to support a business unit’s eﬀorts to achieve long-term competitiveness, sustainability and proﬁtability. The focus is on reducing resource consumption and waste generation, improving chemical management and eliminating the use and discharge of hazardous chemicals in textile production processes. The program is aligned with the Higg Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM) requirements of the production units. The goals of the program include reduction of water, energy and GHG. This was implemented in DBL Group’s Screen Printing unit, Thanbee Print World Ltd. TREE PLANTATION PROGRAM A method of oﬀsetting carbon emissions is by planting trees. Trees, of course, have other beneﬁts including restoring biodiversity. Recognizing all these, DBL has already started planting trees as part of the Tree Plantation Program. DBL aims to plant 100,000 trees in diﬀerent regions of its operations and beyond within 2020. 5,707 trees planted since 2017 ENVIRONMENT 90 RENEWABLE ENERGY USAGE The use of renewable energy, such as solar power, reduces the impact on the environment. This is because this type of power generation causes no carbon emission and even saves fossil fuels; thereby often referred to as “clean” energy. With the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and other stakeholders, DBL has already studied, and is continuing to study, the feasibility of using solar panels. A 125 kWp solar power generation has been set up in multiple of facilities which in 2018-19 generated 107,100 kWh power. Further renewable energy projects will be implemented in the coming years. Targeting 2020, DBL aims to use up to 10% solar power for the production processes 107,100 Kilowatt-hour power generated form solar panels in 2018-19 ZERO DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS (ZDHC) In 2011, a group of major apparel brands and retailers made a collective commitment to help lead the industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals by 2020. Brands involved in this project are H&M, Esprit, G-Star and Puma. A “Joint Roadmap” was published in November 2011 which demonstrates the group’s collaborative eﬀorts in leading the apparel and footwear industry towards ZDHC for all products across all pathways by 2020. 91 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH DBL management is committed to manage and protect environment as an integral part of its business. The company prefers to run its businesses in a responsible, environmentally sound and sustainable manner by implementing eﬀective environmental policy and procedures in all the factories. Several sustainability projects relating to environmental management system have been and are being implemented. To reduce environmental footprint, DBL Group has formed a team for Environmental Management System (EMS). Standard environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy have been formulated which addresses management of the following. ENERGY ODS & OTHERS WATER GHG WASTE Environmental Policies NOISE WASTE-WATER GHG: Greenhouse gases ODS: Ozone-depleting substances These guiding activities help us address environmental challenges such as biodiversity conservation. These are given priority to ensure environmental responsibilities and continual improvement to reduce environmental impacts. As minimization of pollution is addressed, the organization can ensure sustainability of the environment as an integral part of the business. For continuous improvement, DBL also assess performance through the Higg Facility Environmental Module (Higg FEM) of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC). ENVIRONMENT 92 AWARENESS TRAINING ON ENVIRONMENT Environment awareness trainings are conducted every month for all employees relating to more general issues as well as on the production processes. All new employees, irrespective of their levels, are briefed about EHS and environmental related aspects of the organization during their induction process. Employees are also made to undergo speciﬁc training with respect to the nature of their work. Need identiﬁcation for this is done by the respective heads of departments for sending staﬀ across for internal as well as external trainings. ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS CERTIFICATION PROCESSES Environmental Clearance Spinning, Fabric Dyeing, All-Over Printing, Screen Printing and Certiﬁcate (ECC) Packaging Spinning, Fabric Dyeing, All-Over Printing, Garments Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Manufacturing and Screen Printing Global Organic Textile Spinning, Fabric Dyeing, Yarn Dyeing, All-Over Printing, Garments Standard (GOTS) Manufacturing and Screen Printing Organic Content Spinning, Fabric Dyeing, Yarn Dyeing, All-Over Printing, Standard (OCS-IN) Garments Manufacturing and Screen Printing Global Recycled Spinning, Fabric Dyeing, All-Over Printing, Garments Standard (GRS) Manufacturing, Screen Printing and Embroidery Recycled Claim Spinning, Fabric Dyeing, All-Over Printing, Garments Standard (RCS) Manufacturing, Screen Printing and Embroidery ISO 14001 Fabric Dyeing and All-Over Printing 93 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES IN DIFFERENT BUSINESS OPERATIONS COTTON IMPORT SPINNING Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Energy eﬃcient machinery Organic Cotton Innovation in yarn production FABRIC DYEING GARMENT MANUFACTURING Low liquor ratio machines Energy, water, and waste management Energy saving dyeing Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) EMISSIONS Emissions include greenhouse gases (GHGs) which are emitted from the diﬀerent machines used in the operations and fromvehicles. This consists primarily of carbon dioxide and is calculated using IFC and GHG Protocol guidelines. From the diﬀerent operational facilities, 111,055 tons of carbon dioxide emissions were recorded in 2018-19. From the transportation services, the emissions are from compressed natural gas, octane, and diesel used by the vehicles. In 2018-19, 3,232 tons of carbon dioxide emissions were recorded from the transportation services. GHGs are related with energy production and reducing energy consumption helps with reduction of GHGs, thus contributing to minimization of climate eﬀects. To ensure eﬀective monitoring and minimizing of energy consumption and GHG emission, DBL’s practices include the following: Maintaining an energy usage inventory (e.g. energy consumption data such as gas bills, electricity bills, and fuel use in vehicles) Checking electricity lines, gas lines, oil tankers and generator connections Maintaining GHG emission inventory including direct and indirect energy consumption. ENVIRONMENT 94 EFFLUENTS DBL Group currently has two biological Eﬄuent Treatment Plants (ETPs) in the fabric dyeing facility. These ETPs are for treating the wastewater generated from the fabric dyeing and all-over printing operations. The ﬁrst ETP, with the capacity of 4,000 cubic meters, was taken as a benchmark by the Department of Environment (DoE) of the government of Bangladesh. To meet the extended capacity of the dyeing process, a second of 7,500 cubic meters ETP was constructed and went into operation in November 2014. The cumulative total of 11,500 cubic meters is among the largest ETPs in the country that is under a single factory complex. DBL also constructed another biological ETP in the screen-printing facility, which went into operation on February 2016. In 2018-19, a total of 3,551,621 cubic meters of eﬄuents were generated. BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Environmental impact assessment is done for every facility and preventive actions are taken against the possible impact. This assessment takes the following into consideration: Noise pollution management Biodiversity Air conservation BIODIVERSITY emissions AMANAGEMENT Safe GHG waste emissions disposal and energy 95 ENVIRONMENT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES To mitigate the impacts on the environment, multiple Sustainability programs have been taken by DBL Group. Brief explanations of these programs have been included in this report. DBL is constantly involved in resource saving and reducing emissions to preserve the environment. TRANSPORTATION IMPACT MANAGEMENT The impacts due to transportation are managed in several ways including the following: Daily, weekly and monthly maintenance Engine servicing after running every 3,000 km or 3 months: including washing, engine ﬂashing, changing lubricants and air ﬁlters, etc. Spark plug checking and replacing Engine valve (inlet and exhaust) clearance checking and adjusting Greasing moving parts to avoid friction Fuel ﬁlter cleaning and replacing Battery water level checking and recharging Gear box and axle gear oil level checking and replacing Avoid air draft using windshield/air reﬂector Motivating drivers to minimize fuel consumption, avoiding speeding, etc. ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Till now, we have had no grievances about environmental impacts. since all our facilities maintain environmental compliance. ENVIRONMENT 96 07 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. DBL reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. 97 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination. Nelson Mandela, Philanthropist STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 98 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT At DBL Group stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and we take the matter very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. The approach and the frequency of engagement with the stakeholders diﬀer based on the category of the stakeholder. DBL Group reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. DBL Group is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. All organizations and entities that have signiﬁcant inﬂuence on DBL Group and those that are directly or indirectly aﬀected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. Consultation Collaboration Stakeholder Prioritization Reporting Identiﬁcation STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS There is no particular frequency of engagement with the stakeholders. However, there are annual events like vendor meetings for suppliers, annual general meeting for investors and shareholders, exhibition for customers and others. In addition, respective departments engage with their speciﬁc stakeholder groups as situation demands and on need basis. 99 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT KEY STAKEHOLDERS NGOs SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY MEDIA CUSTOMERS BOARD MEMBERS EMPLOYEES INVESTORS (BUYERS) SHAREHOLDERS KNOWLEDGE SERVICE PARTNERS PROVIDERS GOVERNMENT/ INDUSTRY PUBLIC SECTOR ASSOCIATIONS INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS COMMITTING TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DBL Group’s major stakeholder group and a principal asset is the workforce. Hence, DBL reserves a special importance to creating the proper work environment for all employees. Similar attention is also given to their families. To maintain a fully energized workforce we maintain several initiatives to strengthen employer-employee bonding. Some are discussed below. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 100 PARTICIPATION COMMITTEE (PC) Collective bargaining agreement is not prohibited in DBL Group. To make a trustworthy relationship between the workers and the company, DBL Group has formed Workers Participation Committees. These committees constitute of representatives of both the employers and the workers. Workers are encouraged highly in forming of this committee, over 50% of each the committee comprises of workers. 101 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT To promote mutual trust, understanding and cooperation between the employers and the workers as to fulﬁll production target, reduce production cost and improve the quality of products, the committees meet once every month. They are working to eﬀectively establish privileges as well as to improve welfare services for the workers and their families. Through the PC, workers can freely contact the committees to discuss any issue. DBL Group encourages good relations between workers and managers, through hosting trainings covering topics, such as labor standards, leave days, working hours, wages, personal protective equipment, health and safety, environmental issues, welfare, and so on (further details are stated in Chapter 2 of this report). The committees’ members are representatives of employees and top management: they were selected by each group respectively. The selection criterion has now been completely replaced through a supervised election procedure. Issues discussed include wages, beneﬁts, working conditions, complaints, productivity, quality, health issues and even items for the Bandhan Fair Price Shop. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102 EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION PROCEDURES DBL Group has established diﬀerent channels to communicate with it’s workers: these include the following. Poster Meetings boards COMMUNICATION PROCEDURES Suggestion Open door boxes policy GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Apart from formal grievance procedures which are set up as per local laws, DBL Group has informal ways to resolve any sort of disputes quickly and eﬀectively. The top management has an open-door policy and grievance boxes are provided to assist employees maintain conﬁdentiality. DBL Group has established several channels for workers to ﬁle complaints, including anonymous complaints. These include suggestion box and an open-door policy. The Welfare Oﬃcers are responsible for handling complaints. The suggestion boxes are checked every Saturday and the grievances are recorded. Appropriate actions are taken, and results are reported back to employees. 103 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT WELFARE OFFICERS PROCEDURES The Welfare Oﬃcers stationed at the factory complexes oversee workers’ concerns and problems and communicate with the Human Resource and other concerned departments as required. These Oﬃcers are involved with multiple tasks as shown below. Workers feel very comfortable expressing themselves to them. They handle every single case with great care and eﬃciency and maintain conﬁdentially depending on the sensitivity. Proper measures are taken immediately to resolve any concern over workplace or even workers’ personal issues. ROLES OF WELFARE OFFICERS Maintaining ﬁrst aid boxes and checklists Dealing with complaints from workers Registering and providing extra care to pregnant employees Ensuring washroom hygiene Coordinating and conducting trainings Facilitating meetings Informing workers of any changes in policies KAIZEN SUGGESTION BOX DBL Group appreciates ideas from all workers and employees. Besides the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, an additional box has been included with the aim of taking in suggestions from workers that relate to improving production eﬃciency. This method provides a way to involve workers in the decision making process which makes workers feel important about themselves and they highly appreciate the management for such initiative. These boxes are referred to as “Kaizen Suggestion Boxes” and are present in all units. These boxes are green in color – as opposed to the white for the Suggestion/Complaint Boxes – in order to help users easily identify and distinguish them. Users submit their ideas in the boxes including their names in order to be identiﬁed for recognition. All suggestions are discussed in the Kaizen Meetings held every month: the employee or worker with the best suggestion for the month is recognized with the “Kaizen Award”. Some of the suggestions have even been implemented: in some cases, the best suggestion had to be chosen among the multiple good ones received. In addition to the award, the names, photos, and ideas of the accepted ones are displayed on the notice boards. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 104 EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH AND EMPLOYEE OF THE YEAR In addition to the Kaizen Suggestion system, eﬀorts of our employees and workers are also recognized through another monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the Month”. In 2016, a new recognition system, “Employee of the Year” was included as well. These ideas are compiled under DBL Group Idea Club Sustainability program. A huge advantage of having an employee of the month incentive is the motivation. It encourages the employees to work at their highest potential and move them towards empowerment. This is in terms of work performance as well as punctuality and attendance on the job. It promotes employees to work at their full potential without causing any adverse side eﬀects. The Employee of the Month program is open for all employees and it gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. The evaluation system also encompasses suggestions provided by employees and workers that would improve working procedures. The employees and workers that win the award are provided certiﬁcates of achievements in addition to cash incentives. Moreover, their names and photos are displayed on the notice boards of the respective units in order to further motivate them to grow in their careers and for improving the company. CONNECTING WITH EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS DBL Group is committed to generating positive relations with external stakeholders through various non-binding initiatives which the organization subscribes and endorses. A constant communication is vital in order to ensure business sustainability: DBL recognizes and acts on this principle. The table below shows the various external stakeholders that DBL is currently involved with and how interaction is being made with each. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Merchandizing Team, Emails, Exhibitions, Local and International Buyers Management Visits, Audits, Conferences Meetings with Local Union Councils, Surveys, Accommodating Community Requests, Community Engagement Emails, Meetings with BGMEA, BKMEA, BTMA, Interactions with Industry associations Chamber of Commerce (FBCCI, DCCI, BGCCI, JBCCI, etc.) Interaction with diﬀerent Ministries of the Government of Bangladesh, Government Embassies, and Overseas Ministries Media Communications Team, Press Releases, Press Brieﬁngs, Interviews Investors Emails, Meetings, Visits, Conferences, Internal Relations Team Suppliers Marketing Team, Sourcing Team, Emails, Meetings, Audits NGOs and CSOs Emails, Meetings, Conferences, Workshops 105 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT A wide variety of activities are integrated within DBL’s sustainability that promotes societal development: thus, integrating the concept of “Community” included as a branch in the comprehensive coverage of sustainability. These activities include the following: Health camps Free medical care School development programs Access to in-house medical centers Knowledge Exchange Programs Community surveys COMMUNITY Courtyard meetings ENGAGEMENT Tree plantation Data collection Safety: Mini Fire Station Road maintenance STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 106 ACADEMIC CAREER PATH COUNSELING PROGRAM DBL Group organized a daylong program, “Academic Career Path Counseling & Recognition of Meritorious Children of DBL Family”. The program was for its employees’ children who passed with ﬂying colors in their respective Board exams. It was held on Saturday, 31 August 2019 in the Knitting Division of Jinnat Complex. Abdul Wahed, Chairman of DBL Group graced the program and proactively inspired students and urged them to focus greatly on morality in addition to their studies. The employees of DBL Group were accompanied by their family members as well. Teachers from reputed universities like Bangladesh University of Engineering & Technology (BUET), Dhaka University, Bangladesh University of Textiles (BUTex), Ahsanullah University of Science & Technology (AUST), Bangladesh Agricultural University, Jahangirnagar University etc. participated in the program. 107 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT VISIT BY SWEDFUND The board members of Swedfund team visited DBL Industries PLC, Ethiopia on 24th September 2019. The purpose of the visit was to understand the progress of the Project. From Swedfund: Goran Barsby, Chairman of the Board; Maria Hakansson, CEO; Fredrik Linton, Director of Investment Operations; Jacob Hagerman, Chief Legal Counsel visited the factory. Daniel Kristiansson, Investment Director, Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation also visited the factory. M. A. Jabbar, Managing Director of DBL Group along with other high oﬃcials of DBL Ethiopia accompanied the visitors during the visit. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 108 LAUNCHING OF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 With the theme of “Progress towards Prosperity”, DBL Group launched its ﬁfth edition of Sustainability Report on 20 July 2019. The launching was done by DBL Group’s Vice Chairman M. A. Rahim, who is also the current Vice President, Finance, of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association (BGMEA), along with Dr. Rubana Huq, President of the BGMEA and Miran Ali, Director, BGMEA. All the previous Sustainability Reports were prepared following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and the 2018 one has incorporated the latest version of the guidelines; the GRI Standards. Being a Participant of the UN Global Compact, DBL has been publishing Sustainability Reports since 2014. 109 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TOM TAILOR SUSTAINABILITY AWARD Jinnat Knitwears Ltd, a concern of DBL Group, received the Sustainability Award from Tom Tailor during the 2019 Supplier Summit held in Bangkok, Thailand on 19-20 November 2019. M. A. Quader, Deputy Managing Director and Group CEO of DBL Group received the award from the Board of Directors of Tom Tailor. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 110 VISITORS Delegation of Central Banks from SAARC countries led by the Bangladesh Bank (Central Bank of Bangladesh) and Eastern Bank Limited (Bangladeshi private bank) Delegation from Ethiopia, led by H. E. Teka Gebreyesus Entehabu, State Minister, Ministry of Trade and Industry, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 111 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Robert Maier, CEO and Joppe Van Eldik, COO and Raky Bashey, Country Director Bangladesh of LiDL Zoe Matthews, Vice President of George brand, and Melanie Wilson, Senior Director-Sourcing, Quality & ICO, of George at Asda, UK STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 112 Delegation from universities from Germany and Bangladesh, as part of the Higher Education Network for Sustainable Textiles (HEST) program by GIZ Delegation from the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Dhaka and World Servants, a non-proﬁt organization from the Netherlands 113 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Delegation from Ethiopia led by H.E. Ms. Mahlet Hailu Guadey, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs, Ethiopia Delegation from TU Dresden, Germany; Victoria University, Canada; Sourcebook, Germany; Chelsea College of Arts, UK; Massey University, New Zealand; and Beyond Fashion, Germany,visiting under the German Bangladesh Higher Education Network for Sustainable Textiles (HEST) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 114 GRI Content Index Material topics This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Disclosure Page Omission option GRI 200: Economic General Disclosures GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 68 No Disclosure Page Omission 2016 GRI 201-1: Direct economic value 68 No Organizational proﬁle generated and distributed 102-1: Name of the organization 13 No GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 102-2: Activities, brands, 13-16 No GRI 103: Management Approach 67 No products, and services 2016 102-3: Location of headquarters 13 No GRI 202-1: Ratios of standard 37 No 102-4: Location of operations 13 No entry level wage by gender 102-5: Ownership and legal form 20 No compared to local 102-6: Markets served 67 No minimum wage 102-7: Scale of the organization 15,37,67,68 No GRI 202-2: Proportion of senior 17 No 102-8: Information on 37 No management hired from the employees and other workers local community 102-9: Supply chain 15 No GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 102-10: Signiﬁcant changes to 50 No GRI 103: Management Approach 83-85 No the organization and its supply 2016 chain 102-11: Precautionary Principle 45 No or approach GRI 203-2: Signiﬁcant indirect 83-85 No 102-12: External initiatives 25-36, 53-56, No economic impacts 65-66, 77-82, GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 89-91 GRI 103: Management Approach 85 No 102-13: Membership of 105 No 2016 associations GRI 204-1: Proportion of 85 No Strategy spending on local suppliers 102-14: Statement from senior 1-2 No GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 decision-maker GRI 103: Management Approach 86 No Ethics and Integrity 2016 102-16: Values, principles, 13 No GRI 205-3: Conﬁrmed incidents 86 No standards, and norms of of corruption and actions taken behavior GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Governance GRI 103: Management Approach 86 No 102-18: Governance structure 17-21 No 2016 Stakeholder engagement GRI 206-1: Legal actions for anti86 No 102-40: List of stakeholder 100 No competitive behavior, anti-trust, groups and monopoly practices 102-41: Collective bargaining 101-102 No agreements GRI 300: Environmental 102-42: Identifying and selecting 99 No GRI 301: Materials 2016 stakeholders GRI 103: Management Approach 71-72 No 102-43: Approach to stakeholder 99 No 2016 engagement GRI 301-1 Materials used by 72 No 102-44: Key topics and concerns 100-106 No weight or volume raised GRI 302: Energy 2016 Reporting practice GRI 103: Management Approach 60-62 No 102-45: Entities included in the 68 No 2016 consolidated ﬁnancial 302-1: Energy consumption 60 No statements within the organization 102-46: Deﬁning report content 6 No GRI 303: Water and Eﬄuents 2018 and topic Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 57-59 No 102-47: List of material topics 3-5 No 2016 102-48: Restatements of 6 No 303-1: Interactions with water as 58-59, 89-90 No information a shared resource 102-49: Changes in reporting 6 No 303-2: Management of water 95 No 102-50: Reporting period 6 No discharge-related impacts 102-51: Date of most recent 6 No 303-3: Water withdrawal 58 No report GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 102-52: Reporting cycle 6 No GRI 103: Management Approach 90, 92, 95 No 102-53: Contact point for 6 No 2016 questions regarding the report 304-2: Signiﬁcant impacts of 90, 92, 95 No 102-54: Claims of reporting in 6 No activities, products, and services accordance with the GRI on biodiversity Standards GRI 305: Emissions 2016 102-55: GRI content index 115-116 No GRI 103: Management Approach 94 No 102-56: External assurance 6 No 2016 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG 94 No emissions GRI 306: Eﬄuents and Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 95, 73-74 No 2016 306-1: Water discharge by 95 No quality and destination GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 115 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 103: Management Approach 96 No GRI 103: Management Approach 43 No 2016 2016 307-1: Non-compliance with 96 No 411-1: Incidents of violations 43 No environmental laws and involving rights of indigenous regulations peoples GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 49 No GRI 103: Management Approach 47 No 2016 2016 308-1: New suppliers that were 49 No screened using environmental 412-3: Signiﬁcant investment 47 No criteria agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or GRI 400: Social that underwent human rights GRI 401: Employment screening GRI 103: Management Approach 41 No GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 83-85 No 401-2: Beneﬁts provided to full41 No 2016 time employees that are not 413-1: Operations with local 77-85 No provided to temporary or partcommunity engagement, impact time employees assessments, and development GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations programs GRI 103: Management Approach 50 No 413-2: Operations with 83-85 No 2016 signiﬁcant actual and potential 402-1: Minimum notice periods 50 No negative impacts on local regarding operational changes communities GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 44-46 No GRI 103: Management Approach 49 No 2016 2016 403-1: Occupational health and 44-46 No 414-1: New suppliers that were 49 No safety management system screened using social criteria 403-3: Occupational health 44-46 No GRI 415: Public Policy services GRI 103: Management Approach 86 No GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 39-40 No 415-1: Political contributions 86 No 2016 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 404-1: Average hours of training 40 No GRI 103: Management Approach 74 No per year per employee 2016 404-2: Programs for upgrading 27-36, 81 No 416-2: Incidents of non74 No employee skills and transition compliance concerning the assistance programs health and safety impacts of GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity products and services GRI 103: Management Approach 37 No GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 74 No 2016 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and 37 No 417-1: Requirements for product 74 No remuneration of women to men and service information and GRI 406: Non-discrimination labeling GRI 103: Management Approach 50 No GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 74 No 406-1: Incidents of 50 No 2016 discrimination and corrective 418-1: Substantiated complaints 74 No actions taken concerning breaches of GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining customer privacy and losses of GRI 103: Management Approach 50 No customer data 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 407-1: Operations and suppliers 50 No GRI 103: Management Approach 86 No in which the right to freedom of 2016 association and collective 419-1: Non-compliance with laws 86 No bargaining may be at risk and regulations in the social and GRI 408: Child Labor economic area GRI 103: Management Approach 47 No 2016 408-1: Operations and suppliers 47 No at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103: Management Approach 47 No 2016 409-1: Operations and suppliers 47 No at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 410: Security Practices GRI 103: Management Approach 48 No 2016 410-1: Security personnel 48 No trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI CONTENT INDEX 116
