CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND ESG REPORT 2020 COP REPORT FOR RTX GROUP CVR NO.: 17 00 21 47 Contents LETTER FROM THE CEO: 4. DIVERSITY POLICY AND OBJECTIVE FOR ACTING RESPONSIBLY 3 THE UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER 20 4.1 Diversity policy 21 1. CSR AT RTX INTRODUCTION AND 4.2 Objective for the underrepresented gender 21 CONTEXT 4 4.3 Activities 21 1.1 Corporate Social Responsibility in RTX 5 4.4 Follow-up and reporting 22 1.2 RTX – Vision and Mission in a knowledge based business environment 5 5. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE INDEX 23 1.3 Legislation and standards for CSR reporting 5 5.1 UN Global Compact Principle index 24 2. PROGRESS ON MATERIAL CSR ISSUES 7 6. UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 25 2.1 Stakeholders material to RTX 8 6.1 Sustainable development goals 2.2 CSR issues and risk material to – RTX focus areas 26 RTX and our stakeholders 9 2.3 CSR issues and risks with highest materiality 10 2.4 Progress on other material CSR issues 13 3. CSR AND ESG MANAGEMENT REPORTING 14 3.1 The RTX business model 15 3.2 Policies for CSR 16 3.3 Policy action and due diligence 17 3.4 Risk management 17 3.5 Performance on selected KPIs 17 3.6 CSR and ESG Reporting 19 3.7 Future plans and expectations 19 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 2 LETTER FROM THE CEO: Acting Responsibly RTX is committed to being a responsible As a company with a global reach and operation we are committed to meet our corporate responsibility to respect business leader in a globalized world. The commonly accepted human rights throughout our operway we do it is defined by societal needs and ations and business relationships as set out in the UN Guidour business priorities as well as our values ing Principles on business and human rights. We expect the and commitment to the ten principles of same from our partners and through our Code of Conduct require them to work with all the principles of the UN the UN Global Compact, which we adopted Global Compact. in 2014, and which we believe constitutes a good foundation for focusing on responsible During 2019/20, we continued codified sustainability business practices. To act responsibly is considerations into our Remuneration Policy. We also “At RTX, we combine financial integral to how we operate at RTX, and strengthened our compliance setup by establishing a new performance with socially function for “Quality & Compliance”, further ensuring our by doing so we want to contribute to the compliance with key product safety and other standards. responsible behaviour, timely continuous positive development of our Further, we have developed our CSR-related KPIs into a governance and environmensociety. more comprehensive set of reported CSR and ESG KPIs. tal awareness. My team and Finally, we have taken the next steps in identifying the most I are personally engaged in relevant of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals which RTX can positively influence. supporting a sustainable global development in line with My team and I are personally engaged, and we believe the principles of the UN Global Our values are founded in the belief that, as a business, that through consistent focus, appropriate follow-up and Compact.” RTX influences and impacts people, environments and evaluation we support the proliferation of the principles in communities across the globe. Based on this, we constantly the UN Global Compact. I hope this CSR and ESG report will strive for reducing any potential harm, while at the same introduce our fundamental principles for acting responsibly Peter Røpke, CEO time maximizing the benefits for our stakeholders. Thus, when conducting business at RTX and how these are maniadherence to our stated values and responsible business fested in some of our specific actions. conduct is paramount to maintain the continued support from our stakeholders, thereby also serving as the foundation for our license to operate. We believe that RTX’s CSR activities and the ESG goals we set and strive to achieve will benefit all our stakeholders and strengthen our attractiveness as an employer. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 3 CSR at RTX Introduction and Context 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 4 1. CSR at RTX Introduction and Context 1.1 C ORPORATE SOCIAL to meet customer expectations by applying similar requirewireless and audio technologies by deploying these in RESPONSIBILITY IN RTX ments to suppliers and other partners in our supply chain. attractive B2B markets securing recurring revenue via ODM/ OEM offerings. Our vision, mission and values are highlightCorporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of During 2019/20, RTX has introduced a central “Quality and ed on the next page. the way we work at RTX and of our corporate culture. We Compliance” function further strengthening our compliance have aligned our business priorities and values with the ten setup among other things related to our most material CSR In order for RTX to maintain its position as a preferred supprinciples of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). issues. We have also continued our identification of the UN plier of specialized wireless products and solutions within Since 2016, we have reported on CSR by way of a CommuSustainable Development Goals (SDGs) most pertinent to the Enterprise, ProAudio and Healthcare B2B markets, nication of Progress (COP), and we report in compliance RTX (section 6). it is essential that the Group’s employees have a broad with section 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements insight into the engineering disciplines required to carry out Act. Our customers, investors and other stakeholders are Our Code of Conduct for suppliers is at the heart of these complex technology development projects from the design increasingly taking an interest in our CSR practices. This also efforts. Suppliers to RTX are obliged to sign and comply with and planning phase to delivery of wireless communication contributes to making CSR an even more important aspect our commercial terms including our Code of Conduct. Our services and products. The structure of the organization enof our business. We are therefore continuously strengthexperience with the implementation of the RTX Code of Conables prompt integration of additionally skilled employees. ening our CSR practices and developing our CSR and ESG duct and other aspects of our management system has led Thanks to our locations near Aalborg University in Denmark reporting. This CSR and ESG report covers the RTX offices in us to widen the focus in our CSR approach to also include and in the industry environments in Hong Kong and the Denmark, Hong Kong and the United States. Unless othermateriality in relation to CSR as key for directing our efforts. US, RTX has access to an international pool of resources in wise explicitly stated, the reported information reflects CSR Materiality is a key underlying principle of new legislation terms of e.g. development, logistics and quality assurance. practice at RTX group level. and standards in this area. In 2017/18, we took a major step towards more proactively monitoring CSR, by engaging ex1.3 L  EGISLATION AND STANDARDS RTX Group is a global growth company serving a customternal CSR experts to identify and assess our CSR practices, FOR CSR REPORTING er base consisting of a wide range of major international and to initiate an analysis of the materiality of CSR issues for brands. The international exposure is an important factor in RTX’s stakeholders and for our business. Since then, we have THE DANISH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACT the development of our CSR practices. Obviously, European, built on this approach, and this year we have further develRTX is required by law to report on its CSR practices, as American and Japanese customers have different expectaoped our existing CSR KPI reporting progressing it into more stated in section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements tions, but our growing and increasingly diverse customer comprehensive CSR and ESG reporting (section 3.5 and 3.6). Act, through which Denmark has implemented Directive range has widened our focus from safeguarding human 2014/95/EU on non-financial reporting. This RTX CSR and rights to being compliant with product safety legislation 1.2 R  TX – VISION AND MISSION ESG report for 2020 is aligned with the requirements of secsuch as REACH and RoHS. The latter two are now a basic IN A KNOWLEDGE-BASED tion 99a while also serving as our COP report for 2020. Furrequirement from virtually all customers and following ther, the COP report includes reporting in compliance with BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT on from our group-wide/global ISO 9001 certification, sections 99b and 107d of the Danish Financial Statement RTX has built up a management system to deal with such To ensure that RTX can unfold our business model, our Act regarding the underrepresented gender and diversity very important CSR-related customer requirements. The guiding vision and mission, we rely on the specialized skills (refer to section 4). management system also makes RTX more agile in relation of our employees. RTX’s overall business model is to build to continually adapt and respond to regulatory changes and on our unique core capabilities within short-range digital 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 5 One of the central requirements of section 99a is the comply or explain principle. Hence, if RTX does not have a policy for one of the four main CSR areas addressed in section 99a, for example, we would be required to explain why not. Having a policy for a particular CSR area most often means that it has some level of materiality to the company. Therefore, choosVISION VALUES MISSION ing to conduct a materiality analysis is both a good way of determining the policy need and conversely to explain why a specific policy is not needed. Our vision is that Acting trustworthy and RTX’s mission is to enable Another element of section 99a is the requirement to report customized wireless value-adding, we earn global brands to freely on any due diligence processes implemented to follow solutions will lead long-term partnerships innovate and launch up and take action on particular CSR issues. RTX has due diligence processes in place for CSR issues, and they are the way. RTX delivers with our customers. targeted, unique wireless reflected throughout this COP. adapted simplicity solutions by providing to users and market Our teams being the specialist products, Section 99a offers different format options for reporting and advantages to customer-focused and solutions and know-how as a Global Compact signatory, RTX has chosen to continue businesses. goal-oriented, we work that make it all possible its COP reporting to the Global Compact standard. openly and efficiently – wireless wisdom. THE GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD AND COP REPORTING with integrity and mutual The Global Compact standard requires signatories to report respect in an informal their Communication on Progress (COP) annually, with a “… environment. description of practical actions the company has taken or plans to take to implement the Ten Principles in each of the four areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption)” and “a measurement of outcomes”. Hence, Global Compact is a principles-based standard and as such, there is no official requirement to the format for the reporting on this progress. A commonly-used approach, however, is to report an index, which connects the principles with relevant sections in the report, as we have done in section 5 of this COP. Furthermore, we have developed our work on assessing the SDG’s most material to RTX building on the materiality analysis prepared for this COP to provide an assessment of the SDGs material to RTX. This assessment is included in section 6 in the report, which contains the information needed to report on the SDGs when submitting the COP. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 6 Progress on Material CSR Issues 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 7 2. Progress on Material CSR Issues In accordance with the trends in regulations, FIGURE 1 – STAKEHOLDERS standards and norms directing CSR reporting by companies, RTX has adopted Compe­titors a materiality approach to reporting in this COP. We first identified stakeholders material to our business and their expectations to our CSR practice, before Stock NGO identifying the CSR issues most central Market ShareManage­to our business. Through this approach, ­holders ment we report in greater detail on the CSR issues most material to our business, while reporting in less detail on other material CSR Enterprise issues. Suppliers Customers RTX GROUP End Union users 2.1 STAKEHOLDERS MATERIAL TO RTX ProAudio RTX is committed to conduct our business responsibly and Employees Customers sustainably, but the continued advancement of our CSR practice is also driven by our stakeholders and the expectaHealthcare tions they express to us. First and foremost, our customers Customers in all business segments, including Enterprise, ProAudio and Healthcare, drive us in various ways to engage on CSR in general and with extra emphasis on particular issues. Hence, our customers are material to RTX in the sense that Govern­Family ment/EU their expectations to our CSR practice have a direct impact on our business. In addition to customers, our material 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 8 stakeholders include our employees, shareholders and our FIGURE 2 – MATERIALITY MATRIX FOR RTX GROUP suppliers. We do have other stakeholders of importance, but their impact on our business is often more indirect and less tangible and thus not our primary consideration in Materiality for stakeholdersHigh terms of this COP report. Transparency/ RoHs traceability 2.2 C  SR ISSUES AND RISKS MATERIAL TO RTX AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS Reach Employee working Product conditions safety In the process of identifying stakeholders material to RTX, Supply Chain we mapped their expectations to our CSR practices in Management terms of particular CSR risks and issues. The CSR risks and Sustainable CSR reporting packaging issues identified were then evaluated to assess the impact they have or potentially could have on our business in the Competence near to medium term. This approach facilitates the estabdevelopment Corporate governance lishment of a materiality matrix for RTX, which is depicted in figure 2. Environment-friendly Stakeholder products The materiality matrix illustrates the degree of materiality consultation Anti-corruption of certain CSR risks and issues to RTX’s business and our and bribery stakeholders, respectively, and thus the CSR risks related to RTX’s business. The larger the dot representing a CSR Diversity and issue, the more comprehensive it is in terms of sub-issues inclusion covered by the CSR issue. The CSR issues placed in the top right part of the matrix have the highest level of materiality to RTX and are therefore also the issues that will be reported on in more detail in the following sections. Next, other, Low less material, CSR issues in the matrix will be reported on in Low Materiality for RTX's businessHigh a more compact format. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 9 2.3 C  SR ISSUES AND RISKS WITH TRANSPARENCY AND TRACEABILITY focus on due diligence in standards such as the Global HIGHEST MATERIALITY Our customers’ expectations to RTX and our efforts to Compact. ensure compliance with the environmental directives PRODUCT SAFETY reflect a broader trend across stakeholders to expect more At RTX, we have increased our focus on due diligence in Product safety is of paramount importance to RTX in gentransparency concerning CSR in general and traceability CSR. In this COP report, we ensure increased transparency eral and in all our business areas as well as to our stakeregarding specific materials. by connecting our practices directly to the Global Compact holders. The term product safety here encompasses both principles in section 5 and by expanding our KPI reporting environmental and technological aspects of products and CONFLICT MINERALS AND OTHER MATERIALS on the results of CSR-related activities into a more comprewill be elaborated on in the following. In the electronics industry, particular attention regarding hensive ESG reporting in section 3.6. traceability is paid to conflict minerals, which refers to REACH, RoHS and WEEE are abbreviations for EU directives, natural resources extracted in a conflict zone and sold to SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT which regulate environmentally safe and sound production perpetuate fighting in conflict zones. RTX will not support With production outsourced to EMSs, a large part of RTX’s and handling of electronic equipment. Today, the overridthe latter in any way. In 2013, we established a corporate CSR footprint occurs via our suppliers, and therefore suping and paramount requirement of our customers is that policy requiring all suppliers to provide information about ply chain management is of high importance for handing RTX is compliant with these directives. This expectation is the origin of the metals used to manufacture RTX designs CSR issues and risks. formalized as a requirement in most our contracts with and products. Since 2018, RTX has retrieved this informacustomers, which typically also require RTX to ensure tion through a Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) High quality products and services is an RTX hallmark and compliance by our suppliers, which are the de facto manprovided by the Responsible Minerals Initiative. Based on with manufacturing outsourced, our robust supply chain ufacturers of the products sold by RTX to our Enterprise, information provided by our suppliers, we do not knowingmanagement practice is vital to meeting our customers’ ProAudio and Healthcare customers. The establishment of ly use metals derived from conflict regions in our products. high expectations to quality and increasingly also to CSR central Supply Chain and Quality & Compliance functions issues. Processes concerning the REACH, RoHS and WEEE as well as the consolidation of RTX’s supplier base with Moreover, RTX maintains – through our supply chain – directives are already an integral part of our mainstream the majority of the spend allocated to fewer, large EMS extensive traceability on key components and materials supply chain management, which includes a rigorous pro(Electronics Manufacturing Service) companies facilitate which facilitates remedial actions such issues regarding cess for obtaining and validating the information requested managing these requirements and document compliance. product safety, environment or conflict minerals occur. from suppliers. RTX regularly performs site visits at its Our EMS suppliers are obligated contractually and/or via EMS providers’ production plants and conducts scheduled annual or bi-annual declarations to ensure compliance with TRANSPARENCY THROUGH REPORTING audits, sometimes together with customers. Such visits the requirements. ON DUE DILIGENCE are also used to monitor any non-compliance with RTX’s Stakeholder expectations on the issue of conflict minerals Code of Conduct (see below) with respect to Human Rights, In addition to compliance with the directives, RTX also reflect a broader tendency in legislation, standards and Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. ensures that the products brought to market are within the norms towards achieving increased transparency through accepted SAR-value ranges for wireless devices. Extensive the reporting on due diligence set out for CSR issues. This is THE RTX SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT measurements and prototyping ensure compliance and exemplified in the requirements on due diligence in section RTX’s expectations to suppliers on the broader range of address a health aspect of product safety. 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act and the general CSR issues are reflected in the RTX Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based upon the principles of the UN Global 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 10 Compact. All significant current suppliers have signed our RTX utilizes three primary sources of information in order Code of Conduct or have affirmed that they support and to continuously improve the working conditions for our have adopted the UN Global Compact. The RTX Code of employees. One is RTX’s annual employee satisfaction surConduct has been used to assess potential suppliers, and vey covering all group employees. Another is the workplace our contracts with suppliers selected require them to adassessment for employees based in Denmark, which RTX is here to the Code of Conduct with respect to Human Rights, required to conduct according to Danish legislation. Finally, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption and in accordRTX monitors certain further employee-related KPIs regardance with RTX’s applicable policies in these areas. ing absence and retention. SUPPLIERS’ (EMS’) CSR ACTIVITIES AND REPORTING EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION The largest suppliers utilized by RTX have their own CSR For the latest five consecutive years (2016-20), the survey programs and prepare CSR and ESG reporting. The largest results have shown that RTX’s employees are highly motisupplier to RTX is a global EMS who prepares an annual vated and committed, and the satisfaction ratings are at a +90 page corporate-wide CSR and ESG report. This report very high level. RTX employees generally are appreciative of highlights the supplier’s CSR and ESG focus areas and actheir colleagues, the challenges their work offers, the ability tions. The focus areas include environment, sustainability, to flex their working schedule and the dining opportunities employees, communities, supply chain and governance. In provided by RTX. Also in 2020, the employees have stated a its latest report, the supplier reports – among other things high satisfaction with the precautions taken by RTX against – showed an improvement in health and safety incidents, and the communication related to the COVID-19 pandemic. an increase in the share of electricity from sustainable sources, decrease in CO2 emissions relative to activity, The employees are less appreciative of the work pressure increase in code of conduct training completion, while the and the challenges that certain development tasks and participation in the company’s community outreach activiprojects entail in terms of structuring work. RTX activities ties decreased during the year. lead to occasional peak periods, but we are committed to reducing the potential work pressure, and our manEMPLOYEE WORKING CONDITIONS agers are instructed to monitor workloads in our time At RTX, our employees are vital to our performance and to registration system and act on work overload. Satisfaction the development of the innovative products and services regarding these issues has increased in 2020. Individual dethat enable us to uphold and expand our market share. partments follow up on the employee satisfaction survey, Hence, it is important to RTX that our employees thrive which is conducted anonymously, by using it as a basis for and that their working conditions support this ambition. a discussion regarding employee satisfaction and specific During the year, RTX took several measures to keep our improvement areas. employees safe during the COVID-19 pandemic, including e.g. increased work-from-home, social distancing measures in canteens, meeting rooms etc. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 11 WORKPLACE ASSESSMENT practices and processes by which we are directed and consite. The separate report describes our compliance with the RTX conducts a workplace assessment (APV) at HQ in trolled. Hence, our Code of Conduct, general management Danish recommendations on good corporate governance. Denmark every three years, most recently in 2018. Comsystem, supply chain practices, surveys on job satisfaction pared to the employee satisfaction survey, the workplace and working conditions etc. are all part of our corporate Corporate governance also concerns the governance assessment more specifically targets particular aspects of governance and are described in the preceding sections in of CSR issues, which follows a distributed governance our employees’ physical and mental work environment. this COP. approach with responsibilities anchored at different levels Overall, the APV complements the positive impressions of and functions of the organization. The overall responsibility the employee satisfaction survey with the vast majority of At the end of the 2019/20 financial year, the RTX Group for CSR reporting resides with the Executive Management, our employees being either very satisfied or satisfied with employed 294 people: 195 in Denmark and 99 outside which also has the overall responsibility for the working their job overall, and with a similar distribution of responsEurope. We strive in all aspects to manage the company in conditions of RTX employees. The ongoing management of es regarding the physical and mental work environment a professional manner and to be as open and transparent specific CSR issues is handled by our Enterprise, ProAudio respectively. about our management approach as possible. The Execuand Healthcare specialists in sales and R&D as well as by tive Management of RTX regularly invites all employees to our central Supply Chain and Quality & Compliance funcHowever, the details of the workplace assessment also reinternal employee briefings, where an open and constructions. veal that some employees experience challenges in terms tive dialogue is encouraged. We believe that a good workof noise levels in the workplace and the indoor climate, ing environment and a high level of job satisfaction leads which RTX continuously addresses. to greater employee satisfaction, higher efficiency levels, lower staff turnover and low absenteeism. EMPLOYEE-RELATED KPIS RTX periodically measures and follows up on employee Every four years, RTX A/S employees elect three members absence and on employee retention. Both act as leading to the Board of Directors pursuant to the Danish Comindicators for employee satisfaction. Equally important, panies Act. The current employee representatives were performance in these areas are directly linked to RTX’s elected to the Board of Directors in January 2019. Employee overall success as this builds on attracting, retaining and representatives are elected for four-year terms. developing people with the right skill set not least within our core wireless and audio areas. The KPIs are further RTX A/S is a publicly listed company and the Executive described in section 3.5. Board meets quarterly with investors for a business update and to discuss the financial results of the quarter. Also, the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE company participates in investor presentations throughout Transparency and constructive stakeholder dialogue are the year and make all presentations publicly available via cornerstones of good corporate governance and are vital to the company’s website. any company and is required by all stakeholders, although they might differ in their specific expectations. For RTX, corRTX’s practices regarding corporate governance are further porate governance includes balancing the interests of our described in our Annual Report and in a separate Corpostakeholders and efficiently executing our system of rules, rate Governance Report both also published on our web2020 COP report for RTX Group | 12 2.4 PROGRESS ON OTHER MATERIAL CSR RISKS AND ISSUES In addition to the CSR issues and risks considered highly material to RTX, the materiality matrix (figure 2) depicted in section 2.2 lists additional CSR issues that are also – albeit to a somewhat lesser degree – material to RTX’s stakeholders, its business or both. In the following list, we provide a compact description of the status and progress on other selected CSR issues and risks. ENVIRONMENCOMPETENCE SUSTAINABLE ANTIDIVERSITY AND STAKEHOLDER TALLY-FRIENDLY DEVELOPMENT PACKAGING CORRUPTION INCLUSION CONSULTATION PRODUCTS AND BRIBERY Many of the products and A key foundation for RTX’s All products from RTX are RTX maintains zero tolerance RTX’s workforce is diverse RTX already engages strongly services provided by RTX business is the ability to packaged in brown boxes from towards corruption and and represents more than 10 with employees, investors and include environmentally-friendly master various short-range recycled cardboard, which has bribery. RTX has had a different nationalities. The suppliers. This COP is also part features beyond compliance digital wireless technologies not been exposed to chlorine whistleblower policy and a share of women in the Group’s of RTX’s broader stakeholder with the environmental – our Wireless Wisdom – as or other chemical substances. whistleblower program in place workforce increased marginally engagement together with our aspects of product safety. We well as audio technologies. We strive for the most compact since the 2012/2013 financial in the year, but it remains at Annual Report and the specific continuously have dialogue Therefore, RTX supports packaging possible, with a year. The whistleblower a low level compared to other Corporate Governance and with our customers regarding and encourages continuous minimum of surplus space, reporting program is available industries, as is often the case Remuneration reports. Further, specific environmentally-friendly professional development. allowing for smaller packages to third parties, e.g. suppliers in highly engineering-focused management has quarterly features with a focus on more We continue to develop and and more efficient packaging in or customers, to report companies. Our diversity meetings with investors and energy efficient products. RTX strengthen our Corporate transport. This reduces transport on potential irregularities efforts are based on our analysts on the development of continues to attempt to stay Technology Office (CTO) also costs per unit and results in a through RTX’s website. There diversity policy– which among the company and information at the forefront on industry through various research more environmentally-friendly is no history of incidents other things aims to increase and discussion meetings with developments regarding projects and partnerships product with less CO2 emitted involving RTX, and no issues the share of women in the employees at least bi-monthly environmentally-friendly with academia. Also, we have per unit. Sustainable packaging were reported through the Group and in management. together with a monthly products. Examples during continued our leadership is an area where we expect whistleblower program in the Please refer to section 4 for newsletter and twice annually an 2020 include working on having development program in 2020 increased customer interest, 2019/20 nor in prior years. further information as well as RTX magazine to employees. certain new products certified to increase the ability to lead and we work with our customers to section 3.5 and 3.6 for KPI according to the Energy Star, the the development of processes to find new and improved reporting. US government-backed symbol within RTX as we grow. packaging solutions. We have for energy efficiency, ensuring identified ways to substitute that the products meet stringent plastic bags used inside the energy efficiency requirements recycled cardboard boxes for power use. and are implementing these substitutes in new products.. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 13 CSR and ESG Management Reporting 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 14 3. CSR and ESG Management Reporting CSR and ESG KPI management reporting is growing in importance both generally and FIGURE 4 – HOW WE WORK at RTX. Also, both the UN Global Compact and section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act Section 99a requires description of the company’s business model, SPECIFICATION AND DESIGN policies, actions, due diligence, risk management, KPIs, results, etc. Thus, although these At RTX, we start by truly understanding customer requirements and user needs. This is accomrequirements are to some extent explored in the previous sections of this COP, we will plished by focusing on the ‘why’ and not only address them specifically in the following sections. the ‘what’. We combine this insight with our wireless know-how into a Product Requirement Specification. Our engineering teams then design the optimal solution based on a combination of mechanics, hardware and software. Combined 3.1 T  HE RTX FIGURE 3 – RTX with our list of patented solutions and in-house developed protocols we ensure our customers a BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL compelling result. Further to the RTX vision, values and DEVELOPMENT AND INTEGRATION mission described in section 1.2, In close collaboration with our customers, folthe RTX business model and value chain is generally based on RTX as RECURRING REVENUE lowing agile development practices, we develop FROM ODM/OEM MODEL FOR prototypes to evaluate system performance the preferred partner for the design, in-house. We build on our extensive wireless and INCREASED RESOURCE SCALABILITY development and production of audio capabilities and experience and integrate wireless communication solutions. each design at system level so that every compoFor our B2B target market segments nent and sub-system works perfectly, evaluating in Enterprise, ProAudio and Healthperformance against test cases for the fully care RTX conducts development integrated system. projects either targeted to individual customers within different market TESTING AND CERTIFICATION segments or development projects Based on years of experience, our in-house funded by RTX. These development ENTERPRISE HEALTHCARE PROAUDIO pre-test services reduce time to market and lower approval and certification costs for our projects typically result in subcustomers. If required, we can also handle the sequent deliveries of ODM/OEM full type approval service for our customers. products or customized modules to customers – with RTX outsourcing PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN physical production to suppliers (EMS). The business model across WIRELESS WISDOM MANAGEMENT EXPERTS IN SHORT-RANGE DIGITAL Using a well-established network of ISO9001, the Group’s target segments has SO14001, ISO13485, TS16949 and AS9100 cerWIRELESS TECHNOLOGIES converged over the past years into tified manufacturers, we guarantee production this uniform model. through the entire product life-cycle. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 15 3.2 POLICIES FOR CSR RTX is committed to the ten principles of the Global ComHUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT POLICY POLICY pact and hence to implementing the principles in our business – as is also evident from the Global Compact Principle Index in section 5. As displayed in the index, the principles are categorized into the areas: human rights, labor, envi”RTX supports and respects the protection of “RTX supports a precautionary approach to ronment and anti-corruption. These areas are similar to the internationally proclaimed human rights and environmental challenges and initiatives to proones companies are required to report under section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, specifically concerncommits all business units of the RTX Group to mote greater environmental responsibility. We ing their policies on these areas and the action taken. collaborate only with individuals, companies or commit all business units of the RTX Group to organizations, which respect the internationally collaborate only with individuals, companies or Our approach to CSR is integrated into how we do business acknowledged UN Human Rights.” organizations, which support a precautionary and is described in our policies and guidelines including approach to environmental challenges. our staff policy, our supplier code of conduct, our remuneration policy, our whistleblower reporting program, our tax policy etc. Herein, RTX has defined policies for human LABOR AND Furthermore, RTX supports the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly techDIVERSITY POLICY rights, environment and labor as listed to the right. These areas are conserved highly material to our business and nologies. RTX Group therefore encourages all stakeholders as reflected in the materiality matrix in business units to engage with customers and section 2.2. At present, RTX has no defined policies for an“RTX is committed to our employees and to other relevant stakeholders who wish to develti-corruption as this area is not considered highly material ensuring that they thrive in a safe and stimuop or apply such technologies.” to our business and stakeholders. Should this area become highly material to RTX, we will define specific policies for it. lating work environment with good working Nonetheless, RTX is taking action on all four areas in the conditions. RTX finds it important that everyone Global Compact as listed in section 5 of this GOP – includis treated equally irrespective of nationality, ing a whistleblower reporting program which can help in gender, social status and political opinion. RTX counteracting potential corruption or bribery issues. therefore requires all units of the RTX Group to Note: The above policies are further supported by a staff policy applying to all employees of the RTX Group as well as the RTX Code of Conduct and a conflict uphold or implement the measures required minerals policy applying to suppliers to RTX. for such a work environment. This also applies to RTX suppliers.” 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 16 3.3 POLICY ACTION AND DUE DILIGENCE In addition, RTX has management procedures that include RTX has taken and continues to take action not only on our maintaining constant awareness of upcoming or potential policies, but on all of the four areas in section 99a and on bans of substances used in our products. Our agile apall the ten principles of the Global Compact. However, as proach allows us to react swiftly to such new requirements not all CSR issues are equally material to RTX’s stakeholdand we have zero tolerance towards suppliers, who do not ers and our business, we do not apply due diligence to the engage properly with us on this matter. During 2019/20, we same extent on every CSR issue. have strengthened these procedures via the establishment of a central Quality & Compliance function. In section 2.3 and 2.4 we describe the actions and due diligence approach taken on the CSR risks and issues most Employee working conditions are also highlighted as a CSR important to RTX, and in section 5, we connect these to the risk and issue, as the employees are the backbone of RTX’s ten Global Compact principles in a cross-referencing index. critical core capabilities and thus of the business model. RTX monitors and manages this risk through employee sat3.4 RISK MANAGEMENT isfaction surveys and various KPI measurements as leading As documented by the materiality matrix in section 2.2 and indicators. given RTX’s business model with outsourced production, our supply chain is the central risk to our business from a 3.5 SELECTED KPI PERFORMANCE CSR point of view. Further, product safety has been idenA central aspect of our corporate governance approach is tified as a highly material CSR issue and risk for RTX. Thus, to define relevant key performance indicators (KPIs) that RTX has established our Code of Conduct for suppliers and can help us deliver robust performance and development. other supply chain specific requirements including REACH, The actions and results related to our CSR practice are RoHS, conflict minerals and further requirements as risk described in section 2, which accounts for our progress on management measures – as also described in section 2.3. CSR issues material to RTX. In the sections below, we furHence, robust management processes have been set up to ther illustrate by commenting on three specific CSR-related ensure compliance by RTX Group and its suppliers, thereby KPIs used and results achieved. In section 3.6 we complede facto addressing the most common risks associated ment these selected KPIs with a more comprehensive CSR with supply chain and product safety. and ESG management KPI overview. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 17 KPI: EMPLOYEE ABSENCE KPI: EMPLOYEE RETENTION KPI: ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION As stated repeatedly in this COP we regard the continuous In continuation of employee absence, our ability to retain Although the direct stand-alone impact of RTX’s in-house development of the competences of our employees as well the right staff is also highly important to the development electricity consumption is limited due to production being as their well-being and safety to be crucial for the perforand performance of RTX. During 2019/20, our employee outsourced, we do consider it a measure that helps to mance of RTX. Therefore, the health of our employees is turnover decreased (thus retention increased) and is on a direct the awareness of the organization to sustainable devery important to us, as is keeping the number of days of relatively low level as can be seen below. velopment. As can be seen below, our electricity consumpabsence to a minimum. tion at RTX sites in 20198/20 decreased in relative (per employee) terms compared to last year, while increasing in The target for the absence KPI is <3% for RTX in Denmark absolute terms due to an increased number of employees. and <1.5% for RTX in Hong Kong corresponding to a group average of <2.5%. The actual average absence for 2019/20 met this target and developed positively (decreased) compared to the prior year as can be seen below. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION – ABSOLUTE AND RELATIVE EMPLOYEE ABSENCE (%) EMPLOYEE TURNOVER (%) (PER EMPLOYEE) DEVELOPMENT FROM 2018/19 TO 2019/20 (%) 2018/19 1.7 2018/19 8.0 Absolute 3.7 2019/20 1.5 2019/20 7.3 Relative -1.6 Absolute development 3.7% higher electricity consumption Relative development per employee 1.6% lower electricity consumption per employee 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 18 3.6 CSR AND ESG REPORTING to evaluate a company’s commitment to CSR, and ESG per3.7 FUTURE PLANS AND EXPECTATIONS Today, CSR as reflected in a company’s responsible beformance is the measurement of the company’s “corporate RTX plans to maintain a strong focus on supply chain haviour is often translated into quantifiable “Environment, sustainable performance”. The below ESG reporting covers management, product safety, traceability including conflict Social, and Governance” (ESG) criteria to be measured data on the ESG metrics we have identified as most pertiminerals and employee working conditions – as the most and reported on by the company in addition to financial nent to the business of RTX. Among others, they include material CSR risk areas. During 2020/21, we plan to introperformance measures. In essence, ESG is the criteria used the KPIs described in section 3.5 of this report. duce a new organizational structure – moving from two business units to “One RTX” as a result of RTX now having a uniform business model and go-to-market approach across our target segments. With this uniform organizational ESG REPORTING TABLE structure process improvements ensuring common and “best practice” processes will be facilitated also relating to KPI Unit 2019/20 2018/19 CSR. Our central Supply Chain and Quality & Compliance functions remain pivotal in this regard. ENVIROMENT DATA Energy consumption (absolute) MWh 895 863 As potential longer-term development areas, we continue Energy consumption (relative) MWh/average FTE 3.07 3.12 to envision a corporate Code of Conduct supplementing and updating the current supplier Code of Conduct as SOCIAL DATA well as increased efforts to disseminate existing policies and a potential future corporate Code of Conduct interEmployee absence ratio % 1.5 1.7 nally (among employees) and externally (primarily among Employee turnover ratio % 7.3 8.0 suppliers). Gender diversity Women as share of all employees % 19 18 Women as share of Group Executive Management % 0 0 Employee satisfaction score (0 to 100) points 96 96 GOVERNANCE DATA Gender diversity, woman as share of Board of Directors % 0 0 Attendance at board meetings(1) % 99 93 (1) Adjusted for situations where attendance was rendered not possible due to certain member(s) being disqualified from participation 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 19 Diversity Policy and Objective for the Underrepresented Gender 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 20 4. D  iversity Policy and Objective for the Underrepresented Gender RTX has defined policies and actions to The general split between male and female employees in the 4.3 ACTIVITIES ensure diversity and sets targets for the Group is 19% female and 81% male and the share of female RTX strives to focus on increasing the share of women at underrepresented gender at management employees increased by 1 %-point in 2019/20. Regarding management level as vacancies arise. Thus, when hiring at nationality, our team of employees is diverse and includes managerial level through external recruitment agencies, level. This section is the statutory report on more than 10 different nationalities. the agency is explicitly asked to identify and present female gender distribution and diversity 2020 in candidates. In connection with employment at manageaccordance with sections 99b and 107d of 4.2 O  BJECTIVE FOR THE ment level, an elaborate assessment is conducted as to the Danish Financial Statements Act. UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER which skills, background and experience is needed to best match the needs of the company and to contribute to the The Board of Directors has defined an ambition that the overall skill set and efficiency of management. female share of board members elected by the annual 4.1 DIVERSITY POLICY general meeting should be at least 17% by 2021. The aim of During 2019/20, we continued our leadership development As stated in RTX’s diversity policy: “RTX finds it important that the adopted ambition is to increase the number of female program for middle management in order to develop the everyone is treated equally irrespective of nationality, genboard members elected by the annual general meeting and individual and collective leadership skills at RTX. Particider, social status and political opinion”. The policy applies to thus to increase the diversity in a male dominated industry. pants in this program are 12% female and 88% male indiall parts of the organization including the Board of Directors However, as of 2019/20 the Board of Directors consists cating the start of an internal pipeline of female candidates and Group Executive Management. Based on this policy, RTX only of males. During 2019/20, no new board members for further managerial positions as well as cultivating such is conducting various diversity-related activities, measures were elected by the annual general meeting and thus the female candidates. gender diversity and sets targets for the gender composition ratio remains unchanged and the objective is not yet met. in management. In this male dominated industry it has been hard to identify To promote diversity and inclusion, and to ensure a balthe right female board member possessing the unique anced composition of skills and experience, RTX A/S has RTX’s staff policy aims to attract and maintain highly qualicompetencies deemed relevant for the board duties in RTX. instituted a seniority policy. Thereby, employees aged 60+ fied and motivated employees. Regarding gender composiRTX maintains its objective for 2021. can influence the planning of their senior work life to ention in relation to employment and recruitment, RTX strives sure a managed transition to the third age – if so desired by to have both male and female candidates, despite operating In order to promote, facilitate and increase the number of the employee. This is done in the annual employee develin a male dominated industry. RTX recognizes that the curwomen in management level positions at RTX, manageopment dialogue and can result in, for instance, modified rent percentage of females in our staff of engineers may be ment has defined an objective to increase the percentage tasks, reduced working hours over time, as agreed between too low to secure a pipeline of future female candidates for of females at management level as vacancies arise. During company and employee. Also, RTX has instituted a disability management level in RTX. 2019/20, no changes occurred in the Group Executive policy to promote inclusion of people with disabilities in the Management, and therefore there is no change compared work force. In our recruitment process RTX therefore encourages to last year and all members continue to be male. qualified female applicants to seek vacancies as they arise. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 21 It is the aim of RTX that the Board of Directors and Group RTX employees gathered to celebrate Executive Management reflect diversity, not only regarding the company’s 25th anniversary in gender but also in terms of age, educational background and nationality as well as competences and experience as November 2018. relevant for the company. In practice, this means that the recruitment for the Board of Directors and Group Executive Management is driven by this objective, and that our policies regarding seniority and disability (and of course gender) also apply to the Board of Directors and Group Executive Management. 4.4 FOLLOW-UP AND REPORTING To increase awareness regarding diversity (including gender diversity), the Board of Directors discusses reporting on progress against the objectives set at least once annually on a board meeting. Annually, RTX also publishes our report on diversity through our COP report and submitted in our Annual Report. Further, the annual report details the gender, age and background of members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board. 22 | 2020 COP report for RTX Group Global Compact Principle Index 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 23 5. Global Compact Principle Index 5.1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE INDEX For each principle of the UN Global Compact, references are made to the sections in this COP report, illustrating the implementation of the principle. Additionally, section 3.1 to 3.7 further elaborates how RTX works with the principles in terms of policies, due diligence, risk management, KPIs and future plans. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against corruption in all protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the approach to environmental challenges; its forms, including extortion and bribery. rights; and right to collective bargaining; Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Make sure that they are not complicit in human The elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility; and rights abuses. compulsory labor; Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 5 Encourage the development and diffusion of The effective abolition of child labor; and environmentally friendly technologies. Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 Refer to section 2.3 and 2.4 PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Refer to section 2.3, 2.4 and 4 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 24 UN Sustainable Development Goals 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 25 6. UN Sustainable Development Goals 6.1 S  USTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – RTX FOCUS AREAS The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are at the heart of UN’s 2030 agenda for sustainable development. The ambition of RTX is to contribute to promoting and fulfilling this UN agenda. To this end and building on the materiality matrix in section 2.2 of this COP report and RTX’s business model, we have during the year assessed in more detail which SDGs RTX can influence and promote. This assessment serves as the starting point for RTX’s explicit work with the SDGs. Based on the assessment, RTX has chosen to focus its CSR and ESG efforts on targets within the UN SDGs nos. 4, 5, 9, 10 and 12. More specifically, RTX has highlighted certain specific targets within the SDGs which RTX through its conduct and best influence and advance. These UN targets are listed below. Target 4.4: By 2030, substantially increase the T  arget 9.1: Develop quality, reliable, sustainable Target 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable man number of youth and adults who have relevant and resilient infrastructure, including regional and agement and efficient use of natural resources. skills, including technical and vocational skills, for trans-border infrastructure, to support economic employment, decent jobs, and entrepreneurship. development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all. Target 5.5: Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at Target 10.2: By 2030, empower and promote the all levels of decision-making in political, economic social, economic, and political inclusion of all irreand public life. spective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status. 2020 COP report for RTX Group | 26 Design and production: Noted RTX A/S Stroemmen 6 9400 Noerresundby Denmark www.rtx.dk
