Rheinstrasse 20 CH-8200 Schaffhausen Switzerland Tel +41 (0)52 633 66 77 te.com August 3, 2020 His Excellency António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, New York 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General: I am pleased to confirm that TE Connectivity Ltd. (“TE”) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United National Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. The attached annual Communications on Progress describes TE’s actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also are committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary methods of communication. Best regards, Terrence Curtin Chief Executive Officer and Board Member attachment Legal Entity name, a TE Connectivity Ltd. company. TE Connectivity Ltd. Annual Communication of Progress 2020 te.com Global Compact Principles TE Connectivity’s Commitments Human Rights Assessment Principle 1: Businesses should support and TE is committed to human rights for all people, everywhere respect the protection of internationally in the world, and comply with employment laws in the proclaimed human rights; and markets where we operate. The company prohibits the employment of underage children or forced labor, as well Principle 2: Make sure that they are not as any form of physical punishment or abuse. Child labor complicit in human rights abuses. and forced labor are forbidden at both TE and TE’s subcontractors’ facilities. Policies and Implementation TE Connectivity Guide to Ethical Conduct page 42 for our statement on human rights TE Connectivity Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility Conflict Minerals Policy TE Connectivity Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Outcomes TE Connectivity 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2019 Labor Assessment Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the TE Connectivity is committed to equal opportunity and fair freedom of association and the effective treatment, and we prohibit discrimination on the basis of an recognition of the right to collective individual’s race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, bargaining; citizenship status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status or any other protected status. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Policies and Implementation TE Connectivity Guide to Ethical Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child page 42 for our statement on human rights labor; and page 29 for our policy on Harassment Free Workplace page 30 for our policy on Violence-Free Workplace Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination page 14 for our policy on Diversity and Equal Opportunity in respect of employment and occupation. TE Connectivity Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility TE Connectivity Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Outcomes TE Connectivity 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2019 TE Connectivity Ltd. Annual Communication of Progress 2020 te.com Environment Assessment Principle 7: Businesses should support a TE is committed to environmental protection and precautionary approach to environmental sustainability. We show our commitment through our challenges; company-wide efforts to reduce our energy and water usage, waste, and greenhouse gas emissions, and by Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote publicly reporting on our progress. greater environmental responsibility; and Policies and Implementation Principle 9: encourage the development and TE Connectivity Environment, Health and Safety Policy diffusion of environmentally friendly TE Connectivity CDP Reports technologies. External Assurance Report Outcomes TE Connectivity 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2019 Anti-Corruption Assessment Principle 10: Businesses should work against TE’s policy prohibits an employee from offering, all forms of corruption, including extortion and promising or giving a financial or other benefit to gain an bribery. improper advantage or for inducing or rewarding someone for a decision to retain or obtain business. It also prohibits employees from requesting, agreeing to receive or receiving a financial or other benefit from someone to induce the employee to do something improper on his or her behalf. Policies and Implementation TE Connectivity Guide to Ethical Conduct *please see page 16 for our Global Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption Policy Outcomes TE Connectivity 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report TE Connectivity Corporate Responsibility Website TE Corporate Responsibility Commitment Letter Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2019 Ethisphere Institute’s Most Ethical Companies 2020
