Altaterra Kft. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 1 2 Statement by the CEO to the Stakeholders Altaterra continues to support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles and embraces its recognition of the positive contribution business can make to create a more prosperous and socially and environmentally sustainable world. The Global Compact sets a critical framework for establishing a culture of integrity, upholding business to meet their responsibilities to people and planet, while setting the stage for longterm value creation. The Communication on Progress (COP) is an important tool of transparency that provides the chance for an internal and external annual evaluation of achievements. In 2019 we have participated in our parent company impact assessment, which revealed no significant impact on our position regarding the 10 principles. We remain fully committed to the ten principles of the Compact, and we commit to a process of continual improvement to make our products more affordable to more people, and to improve the performance of our products to promote energy savings wherever possible. We are committed to making a Social contribution to our employees and to the local environments they live in. We will strive continually to do our business with respect for the environment, human rights and with the highest standards. We are proud to commit to the UN Global Compact. Krisztián Mészáros Chief Executive Officer, Altaterra Kft. April 2020 www.altaterra.eu 3 What we do… ALTATERRA Kft. is a subsidiary company of the privately-owned Danish Group VKR Holdings, which has been set up to manufacture roof windows and associated accessories to the highest quality, with a unique service support system, designed to bring product excellence to professionals and homeowners alike. With 75 years of experience of roof window innovation, design, and manufacturing as part of the VKR Group, we have a solid platform from which to produce our products in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible environment. We have ISO Certified world class manufacturing facilities with guaranteed capacity, that pays attention and puts every effort into supplying the market with the best products possible, from the completed roof window right down to the smallest detail (each screw, each operation, and every material component has been tested to the highest standards). This obsessive attention to detail and long experience is what drives us forward to producing ever-improving products and to providing the best service we can. www.altaterra.eu 4 Sustainability… Altaterra Kft is committed to our Group policies on sustainability. The Group targets on production are: • 50% reduction of CO2 emissions in 2020 compared to 2007 baseline • Maximum of 1 work accident per 1 million work hours • Minimum 99.5% certified wood at European factories • Vision of zero waste in production and end-of-life of products Whistle-blower System… Altaterra participates in our Group-Wide Whistle-Blower System In 2019, a group-wide whistle-blower system was implemented for any stakeholder to report infringement of legislation, regulation and VKR Group and company policies. Altaterra joined this system end 2019. Our employees are informed that they can freely report serious matters such as bribery, extortion, embezzlement, theft, accounting irregularities, etc. in complete anonymity via the VKR Group portal. www.altaterra.eu 5 Principle 1: Human Rights Altaterra is fundamentally committed to upholding and advocating Human Rights as a core part of our day-to-day fabric. Altaterra recognizes the framework provided in the document “Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights” as a model for our business to learn from and to implement. It is a basic tenet of our business philosophy to treat our employees, suppliers, customers, and competitors with equal respect and to expect the same level of standards to apply within their own businesses. We are committed to educating our employees to conduct themselves with decency and dignity, and to respect equally all contacts regardless of gender, race, physical ability, sexuality or age. Principle 2: Human Rights Altaterra is committed to ensuring that our supply chain is not tainted by Human Rights violations. We have “cradle to grave” accountability in our product manufacturing and commit to not acting with any complicity in accepting Human Rights abuses from any suppliers or customers. Our employees are inducted and must accept the guiding principles of the Altaterra Business Conduct Guide. www.altaterra.eu 6 Principle 3: Freedom of Association Altaterra recognises the rights of all employees to form and join trade unions of their choice without fear of intimidation. We will not discriminate against any employee who exercises these rights, nor will we interfere in any appointed representative while they carry out their legal duties. Principle 4: Forced Labour Altaterra absolutely upholds the principles of eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labour throughout the world. We do not allow use of physical punishment or other forms of physical, sexual, psychological, or verbal abuse as a method of control in the workplace. We will never be complicit in or benefit from forced labour. Principle 5: Child Labour Altaterra absolutely upholds the principles of the effective abolition of child labour. Altaterra prohibits any use of child labour in our own company and at our suppliers. We will never be complicit in or benefit from child labour. www.altaterra.eu 7 Principle 6: Labour It is our policy to recruit, hire and promote individuals, as well as administer any and all personnel actions, without regard to race, colour, religion, creed, age, sex, sexual orientation, national origin or ancestry, marital status or status as a qualified individual with a disability, in accordance with applicable laws. Altaterra encourages a creative, diverse, and supportive work environment. No action is more counter to Altaterra values than discrimination. Altaterra policy prohibits discrimination and harassment. It is the responsibility of all Altaterra employees to conform to this policy. Discrimination, harassment and slurs or jokes based on a person’s race, colour, religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, national origin or ancestry, marital status, status as a disabled or status as a qualified individual with a disability will not be tolerated. This applies to all employees, applicants for employment or others who may be present in the workplace. Any Altaterra employee who feels he or she has been discriminated against or harassed, or feels he or she has witnessed such action, is strongly encouraged to report the incident to any member of the Human Resources Department or to any manager, up to and including the Executive Staff. Altaterra is committed to working within the defined guidelines of human rights. Reporting processes and response plans are in place within our company handbook to identify and respond to alleged abuse or violence against employees and contractors. We have never identified any instances of Altaterra causing or contributing to any adverse human rights incidents. www.altaterra.eu 8 Altaterra is committed to supporting, developing, and promoting diversity and equality in all its employment practices and activities and aims to establish an inclusive culture free from discrimination and based on the values of fairness, dignity, and respect. We will support and develop staff through providing everyone with access to facilities, personal and career development opportunities, and employment on an equal basis regardless of race, national or ethnic origin, disability, age, gender, sexual orientation, transgender identity or religion/belief. Number of occupational diseases, injuries: 0 Average sickness rate 2.1% Demographics of management: 17% women Gender of Employees Female 47% Male 53% www.altaterra.eu 9 Principle 7: Environment Sustainable Sourcing Our Group develops and manufactures products. We constantly seek to maximise the use of sustainable materials in our products and we carefully manage our use of hazardous substances. Sourcing of Sustainable and Certified Wood In 2019, 100% of the wood for our products in Europe was sourced from certified, sustainable forests. By comparison, only about 30% of the wood sold globally comes from sustainable and certified forests. Policy and Goals We recognise the importance of sustainable forest management as part of our effort to protect the environment, ensure biodiversity, tackle climate change, and protect the rights of local communities in forested areas. All our windows are manufactured at our own Group factories. All factories in Europe are certified according to FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) and/or PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification). All our windows produced in Europe for the European market fulfil the requirements of the EU Timber Regulation. Activities We source wood as close to our factories as possible. Our wood is sourced from Norway, Sweden, Finland, Estonia, Russia, Poland and France All wood cut-offs and wood chips from our production sites are used for recycling or heating purposes. www.altaterra.eu 10 Principle 8: Environment Our Environmental Policy comprises six guiding principles: • We design our products so that the environmental impact during manufacture, use and disposal is reduced • Our use of raw materials, water and energy is highly efficient • We constantly work to minimize emissions, waste, and discharges from our activities • We maintain high safety standards for our employees • We cooperate with our suppliers, customers, and other business partners to improve environmental standards • We constantly seek ways to make our products and manufacturing methods more environment friendly than what is generally expected. www.altaterra.eu 11 Principle 9: Environment Our Environmental policy is one we share with that of our sister company VELUX, in that we are part of their supply chain and subject to the same policies. We are therefore subject to Life Cycle Assessment. LCAs are the first step towards Environmental Product Declaration of windows and accessories. VELUX Environmental Product Assessments have been developed based on the international standard methodology for assessment of LCA (ISO 14040) in cooperation with the Danish FORCE Technology Institute, which specializes in Life Cycle Assessment. VELUX Environmental Product Assessments are designed to comply with the methodology of the European Standard EN15804 (Environmental Product Declaration for Building Products and Materials). We control and document the use of chemicals in our production and in our finished products. We continuously improve our documentation procedures through a systematic approach to mapping of chemical substances and through close dialogue with our suppliers. In close cooperation with our logistics partners, we continuously search for ways to optimize the loading of trucks and reduce the environmental impact of transportation. All cardboard used for packaging can be recycled. www.altaterra.eu 12 Principle 10: Anti-corruption Altaterra Kft. has a zero tolerance for corruption and an expectation that anyone who acts on behalf of the Corporation adheres to all applicable anti-corruption laws. We know that operating with integrity secures our customers’ trust and enables us to win business around Europe. We would rather lose business than operate in a manner contrary to our core values. Corruption creates unfair competition, increases costs, and jeopardizes our products’ and services’ reputation for quality and capability. Our employees are required to echo the company values in their day-to-day activities by accepting the “Altaterra Business Conduct Guide.” In the induction process we make clear that we have high business standards and that disregard of those standards is unacceptable. We have signed the UN Anti-Corruption call to action document. www.altaterra.eu 13 Taking Responsibility… In 2019 Altaterra has launched an internal campaign to take responsibility for our own impact on the environment. We established the “We Care” team across the company with members from all locations. • We removed all plastic bottled soft drinks throughout the 3 main offices and installed filtered water machines • We removed disposable cups and gave every employee a reusable water bottle to use at work • We will launch new initiatives in 2020 including saving electricity, tree planting and education in ways to take individual responsibility for our own footprint. www.altaterra.eu
