Communication on Progress incl our compliance with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act 2019 Solar A/S Cvr nr. 15 90 84 16 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS We passionately challenge to add value Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 2 Contents COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 4 Letter from the CEO 5 Highlights from 2019 6 Our business model 7 CSR & sustainability in Solar 9 Diversity 10 ESG Data 11 Environment and climate 12 Highlights from 2019 13 Labour 15 Anti-corruption 16 Highlights from 2019 17 Human rights 3 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS A letter from our CEO Sustainable solutions and better business In November 2019, we began to deliver our In the light of this belief, we have put renewed one-hour delivery service, Solar Fastbox, by bike. focus on our efforts within CSR and sustainability. Following a period of tests in Copenhagen, the Recently, Group Operations took the lead on CSR data was clear. Besides being extremely reliable, and sustainability in Solar, since this is where bikes are also the fastest way to deliver goods in we see the biggest potential. The simple act of densely populated areas. Today, we are considering moving goods from A to B is a prerequisite for if the bikes can be used in other cities in Denmark every economic activity, and thus, the businesses and possibly also abroad. operating in the field must be the drivers of continuous improvements as to how this can be For me, this is where sustainability and business done. That includes us. come together. With sustainability as the strategic driver, we have implemented a solution that is In relation to this, I am proud to announce that better for our customers. this is our 10th Communication on Progress. Being part of the UN’s Global Compact keeps our focus At Solar, we go to work to challenge our on core disciplines within environment, society and customers. Every day. To find new value in their governance. businesses. However, we must also challenge ourselves on how we run our business. Yours sincerely, Jens Andersen CEO Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 4 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Highlights from 2019 A brief look at some of our efforts within CSR Improved recycling Decent work Focus on waste separation in Norway Marginalised citizens enter permanent employment Receiving and delivering products generate waste, which we cannot avoid. “My downfall started with a depression, which was followed by homelessness. During Therefore, we are looking into separation of waste to minimise the negative my rough period, I was contacted by Solar, who offered me an internship. I said yes, and impact. In Norway, we have increased our waste separation from 87.56% in today I’m still with Solar and am now finally back to a ”normal” life again,” Bo Rømer 2017 to 94.02% in 2019. Riis says. Since 2015, we have been cooperating with Sundholm activity centre, which is a public institution working with socially marginalised people. Among other things, this has led to the employment of Bo, who is now permanently employed on a regular contract at our customer centre in Copenhagen. Energy efficiency Less consumption CO2 neutral office in the Netherlands Poland cuts down on energy consumption In 2020, we will open the doors to our new office building in The Netherlands. We In Poland, we are implementing the international environmental management standards are in charge of the energy solutions that will make the building almost selfISO 14001. The system will monitor several focus areas, one of them being energy consupporting. In short, we will reduce energy consumption through automated sumption. We aim to lower it significantly through a new, energy-efficient lighting heating and lighting systems and generate power from solar panels that will run installation at the central warehouse in Łódź. It was fully operational by the end of 2019 the heating, lighting and electrical systems. and will bring down the location’s electric energy consumption by 74%. It means we will be able to reduce the amount of CO2 emission into the atmosphere by 72,480 kg per year. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 5 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Strategy update Our business model KEY RESOURCES CORE ACTIVITIES VALUE CREATION HUMAN RESOURCES SOURCING SERVICES OPERATIONAL DIGITAL CUSTOMER VALUE Our 3,000 ‘can-do’ peoEXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE LEADERSHIP We create customer ple use market insight productivity by helping to develop new business our customers run areas and move our busiWe build on long-term We work closely with our Central and regional With an e-business their businesses more ness forward. cooperation with our customers to offer taiwarehousing, common share above 50%, efficiently and reduce strategic suppliers, and lored, value-adding serlean processes, integratwe are a true digital energy consumption INNOVATION CULTURE by consolidating our cusvices that optimise their ed IT systems and shared company and use our and waste. Our people have both the tomers’ sourcing needs, businesses and make services across our local platform, including right and duty to challenge we aim to increase effithem more productive. operating companies webshop, website and SHAREHOLDER VALUE our customers, suppliers and ciency throughout the support our business. digital marketing, to We strive to create each other to create innovative supply chain. support a personalised value for our sharesolutions. customer experience. holders by constantly optimising our business TECHNOLOGICAL KNOWHOW to increase the value of Our people have thorough the company. Based on our underOur services range from We drive continuous We assume digital knowledge about products and standing of our customproduct engineering, improvement within a leadership and drive technologies. EMPLOYEE VALUE ers’ needs we work both advisory services and broad range of discibusiness development in We create value for our with brand manufacturtechnical support to plines, and we effectively collaboration with our STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT employees by giving ers and proactively seek customer logistics and leverage our regional digital partners. We engage with a number of them responsibility, alternatives. Fastbox. footprint to reduce costs different stakeholders to keep trust, exciting jobs and and improve efficiency. developing our business and career opportunities. create an understanding of our productivity agenda. We offer a number of Our broad range of We strive to keep our We use the digital transFINANCIAL CAPITAL Solar concepts that services are suitable for costs low to protect our formation of the conOur financial situation is meet different customer both installation and margins in a market with struction industry to sound and our collaboraneeds. We have concepts industry customers. increasing price transdevelop new services tion with the capital marsuitable for both parency. We exercise to drive productivity ket helps to ensure the installation and industry strict management over and cost savings in continuous development customers. our cost base. collaboration with of our business. our customers. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 6 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CSR & Sustainability in Solar Turning energy efficiency into profitable business We are dedicated to turning energy efficiency PURPOSE OF CSR & SUSTAINABILITY finding new and innovative sustainable processes climate-friendly and energy-efficient solutions and into a profitable and responsible business. We In Solar, we have made a formal decision to and solutions and evaluate daily operations at our have launched initiatives for the benefit of society have a green profile by nature, and we work conduct business ethically and to contribute warehouses, branches and offices. Specific targets and the environment. to promote sustainable energy solutions and to a sustainable development. We want it to will be established and measured on a regular induce initiatives to the benefit of our society. be an integral part of our external commercial basis. Corruption is strictly against our group values. However, we acknowledge the fact that our projects and internal operational processes commercial success comes at a cost to the to make sure that CSR & sustainability is not a We work closely with our customers and partners world around us. This requires focus on our daily standalone discipline, but a natural part of our in the quest for delivering sustainable solutions for INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS FOR operations to minimise the negative impact business and our daily operations. everyday life. SUSTAINABILITY from our business. In order to integrate CSR & sustainability into our Over the past years, we too have noted People daily business, we have committed ourselves to Our official CSR & Sustainability Policy provides a significant increase in the demand for In Solar, employees are treated equally, upholding the Ten Principles of the United Nations high-level guidance on how to conduct business. documented initiatives. This demand stems from irrespective of gender, age, race or religion etc. Global Compact in the areas of human rights, It can be found here. investors, customers, employees and the local We ensure equal rights for everyone in terms of labour, environment and anti-corruption. The communities that we are a part of. employment, training and promotion. Global Compact aims to promote a sustainable development of society and forms the framework We work to ensure safe working conditions for of Solar’s work with CSR & sustainability. OUR STRATEGY our employees and respect human rights in our Solar is committed to following global and local operations as well as in our business relations. In addition, Solar is a listed company and rules, regulations and standards that support a thus obligated to uphold the standards of the sustainable agenda, and we aim to cause the least Business Danish Financial Statements Act. Our yearly possible harm to daily life. Solar conducts its business in an ethical way and Communication of Progress to the UN Global complies with all relevant rules and regulations. Compact is therefore to be seen as a part of our Environment We continuously seek to minimise our footprint annual report. Solar seeks to reduce environmental impacts and by the way we source, sell and distribute our promote sustainable solutions via our product and products. services portfolio. Solar is dedicated to turning energy efficiency We constantly seek to reduce carbon emissions by into a profitable and responsible business for our customers. We work to promote sustainable, Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 7 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CSR & Sustainability in Solar – continued TARGET GROUP REPORTING Our policy applies to the Solar Group and Once a year, we submit a Communication on constitutes the framework for our work with Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. This CSR & sustainability. It serves to inform both communication on progress also represents Solar internal and external stakeholders of what CSR Group’s compliance with section 99a and 99b of the & sustainability means to Solar. The policy was Danish Financial Statements Act. approved by our Board of Directors in 2019 and communicated to our employees in 2020. To keep our communication dynamic, we have gone from publishing a static CSR & sustainability report to issuing regular communication on cases on our ORGANISATION website. In addition to cases, the website holds In Solar Group, CSR & sustainability is anchored the required documentation. You can find more within Group Operations. Group Operations is information here. responsible for our warehouses and logistics and therefore makes the largest impact on the In addition, Solar Group submits data to the environment and also has the biggest potential for Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an internationally improving. recognised reporting system, to give our investors access to standardised and comparable data about Besides Group Operations, Solar Group our environmental impact. You can find the latest Management plays a vital role as an overall data here. committee when it comes to strategic initiatives and overall priorities. Finally, as a listed company, Solar is committed to supporting Nasdaq’s ESG Data Portal, and thereby In relation to this, we have established a new CSR its investors, by submitting all relevant ESG data. & Sustainability Community consisting of local Our latest data is found on page 10. CSR Leads, HR, Sourcing and colleagues with key competences within CSR and sustainability. The role and responsibility is to set a green agenda and to secure local commitment and implementation of initiatives. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 8 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS CSR & Sustainability in Solar – continued DIVERSITY Our group recruitment policy ensures that HR and Solar operates in a field historically dominated by men. The Solar Group’s approach is to ensure that all the hiring managers consider different backgrounds This is also evident at entry-level positions for whiteemployees of our individual companies are treated and qualifications, with a view to matching the collar workers in the company, where 25% of new hires equally, irrespective of gender, age, race, religion markets and lines of business relevant to Solar now are women. etc., thereby ensuring equal opportunities in and in the future. terms of employment, training and promotion. We use a learning and development platform to support We wish to ensure a high level of diversity, but Our job advertisements point out that Solar seeks to our performance development processes. It makes it not at the cost of the necessary skills sets. We achieve a diverse representation in our management easy to assign learning programmes from our training always hire the most qualified candidate for the group. We require that candidate shortlists for facilities and follow up on progress and agreed plans job, regardless of political, religious or personal managerial positions include at least one member and targets. orientation. of the underrepresented gender. The Board of Directors revised the deadline for Senior level management Despite our efforts, the overall gender distribution achieving the objective for the underrepresented Solar applies the Mercer position grading system, in the two upper levels of management was 14% gender of board members and reached the conclusion and in line with this, has defined two upper levels women and 86% men as at 31 December 2019 that after Solar’s Annual General Meeting in 2023, of management: Solar Group Management (SGM) compared to 16% and 84% respectively last year. women should constitute 40% of the Board of and senior level management, where the latter Directors. comprises Vice Presidents and Directors reporting Board of Directors to an SGM member. Our aim is to achieve an Our diversity policy also sets out our objective Nomination committee overall distribution of women and men of 25% and for the composition of our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has established a Nomination 75% respectively by 2020. Whenever the need to replace a board member Committee made up of major shareholders and one arises, we scan the market widely to ensure a mix of individual from the company’s Board of Directors. Our employee performance appraisals focus skills and diversity. on skills development, performance and career It is the committee’s duty to assess the need for plans. Solar encourages the career development The Board aims for equal gender representation changes to the composition of the Board of Directors, of managers, project workers and specialists, and whilst ensuring it comprises a broad portfolio of including ensuring that the company’s Board of enables the underrepresented gender to have the skills and experience. Our aim is to ensure that Directors consists of individuals with the necessary right opportunities to develop and advance within women are not underrepresented on the Board of professional qualifications, skills and experience. the administrative bodies. Directors. The committee must ensure that at least half the board We arrange internal management training and A new member of the Board of Directors was members are independent, and the committee must onboarding for all new managers, which provides elected at the Annual General Meeting in 2019. as far as possible point to candidates, who together the right tools and qualifications for further However, as it proved impossible to recruit a female ensure that the diversity policy adopted by the Board of managerial development. board member with the desired knowledge of Directors will be met in the long term. the trade, the election did not change the gender We recently changed our training procedures and distribution. Women, therefore, still make up 20% However, the Nomination Committee is not a board formed a Global Manager Onboarding programme of Solar’s board members elected by the Annual committee like the other committees established based on e-learning, classroom training, workshops General Meeting, as was the case last year. by the Board of Directors. The committee does not and networking. This is targeted at all new prepare decisions that the Board of Directors is to managers in Solar. make. The committee supplements the work of the Board of Directors as regards its composition. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 9 MANAGEMENT’S REVIEW CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS ESG Data As part of Nasdaq’s commitment to more sustainable markets and to support its listed companies, Nasdaq has implemented an ESG Data Portal to provide a central database for listed companies and investors who wish to access ESG data and performance metrics. The portal covers a number of environmental, social and governance metrics, which reflect best practice across these impact areas. ESG key figures overview Unit 2019 2018 As a responsible and transparent company, Social data Solar is committed to supporting the portal, Full-Time Workforce FTE 3,039 2,941 and thereby its investors, by submitting all Gender diversity % 27 27 relevant ESG data. Furthermore, we make ESG Gender diversity, management % 14 16 data available in the table below. As we manage Gender pay ratio Times 1.16 1.16 to improve our data, we aspire to report on the recommended 15 key figures. Employee turnover ratio % 8.3 8.6 Sickness absence Days per FTE 10.9 10.3 Solar operates in a field historically dominated by men. This is also evident at entry-level positions Governance data for white-collar workers, where only 25% of new Gender diversity, Board % 17 17 hires are women. At the same time, a part of Board Meeting Attendance Rate % 100 97 our workforce is blue-collar and Shared Services CEO pay ratio 1 Times 20 15 Centre employees in Poland. This composition impacts the ESG key figures. 1) If measured against Danish employees, the ratio was 16 in 2019 and 13 in 2018. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 10 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Environment and climate Reducing our emission of carbon In the Solar Group, we work POLICES RISKS KPIS to promote sustainable energy Since 2010, Solar has reported data to the Carbon Our most significant strain on the environment CDP’s Climate Disclosure Score is a measure Disclosure Project and to the UN Global Compact. comes from our distribution activities and our of the quality and comprehensiveness of the solutions and launch initiatives In addition to monitoring our emission, we focus use of company cars. Therefore, we make it a information provided in the company’s response to the benefit of our society. on finding ways to reduce emissions in our daily priority to reduce the footprint that we leave. That to CDP’s annual climate change questionnaire. However, as is the case for any business. Our CDP work is described in a CDP is the reason for relocating the lead of our CSR The disclosure score is a metric of good internal other business, our business strategy, which is available to all employees on our responsibility to Group Operations. management, an understanding of climate change activities leave a mark on the intranet. issues and company transparency on climate The activities in our warehouses include change. Therefore, our disclosure score is a KPI environment, for instance when we Our involvement in CDP covers Solar A/S and all the handling of hazardous materials. As we which we monitor. transport our products to and from subsidiaries except Solar Polaris A/S, which will be acknowledge the fact that these may pose our warehouses. To minimise the included in our upcoming reporting. Our next data an environmental risk, we have defined and inconveniences that come from submission for CDP will be on 31 July 2020. standardised procedures for handling these. In ACTIONS AND RESULTS addition, standards have been created for our four In 2019, we invested in and implemented a new our business activities, reducing As part of our focus on carbon emissions, we key markets with strict guidelines on procedures system for collecting and qualifying data for our our emission of carbon is a priority. have a policy for company cars. Energy labels if an incident involving a hazardous material is to reporting for the CDP. In relation to the system, show how an appliance ranks on a scale from A happen. we have entered into a partnership with an to G according to its energy consumption, class A external company providing expertise on the being the most energy-efficient. Our policy is to In both matters, we consider the risks under process of collecting the data and the reporting eliminate the use of company cars less efficient control. itself. These actions will improve the quality of our than classes A and B. Equally important, we expect data across the Solar Group and provide a more that our distributors use lorries within the best solid foundation for taking further action as valid Euro norm for transportation of our goods to and consistent data is critical to setting the right ensure a reasonable limit to the contamination we baseline and targets for our emission of CO2. cause. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 11 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Highlights from 2019 A brief look at some of our efforts within CSR Clean energy Better waste handling First large photovoltaic system installed in the Faroe Islands Education on waste handling in Sweden Solar Polaris has finalised the first large photovoltaic system on the Faroe IsIn 2019, we chose to put focus on the waste handling in Sweden. Stena lands. The system is installed at an old soccer field in Sumba – the most southRecycling went on a warehouse tour to understand our business and then ern village of the islands. Here, harsh wind conditions calls for a reinforced followed up with a presentation and Q&A for all employees in Sweden with construction to support the 768 panels generating an estimated 160,000 kWh focus on the importance of correct waste handling and separation. per year. Less fossil fuel More transparency The Dutch ditch diesel Silver score in CSR rating During December 2019, Solar Nederland replaced 33 fossil-fuelled company Our subsidiaries in Norway and the Netherlands were rated silver by Ecovadis cars with electric cars. The transition is a result of our sustainable aspiration in their latest CSR rating, placing both companies in the upper third. We combined with legislation implemented by the Dutch government. We expect are currently evaluating whether all subsidiaries will be part of the Ecovadis the new fleet to emit 65% less CO2. rating next year. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 12 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Labour Active efforts to develop our employees The Solar Group’s ambition is for We aim for diversity, as we believe that this POLICIES KPIS all employees in the individual makes us a strong business. We always hire the Actions guiding our employees are described in An indicator of our employees’ wellbeing is the most qualified candidate regardless of their an employee handbook, which is available on our employee stick rate, i.e. employees who are still enterprises to be treated in political, religious or personal orientation. It is intranet. The employee handbook is a compilation with the company one year after the start of the same way regardless of an expressed requirement to have both genders of policies, procedures, working conditions and their employment. Our ultimate aim is always gender, age, race and religion, represented in a candidate pool for vacant behavioural expectations. to have satisfied, loyal employees that actively so that all employees have equal management positions in the Solar Group. want to remain with us. Therefore, we have set an Our Code of Conduct states that Solar will comply ambitious target of a 90% stick rate. opportunities when it comes to We make active efforts to develop our with applicable laws and regulations and act in employment, employment terms, employees and we want to make it clear that an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible The employee turnover refers to the percentage training and promotions. employees at all levels can find interesting manner in our business activities. Respect for of workers who leave our organisation and are careers in Solar. To do so, we look at each human rights is an integral part of Solar’s ethical replaced by new employees. As a high employee individual employee’s potential. framework. turnover can be hurtful to a company’s bottom line, we aim for a reduced employee turnover of Solar is fully compliant with all requirements 6%. stemming from labour legislation and collective RISKS agreements in the countries in which we An inevitable risk of running a business is While some absence due to illness is inevitable, operate. Our stand on the area has been defined workplace accidents. When it comes to labour it is evident that sick days delay work, create in a number of policies described below. and employee conditions, safety at work is our stressful situations for other workers, and top priority beyond compare. We have taken a represent a cost for our company. Therefore, we number of measures to keep our safety at work continuously monitor our employees’ sickness at an acceptable level, including working closely absence rate. In 2019, we adjusted our target for together with safety representatives, keeping our sick rate to 3.64%, which is our baseline from 2017. employees fully informed about safety measures in our group, etc. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 13 ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIONS AND RESULTS An employee stick rate of 82.52% compared to We carry out reviews on a yearly basis, auditing 80.2% last year is an improvement not satisfactory our key central warehouses to make sure that we as our target remains at 90%. Our focus on this area meet all safety requirements. Our external risk will remain in 2020. advisor Marsh selects sites, performs the audit and submits a general status and recommended When it comes to employee turnover, a 2019 result actions to increase the safety level. In 2019, we of 8.25% compared to 8.6% last year is not a have conducted reviews of the safety and of the satisfactory result. general status of three warehouses. Ending the year at 3.92% against 3.9% last year, our In terms of training and courses, we have sickness absence rate is on par with last year and expanded our offer of e-learning modules. We the level is satisfactory throughout Solar as both have a broad selection of training covering both blue-collar and white-collar positions are included. development of professional skills and personal development for all employees in Solar. This is expected to increase our stick rate. Further, we have simplified and improved the GDPR training targeting all employees in Solar. We have strengthened Solar Onboarding, which is a structured process to improve the experience of coming into Solar as a new employee. The onboarding process includes training where new hires become familiar with relevant tools, making them more likely to succeed in their position. Global Manager Onboarding is a new programme for new leaders in the organisation. The aim of this programme is to retain and develop leaders in Solar, as our recurring job satisfaction survey shows that well-executed leadership leads to higher job satisfaction. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 14 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Anti-corruption Our zero tolerance policy Corruption undermines growth and POLICIES RISKS ACTIONS AND RESULTS social and economic development. Our zero tolerance stand on corruption and Solar Group’s business activities are not As stated in our previous report, our focus has It undermines clean and fair bribery has been clearly expressed in our supplier centred around high-risk areas when it comes been on reintroducing our Code of Conduct Code of Conduct and in the Code of Conduct to corruption and bribery. Nevertheless, our and whistle-blower scheme to our employees. business, it is an obstacle to governing our employees. supplier Code of Conduct dictates zero tolerance Although everyone has read and signed the Code trade and thus strictly against our behaviour in both areas. In addition, our employee of Conduct and been introduced to the scheme, it values. We can only avoid damage Our whistle-blower scheme invites internal and Code of Conduct states that the ban on corruption may not be on the top of their minds. Therefore, to our company, our employees external stakeholders to expose any kind of applies to all individuals acting on Solar’s we took the opportunity to remind them of the and business partners if rules information or activity that is deemed illegal, behalf. The Code of Conduct is introduced to all materials and carried out an internal campaign unethical, or not correct. An independent employees and available on our intranet. inviting our employees to revisit our Code of and standards are respected. authority receives and handles any information Conduct. In 2018, we concluded that there was Consequently, misconduct must exposed via the whistle-blower scheme. KPIS no need to promote the whistle-blower scheme quickly be recognised, processed We have not defined actual KPIs for this area. further and we consider our employees capable of and remedied. identifying non-ethical behaviour. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 15 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Highlights from 2019 A brief look at some of our efforts within CSR Clean energy Sustainable cities Solar-powered car park has produced 130,000 kWh Bikes deliver Fastbox in Denmark In 2019, the Danish Minister of Climate, Energy and Utilities attended In collaboration with the Danish mobility company MOVER, we are now using bikes to the grand opening of our photovoltaic car park SunDryve at our group run our one-hour delivery service, Solar Fastbox. Because of overloaded roads, the bikes headquarters in Denmark. Since then, the system has produced more than actually get to our customers faster than cars and of course emits no CO2 or particles. 130,000 kWh. The bikes operate in Copenhagen and cover distances of up to 4 kilometres from our customer centre. In addition to the bikes, we have replaced the usual cardboard box with an eco-friendly paper bag. Less waste Better reporting Reducing our use of cardboard and plastics Better data on our carbon emissions In Solar Group, we are reducing the use of cardboard and single-use plastics In 2019, we invested in and implemented a new system to collect and qualify data for for packaging. For our cardboard boxes, we have applied thinner cardboard our reporting for the CDP. In relation to the system, we have entered into a partnership material and eliminated use of color and print. In another initiative in 2020, with an external company providing expertise on the process of collecting the data and our customer centres will replace plastic bags with eco-friendly paper bags or on the reporting itself. These actions will improve the quality of our data across the reusable bags. Solar Group and provide a more solid foundation for taking further action, as valid and consistent data is critical to setting the right baseline and targets. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 16 CSR IN SOLAR ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights Responsible supplier management We want to ensure that we POLICIES RISKS respect human rights in our Solar is committed to ethical business practices The greatest risk for the Solar Group within operations as well as through our and requires the same high standards from our human rights lies with our third party agreements. business relations. Hence, we have suppliers. It is a Solar Group policy to comply Through our suppliers’ signup to and compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of the with the Solar Supplier Code of Conduct, the implemented two separate Code of countries and regions in which we operate and suppliers take full responsibility in their supply Conducts. One for employees and to conduct our business activities in an honest chain. one for suppliers. and ethical manner. Therefore, we have initiated a partnership with our suppliers, calling on them to sign our updated Code of Conduct. Our Code KPIS of Conduct declares that the Solar Group expects For supplier management, KPIs define that Solar its suppliers to uphold the policies of the Solar will implement a contract system to support and Group concerning compliance with all applicable improve the process of on-boarding new suppliers laws, respect for human rights, environmental and updating the policy going forward. conservation and safety of products and services. Our Code of Conduct indicates that human rights ACTIONS AND RESULTS are an integral part of Solar’s ethical framework. To support our efforts in relation to our Code All of our employees have signed our code of of Conduct, we have implemented a new digital conduct that dictates that Solar will comply contract system in 2019 in Sweden and Denmark. with applicable laws and regulations and act in Norway, The Netherlands and Poland will start an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible using the system in 2020. manner in all of our business activities. The system enables us to increase the number of As a part of our standard due diligence processes, suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct the Solar Group Code of Conduct declares that and will provide more control of the process Solar Group expects its suppliers to uphold the of on-boarding new suppliers and updating the policies of the Solar Group concerning compliance policies with existing suppliers. with all applicable laws, respect for human rights, environmental conservation and safety of products and services. Solar – Communication on Progress 2019 17 SOLAR IN BRIEF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE MATTERS Solar A/S Industrivej Vest 43 DK-6600 Vejen Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416 Go to our CSR & sustainability page Follow Solar on LinkedIn Solar – Annual Report 2019 18
