Sustainability report October 2020 Laerdal Helping save lives For more than 60 years, our mission has been helping save lives. The key word is “helping”. Our role is to develop educational and therapy solutions and services that help train and equip both healthcare professionals and lay people to save lives. To have the greatest impact on our mission, we work with partners in professional associations, NGOs and governments to develop actions for widespread implementation. And we have set a bold goal for the next decade: Helping save one million more lives. Every year. By 2030. How this goal will be achieved is described at https://one-million-lives.com/ Our guiding stars are the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), specifically SDG3, Good Health and Well-Being. Our focus is on reducing maternal, neonatal and child mortality, and improving survival from accidents and non-communicable diseases like sudden cardiac arrest. Doing business that contributes to a better world goes beyond our contributions to SDG3. We also impact other SDGs by setting clear targets for 2030 on emissions, materials use, and social responsibility. We are not only committed to achieving our goal of helping save one million more lives but doing so in a sustainable manner. Tore Lærdal Chairman and CEO Contents Measure to Improve.............................................................................................4 Becoming Carbon Neutral............................................................................6 Developing Circular Solutions.................................................................11 Committed to Social Responsibility..................................................17 2 A vision with action In this report, we outline ambitious goals to become carbon neutral, develop more circular solutions, and adhere to the UNGPs and OECD guidelines throughout our business and supply chain by 2030. We describe how we will work towards achieving them and our 2021 ambitions and actions including the purpose behind them. Carbon Neutral, Circular Solutions and UNGP adherence throughout Laerdal’s business and supply chain by 2030. Measure to Improve Carbon neutral Circular solutions Social responsibility Achieve a 70% reduction Circular Materials Implement UNGP and in carbon emissions by throughout the value OECD guidelines 2030 across: chain: throughout our supply • facilities • Reduce, Reuse, Recycle chain and cascade to • transport and travel • Design sustainability the next level from the • supply chain. into new products, largest suppliers. solutions and sales Oﬀset any residual models. emissions. Even though our business is driven by SDG 3, and our operations are important in the work towards our one million lives goal, it is our responsibility to operate in a manner that has minimal negative impact in the process. We know that accounting for own operations is not enough. We must look more broadly and take responsibility for other elements of our value chain. By accepting this obligation, we will work with partners to find better and more sustainable solutions for the future. We hope this report will inspire customers, partners, and employees to innovate and generate new initiatives to create a better future together. “Vision without action is a dream. Action without a vision is chaos.” Japanese Proverb 3 Measure to Improve 2030 goal: Measure all direct and indirect emissions generated as a result of our economic activity across the three emission scopes in a proven, methodical manner. Current Focus Area/Theme 2021 ambition to action: • Anchor methodology for Incorporate environmental estimating emissions in reporting in our corporate the organization. financial reporting system. • Develop framework for prioritizing areas for emission reduction initiatives. We are a “measure to improve” focussed company with strong emphasis on real impact. When setting targets for 2030, it has been important for us to assure that we understand the realities in own operations and in our value chain so that we can focus on the right areas. Considerable time has been spent to define the best possible tool to monitor the development in the years to come. Since 2010, we have been reporting on our Emission scopes Scope 1 and 2 emissions plus our Scope 3 Scope 1 – Direct Emissions , including fuel combustion emissions related to logistics and travel on site such as gas boilers, fleet vehicles. (see box). Our reporting has been based Scope 2 – Indirect Emissions from electricity purchased on a simplified version of the principles and used by the organization. outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3 – All Other Indirect Emissions from activities in www.ghgprotocol.org. In 2019, we initiated the value-chain of the organization: including a project together with external consultants, emissions associated with business travel, Klimakost/Asplan Viak and Material procurement, waste and water. Economics, to assess emissions in reporting on scope 1, 2 and 3. https://laerdal.com/globalassets/images--blocks/themed-images-blocks/sustainability/klimakost-report-on-laerdal-june-2020.pdf Evaluating all three scopes gives the total CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions relevant for the company’s accountabilities. This represents a major shift and stems from a growing realization that a large portion of our CO2e emissions originates in our value chain but is nevertheless impacted by our decisions. If we want to change those decisions, we need to know their impact. We have in our screening process learned about alternative reporting methodologies that will enable us to estimate our total CO2e emissions. By combining two these, we can see the full picture of the emissions from operations, a quantification of CO2e emissions from materials, and the impact of different decarbonization initiatives. Moving forward, we will use 2019 as our baseline being the first year we implemented the new methodology. 4 Approach 1: Input-output analysis based Approach 2: Assessment of embedded on financial reporting carbon in products (Klimakost/Asplan Viak) (Material Economics) Input-output analysis is a method to study the interThe assessment of embedded CO2ev is a top-down relations between sectors in the economy. assessment of the materials in finished products This method has been extended with environmenbased on sales volumes and estimation of the tal information to estimate the direct and indirect composition of each product. emissions from economic activity. By calculating and tracing the interconnected demand between sectors The analysis is based on the estimated materials in the economy it is possible to estimate the emiscomposition for 70% of our sales volumes (by weight) sions from the spend in any sector. and includes the four main material types (plastics, electronics, steel, and paper/cardboard). The emisFor our analysis, financial data were processed sion factors consider the embedded emissions from through the multiregional input-output (MRIO) selected materials, i.e. the emissions from extraction model EXIOBASE 3 https://www.exiobase.eu/index. and production of the raw materials. Emission factors php/about-exiobase to estimate the total emissions are based on average European values, e.g. for plastics for the company. overall. Advantages Advantage • Provides an understanding of total emissions from • Enables quantification of levers to reduce the our operations. CO2e footprint of materials to provide a high• Possible methodology for further monitoring level understanding of how to cut emissions of emissions. from materials. Disadvantages Disadvantage • Provides a good overview of total emissions but • Based on European data, whereas we are a global does not provide details on each material. company. • Pricing and currency fluctuations could impact details and elements in the results. We believe there is an advantage by combining the For emissions from a company’s materials use the two methods and then cross checking the results assessment is usually much more complex: the CO2e with our external partners. footprint depends on the material composition of the products and the share of recycled vs virgin For many emission categories the solutions to rematerials. The opportunity to reduce emissions is duce emissions are often relatively straightforward usually also larger, ranging from circulating prode.g. shifting to renewable electricity in production ucts to a larger extent, recycling materials internally sites. In this regard, an estimation of the total CO2e and externally, and shifting to renewable energy in footprint based on the input-output analysis gives the supply chain. enough information to make informed decisions. By using this type of methodology, it is also possible to monitor and compare emissions from year to year. 5 Becoming carbon neutral 2030 goal: Achieve a minimum 70% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 across: facilities, transport, travel and supply chain. Offset any residual emissions. Reductions based on 2019 levels Current Focus Area/Theme 2021 ambition to action: • Renewable energy in all offices and factories. Reduce absolute emissions by 10% from 2019 level by: • Lasting change in travelling habits. • reducing air freight by 25% from 2.1 to 1.6 million • Optimize logistics network. ton-kilometres; • reducing business travel cost by 20% through travelling less and smarter; • while still growing the business, reducing total weight shipped to customers from xx to yy; • only working with freight forwarders who have a focus on emissions reduction. Total emissions 2019 Based on the methodology described in the • Own sites & Operations made up of a range of previous section, we have estimated our total contributions such as onsite energy consumption, emissions and have identified four main levers consultancy services, facility maintenance, tools, that drive our emissions: hardware, and office equipment. • Products & Components covering the emissions Our total carbon footprint in 2019 was estimated embedded in the materials, components and to be 69 kilotonnes CO2e. Our efforts to reduce our products that we offer. emissions will be shaped around these levers and are • Travel the emissions generated by our business detailed on the following pages. travels. • Logistics covering inbound logistics for our raw materials, components and finished products plus the distribution of our products to our customers. Total emissions 2019 33 69 8 11 17 Own sites & Logistics Travel Products & Total CO₂e Operations Components footprint 2019 Thousand tonnes CO2 per year 6 Absolute reductions needed According to the UN Emission Gap Report (2019), We have a shared dedication and commitment with global emissions need to be 55% lower in 2030 our shareholders, the Laerdal Board, senior mancompared to 2018 to put the world on the least-cost agement and employees to follow through on the pathway to limiting global warming to below 1.5˚C reduction initiatives that will stem from the compared to pre-industrial temperatures. ambitions set out in this document. We recognize this and accept our share of account“The greatest danger to our planet is ability. We are charting out a pathway based on a the belief that someone else will save it.” minimum 70% reduction of our CO2e emissions. Robert Swan, OBE, FRGS Polar Explorer Cooperation for change Laerdal is joining forces with several prominent • set interim targets to be reached in the coming companies across sectors to reduce CO2e emissions 1 to 5 years, not only a long-term target; and and to increase use of circular materials in the value • cover Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. chain. In doing so, we accept the challenge to: Skiftnorge • adopt targets to reduce CO2e emissions in a “science-based” manner so that they can be Laerdal has joined Skiftnorge which is an initiative assessed by others and are in line with the level to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon of decarbonization required to keep global economy and support the Norwegian Government in delivering on its national climate commitments temperature increase below 1.5°C compared by 2030. to pre-industrial temperatures; Targeted reductions by 2030 69 22 3 6 17 21 Total CO₂ Products & Travel Logistics Own sites & Estimated footprint Components Operations residual 2019 CO2e 7 Targeted reductions by 2030 Product and components Achieving our ambitions will take time and require We will reduce emissions from our products and systematic and long-term efforts. We will initiate components from thirty-three to eleven thousand and fund projects within four levers -Products and tons of CO2e per year by 2030. components, Logistics, Travel and Own sites and operations every year during the next ten years to These reductions will be achieved by initiatives enable us to reach our targets. The results will be undertaken at our manufacturing sites as well as in achieved based on our ability to mobilize all cooperation with suppliers in our value chain. employees to work throughout the entire value chain to identify opportunities for improvements By introducing more recycled and bio-based mateso that we can accelerate the impact we have for a rial into our products we will achieve a reduction more sustainable future. in both CO2e emissions and usage of raw materials. As we transition to using more circular and shared user models, complemented by digital solutions, we will see a decrease in resources and energy needed and, at the same time, an increase in usage of our solutions. Ultimately, we will be helping save more lives using less resources. Starting now, we will plan for solutions internally with total emissions in mind and will work with partners that share our commitment to achieve an overall reduction in emissions. Logistics We will reduce the emissions from our inbound logistics and distribution from eleven to five thousand tons of CO2e per year by 2030. This will be achieved in part by optimizing our logistics network and in part by actively selecting freight forwarding options with proven low CO2e emissions. To help us, we have built a reporting solution that enables us to assess the emissions from our global flow of goods. This tool helps us to identify the emissions from our different trade lanes. We do this by analyzing our transactional data to model what we have shipped from A to B. This is combined with emission factors to provide a detailed overview of the emissions from our logistics activities. 8 Travel We will reduce our emission from travel from eight With the increased digital communication necessary to five thousand tons of CO2e per year by 2030. during the time affected by COVID-19, we have developed our digital software and skills. We believe in being close to our customers and some With customers and partners, we see this as an travelling is necessary. However, we need to opportunity to continue a transition to a more digibe smarter in how we optimize these contacts. tal-based sales and communication system on an ongoing basis. Own sites and operations We will reduce emissions from our own sites and operation from seventeen thousand to zero tons of CO2e by 2030. This is a very ambitious target bearing in mind the complexity and diversity of emissions sources included in this category. As can be seen in the graph to the right, this category includes diverse levers such as outsourced services, IT, and depreciation of machinery. In setting such an ambitious target, there is a recognition that to reduce our emissions we must start early. We will take initiatives in many areas in parallel to achieve our goal. Reducing the emissions for this category will be a truly global effort with activities undertaken across all disciplines and all locations. We have already introduced usage of renewable energy at most manufacturing sites and more actions will be taken within 2021 for further improvements. Estimated residual emissions to be offset Our current estimates show that in 2030 we will be This means that one million trees planted within generating 21 kilotonnes of CO2e emissions that will 2021 will offset the potential residual emissions of need to be offset. 21 kilotonnes CO2e per year from 2031 onwards. Currently, the most promising carbon capture techWe will by mid-2021 investigate if further emission nology is the approach of planting trees. Research reductions can be achieved and other solutions for shows that ten years after planting, an average tree removing our emissions from the atmosphere, but will absorb about 21kg of CO2e per year from the we are now planning for offsetting the current estiatmosphere. mated residual emissions by planting one million trees. One million trees planted to help save one million lives. 9 Carbon reduction initiatives in different functions The carbon reduction program goes across all units in Laerdal, and many initiatives are underway or will be started shortly. Some are based on specific plans others based on developments in the market. In dialogue with 3 corporate leaders we learnt their perspective on the situation: Ambitious partners in logistics and services “On logistics, we have proactively addressed the Distribution Centers (DCs). This reduces the square CO2e emissions footprint and selected our transporfootage needed in our facilities and our central DCs tation partners with the commitment to be carbon are located as close as possible to final delivery destineutral by 2030. We select partners who can comnations in Asia Pacific, Americas and Europe. plement and support efforts for reductions in freight/ distance travelled by our products, reductions in On services, we will continue our digital-first cusemissions from using low-emissions vehicles and tomer service strategy. This includes delivering inforreductions in energy consumption at our distribution mation and updates to our customers on educational centers. We have increased the concept of crossand technical services proactively via an online docking, meaning, the products are distributed portal. We will also do more remote diagnosis and directly from our factories to end-customers with online video-based support.” marginal handling and storage time at our central Petra Ellen Hansen. Director Operations. Sales and Services and COVID 19 in 2020 Selection and partnering with our suppliers “From March to August 2020, travelling to customer “When selecting suppliers, we are looking for partsites essentially stopped. We worked remotely with ners who live up to international standards and who our customers to support them during these very can align their ambitions on sustainability with ours. special circumstances. Development in video conferWe realize that the 2030 goals can only be achieved encing and teamwork software made it possible to in partnership and collaboration with our suppliers. do business with minimal on-site meetings. This has The sustainability ambitions and geographical locacreated alternative perspectives on how to cooperate tions are dimensions when identifying and selecting and to present the value we can offer through virtual suppliers that will become even more important than demonstrations. We believe the “new normal” after before. COVID 19 will look different with increased use of BB Electronics in Suzhou in China is one of several virtual tools to assure our solutions cover users’ real suppliers who share our values and ambitions. needs.” They are working on many sustainability-related initiatives in parallel, including changing from single Tor Bryne. VP Sales, Marketing & Services. use to reusable boxes when sending us “Work in Progress” components locally. They have also installed insulating curtains around machines to reduce power usage.” Sjur Gausel. Director of Strategic Sourcing. Tor Sjur Bryne Gausel Petra Ellen Hansen 10 Developing Circular Solutions 2030 goal: Circular materials throughout the value chain ‘’Reduce, Reuse, Recycle’’ and design sustainability into new products. Reductions based on 2019 levels Current Focus Area/Theme 2021 ambition to action: • Implement ZeroAim sustainable design • 50% of packaging material in our products will come from tool. recycled material. • Initiate pilot projects for a circular • Start including recycled material in products with internal/ business model and recycled plastic non-visible plastic components. in our products • 25% reduction in virgin plastic material in newly • Set up recycling schemes in our supply developed products. chain. • Develop a methodology for collecting end-of-life products. • 10% of single use (non-medical) products and components replaced by reusable, recycled or bio-based solutions. In order to ensure long term sustainability in our The transition towards a more circular approach is own operations, we need to rethink the way we driven by a ‘’Reduce-Reuse-Recycle’’ mindset that is deliver our solutions. Our ambition is to deliver integrated throughout the organization. To integrate more circular solutions driven by both circular use sustainability into everything we do, we have develof materials and more circular and dematerialized oped the Laerdal Future Fit model using elements user approaches. from the Future-Fit Benchmark Model used by Novo Nordisk. How much The Laerdal Future Fit model will help us to assess: can we improve the positive • the positive impact of the new solutions or new way impact? of working DOING MORE GOOD; Delivering Producing • environmental risks and how alternative solutions can solutions: and distributing help to limit the potential harm we create by the solutions Helping save lives the solution we deliver DOING LESS HARM. How much The model is an integrated part of our product can we development process decrease the negative impact? In working towards this ambition, we will deliver organizations requiring healthcare training to on our commitment of helping save lives while using connect to equipment already in the field. The shift less and more sustainable materials. We will ensure towards a circular business model is not only vital that our equipment is used in an efficient manner to deliver sustainable solutions, it is also key to e.g. by developing sharing models, digital solutions achieving our ambition of carbon neutrality. and by building eco-systems to allow 11 Laerdal Circular Model Raw materials We are minimizing our input of raw materials through a combination of using circular material and creating circular solutions. Recycling We are recycling material internally and externally, through partnerships with eg IVAR. Residual waste We are minimizing waste through further developing our take back schemes and increase our assembly options. Services We are improving our services through an increased use of cloud-based support systems and additional services. Raw materials We will minimize our input of raw materials The findings suggest that even though new technolthrough a combination of recycling material and ogies and solutions are emerging, there are so far components and by developing more solutions limitations to it’s durability, which for Laerdal is a that increase productivity. Our materials team are key factor for sustainability. We are moving towards continually investigating new solutions to increase more use of such solutions but need to ensure that the sustainability of our material use. They have product durability is not compromised. Enhancing over the last year reviewed bio-based solutions as sustainability of our long-life products through alternatives for plastic in our products. changing the user models will increase user productivity and decrease the material needed to deliver the solution. Product Development Designing for more circular and dematerialised user We have developed the ZeroAim Sustainability models are key aspects of the product development Guide to aid us in providing relevant direction to process. Using the Laerdal Future Fit model, our designers and engineers. Its purpose is to help to development teams are focusing on design solutions evaluate and compare multiple concepts and design which lead to a more sustainable product. They are more sustainable products. The guide also helps us finding alternative ways to reduce the amount of to think about the impact of our decisions throughplastic used, making good choices on plastic types, out the lifetime of products. Through integrating including using non-virgin plastic where possible, this tool, sustainability is not an add on, it is a core and ensuring the products are designed to be easy development feature. to service and upgrade. But sustainability is not just about the product; it is also about reducing the amount of packaging material necessary and choosing sustainable packaging. 12 Reduce-Reuse-Recycle Product Development We are using ZeroAim as a tool to optimize sustainability in our product development process. Manufacturing: internal and external We are working towards operational eﬃciency by using renewable energy and focus on resource and energy eﬃciency. Logistics We select transportation measures and partners to reduce energy consumption and to use renewable energy where relevant. Sales and user models We optimize our solutions and will work towards delivering more through digital platforms and sharing models. Manufacturing: internal and external In the approach towards a circular solution delivery, We will work with our suppliers to exchange the manufacturing process is important. We have knowledge and learn from each other in a health internal initiatives in place and planned to achieve and safety focussed manner. We have already started operational efficiency through elimination of waste, using the OECD guidelines on environmental imrecycling, using renewable energy, and enhancing pact as a framework to assess our own production resource and energy efficiency. A large part of our and are expecting the same from our suppliers. production is done by external suppliers, and it is key to collaborate in this change. Logistics Closing the loop in our supply chain is dependent In this transition we will use our transportation on an increased use of logistics to optimize our tool to optimize our logistics and use transportation circular product services, both in our take-back driven by renewable energy where possible. systems, and in our new sales models. Sales and user models A vital part in our transition towards more circular We will be able to increase the access to our solutions are the changes that we are making to our solutions and train more people using less resources sales and user models. We are transitioning from in doing so. linear models to circular models through developing shared, digital and service-based solutions. These In Laerdal we have always had a great focus on solutions will not only help us decrease our envidurability and quality, which are key in ronmental impact through dematerialization and delivering more circular solutions. The durability productive use, they will also enable us to enhance of our products will be enhanced with an increased our goals of helping save lives. focus on services and maintenance in a more sustainable manner. 13 Services Circular solutions require effective service and We will continue to optimize our service and repair maintenance programs. Durability and quality have options, and we will have an increased focus on the always been a key priority for Laerdal, and we assembly/disassembly opportunities that will further already have a good infrastructure in place through enhance our durability approach. Our digital our deployed field engineers and our well-estabservices are also expanding and improving as we lished Service Centers available for all markets. deploy new platforms and knowledge through the In addition, we have digital maintenance and acquisition of B-Line Medical, the leading provider services for connected solutions. of video debriefing and simulation center We are continuously optimizing the durability of management solutions (see later). our solutions through providing easily accessible upgrade services. Residual waste We are minimizing our internal waste by focusing We are also developing take-back schemes and on efficient manufacturing and by recycling our increasing our assembly-disassembly options. The scrap and waste. We are also reducing waste linked increased focus on services, repair and durability to our products by delivering solutions that are will also help us reduce our waste. circular, shared and dematerialized through digital platforms and are increasingly using materials that are widely recyclable and encouraging our users to recycle at the end of the product lifecycle. Recycling Sustainability in our solutions are first and foremost recyclable material in these products and in our promoted by durability and productive use. Our long-life products when technology evolves and focus is to first reduce, then reuse and lastly recycle does not affect the durability of the solution. when the product no longer serves a purpose. We will recycle scrap and post-consumer material For us, recycling is especially important with internally or by using local partners. We are our single-use products or products with a short currently investigating collection systems that can lifespan. We are determined to expand use of close this loop in our supply chain. recycled and 14 Our journey towards circular solutions and materials Rescitation Quality Improvement (RQI) We have partnered with the American Heart Association to create and deliver the RQI program an example of combining resources and knowledge in a “shared model”. The program uses a self-directed methodology, combining both online learning and stand-alone resuscitation skills stations. This approach increases accessibility and utilization and improves resuscitation quality at healthcare institutions, whilst decreasing the amount of equipment required per healthcare provider. Program implementations are now being completed remotely via online & digital support, significantly reducing the amount of travel and overall emissions. Cloud-based solutions from B-Line Medical In 2019 we acquired B-Line Medical – the leading provider of video debriefing and simulation center management solutions – as a part of our strategic effort to enhance our portfolios through the use of enabling technologies. SimCapture, a key part of B-Line’s portfolio is fully cloud-based and allows us to more rapidly develop and remotely implement new features and trouble-shoot and support customers without having to physically be onsite – and thus reducing the need to travel significantly while at the same time increasing our responsiveness. Over time, the cloud-based solution will also require less hardware reducing the use of materials and electronics. 15 Partnering for recycling We have started a partnership with the public recycling company for the Stavanger Region, IVAR. We are exploring the opportunity for using their advanced plant for working specifically on the Laerdal waste plastic. We are early in the process, but we are seeing promising initial results for them to clean and separate out different types of plastic using the 22 machines they currently have in place. They could also clean and work on the different Laerdal waste on a dedicated machine if /when required. We are also investigating whether we can use waste plastic from IVAR in some of our products. Quality is everything to us and we will ensure that our high standards are maintained and that our products meet all relevant material compliance requirements. 3D printing With our growing knowledge of sustainable technologies, we are in the process of developing 3D-printing initiatives for producing parts. This will enable us to reduce the unnecessary waste stemming from unused spare parts. In addition, we have started making our own 3D printing filament using recycled plastic scrap from our production. Reducing packaging waste To help reduce our environmental footprint generated from waste when unboxing, we are in the process of removing / reducing plastic and cardboard from our packaging. Developing recycled skins In order to reduce our reliance on virgin plastic, we are developing experimental skin using recycled materials. Take-back schemes will need to be established to collect these materials for recycling. There will likely be challenges, for example with consistent colour quality. However, as one customer responded: “No one is without blemish, so, if possible, we would like this alternative solution.” It will be an opportunity for us to take bold initiatives to reduce use of virgin plastic. Offering a sustainable Manikin Face Shield Our material team has over the last year investigated alternative materials for our Manikin Face Shield. After comparison of multiple concepts bearing in mind the specific use of the product and the strict hygiene requirements, we found that recycled and recyclable materials will be the best solution. 16 Committed to Social Responsibility 2030 goal: Implement UNGPs and OECD guidelines throughout our supply chain and cascade to the next level from the largest suppliers. Current Focus areas/Themes 2021 ambition to action: • Implement UNGPs and OECD processes at our Implement UNGPs and OECD guidelines with at least manufacturing sites. 25% of our key suppliers. • Cascade same methodology to key suppliers. • 40% female leaders. An important part of delivering on our 2030 goals Laerdal has a strong commitment to the SDGs, is to have processes and systems in place to enspecifically SDG3 Good Health and Well-Being, and sure that we deliver on international principles for in 2019 we committed to the UN Guiding Principles sustainable development. Laerdal is committed to on Human Rights (UNGPs) and the Organisation support and follow the UN Global Compact for Economic Co-operation and Development https://www.unglobalcompact.org/library/2 (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. principles on human rights, labour, environment https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/governance/ and anti-corruption. This commitment is reflected in oecd-guidelines-for-multinational-enterpristhe way we operate and in what we expect from our es_9789264115415-en suppliers and partners. We became a member of Global Compact in 2015. By having a strong focus on human rights, reducing environmental harm, and anti-corruption, we are in good position to partner with international organizations and to deliver on other relevant SDGs. Minimum Standard Human Rights Environmental Anti-corruption UNGP OECD Guidelines 17 Implementing the UNGPs and OECD guidelines Based on a framework developed by the sustainable This requires us to: business consultants, GLOBAL CSR, we have • avoid causing or contributing to adverse impacts established a methodology to implement the on human rights, the environment and antiUNGPs and OECD guidelines, which for us is a way corruption through our own activities but to ensure we conduct business in a responsible manaddressing such impacts when they occur; and ner. We are committed to respect the human rights • seek to prevent or mitigate adverse human rights, of others, minimize our negative impact on the environment and anti-corruption impacts that environment and ensure anti-corruption. We assess are directly linked to our operations, products or and address any potential adverse impacts using this services through our business relationships. framework. We expect our suppliers and partners to do the same. We have in addition, in alignment and partnership with an external human rights lawyer, developed policies and processes relevant for our operational risks and global reach. This includes implementation of and follow up on: • a CSR policy commitment; • a Human Rights due diligence process; and • establishing grievance mechanisms to enable access to remedy. “We are proud to assist Laerdal in implementing the UNGPs and OECD guidelines. By using our newly developed cloud-based Due Diligence tool, regular impact assessments are facilitated for both Laerdal and key suppliers. In 2019, Laerdal with our support developed capacity and conducted the first operational level impact assessment with key Laerdal representatives from their corporate office and their factories in Monterrey (Mexico) and Suzhou (China). The tool will enable both their own operations and key suppliers to conduct and document regular impact assessments the key element of the UNGPs.” Sune Skadegaard Thorsen Human Rights Lawyer GLOBAL CSR https://globalcsr.net/ 18 Our business relationships Laerdal collaborates with carefully considered, reputable partners to create long-lasting business relationships. To assure continuous alignment, we conduct regular assessments. We will move towards a continuous process engaging our suppliers and partners to assure we all meet the UNGPs and assess any impact on human rights while increasing transparency and trust. We expect our partners and suppliers to: • meet the globally agreed minimum standard for responsible business conduct as referenced in our Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility and outlined in our Code of Conduct for Business Relationships; • manage risks of adverse human rights impacts that they may cause or contribute to; • communicate promptly to us any severe adverse impacts that our relationships cause, contribute or are linked to; and • ask the same from their business relationships. This is a new approach for due diligence, where partnership and transparency are key elements. We will share our risks and our strategy for mitigating them and expect our suppliers and partners to do the same. In this way we will learn from each other and work together to ensure responsible business conduct. We believe that a collaborative approach to ensure responsible business is more effective than a controlling one. Diversity and inclusion In addition to managing risks of adverse impacts on the right not to be subjected to discrimination, we believe that diversity and inclusion from entry level to top management help us drive better decision-making. Fostering diversity, enables us to build cultural awareness, a broader competence base and to understand better our customers across cultures. We have a diversity and inclusion policy that builds on the prohibition of discrimination or harassment of any kind. https://laerdal.com/about-us/ working-at-laerdal/diversity-and-inclusion/ Over the last two years, we have increased our workforce to over 1500 permanent employees. There has been a slight decrease in the percentage of female workers due to lower ability to recruit women for our growing software The Laerdal extended Executive Management Team activities,but we have increased the percentage of female celebrate the SDGs at Utstein Abbey, outside Stavanger. team leaders to 38%. Today 31% of the senior management group are females. 19 “If we can create value to the society at large, and do our job well, satisfactory economic results will follow – and allow us to build a stronger company with time.” Åsmund S. Lærdal
