UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS OUR FOCUS We focus on achieving the ten principles of the Un Global Compact by meeting fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since we are a responsible businesses we enact the same values and principles wherever we have presence, and we know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another, therefore, we seek to achieve all 10 principles the UN Global Compact sets including all 17 Sustainable Development Goals. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, our company is not only upholding basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also step forward towards incorporating in the current business model a greener, a better, and a more sustainable vision of the future. OUR ACTIONS Whether through core business, strategic social investment and philanthropy, public policy engagement and advocacy, and partnerships and other collective actions we seek to achieve and maintain the 10 UN Global Principles by not being complicit, in our supply chain and our day to day basis against any of the 10 principles, while in parallel we actively support and maintain sustainable action in order to achieve those 10 UN Global Compact principles. The managerial team of Sustainability is founded in August of 2019 since then we have achieved many and have set even much more, promising targets these targets are not limited to the ones bellow, but include: Initially when the role of Sustainability Manager was created Megaplast has had already achieved a bit more than ample results, when I initially came I found that Megaplast was already ahead leading in Sustainability, it was and still is the only Company compared to major Stretch Film competitors that is producing 100% with Renewable Energy which is 8 million kilograms of CO2 reduction in the atmosphere simply by producing with 100% Green Energy, we also were and are sourcing PRS reusable pallets, our product was and is certified to be recycled, we were and still are cooperating with a recycling company to collect transport storing and recycle our plastic materials which result from the production, we had and we are upgrading an in production recycling extruder, We already had a product that was 75% more CO2 free and have created a version of our products that is CO2 and tree cutting free and are planning to make it waste water free. Finally, our products were already half the size of the products that claim to be half the size of the industry standard, and thus the plastic tax and energy used to recycled is half or more than half regarding the compared product. In a last note when it comes to certifications, we were already Certified for MSDS, TDS and REACH. In conclusion the practicality of the Sustainability Department was already in place but now that the Sustainability Department is created we aim for a lot. So to begin: Every 6 months or less (Based on CDP recommendations) KPI’s are measured that affect Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption but also societal and other KPI’s so as to be able to sustain and relocate assets and thus productivity to targets that we deem worthwhile and valuable to the company each 6 months, Thus a yearly sustainability report is something we go beyond and we produce a sustainability brochure every 6 months and a yearly sustainability report through the UN Global Compact, we also aim to report through CDP and report through Eco-Vadis and SEDEX. A materiality analysis has also been undertaken focusing on all the UN Global Compact principles, societal issues and more, and a big group of internal and external stakeholders have been interviewed. Thus, we created a Matrix, focusing on the importance of sustainable practicalities to stakeholders and on the impact those merits (merits-practicalities) have on Megaplast. Moreover, we have created two products that each provide meritful sustainable practicality. Thus, we have Created Green Fiber and EcoFiber. We have created Green Fiber a series of our current products that are CO2 free and Tree positive and we aim to make it a combination of Resource Depletion Free and Extended Producer Responsibility all these by providing the same range of products with the current price we always had but this time they are CO2 Free Tree Positive and potentially Zero Water Depletion and 0 Plastic Waste in Natural Habitats such as ocean and water streams. Green Fiber was produced chronically secondly to Eco-Fiber but we know that it is first in achieving the sustainable practicalities which are of importance to our customers. If you are interested in using Green Fiber please call your Country’s Sales Office or the Sustainability Manager Kyriakos Kavvadias at +306953087699 The firstly produced product called Eco-Fiber is a 30% pre-consumer recyclate and 100% recyclable, while we focus in producing all our products with 5% pre-consumer recyclate. We also have certified our procedures, products and most of our business aspects through globally known standards such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, MSDS, TDS and REACH while we are committed in providing our customers with the opportunity to have certainty in other business aspects by committing to have more certifications such as for ethics by Q1 of 2021. We also try to Improve the Production, we constantly focusing on creating more efficient machines, we also plan to create a new plant that will highly increase efficiencies and reduce logistical Resource use such as gas for transportation and will lead thus to CO2 reduction. A very important global effort called 0 pellet loss, this global effort gives tools and information on how a business that uses plastic pellets to have no pellets lost to the environment, into streams of water and end up in the sea which will be eaten by tortoises, dolphins fish etc. so we are very proud to have achieved this goal. We are also part of UNGC water stewardship. Charitable donations to organizations are at an all time high focusing on important aspects such as Covid 19, Australian bushfires and Human rights issues, we also are at the beginnings of a collaboration with an NGO called Blue Cycle that focuses on recycling Greek Ionian and Aegean sea Fishing nets which are found at sea and beaches into furniture, the cooperation will start by Q2 of 2020, this will work by us donating a certain grade of plastic that we use in big quantities that will be used to provide Blue Cycle with the ability to produce higher quality products. THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT GOALS HUMAN RIGHTS  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are universal and every person around the world deserves to be treated with dignity and equality. Basic rights include freedom of speech, privacy, health, life, liberty and security, as well as an adequate standard of living. Our business recognizes the legal, moral and commercial need to be involved in human rights preservation and improvement with every stakeholder we are doing business with. We act with due diligence to avoid infringing human rights this means we address any negative human rights impacts related to our business. We also abide by international standards and avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts through our activities and relationships with our stakeholders. Beyond these minimum requirements, we make voluntary, positive contributions to support human rights. For example, we create diverse and inclusive workplaces, invest in communities and public policy advocacy, and engage stakeholders to promote collective partnerships especially through CSR. While we support human rights through actions, we recognize that they do not substitute basic respect for human rights. In an increasingly interconnected world, there is closer scrutiny of corporate impact on people and communities. Companies that focus on protecting human rights — and cultivate positive relationships with their stakeholders — can facilitate business’s growth and fulfil the social reasons to operate beyond profit and employment. The knowledge to implement this is achieved through understanding the UN Declaration of Human rights. The human rights principles (Principles 1 and 2) of the UN Global Compact are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE OBJECTIVE DESCRIPTION AND TARGET RESULTS, PROGRESS AND TIME DEADLINES Principle 1 Businesses should 1. Through a compact 1. Megaplast has the goal for all employees who support and respect the and well thought have the internal capacity from the roles and protection of Code of Conduct. responsibilities they have acquired to internationally 2. Through committing implement maintain and improve the 10 proclaimed human rights to never directly sell, principles of the UN Global Compact, to produce or supply understand and creatively implement the Code our materials from of Conduct of the business (The Code of countries who are Conduct includes the 10 principles of UNGC, not participatory or includes the UNITED NATIONS “PROTECT, signatory members RESPECT AND REMEDY” framework ,it includes of international the International Bill Of Human Rights And The ratifications for Core International Labour Organization (ILO) human rights for 7 Conventions and the Precautionary approach out of the 9 main for the environment which is stated in Principle human rights 15 of the 1992 Rio Declaration but also focus conventions. on gradually implementing in time the Paris Agreement in such a way that is easy and compact to be understood. 2. Those international ratifications include: International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, International Covenant on Economic / Social and Cultural Rights, Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Principle 2 Businesses should make against Women, Convention against Torture sure that they are not and Other Cruel / Inhuman or Degrading complicit in human Treatment or Punishment, Convention on the rights abuses. Rights of the Child, Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 3. Understanding Supplier human right efforts by investigating supplier human right policies, misdemeanors and policies and actions to prevent further misdemeanors 4. Determining the scope of our responsibility through the un guidance. Principle1 Businesses should 3. Understanding 5. These rights that we actively support through support and respect the supplier human right CSR expenditure are the right to rest and protection of efforts leisure; the right to a standard of living internationally 4. Determining the adequate for health and well-being; the right to proclaimed human rights scope of our education; and the right to participate in the responsibility. cultural life of the community. 5. Focus our CSR 6. The Sustainable Procurement guide is sourced strategy to include from internationally recognized government goals that are found standards including: in the UN declaration 1. Identifying the business need. of human rights. 2.Conducting a risk assessment. Principle 2 Businesses should make 6. Through the 3.Seeking alternative solutions. sure that they are not purchasing process. 4.Evaluating alternative solutions. complicit in human 7. We measure Human 5.Award the contract. rights abuses. Rights KPI’s 6.Ongoing management of contact. 8. We disclose our 7.Disposal of goods. rating for 7. We measure Human Rights KPI’s for internal Sustainability ratings and external afairs every 6 months or more of the Eco Vadis frequently in order to have an excellent and platform through our always leaderful Strategy for Human Rights six month because we try to readjust our worldview and sustainability sustainability procurement to new information. brochure And we are happy to know that there are no Human Right abuses in the internal or external operational parts of our business affairs. Our KPI’s are sourced from the Human Rights Indicators of OHCR. 8. Our Sustainability rating for Labour and Human rights is exactly at 50% we focus the next six months of Q2 of 2020 to upgrade our Ecovadis rating for silver to Gold LABOUR Megaplast’s economic growth actively helps to ensure equity, social progress and eradicate poverty, both through CSR and by having favorable working conditions both compared to local standards and international competitors, due to the innovative and cost efficient nature of our products which ensures profitability and high employee wages among many more benefits which lead to natural high employee retentions. In order to avoid Child labour and forced labour in our supply chains we have chosen not to partner with businesses which directly operate in countries which are neither signatory nor participatory to some of the UN’s Human Rights Ratifications, we also understand our supply chain Labour efforts through their policies, misdemeanors and policies and actions to prevent further misdemeanors . This way we ensure that our supply chain is free of hazardous workplaces and discriminatory organizations. Megaplast commits to uphold labour standards across our operations including providing a fair income. This includes workplace security, social protection, better prospects for personal development and social integration. Megaplast also focuses on non-discrimination, equal opportunities and treatment, and freedom to express workplace concerns, through direct employee relation with high level executives. We also foster a climate of proper communication, teamwork, integrity and merit system which drives the workplace away from inside politics, towards a goal focused workplace, which fosters good workplace ethics and culture. Decent work is good for society. Our business due to non-discriminatory practices that embrace diversity and inclusion benefits all members of society locally for our factories and globally for our foreign offices, this creates greater access to skilled, productive workforce. Megaplast’s policy is to improve workplace practices beyond legal compliance that includes communication and partnerships between the employees, upholding freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, while at the same time helping tackle youth unemployment which fosters creativity and innovation. The UN Global Compact’s labour principles (Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6) are championed by the International Labour Organization (ILO) these principles also fall under our Human Rights and Supply Chain activities and Megaplast monitors frequently changes in Labour principles from these institutions and government laws in order to implement changes to Megaplast labour principles which comply with institutions, but we also look at labour issues as a specific important subject to Megaplast which achieves important goals and leadership also through employee and upper management communication pathways. LABOUR PRINCIPLES  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation PRINCIPLE OBJECTIVE TARGETS AND DESCRIPTION RESULTS, PROGRESS AND TIME DEADLINES Principle 3 Businesses should uphold 1. All employees can exercise 1. Employees due to the business being a the freedom of association their right to collective medium company and because of and the effective bargain, in respect to the trust, long term cooperation, high recognition of the right to local and European laws. wages, and extra benefits like the collective bargaining ability to get a loan of the monetary value of 4 months of wage with 0 interest rate and long plan for repayment, we provide high quality private health care for all employees. These measures lead employees to not have an interest to collectively bargain, due to the high quality of employment proven by our employee retention rates. Principle Businesses should uphold 2. Understanding supplier 2. Understanding Supplier labour 3,4,5,6 the freedom of association Labour efforts principles and policies by investigating and the effective 3. We comply with Greek and supplier labour policies, European legislation in misdemeanors and policies and recognition of the right to respect to the Labour actions to prevent further collective bargaining; legislation but also create misdemeanors leadership in regards to 3. Currently we go beyond fully The elimination of all Labour Laws by understand complying with the Greek and forms of forced and and implementing the European Labour legislation, by compulsory labour; positive effects of collective implement the labour legislation in The effective abolition of bargaining as being respect to the UN “principle of good child labour; and explained through the faith”. The elimination of “principle of good faith” of discrimination in respect the UN. of employment and occupation. Principle 4. Through a compact and well 3,4,5,6 Businesses should uphold thought Code of Conduct. 4. Megaplast has the goal for all the freedom of association 5. Through the purchasing employees who have the internal and the effective process. capacity from the roles and recognition of the right to 6. We do measure Labour responsibilities they have acquired to collective bargaining; KPI’s implement maintain and improve the 10 principles of the UN Global The elimination of all Compact, to understand and forms of forced and creatively implement the Code of compulsory labour; Conduct of the business (The Code of The effective abolition of Conduct includes the 10 principles of child labour; and UNGC, includes the UNITED NATIONS “PROTECT, RESPECT AND REMEDY” The elimination of framework ,it includes the discrimination in respect International Bill Of Human Rights And of employment and The Core International Labour occupation. Organization (ILO) Conventions and the Precautionary approach for the environment which is stated in Principle 15 of the 1992 Rio Declaration but also focus on gradually implementing in time the Paris Agreement in such a way that is easy and compact to be understood. 5. The Sustainable Procurement guide is sourced from internationally recognized government standards including: 1. Identifying the business need. 2.Conducting a risk assessment. 3.Seeking alternative solutions. 4.Evaluating alternative solutions. 5.Award the contract. 6.Ongoing management of contact. 7.Disposal of goods. 6. Our labour KPI’s focus on the safety of the staff but also we use other indicators for non-discrimination, age, gender but also wealth and happiness indicators etc. Principle 4,5,6 Business should uphold 7. We disclose our rating for 7. Our Sustainability rating for Labour the elimination of all Sustainability efforts of the and Human rights is exactly at 50% we forms of forced and Eco Vadis platform through focus the next six months of Q2 of compulsory labour; our six-month sustainability 2020 to upgrade our Eco-Vadis rating brochure for silver to Gold The effective abolition of 8. Through committing to 8. Those international ratifications child labour; and never directly sell, produce include: International Convention on The elimination of or supply our materials from the Elimination of All Forms of Racial discrimination in respect countries who are not Discrimination, International Covenant of employment and participatory or signatory on Civil and Political Rights, occupation. members of international International Covenant on Economic / ratifications for human and Social and Cultural Rights, Convention labour rights for 7 out of the on the Elimination of All Forms of 9 main human rights Discrimination against Women, conventions. Convention against Torture and Other 9. As a business we have the Cruel / Inhuman or Degrading goal to continuously Treatment or Punishment, Convention improve and implement on the Rights of the Child, Convention globally recognized on the Rights of Persons with standards. These currently Disabilities. include ISO 14001, ISO 9001, 9. The timeframe for the implementation Reach or whether those Standards will be implemented cannot be discerned due to the limited knowledge we have as an organization on the value these standards will provide compared to loss of time and cost, however, a common language has been created through the implementation of ISO 9001. ENVIRONMENT Megaplast is not only a leader in environmental issues in the stretch film industry but also undertakes the role of an example for the rest of stretch film industry in an effort to foster communications and reporting through global communication channels in order to improve the industry as a whole. Megaplast has introduced the precautionary approach in its production and sales, which is stated in the Principle 15 of the 1992 Rio Declaration which states that “where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing costeffective measures to prevent environmental degradation”. Because Megaplast is determined to use the precautionary approach for environmental issues, Megaplast uses the systematic application of risk assessment, risk management and risk communication wherever it notices an adversary environmental impact. Thus far, there hasn’t been any reasonable environmental impact ranging from minimal to severe in the intensity and scale to trigger this systematic approach. Megaplast decides on the acceptable level of risk, this decision involves not only scientifictechnological evaluation and economic cost-benefit analysis, but also political considerations such as acceptability to the public. If scientific information is incomplete or inconclusive and the associated risk is still considered too high to be imposed on society Megaplast commits to take every measure considering the ability Megaplast has to neutralize it, if Megaplast lacks the ability to do so, other partners will be used to neutralize the environmental problem. The level of risk considered relates to standards of environment, health and safety, these standards are not limited to local laws, but to universal standards of environment, health and safety. Megaplast chooses also to improve the environment through actively supporting the Chapter 30 of Agenda 21, of the 1992 Rio Earth Summit through increasing self-regulation, guided by appropriate standards, and integrating appropriate standards at a decision making level while fostering openness and dialogue so much with the public as well as with our employees. Especially with the local community, which is very concerned of the environmental impact of the Industrial area. One major case study which has shown that Megaplast plays a leading role in improving local community relations with the Industry, by listening to their concerns and creating an impact that ensures to satisfy this stakeholder group. The concerns of the local community were that bad smells kept coming from the industrial area to their neighborhoods, Megaplast was the initial concern of the local community because it is the factory closer to their homes. The HR with the help of specialists explained that Megaplast is not responsible for any bad smells in the area. Regardless, the local community insisted on asking us to use filters in our production. As a result, in order to appease to the local demand Megaplast decided to buy and use filters. However, as explained the bad smell persisted, Megaplast could have stopped there, but we decided the welfare of the local community is our responsibility and as a result we decided to take a leading role in the local Environmental issues by planting trees for the local community in order to neutralize the smell. The result is a satisfied community, with a solution that only Megaplast was willing to provide. Finally, Megaplast uses environmentally sound equipment as stated in Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE OBJECTIVE TARGETS AND DESCRIPTION REUSLTS, PROGRESS AND TIME DEADLINES PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support 1. We have created our 1. MSDS TDS and REACH have been a precautionary approach products following world achieved to environmental class standards such as 2. It’s important to us to understand our challenges; MSDS TDS AND REACH and supply chain environmental efforts ISO 14001 2. We understand the supply line sustainability efforts Principle 7, 8 Businesses should support 3. We have a Life Cycle 3. The Life Cycle Analysis is done. a precautionary approach Analysis for all our products 4. Same guidelines as human rights? to environmental 4. Determining responsibility Something else E&Y will give the challenges; guidelines solution. 5. We have implemented ISO 5. ISO 14001 is considered a very Undertake initiatives to 14001. important step in creating a promote greater 6. We are examining the sustainable production. environmental possibility of returning our 6. Economic and Environmental and scale responsibility used products back to our viability of this effort will be considered facilities to be recycled before a deadline is introduced. Principle 7,8,9 Businesses should support 7. We have created ECO FIBER 7. ECO FIBER FILM is a new Fiber Film that a precautionary approach FILM, a new product range has 30% pre-consumer recyclate in it. to environmental of stretch films with 8. Through innovation and combination challenges; recycled material which will of technologies and through the implement a cyclical support of our sales team we have Undertake initiatives to economy. Moreover, we created a surprising waste reduction promote greater investigate the potential to for our customers. A staggering 50% environmental create ECO AIROFILM less weight per pallet than ordinary responsibility and 8. Our vision allows us to stretch films which could save the Encourage the imagine the benefits the WORLD 1,5 million tons of plastic development and diffusion world would have by using waste and in EUROPE 600 thousand of environmentally our products. tons of plastic waste every year if they friendly technologies. were to use our product. 9. Through innovative solutions AIROFILM 9. Our products improve the allows air to circulate inside the pallet customers shelf life and in this way, we have saved huge 10. We use ECOSIA as our amounts of products from being official search engine and wasted ranging from pharmaceutical GOOGLE as our secondary and beer products to agricultural search engine. products and flowers 11. We are investigating the 10. Each search with ECOSIA removes 1 kg potential to make our of CO2, while every 45 searches it website CO2 free. plants one tree! google is a CO2 FREE 12. Our production efficiency is search engine beneficial for the 11. The investigation is done by the environment but is also marketing team and will be achieved expected to improve for the with the use of tools that Tree-nation contemporary and the new offers. facility in THEBES 13. Our products are 100% 12. Our production facilities already recyclable operate with 100% renewable energy, 0 water waste, minimized waste in production, dust collectors on our silos, recycling facilities, we use only reusable pallets, our machines are stripped and their parts are reused before being sent for scrap metal, we have implemented 0 pellet loss while at the same time we recycle 100% of our product waste in the production line 13. Megaplast is focusing on positive change in our industry by providing only 100% recyclable products, alleviating the heavy impact our industry’s plastics have on the planet. 14. Megaplast is not only a leader in environmental issues in the stretch film 14. We try to foster industry but also undertakes the role of communication for an example for the rest of stretch film environmental innovation industry in an effort to foster through global communications and reporting through commitments and reporting global communication channels in such as MACARTHUR order to improve the industry as a ELLEN? And THE UN GLOBAL whole. COMMITMENT 15. Eco-Vadis is a primary tool we use in 15. Megaplast is proud to order to guide ourselves to become announce that we have more sustainable through the achieved Eco-Vadis Silver requirements of the platform, but also rating a very important selfassessment tool. Principle 8 Encourage the 16. Our CSR focus for the 16. 14 out of the 17 Sustainable development and diffusion environment includes a Development Goals will be achieved by of environmentally strategy to plant trees planting our own corporate forest and friendly technologies through the platform of planting at other businesses corporate tree-nation, we will also forests, these SDG’s include nr1 nr2 nr3 donate trees to the forests nr4 nr5 nr6 nr8 nr10 nr11 nr12 nr13 of companies we deem nr14 nr15 nr17. However all SDG’s are strategically inclined to achieved through our diversified CSR become our customers due policy. to sustainability reasons. ANTI-CORRUPTION Megaplast, considers corruption as an impediment to business growth, corruption escalates costs and poses serious legal and reputational risks, it also raises transaction costs, undermines fair competition, impedes long-term investment, and distorts development priorities. Megaplast has robust anti-corruption measures and practices to protect our reputation and the interests of our stakeholders from all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. These measures include risk assessment, reporting and supply chain practices. Additionally, we are mobilizing to provide a united voice against corruption because collective action is essential for bringing an end to a systemic issue that is too complex for any company to tackle alone. In order to solidify our fight against corruption Megaplast has the goals of neutralizing any risk of corruption within the company, solidify and support anti-corruption organisations by becoming a Partner with Partnership Against Corruption Initiative a programme of the World Economic Fortum, Supporting financially Transparency International while our code of conduct is created with global standards and guidelines in mind such as the ones given by the International Chamber of Commerce and Basel Institute of Governance so as to use platforms of learning, dialogue and action, implement the 10th principle and scale up and externalize our impact through initiatives on Anti-Corruption while we support the anti-corruption initiative through our CSR. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE  Principle10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PRINCIPLE OBJECTIVE TARGETS AND DESCRIPTION RESULTS PROGRESS AND TIME DEADLINES PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work 1. Megaplast’s Code of 1. Our Code of Conduct follows global against corruption in all its Conduct is designed in guidelines to eliminate all forms of forms, including extortion such a way to corruption including extortion and and bribery. eliminate all forms of bribery. The global guidelines are the corruption ones given by The International Chamber of Commerce and Basel Institute of Governance 2. We partner with the 2. This partnership includes a) a visible Partnership Against and open commitment to antiCorruption Initiative a corruption b) an internal commitment program of the World to ‘a culture of’ zero tolerance that Economic Fortum encourages, recognizes and provides positive support for ethical conduct c) Foster transparency throughout the organization and in interactions with stakeholders d) Comply with laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where Megaplast operates and transacts our business 3. Through our CSR we 3. By supporting Transparency help global AntiInternational financially, we put an corruption efforts end to global corruption by making increasing the efforts sure that the poor and weak have a of providing for the voice against corrupt ridden weak and poor communities. 4. Through our supplier 4. Understand supplier anti-corruption by understanding of their investigating supplier corruption policies, anti-corruption and misdemeanors and policies and actions to their anti-corruption prevent further misdemeanors efforts SDG’s Our plan is to increase our business value through SDG’s and provide a better future for next generations and the planet. These goals are acgieved through reforestation, our business, green fiber and eco fiber,use of Ecosia as our search tool, and our application (ORO) SDG’s through reforestation Planting trees creates benefits so much for local communities as much as for Global phenomena like climate change, however, for the trees to have beneficial impact on the local communities be it agroforestry in Spain and France, or reforestation in the tropics and Africa, three conditions need to be met: Firstly, the plantation should consist from a variety of trees, those trees provide shelter, food, and shade for the local biome to thrive, as well as to provide substantial hunting and gathering for the local population. It is very common for businesses which use palm oil and logging companies to green wash the customers by reforestation of only one species that is deemed necessary for their production, this reforestation practice creates the so called “Green desserts” where no birds insects or animals survive due to the nature of the monoculture which is unable to provide substantial variety for food, shelter and shade. Because of this risk, Megaplast chooses to partner with companies which understand the importance of Biodiversity and polyculture. Secondly, the plantation should constist from local species, for when European species are planted in tropical areas, the greedier European plants become invasive, depleting the water sources which leads to a reduction of animal population and worsen life standards for local populations. When a European species invades the tropical forests the notice of the environmental impact is obvious, however in cases where European species have been planted in the tropics, have been counter measured by planting local species and slowly but surely the drought becomes a stream the stream becomes a river and the river bring back life to the area. Because of this risk, Megaplast chooses to partner with companies which understand the importance of planting native species. Finally, the local community should be engaged, economically benefit from the forest and their life standards should increase, for the forest and their agroforestry land the local communities own to not be sold to local logging companies, the economic benefit and the increase of the life standards through the provision of food, and improved water quality, and better farming conditions and yields, the community becomes engaged not to only in taking care of the sapling, planting and watering the tree but also maintaining the forest and safeguarding it. When communities are not engaged the project risks to be short lived and sporadic. Because of this risk, Megaplast chooses to partner with companies which understand the importance of community engagement. The main companies we partner with for tree planting, are Tree-nation, We-forest and Ecosia See this video for best information: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tN8RE02iNII Links on the logos ONLY GOALS 7 AND 16 ARE NOT ACHIEVED THROUGH REFORESTATION Reforestation tackles the multi-dimensions of poverty through short-term income increase (direct cash transfers through performance-based payments) and the building of human and natural capital, Megaplast tree-planting forests can contribute to making local livelihoods less vulnerable to shocks. Many of Megaplast’s tree planting projects, such as Nicaragua, are actively involved in setting up micro-enterprises resulting in positive livelihood impacts, such as strengthening small-scale timber industries, beekeeping or agroforestry that includes cash crops. Moreover, many PV projects disperse income through community funds used on in-kind benefits improving community infrastructure. Reforestation projects ensure that activities of individual projects are balanced with the needs of smallholder farmers and/or communities depending on subsistence agriculture. By using agroforestry systems, farmers can increase soil fertility and agricultural production, thereby boosting produce availability for household consumption or commercial agriculture. Moreover, Megaplast’s economic aid to agroforestry projects can spread risk for smallholders by using different types of tree species, cater for timber, fruit, and provide shade for plants that need to partially be shaded, this technique is called intercropping. Reforestation has many positive effects on the health of the global and especially local communities. Reforestation can help reduce heart attacks and respiratory illnesses, people living near trees helps them live longer and breathe better, it reduces anxiety and stress to live near forests, and finally living close to the forest helps one to sleep better. Megaplast invests in projects which educates local communities on the benefits of agroforestry and tree conservation, those local communities have raised awareness of the benefits of reforestation to their day to day lives, while at the same time funds are used to help boys and girls to access proper education. Also, many reforestation projects are used for scientific research and receive funds dedicated for scientific research. The reforestation projects empower women and focus on empowering female farmer workers, it also focuses on equally educating and providing access to education for both girls and boys Water supplies are a part of the reforestation projects sustainable management, such as improving water quality and quantity and contributing to the reduction of water-related risks such as floods. Reforestation helps trees and woodlands act as water reservoirs as they prevent the occurrence of flash floods. In addition to that, polycultures because of their storage capacity, keep water in ponds and streams which is used when water is scarce. Reforestation project coordinators who oversee the participation of smallholders and communities create jobs and opportunities that contribute to overall capacity-building and the transfer of skills on a local scale. The necessity for community monitoring creates jobs for forest technicians, many of them women or young people. Moreover, locals find seasonal jobs in the planting season, which in turn promotes the collection of seeds and local tree nurseries. Often, forest carbon projects introduce new technologies and skills which are then transferred to project participants, including electronic equipment or computer literacy. Reforestation has a positive impact in the local community beyond direct and indirect economic benefits, plantations provide the local community with infrastructure to otherwise remote and forgotten local tribes and communities. Reforestation projects place social welfare above profit; the aim of the projects is to enhance underprivileged communities’ quality of life, economically, socially, culturally and environmentally. Ecotourism also provides communities with disposable income. Also avoiding deforestation improves security of the community against floods and thus, reduces the costs of disasters to poor communities. Agroforestry also improves the yields of farmers which is a group which yields a little bit of economic value. Humans living in city slums come mostly from agricultural communities, thus, making agricultural communities prosperous reduces the amount of people leaving their communities and end up living in slums. Also, local communities improve from the shade, water, and food. Reforestation projects are sustainably producing sampling, and trees are planted in long-term plantations, minimal environmental impact is made during the production, while the environment, society and the economy benefit of the projects. Reforestation, afforestation, agroforestry and the protection and management of forests mitigate climate change threats and impacts. By using scientifically rigorous peer-reviews and third-party validation and verification, it is ensured that Plan Vivo projects’ carbon models are robust and conservative. Water supplies are a part of the projects sustainable management, such as improving water quality and quantity and contributing to the reduction of water-related risks through reforestation with local species and polycultures in the local community. Megaplast’s forest owns areas which are protected from industrial activit y to help preserve species and healthy ecosystems for the future and ensure its long-term sustainability. These projects are large-scale involving hundreds of hectares and thus benefit fauna in a large-scale. Some of the projects we economically benefit have a planting capacity superior to 100.000 trees. Also many of the projects Megaplast Benefits aid to stop deforestation and forest degradation which helps preserve local fauna. Some plantations have as part of the plantation management, animal species protection, such as creation of safe habitats. Tree planting and agroforestry systems lead to increased soil fertility, water retention and better regulation of microclimates. International Partnerships is very much at the heart of the Megaplast reforestation system, partnerships for tree planting happen between grassroots organisations, international NGOs and carbon investors across the globe. Megaplast has planted 164 plants and trees just in the month of December in 2019 with the offset of 11 tonnes of CO2. Megaplast has the goal to plant thousands of trees, each year, and grow our corporate forest, either through investing in tree planting, or through buying CO2 Credits. Our plant projects are in France, Spain, The United States, Madagascar, Colombia, India, Kenya, Burkina Faso, Nicaragua. Moreaver, we have planted trees which range from medicinal, to helpful for agroforestry, endangered species, nutritional and plants like rice. Megaplast also makes donations to corporate forests of other companies. Please visit our corporate forest to learn more by clicking at the link included at the image Our corporate forest; https://tree-nation.com/profile/megaplast We are very happy to donate to your corporate forest please contact me; Kyriakos Kavvadias, Sustainability manager Greece, Athens 00306953087699 kkavvadias@megaplast.gr Other SDG’s SDG’s CHARITY BUSINESS GREENECOSIA TCO VISION TOTAL FIBER CO2 NEUTRAL WEBSITE 1 +++ +++ ++ ++ ++ 10 2 +++ + + + 6 3 + + + + + 5 4 + ++ + + + 6 5 + + + + + 5 6 ++ +++ ++ ++ ++ 11 7 + +++ +++ + + +++ 12 8 + +++ + + +++ 9 9 + +++ + + +++ +++ 12 10 + + + + + 5 11 ++ ++ + + ++ 8 12 +++ +++ + ++ +++ 12 13 + +++ +++ ++ ++ +++ 14 14 ++ +++ +++ ++ +++ 13 15 + + + 3 16 ++ + + 4 17 +++ + +++ + + 9 17/17 SDG’s are achieved through: This Q1 of 2020 we will Our other Charities include Reforestation of bushfire-stricken Australia Giving charity to animal centre’s in Australia Charity to prevent Covid 19 such as giving medicine for poor Cretan children without family. Giving charity to Cretan Ambulances. Giving charity to Cretan Hospitals. Other charities are
