Combined Annual Report 2018 Digital Transformation We are driving the change towards more economic efficiency, equal social opportunities, and resource preservation. Key figures of the A1 Telekom Austria Group 2018 2017 Change in % Customer indicators (in '000) RGUs 1) 6,260.9 6,036.5 3.7 of which broadband RGUs 2,589.2 2,529.0 2.4 of which TV RGUs 1,646.9 1,421.4 15.9 Mobile communication customers 20,999.6 20,657.7 1.7 Key financial data (in EUR mn) Total revenues 4,466.4 4,382.5 1.9 EBITDA 2) 1,380.6 1,397.3 –1.2 EBITDA margin (in %) 30.9 31.9 – EBITDA adjusted 3) 1,408.2 1,359.4 3.6 EBITDA adjusted margin (in %) 31.5 31.0 – Operating income 424.1 443.9 –4.5 Net result 242.7 345.5 –29.7 Free cash flow 4) 384.2 384.7 –0.1 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,232.3 1,174.8 4.9 Capital expenditures5) 771.0 736.9 4.6 Net debt 2,718.4 2,331.8 16.6 Equity 2,406.0 2,937.4 –18.1 Equity ratio (in %) 32.6 38.5 – Net debt to EBITDA 2.0× 1.7× – Net gearing ratio 1.13 0.79 – Return on invested capital – ROIC 6) (in %) 6.7 6.9 – Return on equity – ROE 7) (in %) 9.1 12.1 – Key share figures (in EUR) Earnings per share 0.36 0.48 –24.8 Free cash flow per share 0.58 0.58 –0.1 Market capitalisation as of December 31 (in EUR bn) 4.4 5.1 –14.1 Share price as of December 31 6.64 7.72 –14.1 Share price high 8.42 8.28 – Share price low 6.18 5.50 – Dividend per dividend-bearing share 0.218) 0.20 5.0 Employee indicators Full-time equivalents, as of December 31 18,705 18,957 –1.3 Share of female employees (in %) 40 38 – Share of female executives (in %) 35 36 – Environmental indicators/Sustainability indicators Total energy consumption (in MWh) 9) 810,942 780,742 3.9 Energy efficiency indicator (in MWh/terabyte) 0.18 0.24 –23.9 Direct scope 1 CO₂-emissions (in t) 10) 27,003 27,867 –3.1 Indirect scope 2 CO₂-emissions market-based (in t) 11) 217,310 189,599 14.6 Share of renewable energy in electricity (in %) 62 63 – Recycling rate (in %) 69 72 – Media literacy training Free media literacy trainings 1,984 1,947 1.9 Participations in free media literacy training 30,084 28,817 4.4 Financial figures according to IAS 18. Key figures were impacted by brand value amortization in the years 2017 (EUR 121.8 mn) and 2018 (EUR 197.9 mn). 1) Revenue generating units 2) EBITDA is defined as the net result excluding financial result, income tax, depreciation and amortisation and, if applicable, impairment losses or reversal of impairments. 3) Adjusted for the one-off and FX effects, restructuring charges and M&A effects. 4) Cash flow from operating activities less capital expenditures paid and interest paid, plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. 5) Excluding asset retirement obligations. 6) Total return on invested capital, calculated by net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) divided by the average capital invested. 7) Ratio of net result to the average equity employed. 8) Proposal to the Annual General Meeting, which will take place on May 29, 2019. 9) Due to improved data quality, the key figure “Total energy consumption” was adjusted for the year 2017. 10) Direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels without cooling agents. CO₂ in CO₂ equivalents excluding compensation. 11) Indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. CO₂ in CO₂ equivalents excluding compensation. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 2 A1 Telekom Austria Group Total revenues EBITDA by by segment segment in EUR mn / in 2018 in EUR mn / in 2018 Republic of Serbia Republic of Macedonia Republic of Serbia Republic of Macedonia 249.2 119.2 47.0 35.4 Slovenia Slovenia 214.1 38.1 Belarus Belarus 389.3 163.8 Croatia Croatia Revenues EBITDA 444.5 2018 114.1 2018 4,466.4 1,380.6 Bulgaria Austria Bulgaria Austria 446.2 2,658.0 138.0 905.7 Corporate & Other, eliminations: –53.9 Corporate & Other, eliminations –61.6 Mobile communication customers Total energy consumption and RGUs by segment in MWh / in 2018 in '000 / as of December 31, 2018 Fuels3) 5,363.7 74,213 Austria District heating 3,327.7 39,238 Heating fuels2) 3,934.3 18,216 Bulgaria 1,029.0 1,833.3 Electricity1) Croatia 681.8 679,275 4,873.0 Belarus 657.3 697.1 Slovenia 182.1 Total energy consumption Republic 2,195.2 810,942 of Serbia n. a. Republic of 1,056.5 1) Purchased and in-house production as well as diesel Macedonia 383.1 for emergency generators 2) Includes oil and gas 3) Includes diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG and natural gas without Mobile RGUs diesel for emergency generators As of mid-February 2019, the Republic of Macedonia officially changed its name to the Republic of North Macedonia. For the purposes of comparability (consolidated Corporate Governance Report, Group Management Report, Consolidated Financial Statements, Consolidated Non Financial Report, which were signed before the name change), this has not been taken into account in this report. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3 A1 Telekom Austria Group overview As a leading telecommunications provider in the CEE region, the A1 Telekom Austria Group provides its approximately 25 million customers in its seven core markets with products and services in areas including voice telephony, broadband Internet, multimedia services, data and IT solutions, wholesale, payment solutions and digital services. In the Group’s six convergent markets, customers also benefit from tailor-made product combinations comprising fixed-line and mobile services. The group company A1 Digital advises companies in the core markets of A1 Telekom Austria Group as well as in Germany and Switzerland in questions of digital transformation with a focus on industry-specific applications in the field of Internet of Things (IoT), cloud-based products for the modern workplace as well as security solutions. Republic Republic of Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus Slovenia of Serbia Macedonia Mobile communication 5,363.7 3,934.3 1,833.3 4,873.0 697,1 2,195.2 1,056.5 subscribers (in '000) Market share mobile (in %) 37.8 39.4 36.5 42.5 28.1 23.8 48.9 Mobile market position #1 #1 #2 #2 #2 #3 #1 RGUs (in '000) 3,327.7 1,029.0 681.8 657.3 182.1 – 383.1 Market share fixed-line 55.6 22.8 25.5 7.6 12.1 – 29.5 broadband (in %) Convergent since 2007 2011 2011 2016 2015 – 2014 Products Mobile Fixed-line Convergent products Internet TV (IPTV, Sat, DVBT) OTT TV OTT Music Smart Home Gaming Data and IT solutions Value-added services Wholesale offerings Handsets Mobile payment services 4 Contents A1 Telekom Austria Group overview 4 Preface of the Management Board 6 Reasons to invest 8 Editorial 9 Vision and Strategy 12 Value Chain 17 Sustainable Development Goals 18 A1 Telekom Austria Group: Part of América Móvil 19 Technology and Innovation 20 Data Protection 26 Investor Relations 27 Employees 30 Social and Ecological Responsibility 34 Compliance 38 Report by the Supervisory Board 40 Consolidated Corporate Governance Report 42 Group Management Report 52 Consolidated Financial Statements 82 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 83 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 84 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 85 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 88 Auditor’s Report 146 Consolidated Non Financial Report 150 GRI Content Index 164 Sustainability KPIs 169 Company Contacts 176 Imprint Ownership and publisher: Telekom Austria AG | Corporate Communication: Livia Dandrea-Böhm (livia.dandrea-boehm@A1.at) | Investor Relations: Susanne Aglas-Reindl (susanne.reindl@A1.group) | Group Sustainability: Irene Jakobi (irene.jakobi@A1.group) | Project team: Investor Relations: Barbara Jeitler, Martin Stenitzer | Group Communications & Sustainability: Irene Jakobi, Maximilian Rabl, Anna Schwarzbauer | Consolidated Financial Statements: Christa Bachner-Fastl, Anita Gari (Group Accounting and Taxes) with the technical support of FIRE.sys GmbH | Concept, text and project management: A1 Telekom Austria Group | Art direction and design: HammerAlbrecht (Jolanda Buck, Daniel Hammer) | Digital publishing: pagestrip, alice interactive GmbH | Photos (page 9 and 11): iStock | Editorial deadline: February 8, 2019 PREFACE OF THE M ANAGEMENT BOARD Actively tapping the potential of digital transformation In the ever-present discussion of the arguments for and and country borders. The promotion and enhancement of against digitalization that has been in progress for some time digital skills (in the spirit of a digital mindset) and internal pronow in the media, corporations, and in the society, it is imporcesses enjoy central importance as a result (see “Employees” tant to consider the following: digital transformation has long and “Vision and Strategy”). become an economic and social reality that is rapidly progressing in almost all areas of business and life. Game-changing technologies such as big data & analytics, artificial intelligence, robotics, augmented reality, and blockchain are Value added in the increasingly playing a significant role in many sectors and digital customer experience business models (see “Editorial”). As such, the question is far less about the pros and cons, and far more about as a factor for success creating the best possible conditions for digitalization and The A1 Telekom Austria Group presents itself to customers as generating the greatest possible benefit. An open-minded, a driver and an ideal, trustworthy partner for digitalization. It positive and curious attitude provides the ideal foundaprovides both business and private customers with the best tions for achieving this. After all, the digital transformation possible support for all the exciting opportunities available. opens up vast potential for promising future concepts and The clear aim is to offer an outstanding customer experience increased efficiency, equal opportunities in society, and with the best service across all interactions and the entire the preservation of resources in the interests of people and “customer journey” (see “Technology and Innovation”). the environment. The fact that the A1 Telekom Austria Group has long been far more than a provider of connectivity and bandwidth plays a Digital orientation starts crucial role in this context. Building on these solid foundations, the Group is continuously expanding its portfolio to include in the mind innovative solutions focused on cloud, IoT (Internet of Things), entertainment, smart living, and security solutions. The A1 Telekom Austria Group is at the epicenter of this development. In line with its common purpose “Empowering digital To safeguard and expand the future-proofness of its netlife”, it sees itself as a key pioneer and supporter of the digital work infrastructure, the A1 Telekom Austria Group invested transformation in its operational footprint. Its “homework” with EUR 771 mn (CAPEX) in the year under review in increasingly a view to that is based on group-wide guiding principles, intelligent networks that form the basis for the best possible which focus on agile, trust-based teamwork across divisional customer experience. Concerted group-wide portfolio development and market presence When it comes to innovative products and solutions, the A1 Telekom Austria Group pursues the strategic approach of not reinventing them again and again, but rather to develop them once with groupwide bundled expertise and to rapidly implement tried-and-tested solutions in other markets (“One to all”). This applies not only to product development but to internal processes as well. 6 PREFACE OF THE M ANAGEMENT BOARD The market presence is also being harmonized on a groupsecuring business activity in the long run, while at the same wide basis: Back in 2017, the A1 Telekom Austria Group had time the Group’s management actively assumes societal and announced its plans to gradually expand the A1 brand to environmental responsibility. Initiatives of the A1 Telekom its entire operating business. In the year under review, this Austria Group such as “A1 Internet for All” are also to be seen objective was accompanied by the rebranding of the Bulgarian in this context. With these measures, the Group is making and Croatian subsidiaries to A1 and a brand refresh in Austria. an active contribution to conveying the competencies required These constituted further significant steps in the systematic for using digital media in the countries in its operational footimplementation of the single-brand strategy and the strengthprint, thereby promoting equal access to information, educaening of the perception as a strong international group. tion, and knowledge in the digital age. When it comes to the preservation of resources, the Group is committed to improving energy efficiency in light of the dynamic growth in data Successful strategic focus on consumption as a result of digitalization. To this end, it has reduced its electricity demand per terabyte of transferred digital transformation data volume by 69 % (see “Social and ecological responsibility”) from 2016 to 2018. The systematic, results-oriented execution of the corporate strategy with a focus on “Empowering digital life” (see “Vision and Strategy”) was turned into convincing results in the year under review. The A1 Telekom Austria Group recorded solid Harnessing the positive growth in terms of both revenues and EBITDA (excluding momentum of the megatrend one-off and FX effects as well as restructuring charges) in 2018: Revenues rose by 1.9 %, while adjusted EBITDA (excludThese kinds of initiatives are focused on sustainable objecing one-offs and FX effects as well as restructuring charges) tives, and naturally also on attractiveness for customers. They increased by 3.6 % thanks to the consistent focus on cost present the A1 Telekom Austria Group as an ideal partner for efficiency. This strong performance was also reflected in the digital transformation that assumes pronounced social and stable free cash flow generation of EUR 384.2 mn despite ecological responsibility. Simply put, it’s always an issue of higher CAPEX paid. The repayment of the EUR 600 mn hybrid how everyone within their own sphere of influence can provide bond on February 1, 2018 was financed from cash flow from for even better living conditions and well-being for all people operating activities and short-term loans. The strong cash and future generations. flow generation and solid financial ratios prompted the rating agency Moody’s to raise its corporate rating to Baa1. The Group sees a systematic and agile focus on the dynamic shift to digital as a key factor in successfully underpinning The number of mobile postpaid subscribers increased by 4.1% its future sustainability. After all, digitalization is here to stay. to 16.2 million in 2018, while the number of revenue-generating And the accompanying digital transformation will continue units (RGUs) in fixed-line business rose by 3.7 % to 6.3 million. to open up attractive development opportunities in various At the end of a turbulent year 2018 on the stock markets, the areas of life and work. 2018 clearly demonstrated that the Telekom Austria share closed at EUR 6.64 (–14.1 % year-onA1 Telekom Austria Group is on the right track with its corpoyear). This meant the share almost reflected the development rate strategy focusing on a first-class network infrastructure of the sector (Stoxx Telekom: –13.0 %), after having considerand an outstanding customer experience. We will therefore ably outperformed the latter in 2017. The Austrian lead index continue to pursue this approach in the future. We are conATX lost 19.7 % in 2018. The management board intends to vinced that this will allow us to continue with our encouraging propose a dividend for the financial year 2018 of EUR 0.21 growth trends in the coming year. ▬ per dividend-bearing share to the 2019 Annual General Meeting. The management is expecting revenue growth of around 2 % and capital expenditures of around EUR 770 mn in the financial year 2019. Active social and ecological responsibility Thomas Arnoldner, CEO In pursuing its corporate strategy, the A1 Telekom Austria Group commits itself to the targets of the triple bottom line of sustainable development (“People, Planet, Profit”). The company is also expressly committed to the UN Global Compact and contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Alejandro Plater, COO Siegfried Mayrhofer, CFO of the United Nations. All of this is geared towards A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 Reasons to invest Market leader in Austria via Optimal group-wide leverage quality and innovation of assets and proven solutions promote growth ▸ P  rofound market expertise as leading converin the CEE region gent provider forms the foundation for growth via crossand upselling; innovative products with a ▸ Customer growth through market-oriented focus on entertainment, smart living and security convergence strategy. increase the attractiveness for customers. ▸ Monetization of the strong demand for ▸ Monetization of the rising demand for data and high-quality and innovative fixed-line and bandwidth with products, which combine inteldata solutions. ligent networks in a demand-oriented manner: ▸ Product innovation and efficient investment fixed-line broadband, mobile broadband network, in market-relevant content contribute hybrid technologies. to differentiation and growth. ▸ The powerful A1 brand enables differentiation ▸ Value-accretive M&A activities with priority through excellent network quality and best-inon existing footprint. class customer service, securing high and stable ▸ Group-wide roll-out of the successful A1 brand proportion of premium customers. strengthens the market presence in the CEE region. Growth prospects via strong position in the business segment ▸ Leverage of growing demand for IoT, cloud and cybersecurity solutions for new and existing customers ▸ Expansion of the value chain with attractive solutions for the digital transformation of corporate customers ▸ Broad product portfolio with unique combination of connectivity and industry-specific solutions contributes to an increase in customer loyalty Continuous enhancement of efficiency in all segments amongst others from digital transformation Conservative finance strategy secures long-term stability and flexibility for growth opportunities ▸ Leverage ratio corresponds to rating targets (Baa2/BBB) ▸ Solid balance sheet structure offers extensive financial flexibility for investments and M&A ▸ Sustainable dividend policy EDITORIAL From digitalization to digital transformation Few subjects have preoccupied businesses, experts, and futurologists in recent times more than the megatrend of digitalization. Digital transformation’s effects on business, society, and politics and the associated opportunities and challenges Digitalization is changing have been examined at length in countless articles and the rules of the game discussions, and not without controversy. In discussions of digitalization or digital transformation (terms that are often The metaphor of the destructive wave is certainly an used, somewhat inaccurately, as synonyms), striking metaexaggeration of the reality. Nevertheless, experiences and phors are rapidly used to bring the effects of digitalization developments in recent years give reason to assume that to life. One of these is the enormous wave surging toward the entire economic landscape will undergo a sustained, if the global economy like a tsunami that will wash away any not, in some cases, radical change within the next five to company that does not quickly manage to surf this wave as ten years. Indeed, many companies have already adjusted if on a surfboard to the new shores of the digital economy. their business models and plans or are redesigning them In this metaphor, surfing stands for using game-changing right now. The disruptive force of the game-changing techtechnologies such as big data & analytics, artificial intellinologies is making it possible for competitors from outside gence, robotics, augmented reality, IoT (Internet of Things), the industry to quickly enter established markets previously and blockchain in order to address new business potential protected by barriers to entry in order to redefine the rules and keep the competition at bay. of the game in those markets. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 EDITORIAL Some industries have already felt the full disruptive effects The downside to this trend, however, is that 57 % of consumof digital transformation; others are on the brink of profound ers now buy from foreign online retailers; loyalty to domestic changes in their business models and customer relationships. providers continues to wane. Not least because of this change in consumer behavior, Digital transformation the development of smart services, for example, has an important role to play. Smart services are provided to in customer relationships customers based on data and as an individually configurable range of digital services and physical products via integrated Alongside game-changing technologies, the customer relaplatforms (marketplace or apps). However, the provision tionship is therefore another key element in the context of of such online offerings requires the companies and their digital transformation. In the age of digitalization, it is besuppliers to be highly flexible and agile. And this can be coming a much more critical factor for success. Consumers achieved only if processes are comprehensively digitalized are often well ahead of companies when it comes to using on both sides so that data can be exchanged and customer digital technologies. The habitual use of the Internet and requirements thus responded to in real time. social media via PCs, smartphones, and tablets has given rise to an everything-everywhere-now mentality that businesses must satisfy if they want to be successful. Laying the foundations for digital transformation Digital living and working Examples such as this show that it is becoming an ever more as standard critical success factor to identify the effects of digitalization on one’s own company and business model in good time and to Every year, there are more and more people in the world who find and implement a strategic response. For example, a study do not know a life without the Internet. Their consumer behavior by Contrast Ernst & Young (2016) states that more than 50 % is therefore influenced very strongly, if not predominantly, by of the companies surveyed said that they do not consider their the Internet. This presents many companies with major chalcurrent business model fit for the future, and more than 60 % lenges, as the customer journey, i. e. the individual stages of the companies did not have an in-depth strategy for dealing customers pass through before and after making a purchase specifically with digital transformation at that point in time. decision, has to be adapted to this change. More than four billion smartphones 1) around the world have completely changed the way how people find information, The shift to digitalization is not communicate with each other, and interact with companies. a “conventional” IT project Mobile Internet on smartphones enables a permanent connection to social media and the web regardless of time or place. In contrast to many change processes that have improved Customers are communicating with companies via a widening efficiency in recent decades, digital transformation affects range of channels and expecting their preferred channels to extensive parts of corporate processes, if not the entire be served appropriately. The new customer requirements for business model. This makes it a complex change project that omnichannel communication, which often happens in real aims to secure the company’s competitiveness and market time, therefore have fundamental effects on marketing, sales, success in the digital world. and service. In addition, demand for personalizable products and services will increase sharply. Purchase decisions are In order to make this change process a success, a company’s already being based on the services offered around a product digital agenda must concentrate on the acquisition and rather than only the physical product itself. This new generadevelopment of new skills with a focus on changing customer tion of Internet-savvy consumers prefers to research and buy requirements, digital business models, agile conceptual online. They expect companies to provide digital products development, and the technological implementation of correand services that are available quickly, easily, and at all times. sponding products. According to the study “eCommerce Austria 2018”, nearly five million Austrians (+2 % year-on-year) made purchases in Austrian and international online trading in the period analyzed, spending a total of approximately EUR 7.2 bn (+6 % year-onyear). This equates to more than one-tenth of total consumer spending related to retail. The momentum of online shopping is being surpassed by the boom in smartphone shopping: One in four Austrians already uses their smartphone to buy online. 1) Ericcson Mobility Report (2018). A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 10 EDITORIAL Digital transformation begins in the mind The corporate culture is a central aspect of this process. An open digital mindset is a particular requirement in management in order to win employees over and get them excited about digital transformation. Teamwork, trust, and agility are the cornerstones of success. Creating an environment that promotes innovation and creativity is just as important as transparency with regard to implementation. Many companies are becoming increasingly aware that an actively implemented, digitally inspired corporate culture can be a significant competitive advantage, as it cannot simply be copied by others. Digitalization or digital transformation? The original meaning of the term digitalization can be traced back to the 1980s. It described the digitalization of analog signals into binary, digital formats so that they could be processed with information technology. The universal digitalization of all information in the production environment and associated processes, including customer interfaces, enables companies to increase efficiency enormously (no discontinuity of media, data available in real time, omnichannel customer touchpoints, etc.) and therefore also provides potential for sustainable cost reductions. As soon as such a “digitalization of the company” and its processes has taken place, the interconnection of all activities and participants – internal and external – can begin. This Digital transformation is when the real digital transformation begins and we can talk is here to stay about a “smart” company, in which all the people, components, machines, tools, services, and products involved Digital transformation is not a passing fad but a megatrend can interact in real time. The communication is often facilitat(“Industry 4.0”), which is persistently, dynamically, and at ed by sensors in the Internet of Things (IoT), which constantly rapid intervals spawning new generations of digital technolsupply data on production processes, maintenance requireogy. These are being used not only by start-ups but also by ments, logistics, sales, and much more. established companies in order to develop innovative business models and thus safeguard their competitiveness or secure Tens of thousands of IoT sensors are already installed in many new competitive advantages. The game-changing technoloindustrial companies supplying millions of data points around gies are paving the way for digital transformation in virtually the clock. According to estimates, there will be as many as every sector of the economy. And regardless of whether the 80 million sensors in Austria alone in 2020 that will be conindividual business models turn out to be a disruptive breaknected via the Internet of Things and interact with each other through, the management agenda of practically every compaor with people. This takes us directly to the topic of big data. ny will be heavily influenced by digital transformation for a long Only the digitalization and interconnection of systems and time to come. It is now more than obvious that digitalization applications enable the availability of information comprised is creating enormous potential for customerfocused services; of all the company’s activities relevant to value creation. economic growth; equal opportunities in society with regard to information, education, and knowledge as well as sustainability, and preserving resources. ▬ A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 VISION AND STR ATEGY Clear focus on digital transformation At the heart of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s corporate strategy is the common purpose of “Empowering digital life” – both at work and at home – with best-in-class connectivity and innovative digital solutions. Digitalization opens up enormous opportunities for economic growth, social and individual development and for a more susVision: Empowering digital life tainable way of life in the interests of people and the environThe fact that the A1 Telekom Austria Group has far more to ment. It therefore plays a major role in the A1 Telekom Austria offer than “traditional” telecommunications services is also Group’s vision and strategic focus. reflected in its vision and common purpose of “Empowering A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 12 VISION AND STR ATEGY digital life”. Its self-conception has long since gone beyond (see “Social and Ecological Responsibility”), also entails just providing infrastructure, connectivity, and bandwidth. economic benefits – for instance with enhanced energy It sees itself as a driver and partner in the course of digitalefficiency reducing both environmental impact and costs. ization, with the expertise to create and foster digital business models and solutions from initial concept through to operation. The A1 Telekom Austria Group is convinced that a winning end-to-end customer experience is the foundation Corporate strategy for successfully pursuing its corporate strategy. This offering Under its growth strategy, the Group does not only rely on its extends from attractive tariffs and product bundles to content, leading role in the CEE region. As part of América Móvil, it entertainment, and smart home solutions through to statecan also count on the strength of one of the biggest telecomof-the-art ICT, cloud, security, IoT, and productivity solutions. munications providers in the world with around 276 million customers in mobile communications and 84 million fixed-line In the course of its transformation into an ideal digitalization RGUs (see “A1 Telekom Austria Group: Part of América Móvil”). partner, the A1 Telekom Austria Group has dedicated itself to greater efficiency, agility, flexibility, security, and sustainIn pursuing its vision of “Empowering digital life”, the ability. Sustainability is seen as a long-term value driver A1 Telekom Austria Group applies a corporate strategy based that, in addition to active ecological and social responsibility on two pillars: revenue growth and excellence in execution. Corporate strategy C I P L E S : T E A M , T RU P R IN ST ,A N G G I DI IL I GU TY E C TH I M ON T N PR I N LI E EXCELLENCE IN EXECUTION E OV U O C R E M US E X CO EN T REVENUE GROWTH EXPAND THE EMPOWERING DIGITAL TRANSDIGITAL LIFE FORMATION PORTFOLIO CON TA Y MP RG L AL M& E T E S TA O A D O NE T AN NT CO LE E A RN N O IN G A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 VISION AND STR ATEGY Revenue growth Targeted M&A In striving for revenue growth, corporate strategy is focused on Alongside measures for achieving organic growth, the A1 three core elements: excel in the core, expand the portfolio, and Telekom Austria Group will continue to expand its sphere of targeted M&A. activity with targeted, value-accretive acquisitions. The focus of its core business remains on existing markets, pursuing Excel in the core its convergence strategy and subsequently opening up new The A1 Telekom Austria Group is focusing on the intensification markets. of sales and targeted crossand upselling to optimize its core business. A key goal of this is to gain households that have In addition, A1 Digital is opening up new potential in the field already been covered technically as customers, and thereby to of digital services, for instance, with its 2017 acquisition optimize the ratio of households reached to those connected. of the Swiss company Exoscale, which provides infrastructure Convergence is another central link in ensuring a premium cusand services for cloud applications in Europe. tomer experience, with the Group already offering fixed-line and mobile services in six of its seven core markets. Excellent Excellence in execution infrastructure remains a key feature that sets the Group apart To ensure the availability of financial flexibility for investment, and gives it an edge over the competition. operational excellence in the execution of corporate strategy is essential. The central tenets of this are continuous improveA convincing example of how to excel in the core, but also ments, digital transformation and “One to all”. offacilitating synergy effects and best possible group-wide leverage of existing assets and capabilities (“One to all”) is Continuous improvements the stepwise roll-out of the A1 brand across all of the Group’s All structures, processes and investment decisions are continuoperations depending on local circumstances. Following ously evaluated, questioned and improved. The A1 Telekom the rebranding in Slovenia and at the level of the international Austria Group’s goal is to improve its efficiency every single day. Group brand A1 Telekom Austria Group in the previous year, 2018 followed up with the implementation of A1 at the Bulgarian and Croatian subsidiaries and an A1 brand refresh in Austria. DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION & Expand the portfolio CENTER OF Diversification and differentiation from competitors are of cruEXCELLENCE (COE) cial significance. This demands the courage to innovate and to be creative. In keeping with its vision of “Empowering digital life”, A1 Telekom Austria Group aims to be the first point of The Digital Transformation Center of Excellence (CoE) contact and key partner for the digital transformation of comfocuses on the following three key strategic aspects: panies, and to tap new potential in digital services, such as cloud, security and ICT solutions and in the field of the Internet ▸ Marketing automation propels digital customer of Things (IoT). Founded in 2017, the goal of the affiliate interaction and allows targeted and successful A1 Digital (see “Technology and Innovation”) is to foster the communication with customers through efficient growth potential this entails beyond the existing footprint. tools and processes. ▸ Process automation drives the optimization of In its residential business, the Group is increasingly focusing internal processes by simplifying, harmonizing on innovations relating to its core business with solutions and automating processes using smart systems for entire households, such as convergent product bundles (e. g. chatbots, robotics solutions). that combine TV and music streaming services and that can ▸ Big data, analytics & artificial intelligence are be expanded to include smart home and cloud solutions. building the foundation for the group-wide use The content offering is also playing an ever more important of smart automation solutions by implementing role, which is why the A1 Telekom Austria Group selectively a central data architecture and infrastructure. invests in content rights, platforms and its own production in line with the respective market circumstances and customer requirements. Solutions tailored to the respective market allow the Group to augment the customer experience, promote customer loyalty and keep investments and costs at an efficient level at the same time. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 14 VISION AND STR ATEGY Investments of any kind require that either revenues can be generated or costs can be reduced. In line with this, the Initiatives A1 Telekom Austria Group Group deliberately invests in technologies that enhance (excerpt) efficiency and preserve resources. ▸ Diversity Charter (since 2014) Digital transformation ▸ Next Generation Mobile Networks Alliance Digital transformation is a central precondition for the future (since 2014) success of the A1 Telekom Austria Group, and therefore a ▸ UN Global Compact (since 2012) key strategic concern, which is why a Digital Transformation ▸ ETNO (since 1996) Center of Excellence (CoE) was created in 2018. Its goal is ▸ GSM Memorandum of Understanding (since 1988) to advance digitalization both internally (“Digitalizing Ourselves”) and externally (“Digitalizing the Customer Journey”) in order to successfully help shape business trends and to identify and satisfy market requirements early on. Sustainability strategy One to all The sustainability strategy of the A1 Telekom Austria Group is Across all markets, the goal of the A1 Telekom Austria Group geared towards active ecological and social responsibility, is not to develop new products and solutions again and again, promoting more efficient, resource-friendly and thus more susbut rather to develop them once and roll out successful solutainable ways of working and living (see “Social and Ecological tions on all markets. This is applied to both internal processes Responsibility”). Furthermore, sustainability is seen as a longas well as to product developments. A good example of “One term value driver in an economic sense since greater efficiency to all” is the group-wide development of the music streaming and reduced use of resources also entail positive cost effects. service “A1 Xplore Music”. The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s responsibility concept is built A good example of “One to all” is not least the group-wide on the three-pillar model of sustainable development, the roll-out of the A1 brand (see “Excel in the core”). triple bottom line of “people, planet, profit”, and therefore also incorporates social, ecological, and economic aspects. The A1 Telekom Austria Group also engages in targeted activities Finance strategy and cash in support of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs; see “The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s contribuuse policy tion to the Sustainable Development Goals”) that were issued in 2015. The Group’s sustainability strategy is focused on The A1 Telekom Austria Group pursues a conservative finance four action areas derived from a materiality analysis last upstrategy with a solid investment grade rating of Baa2 from dated in early 2017 (see graphic “Materiality matrix”). Each Moody’s and BBB from Standard & Poor’s at its core. This oriaction area is backed by clear targets and specific perforentation ensures a solid balance sheet structure with moderate mance indicators. leverage (net debt to EBITDA) and financial flexibility for investments in order to make use of growth opportunities. The dividend policy aims for a sustainable dividend distribution with the potential to grow in line with the operational and financial Stakeholder dialog performance of the Group. For the financial year 2018, the The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s continuous dialog with its Management Board intends to propose a dividend of EUR 0.21 stakeholders occurs at three levels: through systematic per share to the Annual General Meeting on May 29, 2019. information via various channels, through talks and surveys, and through membership in associations and cooperations. Different formats are used depending on the issue and the group, such as information events, idea contests, customer and employee surveys or in-person talks at meetings, conferences, or roadshows. ▬ A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 VISION AND STR ATEGY Action areas in the field of sustainability Technology and Environment Employees Society Innovation Information and communicaDigitalisation is accompanied By providing the technoIn its role as a driver of tions technologies can contriby a profound change of the logical basis and educadigitalisation and beyond bute to a more ecological and foundations and methods tional offerings for equal, the provision of connecthus sustainable lifestyle. of working. This includes the digital access to infortivity and bandwidth, This is because it is important question of how employees mation, education and A1 Telekom Austria Group to find innovative solutions interact within the company knowledge, A1 Telekom provides entire industries, to challenges such as climate as well as with customers, Austria Group not only business models and sochange. suppliers and other stakeserves as a responsible cietal as well as personal holders. A1 Telekom Austria member of our society, areas of life with a wide Group actively promotes but also as an element range of positive developthe skills required for this. that bridges gaps. ment possibilities. Materiality matrix Data security & protection Very high Communication Customer orientation infrastructure Ecological Responsible Energy demand network design Stakeholder relevance Compliance purchasing Employee health Digitalisation Skills & promoting development & talent Fair & flexible innovation promotion working Children & youth media protection Waste Media literacy Emissions Electromagnetic fields Recycling ICT products providing ICT products ecological value Low Involvement Diversity & antiproviding of residents discrimination social value Low Impact Very high Bubble size represents business relevance for A1 Telekom Austria Group. A topic’s importance is based on its impact on the environment, society and the economy as well as how relevant it is to A1 Telekom Austria Group’s stakeholders. Thus, the topics most important to A1 Telekom Austria Group are those that have the biggest impact and those that are most relevant to the stakeholders. As an additional dimension, the topics were assessed with regard to their business relevance for A1 Telekom Austria Group. This allows a perspective that takes into account the topics’ sustainability context and their economical significance for the company. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 16 Value Chain The value chain of the A1 Telekom Austria Group shows an overview of input factors, the value generation and its output and outcomes. The resources needed for this are presented as input factors and the subsequent results are shown as output and outcomes. The topics identified along the value chain were factored into the materiality analysis. Input factors Financial Human Technical Natural Intellectual resources capital components resources capital A1 Telekom Austria Group Vision & common purpose Empowering digital life Corporate strategy Revenue growth Excellence in execution Excel in Expand the Targeted Continuous Digital One to all the core portfolio M&A improvements transformation Customer centricity Strategy enablers Guiding Principles One company Constant learning Team Trust Agility Generating value by providing connectivity, bandwidth and digital solutions Output & outcomes Connectivity & futureA company Holistic customer Skills Innovation proof infrastructure of integrity experience development Financial Customer-centric Access to information, Low-emission network flexibility products & services knowledge and education infrastructure SUSTAINABLE DE VELOPMENT GOALS A1 Telekom Austria Group’s contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the members of the United Nations adopted targets for sustainable development (Sustainable Development Goals or SDG) on economic, social and ecological levels. These goals came into effect on January 1, 2016 and will remain valid for 15 years (until the end of 2030). Politics, civil society and the economy are working together on their implementation. A1 Telekom Austria Group is making contributions to the following SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals Assuring fair, inclusive Promoting steady, Creating a powerful Reducing inequality Assuring sustainable and high-quality broad and sustainable and robust infrawithin and between patterns of education and life-long economic growth, structure, promoting nations. consumption and learning possibilities. productive full-time broad and sustainable production. employment as well as industrialization and humane work for all. supporting innovation. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s contribution: Digitalization & promoting innovation A1 Telekom Austria A1 Telekom Austria Group A1 Telekom Austria A1 Telekom Austria A1 Telekom Austria Group promotes offers its employees fair Group continuously Group supports opporGroup is focusing constant learning and flexible work environadvances the expansion tunities of equal access on waste prevention and media literacy ments, promotes their of its network infrato digital media for all and the recycling of development through health and implements structure. It thereby people. Furthermore, it valuable raw materials. free training in the measures to increase focuses on network offers digital solutions At the same time, the framework of the diversity and fight disquality and reliability. with social added value. Group takes into group-wide “A1 Internet crimination. By enabling account ecological for All” initiative. digitalization, it prostandards when motes a decoupling of expanding its network economic growth and and works on standard resource consumption. product solutions. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 18 PART OF A MÉRICA MÓVIL A1 Telekom Austria Group: Part of América Móvil The A1 Telekom Austria Group has around 25 million mobile and fixed-line customers in seven core markets in Central and Eastern Europe and is a converged operator in six of these markets already. With América Móvil as its majority shareholder, the Group forms part of a world-leading multinational telecommunications group. América Móvil has about 276 million mobile customers and 84 million fixed-line RGUs as well as subsidiaries in 25 countries in North, Central and South America and Europe. As part of América Móvil, the A1 Telekom Austria Group also benefits from economies of scale and the strength of a global corporation, giving it advantages and synergies in areas including product development, technology and procurement. América Móvil (including A1 Telekom Austria Group) A1 Telekom Austria Group Mobile communiRevenue-generating Total revenues EBITDA Market potential 1) cations customers units (RGUs) 2018 (in EUR bn) (in EUR bn) (in million) (in million) (in million) A1 Telekom 4.5 1.4 41 21.0 6.3 Austria Group América Móvil 45.0 12.6 946 275.8 84.1 1) Population in footprint Exchange rate EUR / MXN (Mexican Peso, period average): 22.71. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 XI X VIIII 60 50 10 40 20 VII I 30 IVI TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Innovative technologies for the digital age Digital transformation is characterized by steady growth in demand for bandwidth and data driven by increased connectivity in more and more areas of professional and private life. The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s infrastructure forms the technological backbone for all of that. The further development of the network infrastructure plays in 2018. Convergence, i. e. the intelligent combination of the a central role in ensuring that the Group is optimally equipped mobile and fixed-line network infrastructure, enables efficient for the dynamically growing requirements in an era of digital and extended regional coverage with increasingly large bandchange and because this forms the basis for innovative prodwidths. For this reason, the A1 Telekom Austria Group already ucts and services. Accordingly, the Group’s mobile and fixed has a presence as a convergent operator in six of the seven network infrastructure was continuously expanded once again core markets in its operational footprint (Austria, Bulgaria, A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 20 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Internet@Home portfolio Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia and the Republic of Macedonia). In order to meet the requirements of future mobile communication technologies such as 5G and new services based on them, the Group is continuing to press ahead with the roll-out of fiber to mobile base stations. The next mobile communication standard 5G, the “Internet of Things” (IoT) and cloudbased services for the B2B market all require high computing capacity. As a result, data centers are playing an increasingly important role as the third pillar of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s infrastructure strategy. Net Cube The investments (CAPEX) of the A1 Telekom Austria Group totaled EUR 771 mn in the 2018 financial year, with one of the focal points being the broadband expansion. Fixed-line Hybrid broadband Fixed-line broadband expansion In Austria, the fixed-line broadband expansion was continuWith its Internet@Home portfolio, A1 offers an attractive ously driven forward by the accelerated fiber roll-out in the solution for every customer requirement in Austria. Since July form of FTTC (fiber to the curb), FTTB (fiber to the building) 2016, the traditional fixed-line broadband offering has been and FTTH (fiber to the home). While fiber is coming closer and supplemented by a hybrid modem that combines the perforcloser to the customer, the capacity of existing copper lines mance of the DSL fixed broadband line with LTE as required to is also being increased. This is being done with a combination achieve transmission rates of up to 150 Mbps, thereby reachof vectoring – a technology for suppressing interfering signals – ing more households with higher bandwidths. In August 2018, with transmission technologies such as VDSL2 and G.fast. a practical function was added to this product allowing the In this case, the target transmission rates are several 100 Mbps hybrid modem to be used via the mobile network for 30 days for medium line distances. The first generation of G.fast enabefore the installation of fixed-line access. Mobile WiFi routers bles data rates of up to 500 Mbps. 2018 also saw the start (“Net Cube”) also offer maximum flexibility via the mobile of the roll-out of Vectoring Plus (V.Plus), the latest VDSL technetwork and round off the Group’s broadband offering. nology. This means significant increases in bandwidth to up to 300 Mbps for medium line lengths. Mobile network expansion The A1 Telekom Austria Group offers the LTE (long-term evoFixed-line technologies lution) mobile communication standard in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Macedonia. The accelerated roll-out of 4G LTE Advanced Pro FTTC Fiber to the Curb in 2018 led to a significant expansion of the supply of super(VDSL2 incl. vectoring) ARU 1) fast mobile Internet in Austria, Croatia, Slovenia, the Republic Up to 800 m of Serbia, and the Republic of Macedonia. To achieve even FTTC faster mobile Internet, the A1 Telekom Austria Group is using Telephone exchange Fiber to the Curb LTE carrier aggregation with 256 QAM (a complex modulation (V.Plus incl. vectoring) ARU1) technique) at selected locations in Austria, Croatia, and the Up to 500 m Republic of Serbia, enabling data rates of up to 400 Mbps. FTTB As part of the roll-out of 4G LTE Advanced Pro in all countries Fiber to the Building covered by the A1 Telekom Austria Group, 4x4 MIMO (multi(G.fast) ple input multiple output) is also being used to increase data Up to 250 m transmission speeds on a targeted basis where these capaciFTTH ties are required. Fiber to the Home 1) Access remote unit Fiber Copper A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Carrier aggregation, complex modulation techniques and even more powerful forms of MIMO (massive MIMO) will also play a key role in the next mobile communications generaDIGITAL tion 5G, since these serve as the technological basis for high TRANSFORMATION bandwidths and the particularly efficient use of the available & TECHNOLOGY frequency bands. In the 2018 financial year, the A1 Telekom Austria Group successfully demonstrated various examples of the application of 5G services based on a 5G radio cell and The new A1 Next Generation Data Center opened in a 5G core in its live network, achieving transmission rates in Vienna in December 2018. To that end, the Group inexcess of 1.4 Gbps and latencies of less than four millisecvested a total of around EUR 40 mn in financial years onds. The base station used in the demonstration was based 2017 and 2018. A powerful network and highly availon hardware that is already available, which was connected to able data centers form the basis for digitalization, massive MIMO active antennas. One of the main driving forces for which A1 intends to be the preferred partner for behind 5G technology, massive MIMO marks the introduction Austrian business and private customers. The A1 Next of a new, advanced concept that supports the formation of Generation Data Center is a georedundant grouping 3D radio fields, thereby dramatically increasing throughput, of A1’s data centers, meaning it offers a combination network capacity, and coverage. Further examples of the appliof cloud, hosting, and housing services. The new data cation of 5G mobile technology were demonstrated in Croatia, center represents the convergence of telecommuniwhere the Group became the first network operator in the cations and IT services without data having to leave country to achieve transmission speeds in excess of 20 Gbps. the closed, highly secure chain. Data security campus networks are playing an increasingly important role for many industrial partners. The A1 Telekom Austria Group covers this requirement with edge computing, a solution that gives industrial customers the option of transData centers as the third mitting their own data via 4G LTE Advanced Pro or NB-IoT pillar of infrastructure (narrowband IoT) without it leaving the company’s internal network. At the same time, campus networks enable the use State-of-the-art, highly secure data centers will continue of dedicated resources for internal communications. Some to gain in importance in the future. Accordingly, they represent solutions of this nature were already successfully tested with the third pillar of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s infrastructure selected industrial partners in 2018. strategy alongside mobile and fixed-line networks. The following technological developments are playing a key role in this In the area of management systems, the A1 Telekom Austria process: Group has initiated the development of a future operations support system (future OSS). Systems of this type differ from ▸ Network function virtualization (NFV) can be performed in IT existing management systems in that the data to be prodata centers with increased agility and standard IT hardware. cessed is stored in a data lake and processed from there. ▸ Growing customer demand for cloud-based solutions This open structure makes it possible to respond to new (e. g. SaaS1), PaaS2), IaaS3)) via secure local data centers requirements extremely quickly and to address new ▸ Edge computing allows applications like IoT, advanced anaquestions in service assurance in a short space of time. lytics and 5G to unleash their full potential. Applications requiring large processing power are run as closely as possible to the place of performance at decentralized or regional data centers. 1) Software as a Service. 2) Platform as a Service. 3) Infrastructure as a Service. Mobile communications technologies at a glance 1G No data 2G 9.6–236 Kbps 3G 0.3–42 Mbps 4G Up to 5G Targeted transmission 400 Mbps > 1 Gbps Voice Voice and first Voice and broadVoice and highHigh bandwidth telephony data services band data services speed data services and minimal latency 1974 – 2001 Since 1994 Since 2003 Since 2010 >2020 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 22 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION In 2018, the A1 Telekom Austria Group successfully pressed ahead with network function virtualization (NFV) in all countries. Data communication is now controlled using virtual network components in all of the markets in its operational footprint. The A1 Telekom Austria Group will complete the virtualization of its core mobile networks in 2019. A1 Digital: Ideal partner for digital transformation Thanks to the growing spread of connectivity and increasingly high transmission rates, the digital transformation is in full swing – and is radically changing traditional business models. Digitalization is not a temporary trend or something that only concerns the IT department. It is a key strategic topic that HIGHLIGHT PROJECT TECHNOLOGY enjoys corresponding relevance at management level. A1 Digital supports companies in the challenging process of digital EU’s Helix Nebula initiative uses transformation as a one-stop shop for digitalization and technology advice. A1 Digital works with companies to develop A1 Digital’s Exoscale platform the best technical solution for customer interaction, business The Helix Nebula initiative is a partnership between process optimization, the development of new business industry, space aviation, and science. The aim is to use models, and communication with partners and suppliers. open cloud services to establish a dynamic, seamlessly integrated ecosystem between research institutions A1 Digital – founded in early 2017 as a affiliate of the A1 and companies. A syndicate headed by RHEA, a proTelekom Austria Group – focuses on Europe, encompassing fessional engineering service partner, was selected as the Group’s existing markets in the CEE region as well as new the technology provider for the project. RHEA is using markets in Western Europe, especially Germany. A team of Exoscale, a subsidiary of A1 Digital, for the entire infraexperienced experts advises customers on IoT services like structure. asset tracking, fleet management, smart metering, machine learning, and artificial intelligence (AI) applications. The The initiative currently involves more than 40 public digital value chain is being enhanced further with innovative, and private partners including CERN, the European scalable cloud services and the new security portfolio. Organization for Nuclear Research, which is one of the world’s largest and most prestigious centers for scientific research. The unique API (Application Programming Interface) functions and rapid response time for A1 Digital’s product portfolio the provision of cloud infrastructure make Exoscale at a glance the ideal platform for the project. ▸ Sector-specific applications for IoT (Internet of Things) with a new IoT platform ▸ Exoscale cloud platform and cloud-based products In the 2018 financial year, a dedicated security team was for the modern workplace established at A1 Digital in response to growth in the rate of ▸ Security solutions for cloud, IoT and OT (operational cybercrime. The portfolio includes an internally developed technology) such as protection against hacking vulnerability scanning solution that warns customers about potential security gaps in their IT systems, as well as security consulting services. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Promoting innovation with Network quality awards in 2018 the “A1 Start Up Campus” and research partnerships ▸ Chip network test: winner (Austria) ▸ connect test: excellent (Austria) The A1 Telekom Austria Group focuses on a wide range of ▸ PC Magazin network test: winner (Austria) areas in its research and development (R&D). The topic of ▸ futurezone network test: winner (Austria) innovation has been implemented as a strategic cornerstone ▸ DMTEL GSM/UMTS/LTE quality test: winner (Belarus) of this process. In Austria, the “A1 Start Up Campus” initiative aims to help young companies to realize innovations by providing the necessary expertise and infrastructure. The “A1 Start Up Campus” offers selected company founders free Customer orientation office space fitted with state-of-the-art technology, as well The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s technology and infrastructure as data center services and cloud space. The young entreprovides solid foundations for the broad and innovative portpreneurs can also call on the advice of A1 specialists in all folio with which the Group meets its customers’ needs. In order relevant business disciplines, including marketing, sales, to identify current and future customer requirements and find and controlling. The “A1 Start Up Campus” offering is roundout how its products and services are being received on the ed off by support in the area of public relations. market, the A1 Telekom Austria Group uses a wide range of information channels including shops and service lines, social Research partnerships with notable scientific and industrial media such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube as well as cuspartners and joint projects with national and international tomer apps and its own support communities. institutions are supporting the A1 Telekom Austria Group in the launch of technologies of the future for marketand The Group is adapting to the dynamic shift in lifestyle and customer-oriented communications solutions. The A1 Telekom usage habits in the era of digitalization by continuously Austria Group is also a partner of the Industry 4.0 platform expanding its product portfolio. Current innovations such as and is addressing the interoperability of IoT platforms within “A1 Smart Home” and “A1 Xplore Music” are good examples the Europe-wide H2020 project symbIoTe. symbIoTe is supof this process. “A1 Smart Home” allows customers to conveported by the European Union and is intended to promote niently connect electronic devices in their households, optiresearch in the area of IoT. mally customize them to reflect their own habits, and increase security within their own home. The “A1 Smart Home” service Product portfolio for retail customers Republic Republic of Products Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus Slovenia of Serbia Macedonia Mobile Fixed-line Convergent products Internet TV (IPTV, Sat, DVBT) OTT TV OTT Music Smart Home TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION is easy to install and connects via its own gateway to a userAround 70 % of customers who have contacted one of the friendly mobile app. The system, whose servers are located customer interfaces would “definitely recommend” the solely in the EU, uses innovative, self-learning algorithms to A1 Telekom Austria Group, with customer satisfaction rising create automation scenarios that it suggests to customers – significantly across all channels in 2018. such as turning off the heating system when a window is opened. The smart home product was successfully estabWith more than 1.3 million active users per month, the selflished and enhanced on the market in four countries care app is are an important communications channel for (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, and Slovenia) in 2018. many customers, allowing them to quickly and easily find out how many free units they have used, view their bills, change tariffs, manage add-ons and much more. Monthly global Monthly global Providing the best possible digital customer experience is mobile data traffic fixed-line data traffic also the idea behind the new shop design of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. In addition to personal service and a local presence, the innovative concept offers the ideal atmosphere in which to try out products, exciting solutions that bring digitalization to life, touchscreen-based interactive advice, and state-of-the-art design with a feel-good character. 2017: 15 EB 1) 2023: 107 EB 2017: 80 EB 2023: 250 EB Ecological network design The biggest environmental impact caused by the A1 Telekom Austria Group is due to the electricity used in operating its networks. This accounts for around 80 % of the Group’s total Monthly average data Connected devices energy requirements. The introduction of the next mobile traffic per smartphone worldwide communication standard 5G, will enable quicker data transmission and larger bandwidths. At the same time, a strong increase in the electricity requirements for 5G communication is anticipated. The A1 Telekom Austria Group has been working to improve its energy efficiency for a number of years. In addition to high service quality, the use of the latest RAN (Radio Access Network) components at the subsidiaries of the A1 Telekom Austria Group ensures energy efficiency within 2017: 3.4 GB 2023: 17 GB 2017: 2023: the company. To this end, old components are being replaced 17.5 billion 31.4 billion as part of the LTE roll-out. Innovative cooling techniques like hotspot suction, cold aisle containment and heat recovery Source: Ericsson Mobility Report (2018) systems also help to reduce electricity requirements by up to 75 % compared with conventional cooling systems. All in all, 1) One exabyte is equivalent to one quintillion (1018) bytes or one billion the A1 Telekom Austria Group improved its energy efficiency 4) gigabytes. by 24 % between 2017 and 2018. Total energy consumption in 2018 amounted to approximately 810,900 MWh with electricity consumption of about 300,600 MWh of which 62 % With “A1 Xplore Music”, the A1 Telekom Austria Group began was generated from renewable energy sources. offering another attractive service in Austria and Bulgaria in 2018. Customers use an app or a web browser to enjoy their The A1 Telekom Austria Group follows fundamental ecologifavorite music whenever and wherever they like. “A1 Xplore cal principles in its lifecycle management with a view to Music” has more than 30 million songs and over 10,000 live preventing waste, conserving resources and keeping valuable radio stations in its library. In addition to international content, raw materials in circulation for as long as possible (“Reduce – local music editors create playlists and recommendations that Reuse – Recycle”). Equipment and devices that no longer work are tailored to the listening habits in the respective country. are systematically disassembled and their components are properly recycled. The company has adopted customer experience management and customer centricity as core principles in order to ensure a consistently winning customer experience across all products, services and processes and in all interactions. Customer Energy from sustainable sources needs and requirements are systematically identified and Efficiency measures alone are not enough to compensate for recorded. This then forms the basis for developing and impletotal electricity volumes, which is why the A1 Telekom Austria menting innovative optimization measures aimed at allowing customers to experience the A1 brand’s distinct values even 4) Energy efficiency is defined as electricity consumption per terabyte more positively. of data transported. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Group takes steps to ensure that any amount of electricity that cannot be reduced by taking appropriate measures is Electromagnetic fields as sustainable as possible, for example by using electricity Despite research findings such as those presented by the from renewable sources such as solar, hydro, and wind European Commission’s Scientific Committee on Emerging (see “Social and Ecological Responsibility”). The A1 Telekom and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR), which find Austria Group’s largest solar park opened in Belarus in midno causal link between mobile communications and health 2016, spans 41 hectares and has 85,000 solar panels, problems, constant speculation surrounds the topic of mobile which produce roughly 27 million kWh of electricity per year. communications in connection with electromagnetic fields In Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia, and the (EMF). In Austria, the international exposure limit recommenRepublic of Serbia, there are 100 mobile base stations rundations of the EU, the WHO and the ICNIRP (International ning on solar and wind power or on hydrogen fuel cells. Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection) are implemented in the current OVE Directive R 23-1 from 2017, the application of which is mandatory. The A1 Telekom Austria Group complies with — and even keeps well below — all exposure limits recommended by the ICNIRP/WHO for daily operations involving base stations and mobile devices. ▬ DATA PROTECTION More data use The company works continuously and systematically on achieving further optimization in these areas in order, for instance, to also demands effectively counteract attacks on databases such as the one in Austria in early October 2018. In this particular example, more security the server concerned was removed from the network immediately and access to it was blocked. Passwords were reset as The A1 Telekom Austria Group ensures that its customers a precaution and customers were informed in writing. A1 are on the safe side when it comes to seizing the opporcooperated fully with the data protection authorities regarding tunities and potential related to advancing digitalization. this incident. All companies of the A1 Telekom Austria Group undertake Harmonization of data protection to comply with stringent data protection and data security In response to the expanded requirements imposed on comstandards. In addition to the statutory requirements in panies by the European Union’s General Data Protection Reguthe respective countries, all subsidiaries must also adhere lation, the position of a data protection officer was established to the standards of data security created for this purpose in the A1 Telekom Austria Group in mid-2017. The General and any other country-specific guidelines on data security Data Protection Regulation represents a major challenge both and data protection. At A1 in Austria, for example, comprenow and in the years ahead. In May 2016, data protection hensive certificates such as ISO 27001, ISAE 3402, and law in the European Union was harmonized and subjected to ECO Datacenter 3.0 confirm these high security standards. largely uniform rules. At the heart of this is the protection The Data Privacy department is in charge of compliance of personal data with the aim of giving those affected greater with statutory and internal data protection regulations at control over their data, providing comprehensive information A1 in Austria. on the use of such data, guaranteeing greater protection for children, and facilitating access to legal protection. The EU General Data Protection Regulation has been in force since A1 Telekom Austria Group May 25, 2018, and A1 Telekom Austria Group has been data protection certifications working since 2016 to gradually implement it in the countries covered by the regulation. For example, corresponding proAustria Republic of Macedonia cess adjustments were made for projects and products. The ▸ ISO 27001 ▸ ISO 27001 annual risk assessment was also adapted to take into account ▸ ISAE 3402 the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. ▬ ▸ ECO Datacenter 3.0 A1 Digital ▸ ISO 27001 Bulgaria ▸ ISO 27018 ▸ ISO 27001 Croatia ▸ ISO 27001 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 26 INVESTOR REL ATIONS Transparent and timely communication of corporate development Investor Relations’ communications policy again focused on the systematic implementation of the corporate strategy targeted at digital transformation and the resulting solid operating results in 2018. Share price performance February, higher-than-expected inflation and therefore and sector comparison growing fears of further interest rate hikes in the US caused a difficult situation on European stock markets. Nonetheless, the Telekom Austria’s shares had a strong start to the new year price of Telekom Austria shares recovered and outperformed and reached their high for the year of EUR 8.42 on January 5, the European market and the sector until the beginning of May. 2018. However, this was followed by profit-taking and, in After the first half of the year, geopolitical tension between the A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 INVESTOR REL ATIONS Development of Telekom Austria’s share price indexed as of January 1, 2018 120 % 75 Telekom Austria share 110 % 60 Austrian Traded Index 100 % 45 Stoxx Europe 600 Index 90 % 30 Stoxx Europe Telecommunications Index 80 % 15 Telekom Austria share monthly turnover (in EUR mn; 70 % 0 right-hand scale) 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Key figures of Telekom Austria’s share 2018 2017 Share price low (in EUR) 6.11 5.50 Share price high (in EUR) 8.42 8.28 Share price as of December 31 (in EUR) 6.64 7.72 Market capitalization as of December 31 (in EUR bn) 4.4 5.1 Average daily stock market turnover (in EUR mn) 2.0 2.7 Number of shares of common stock as of December 31 664,500,000 664,500,000 Number of shares outstanding as of December 31 664,084,841 664,084,841 ATX weighting as of December 31 (in %) 2.1 1.9 US and North Korea and the start of a trade war between the US and China sparked negative market sentiment that also Shareholder structure spread to Telekom Austria’s shares. as of December 31, 2018 Ordinary Share Shareholders 1) shares in % The second half of the year began with a recovery in the share América Móvil 338,895,000 51.00 price, which continued to rise following the publication of the ÖBIB (Republic of Austria)2) 188,876,602 28.42 half-year figures. Telekom Austria’s shares maintained their Free float including employee 136,728,398 20.58 price level in August despite negative stock market stimulus and treasury shares stemming from the intensifying US/China trade war and the Total number of shares 664,500,000 100.00 Turkish currency crisis. However, in contrast to general market 1) According to registration for the Annual General Meeting and sector developments, the shares suffered considerable on May 30, 2018. price losses in September and shed much of their previous 2) ÖBIB will be transformed into a stock company due to the outperformance over the sector by the beginning of October. change of the “ÖIAG Gesetz 2000” according to Sec 245ff AktG. The company will be transformed into As the year progressed, uncertainty in connection with the Österreichische Beteiligungs AG (ÖBAG). Italian national budget and the unresolved Brexit settlement were among the factors that led to clouded sentiment on No shareholding notifications were reported in European stock markets. The telecom sector performed well accordance with sections 130 et seq. of the in this difficult environment and also benefited from positive Austrian Stock Exchange Act in financial year 2018. regulatory decisions such as the approval of the merger of T-Mobile and Tele2 in the Netherlands. The Telekom Austria share price stabilized and the share closed the year at EUR 6.64. With a negative performance of –14.1 % in 2018 Dividend the share almost reflected the development of the sector Based on the improved operational and financial performance (Stoxx Telekom: –13.0 %), after having considerably outperof the Group, a new expected dividend level was agreed by formed the latter in 2017. The Austrian lead index ATX lost América Móvil and Österreichische Bundes und Industriebe19.7 % in 2018. teiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB) in 2016. Starting from fiscal 2016, this dividend expectation entails the payment of EUR 0.20 per share to be maintained or increased on a sustainable basis A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 28 INVESTOR REL ATIONS Telekom Austria AG outstanding bonds as of December 31, 2018 (issuer: Telekom Finanzmanagement GmbH) ISIN Issue date Maturity Volume (in EUR m) Coupon XS0767278301 March 26, 2012 April 4, 2022 750 4.000 % XS0950055359 June 27, 2013 July 4, 2023 300 3.500 % XS0999667263 November 26, 2013 December 3, 2021 750 3.125 % XS1405762805 November 30, 2016 December 7, 2026 750 1.500 % in line with the operational and financial development of the Spread development Group. The Management Board of Telekom Austria AG plans to propose a dividend of EUR 0.21 per share for financial year The liquidity of corporate bonds usually declines significantly 2018 at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. a certain time after being issued. As credit default swaps (CDS) are not affected by this liquidity reduction, it is standard international practice to use five-year CDS when analyzing spread development. Basic information on Telekom Austria’s share Telekom Austria AG’s five-year CDS spread remained at a low level in the reporting year. Telekom Austria AG’s risk premium ISIN AT0000720008 tracked sideways at around 30 basis points in the opening Symbol TKA months of 2018, reaching a historic low of 26 basis points Reuters TELA.VI on February 1. The formation of the Italian government in Bloomberg TKA AV June led to rising risk premiums and the Markit iTraxx Europe Listing Vienna Stock Exchange ATX Prime Market Index climbed above the 70-point mark. As a result, Telekom American depositary receipts (ADR) 1 ADR = Austria AG’s CDS spread also rose to its high for the year of 42 2 ordinary shares basis points on June 8. The credit spreads for both the market and Telekom Austria AG subsequently narrowed again. From October, interest rate hikes in the US and the expiry of the ECB’s bond-buying program led to rising risk premiums in the market, while Telekom Austria AG maintained its low spread External ratings and outlook level. Its five-year CDS spread was 36 basis points at the end Rating Outlook of the year while the Markit iTraxx Europe Index closed at 87 Moody’s Baa1 Stable basis points. ▬ S&P BBB Positive 2019 financial calendar Financial debt and ratings April 29, 2019 Results for first quarter of 2019 May 19, 2019 Record date The A1 Telekom Austria Group actively uses the local and May 29, 2019 Annual General Meeting international debt capital markets to ensure that its financing Week of June 3, 2019 Dividend ex-date is broadly diversified, both geographically and in terms of its Week of June 3, 2019 Dividend record date investor base. Week of June 3, 2019 Dividend payment date July 16, 2019 Results for first half of 2019 Since its first bond in 2003, the A1 Telekom Austria Group has October 15, 2019 Results for the first issued nine benchmark bonds in total. It placed the first hybrid nine months of 2019 bond with a volume of EUR 600 mn in the European telecommunications sector in 2013. This bond was repaid on its first Status at the editorial deadline. call date on February 1, 2018. Credit ratings Telekom Austria AG is regularly rated by Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. On June 28, 2018, the strong cash flow generation and solid financing ratios prompted Moody’s to raise its rating from Baa2 to Baa1. Standard & Poor’s confirmed its rating for Telekom Austria AG on June 28, 2018. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 EMPLOYEES Actively shaping change with a digital mindset The A1 Telekom Austria Group sees itself as a driver and companion of the digital transformation. To this end, it promotes constant learning with a focus on digital skills and relies on a shared sense of identity and uniform guidelines throughout the Group. The A1 Telekom Austria Group employs around 18,700 people. harmonization of processes and procedures. Specifically proIt sees diversity in culture, age, and gende as one of its greatest moting a “digital mindset” plays a key role within the company. strengths. Its strategy and practiced corporate culture are in Innovative solutions for internal communication and cooperkeeping with its common purpose of “Empowering digital life”. ation pave the way for a shared sense of identity throughout the Group (“One company”). This nation-spanning team spirit, Both in internal and external collaboration, the A1 Telekom constant learning, and group-wide Guiding Principles are the Austria Group relies on digitalization and the group-wide main drivers of corporate strategy (Strategy enablers). A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 30 EMPLOYEES Promoting interest in new things: Strategy enablers “Constant learning” Digitalization and the innovative communications solutions Guiding based on it are creating entirely new ways to shape our Principles working and learning worlds. Working with others independently of time and space and sharing on social networks One Team Constant or knowledge platforms offer enormous potential for promoting the development of skills and for enhancing the company learning productivity and attractiveness of the working environment Trust as a whole. Accordingly, the A1 Telekom Austria Group is increasingly using a central e-learning platform for training Agility throughout the Group wherever and whenever possible, in addition to its group-wide “Workplace” social collaboration platform. This promotes cross-divisional cooperation in international project groups and virtual teams, not to mention the sharing of expertise within the Group. Shared sense of identity: “One company” The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s In order to advance the digital transformation with combined Guiding Principles forces, there is a growing need for cross-departmental and international cooperation. Employees are encouraged to work Team in multinational groups on projects, which are then tested in In working together, we combine our abilities and different countries and, if successful, rolled out throughout the strengths in order to meet our customers’ expectations. Group. To promote the sharing of information within the It is important for us to communicate openly and Group, further communications channels were also introduced, transparently and to act as a team. Everyone’s opinion such as the regular “A1 Minute” shorts (video compilations matters – and everyone is encouraged to take action. of news from the last two weeks) and the digital employee magazine – also available externally – “A1 Stories” (A1stories. Trust com). The company’s internal social collaboration platform Through trust, we create an environment that pro“Workplace” holds a “Friday Coffee” every two weeks where motes curiosity, openness, and cooperation. We stand employees report on current projects or news from the by what we say and we keep our promises. We believe countries where the Group operates. in the knowledge and abilities of all employees. We act with integrity in our dealings with each other, with In addition, five countries implemented a uniform digital customers, suppliers, and partners. This helps us to recruitment platform in 2018 to promote a uniform, groupget a little better every single day. wide image as an attractive digital employer under the motto: “A1 Telekom Austria Group – Digital Employer of Choice”. Agility The digital world is not going to wait for us to be ready for it. So we make decisions and implement them quickly. The Group’s Guiding Principles We learn in our day-to-day work, talking with co-workers and on our internal learning and social collaboration The A1 Telekom Austria Group is committed to an active platform. We learn from our mistakes and are constantly corporate culture conducive to its common purpose striving to take the next step. of “Empowering digital life”. To this end, three Guiding Principles were developed at the end of 2016 and have been implemented throughout the Group (see box). These principles have since become more widely established, Constant learning plays a key role for the A1 Telekom Austria in part as a result of Guiding Principles workshops held Group in pursuing its corporate strategy, and was a strategic throughout the Group, a Guiding Principles campaign, and focus topic in 2018. Through its “A1 Learning Hub”, the Group a “Culture Pulse Check”. Throughout the Group, 51 % of therefore provided digital learning content on topics that employees took part in “Culture Pulse Check 2018”, and change monthly, such as “Internet of Things (IoT)” or “Cyber 92 % of employees are familiar with the Guiding Principles. Security”. The wide range of material available on the groupFurther measures were developed based on these results, wide e-learning platform shows how much digital learning is above all to bolster the company’s culture of active feedback. fostered and promoted within the A1 Telekom Austria Group. This platform currently comprises 15 learning providers and 1,920 online courses and virtual classes. All employees completed at least one online course in 2018. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 EMPLOYEES The A1 Telekom Austria Group is also seeking to develop essential skills and capabilities in the digital age with Professional development programs in its fellowship program: This gives leading experts the opthe A1 Telekom Austria Group (excerpt) portunity to build their own communities in subject areas such as big data, the Internet of Things (IoT), omnichannel, ▸ Group Young Potential Program etc. while also receiving support and continuing profes(A1 Telekom Austria Group) sional development. In doing so, the Group wants to promote ▸ Sales and Leadership Program (Austria) expert careers, encourage personal responsibility and ▸ Digitalized Welcome Learning Pack & the dismantling of hierarchies while at the same time Constant Learning Courses (Bulgaria) augmenting digital skills. For example, the IoT community ▸ Digital Skills Academy (Croatia) already has more than 500 active members on the Group’s ▸ Digital Customer Forum (Belarus) internal social collaboration platform, while the omni▸ Strength-based Leadership (Slovenia) channel community already has approximately 100. ▸ Strength-based Leadership (Republic of Serbia) ▸ Digital Skills Development Program (Republic of Macedonia) DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION Under the motto “Empowering ideas”, the intrapreneurship & EMPLOYEES program was launched in 2017 to actively promote the entrepreneurial spirit. This offers entrepreneurially-minded employees the chance to make their ideas a reality as internal In order to further tap the potential of digitalization and start-ups without assuming the financial risks. One example to foster digital transformation within the A1 Telekom of a winning team under this program is “Offensity”, which Austria Group, employees and members of the Group was able to successfully implement its ideas in the course Leadership Team were given the opportunity to join the of 2018. Its members call themselves ethical hackers, and “Digital Shift Learning Path” in 2018. This mentored offer small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) a package online learning program consisted of three phases: In to protect themselves against hacker attacks (see “Highlight phase 1, a “Digital barometer” assessed the “digital project”). A second run of the intrapreneurship program fitness” in four fundamental dimensions (“Digital adopwas started in 2018. tion”, “Digital sharing”, “Digital collaboration”, and “Digital productivity”). Phase 2 aimed at aligning this The A1 Telekom Austria Group trains its own apprentices digital understanding with the corporate culture and to meet its future requirements for young experts. There at exploring major digital trends (digital mindset, were 122 apprentices in training at A1 in Austria in 2018. behavioral shifts, data creation/abundance, personalization, digital communities, and security). Phase 3 was designed to anchor the acquired knowledge by applying it in three community challenges (“Agile Fair and flexible working working”, “Learning culture”, and “Digital manifesto”) conditions via the group-wide social collaboration platform “Workplace”. At A1 Telekom Austria Group, group-wide performance management standards ensure that just as much attention is paid to employees’ quantitatively measurable performance as to the “how” aspect of their day-to-day work in accordance with the Guiding Principles. Employees’ personal development is a key aspect of the performance management process and was already integrated into it in 2016. At the start of 2018, ROAD (Relevant Orientation & Active Development) was implemented as an evolution of the performance management model. The focus is placed on employees’ development and strengths in order to improve personal responsibility and enhance the company’s feedback culture. Managers are reinforced in their role as coaches. A key aspect of ROAD is regular discussion instead of selective, reciprocal exchange. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 32 EMPLOYEES The use of mobile and flexible forms of work has grown steadily throughout the Group in recent years. For example, in 2017 the The potential of diversity company moved into a new, state-of-the-art business location in Teams that are diverse are better than individuals at masterthe Republic of Serbia and established new office concepts. In ing the variety of challenges of today’s world of work. Teams 2018, the modernization of the Group’s headquarters in Austria prove especially effective when many different skills and continued and the Macedonian subsidiary moved into a new capabilities are interlinked. After all, different ways of looking office location. Innovative working models and office solutions at a challenge lead to comprehensive and efficient solutions. are the focus in the course of this. Echoing these sentiments, the A1 Telekom Austria Group has signed the Diversity Charter. By doing so, it has made a public Social dialog is a top priority within the A1 Telekom Austria commitment to utilizing and preserving the wealth of cultural Group. The European Works Council, consisting of employee traditions and capabilities in its countries. representatives from EU countries, meets several times a year. Furthermore, there is regular sharing of information with The A1 Telekom Austria Group also takes a clear stance when employee representatives at Group and local level. At Group it comes to gender equality: Equal opportunities are a fixed level, a Memorandum of Understanding on Employee Rights element of all its activities. This is backed up by various proand Working Conditions and a Memorandum of Understandgrams aimed at, for example, getting women interested in ing on Partnership in the Workplace were signed with the technical professions. The role of Gender Diversity Officer European Works Council in 2017. Locally, there are collective was established in 2018. The Gender Diversity Officer is also agreements in individual countries. Employee representaresponsible for implementing the agenda of the advancetives account for a third of the members of the Supervisory ment plan for women (see box). There is a variety of programs Board of Telekom Austria AG. intended to improve women’s career development opportunities and to aid work-life balance – for both women and men. In Austria, a successful women’s network offers female employees a platform for exchanging ideas, sharing knowledge HIGHLIGHT PROJECT and providing mutual support. In 2018, the European Works IT vulnerability analysis with Offensity Council of the A1 Telekom Austria Group created a multinational Women’s Council to support the promotion of women One of the winning teams of the intrapreneurship at all levels throughout the Group. program, Offensity, offers an automated cloud service to protect the external IT infrastructures of SMEs. The service checks the customer’s infrastructure for vulnerabilities on an ongoing basis, evaluates them, Advancement plan for women notifies customers immediately of potential threats and delivers specific and comprehensible recommen▸ Promoting reconciliation of work and family dations on how these vulnerabilities can be resolved – ▸ Equal career advancement and development before hackers can find and exploit them. opportunities ▸ Zero tolerance of sexual harassment, bullying etc. at the workplace ▸ Networking support for women within the company It was A1 Telekom Austria Group’s goal to increase the share of women in management positions to 38 % by 2018. However, regarding the occupation of open positions it was not achieved to attract enough women to leadership positions. A 5-year plan was therefore developed in 2018 that focused on reconciling work and family and is intended to ensure an increase in the proportion of women in management. In total, the share of female employees at the end of 2018 was 40 % after 38 % in the previous year. ▬ A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 SOCIAL AND ECOLOGICAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Sustainable alignment of the digital transformation Within its own framework and as an ideal digitalization partner, A1 Telekom Austria Group is committed to sustainable progress in the areas of business, the environment, and society. In almost every sector of the economy, the digital transformaParallel to this, to ensure that the opportunities and potential tion of Industry 4.0 is opening up a wealth of completely new, of digitalization within society are available to as many people smart business models, and thus enormous economic and deas possible, it is also specifically promoting the competent and velopment opportunities as well. However, it is just as important secure use of digital media. A1 Telekom Austria Group also at a social and ecological level: Just think about equal access takes steps to ensure that its infrastructure roll-out, operation, to information, education, and knowledge, or the potential for maintenance and dismantling activities are as sustainable as conserving physical resources through digitalization. In keeppossible. The Group is helping to harness the potential of ICT ing with its common purpose of “Empowering digital life”, the to mitigate climate change: According to a study by the Global A1 Telekom Austria Group has long since gone from being e-Sustainability Initiative 1), the use of ICT can reduce global a provider of just infrastructure, connectivity and bandwidth CO₂ emissions by 20 % by 2030. to becoming a holistic digitalization pioneer and companion. 1) GeSi, SMARTer2030 (2015). A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 34 SOCIAL AND ECOLOGICAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Systematic management of DIGITAL the sustainability agenda TRANSFORMATION & SOCIAL The A1 Telekom Austria Group first implemented a group-wide, SUSTAINABILITY integrated sustainability management system in 2010. The group-wide sustainability strategy was derived from a materiality analysis (see “Vision and Strategy”). Responsibility for “A1 Internet for All” is helping various target groups such coordinating and managing sustainability initiatives lies with as children, young people, adults and seniors to actively the Corporate Sustainability department. As part of the Group participate in, and personally benefit from, the digital Communications & Sustainability division, it reports directly transformation that is increasingly spreading to new to the CEO Thomas Arnoldner and coordinates the implemenareas of the economy and society. As the latest milestone tation of the sustainability strategy with those in charge in the in this group-wide initiative, the Macedonian subsidiary countries where the Group operates. launched a media literacy initiative in February 2018 for children with the aim of teaching them how to use the Internet safely and educating them about potential A1 Internet for All promotes “digidangers of social networks. The workshops were held in two languages – Macedonian and Albanian. tal fitness” and equal opportunities According to studies such as the 2016 Global Information Technology Report by Strategy&, a rising level of digitalization is associated with a higher gross domestic product, a lower unemployment rate and increased innovation. In light of this, “digital According to the 2018 scientific evaluation by the Vienna fitness” plays a central role at a social and individual level. University of Economics and Business’ NPO Institute, A1 is making a significant contribution towards closing the “digital The A1 Telekom Austria Group is therefore specifically promotgap” in Austria. ing the development of the knowledge and skills that are key to equal opportunities in leveraging the potential of digitalization with its group-wide “A1 Internet for All” initiative in the form of free workshops. The first media literacy initiative of this kind Products with social value added was established in Austria back in 2011, and since then similar Finally, socially disadvantaged people or people with physiprojects and initiatives have been rolled out in the countries cal disabilities can also benefit from digitalization in their where the Group operates. day-to-day lives. New information and communication technologies can, for example, help the blind or the severely The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s goal was to train 150,000 visually impaired integrate into the general education system participants in various workshops for children, young people, without having to use braille. A1 in Croatia also offers visually adults and seniors by 2018. The focus for the target group impaired people mobile phones with larger displays or simpliof children and young people is on them learning early on to fied menu navigation. In turn, SMS and chat messages benefit help shape the digital world rather than just consuming it. deaf people. The subsidiary in Belarus therefore offers Some of the content of these workshops is also made available a special reduced tariff for people with impaired hearing. to educators as training materials. As part of the initiative in Austria, parents can take part in information evenings to learn In a society where people are getting older and older, health about children’s Internet habits and how to protect them from naturally plays an essential role. e-health solutions are the the potential dangers. Training for seniors focuses on breakfuture of the healthcare system in many areas. In Austria, ing down access barriers and encouraging experimentation. A1 already enables a “Medical Data Network” and provides Modular courses, practical examples for everyday digital life infrastructure for large parts of the Austrian e-card system. and tips on how to use digital media properly help to get senior The “Medical Data Network” connects doctors, hospitals, citizens online. Security aspects are included in all workshops laboratories and other health care institutions with each other. for all target groups. By the end of 2018, there were more than The multimedia hospital bed, also known as the “e-care termi180,000 participations in media literacy training, surpassing nal”, adds variety to a hospital stay with several services and the Group’s target. assists in nursing staff’s work processes. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 SOCIAL AND ECOLOGICAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Positive potential of digitalization Certified environmental in environmental protection management systems In a study 2) on this subject, the Global e-Sustainability InitiaAustria tive reports that information and communication technolo▸ EMAS (since 2013) gies (ICT) have the potential to separate economic growth ▸ ISO 50001 for energy management (since 2008) from increases in global emissions. At telecommunications ▸ ISO 14001 for environmental management companies, CO₂ emissions are generated by vehicle fleets, (since 2004) heating and air conditioning, but above all by the power requirements of their networks. In this context, the A1 Slovenia Telekom Austria Group has set itself the goal of reducing ▸ EMAS (since 2014) its CO₂ emissions by 25 % by 2020 3). ▸ ISO 14001 (since 2009) Ensuring that the dynamic increase in data volume as a result Republic of Serbia of digitalization does not result in comparatively more energy ▸ ISO 14001 (since 2015) demand and CO₂ requires energy-efficiency-enhancing measures (see “Technology and Innovation”). Furthermore, Republic of Macedonia the A1 Telekom Austria Group is striving to meet its power ▸ ISO 14001 (since 2016) demands as sustainably as possible. It does this by using electricity from renewable sources, such as solar, hydro, and wind: 62 % of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s electricity requirements were generated from renewable energy sources In 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group employees drove around in 2018. The A1 Telekom Austria Group also operates two 105 million kilometers in approximately 5,100 vehicles – large photovoltaic farms of its own: one in Aflenz, Austria since mainly for maintenance and network roll-out, quality assur2013 that produces more than 252,000 kWh of electricity ance and customer service. The Group has the same ambition per year and one in Belarus since 2016 that produces more here as it does for electricity: the utmost possible efficiency. than 252 million kWh. The first step is to reduce the number of kilometers travelled. This is achieved with innovative logistics concepts, videoconferences and digital solutions for collaboration (see “Employees”). The second step is to use sustainable propulsion models such as gas, hybrid, or electric vehicles. Taking into account the effects of acquisitions carried out in the interim, the A1 Telekom Austria Group did not come closer to its goal 2) GeSi, Smarter 2030 (2015). of reducing CO₂ emissions by 25 % from 2012 to 2020 3) Baseline: 2012. (2018: +11 %). HIGHLIGHT PROJECT ENVIRONMENT Photovoltaics at the Vienna Arsenal In 2018, the Austrian subsidiary expanded its photovoltaic systems at the A1 Technology Center located in Vienna Arsenal. A further 312 solar modules were installed on around 516 m2. The electricity they produce is used to operate the data center and the central switching technology for fixed and mobile networks among other facilities. An output of around 94 kWp is estimated at peak operation. The amount of electricity produced per year is expected to be around 90,000 kWh – the equivalent of the electricity requirement of around 25 single-family homes. The expansion of the photovoltaic system was partially financed from the proceeds of the mobile phone recycling initiative. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 36 SOCIAL AND ECOLOGICAL RESPONSIBILIT Y Digitalization helps to conserve Sustainability goals 2016–2018 internal resources as well As part of its sustainability strategy, the A1 Telekom Austria Group had set itself sustainability goals for The A1 Telekom Austria Group aimed to reduce its paper con2018 in four action areas (see “Vision and Strategy”). sumption by 10 % between 2016 and 2018. The digitalization Its achievement of these goals is shown below. of internal work processes plays an important part in this. In New goals for the period from 2019 to 2021 will be Field Service, for example, in addition to digital logbooks for published on the A1.group website in the course drivers, plans and assembly orders are increasingly being proof financial year 2019. cessed digitally. This saves around 100,000 sheets of paper per year in Austria alone. Besides the digitalization of internal work processes and the acquisition of follow-me printers, internal campaigns raise environmental awareness of employees Technology & Innovation and actively get them involved in green activities. The goal of cutting paper consumption by 10 % was substantially over2016–2018 achieved with a reduction of 46 %. ▸ LTE network coverage of 80 % in the A1 Telekom Austria Group (achieved) The A1 Telekom Austria Group also contributes to conserving ▸ Coverage of around 60 % of Austrian households resources by recycling mobile phones – even though the Group with a bandwidth of at least 40 Mbit/s with a pure itself does not manufacture mobile devices. Most of their fixed network infrastructure (achieved) subsidiaries offer their customers the opportunity to return old ▸ Identification and promotion of marketable innovadevices free of charge, and some have even been doing this tions, e. g. through start-up initiatives (achieved) since 2004. Between 70 % and 80 % of the contents of these old devices can be recycled and reused as raw materials by Environment specialist recyclers to whom they are passed on. In Austria, for example, 100 % of the proceeds from mobile phone recycling 2016–20184) go towards climate protection projects. In 2018 alone, the ▸ Reducing power demand per terabyte of transferred Group as a whole ensured the proper recycling of 80,000 data volume by 30 % (achieved) devices. In addition, some subsidiaries also reuse devices that ▸ Reaching a constant recycling rate of 70 % have been returned to them and that are still functional and (not achieved) technologically current – after deleting all data, thoroughly ▸ Reducing in-house paper consumption by 10 % testing them for technical functionality and cleaning them. (achieved) Employees Quality, security, and ecological 2016–2018 value added ▸ 38 % women in management positions (not achieved) Via its Housing Services, the A1 Telekom Austria Group handles ▸ Anchoring of flexible work arrangements (achieved) the operation and maintenance of customers’ IT equipment. ▸ Creating framework conditions for the promotion The quality and standards of its data centers guarantee the of constant learning (achieved) highest possible level of security. The same is true for hosting services, where the server infrastructure is outsourced Society to a data center. The outsourcing of infrastructure allows for electricity to be used more efficiently and CO2 emissions to be 2016–2018 reduced to a minimum. Integrated communication solutions ▸ 150,000 participants in media literacy training such as video conferencing or chats also make communication (achieved)5) with customers and partners more efficient and environmen▸ Promotion of social projects according to local tally friendly. Furthermore, A1 operates its network on a 100 % requirements (achieved) carbon neutral basis in Austria, thereby reducing not just the company’s own CO2 emissions but those of its customers as well. Services such as those provided by the affiliate A1 Digital (see “Technology and Innovation”) also help to reduce the ecological footprint. 4) Baseline: 2015. 5) Cumulative figure since 2011. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 COMPLIANCE Integrity as a constant in times of digital change In the wake of its own digital transformation, the A1 Telekom Austria Group continues to practice honesty, fairness, and transparency. The compliance management system provides a clear framework for responsible conduct in the interest of safeguarding the Group’s economic success and reputation in the long term. The A1 Telekom Austria Group not only has its sights set on achieving its business objectives but is also on the way that Code of Conduct: guidelines this is done. The overriding principle here is and will remain for acting responsibly and honest and responsible conduct toward its customers, employees, shareholders, creditors, suppliers, other partners, with integrity and the public. The Code of Conduct is a key tool of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s compliance management system. It is aimed at all employees and managers and helps to promote ethically and For fair, sustainably successful legally irreproachable conduct in the many decisions that have to be made every day. For this purpose, it contains advice business development: the and rules for dealing fairly with stakeholders, gifts and percompliance management system sonal benefits, confidentiality, conflicts of interest, protecting company assets, reporting violations, and communicating On behalf of all its stakeholders, the A1 Telekom Austria Group the content of the Code of Conduct, and the Group’s whistleis committed to keeping its standards of integrity as a key blower principles. The Code of Conduct was last revised in component of its corporate culture. Only honesty, fairness, and 2017, when it was expanded to include the group-wide Guiding transparency will safeguard the Group’s economic success and Principles of “Team, Trust, and Agility” (see “Employees”). reputation in the long term. For this purpose, the A1 Telekom Austria Group has a sophisti01111010101010101011 cated compliance management system, the appropriateness 01000010101010111010 00011101010101000010 and efficacy of which are regularly reviewed. In order to avoid 10111101010101011010 potential misconduct, the Group has defined clear rules for DIGITAL 10111011010111010110 10001010111011010101 acting with integrity and in an ethically sound manner in all busiTRANSFORMATION 01010101010111101010 10101010100001010101 ness relationships and has integrated appropriate controls into & COMPLIANCE 01010110101010101010 10000101010101010101 01010101011010101010 the business processes. 10101011010101010110 10101010101010101101 01010101010100001101 01011110110110101010 In order to respond appropriately to any misconduct, tips are Digital audit approaches using advanced analytics 10110101010101011011 01010101010101010101 collected via a dedicated whistleblower portal and dealt with methods enable a thorough and thus a more inforin a strictly confidential mannor via a structured process. This mative audit of the effectiveness of the compliance makes it possible to remedy weaknesses and to continuously management system. They allow potential compliimprove the compliance management system. ance risks to be identified much more precisely and investigated much more comprehensively. For A scoping process identified the following as significant comexample, structured SAP data analyses and process pliance topics: corruption prevention and integrity, antitrust flow analyses are used for purposes such as ascerlaw, data protection, and capital market compliance. Group taining compliance with requirements and discovering Compliance, with support from local compliance managers at irregularities in general. the subsidiaries, ensures that the corresponding measures and tools are implemented consistently in all business units. The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s compliance management system complies with internationally recognized standards such as IDW PS 980, ISO 19600, and ISO 37001. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 38 COMPLIANCE Group-wide guidelines also provide detailed assistance the aim of permanently preventing and uncovering potential regarding specific topics such as anti-corruption and risks within the A1 Telekom Austria Group, employees and conflicts of interest, capital market compliance, and antiexternal individuals can use the “tell.me” whistleblower trust law. For the “Anti-Corruption and Conflicts of Interest” platform to anonymously report information about potential guideline, the ISO standards for compliance management misconduct. In 2018, this compliance tool received around systems (ISO 19600) and anti-corruption management 20 compliance-relevant tips, which were followed up with systems (ISO 37001) were taken into account. the utmost care and confidentiality. Trainings on compliance topics is optimized for the target If necessary, the A1 Telekom Austria Group responds immegroup and provided regularly in order to firmly embed the diately with appropriate measures and sanctions. If actual notion of integrity throughout the Group. In group-wide misconduct is found, the potential consequences range from training, the topics of anti-corruption, integrity, data proteceducation measures, process improvements, and reprimands tion, information security, antitrust law, and capital market to dismissals or the termination of business relationships. compliance are elucidated with a focus on actual practice. Employees and managers were trained in 7,600 classroom trainings in 2018. In addition, employees and managers completed over 24,000 compliance e-learning courses in Successful audit of the compliance 2018. To resolve any unanswered questions, employees management system of the A1 Telekom Austria Group can contact the “ask.me” compliance helpdesk, which dealt with a total of around In 2018, the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s compliance man460 questions in 2018. agement system was revised and its design was reviewed by a leading audit company. The A1 Telekom Austria Group was assured that the principles and measures presented are Embedding compliance in “suitable for both identifying in due course and with reasonable assurance risks of material non-compliance with valid the corporate culture regulations concerning anti-corruption, capital market compliance, and anti-trust and for preventing such non-compliance.” Compliance is a central element of the corporate culture In addition, it was attested that the compliance management because it provides clear rules and guidelines for behavior system complies with the international ISO 19600 and in everyday business. Decisive factors here include the ISO 37001 standards and meets the requirements of the example set by top management and all managers and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the European Cartel responsibility of all employees for their own actions. With Law, and the UN Global Compact. ▬ Compliance Management System (CMS) Strategy Culture Compliance Goals Communication Governance Prevention Detection Reaction InvestigaRisk Business Business Whistletion & Case RemediaAssessment / Conduct, incl. Processes, Blowing Audit Managetion Planning Policies, Training incl. ICS System ment Evaluation Effectiveness Continuous Improvement Reporting Support Compliance Organization Knowledge Compliance IT A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Report by the Supervisory Board Dear shareholders, Reinhard Kraxner, and Stefan Pinter stepped down with effect from May 30, 2018. Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, Daniela Lecuona The A1 Telekom Austria Group successfully continued its Torras and myself were elected as members of the Supervisory growth trends in the financial year 2018. This was achieved Board by the Annual General Meeting on May 30, 2018. The through the systematic, earnings-oriented implementation Supervisory Board mandates of Carlos García Moreno Elizondo, of its corporate strategy, a clear focus on convergence and Oscar Von Hauske Solís, and Carlos M. Jarque were renewed. high-value customer segments, innovative products and In October 2018, Renate Richter was appointed to the Superservices, and strict cost management. Additionally, the Group visory Board by the Works Council to replace Silvia Bauer. is particularly emphasizing on the uplift of growth and I would like to take this opportunity to express gratitude on efficiency potential in the course of digital transformation. behalf of the Supervisory Board to Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, Reinhard Kraxner, Stefan Pinter, and Silvia Bauer for their Despite ongoing strong competition, the A1 Telekom Austria high commitment and good cooperation. Group increased its revenues by 1.9 % and its EBITDA by 3.6 % on an operating basis (excluding one-offs and FX effects Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungs-GmbH was also reapas well as restructuring charges) in 2018. This was achieved pointed as the auditor at the Annual General Meeting on thanks to a clear focus on high-value customers in mobile May 30, 2018. The Supervisory Board and the Audit Commitcommunications and consistently strong fixed-line business tee discussed the selection of the auditor in detail and made with increasing significance of TV content in some markets a corresponding recommendation to the Annual General and growth in the solutions and connectivity business. We Meeting to appoint Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungs-GmbH. recorded customer growth in the mobile segment as well as in broadband and TV products and made rapid progress with The Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria AG is committed our infrastructure expansion. EUR 771 mn was invested on to compliance with the Austrian Corporate Governance a group-wide basis, with the broadband expansion being one Code (ACGC) and to responsible corporate management of the focal points. and control aimed at generating sustainable enterprise value. All ten shareholder representatives have declared The harmonization of the brands within the A1 Telekom their independence within the meaning of Rule 53 of the Austria Group that was resolved in 2017 continued in 2018 ACGC. Due to the open discussion culture within the and is already complete in Bulgaria, Croatia, and Slovenia. Supervisory Board, the annual self-evaluation of the Supervisory Board as stipulated in Rule 36 of the ACGC is perIn the financial year 2018, the Supervisory Board held seven formed every two years. The most recent self-evaluation Supervisory Board meetings and numerous committee meetwas performed for the financial year 2016. Due to the ings to discuss in detail the strategic orientation, investment reconstitution of the Supervisory Board, it was agreed by and financing decisions, the composition of the Management the Supervisory Board that the next self-assessment will Board as well as the business performance of the A1 Telekom take place in the financial year 2019. Austria Group and its subsidiaries. Following an extensive discussion on strategic opportunities and challenges as well In accordance with Rule 62 of the ACGC, the A1 Telekom as potential courses of action to optimize business perforAustria Group’s compliance with the provisions of the ACGC mance, the budget for 2019 was approved in December 2018. and the accuracy of its public reporting in association with this are assessed externally every three years. The most recent There was a change in the Supervisory Board at the Annual evaluation, which was performed by Ernst & Young WirtschaftGeneral Meeting on May 30, 2018: Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, sprüfungs-GmbH at the beginning of 2017, found no facts A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 40 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD that conflicted with the declaration made by the Management Financial Statements prepared in accordance with IFRS as Board and the Supervisory Board in the financial year 2016 prescribed by Section 245a UGB, the Management Report, concerning observance of and compliance with the “comply the Group Management Report and the Corporate Goveror explain” rules or the recommendations of the ACGC. nance Report. Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft publishes a separate consolidated non-financial report in accordance In 2018, the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board held with Section 267a UGB. five meetings to address financial reporting within the scope of preparing its Annual and Quarterly Financial Statements, The Supervisory Board approves the Management Board’s and also performed its supervisory duties to monitor the proposal for the distribution of profit, namely the distrieffectiveness of the internal control system, the risk managebution of a dividend of EUR 0.21 per eligible share for the ment system and internal auditing. The findings of the Audit financial year 2018, with the remaining amount being Committee meetings were reported to the Supervisory Board carried forward to new account. on an ongoing basis. As part of its reporting, Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungs-GmbH credibly demonstrated its imparOn behalf of the Supervisory Board, I would like to thank the tiality to the Audit Committee in accordance with Section management and all employees, whose dedication and com270 (1a) of the Austrian Business Enterprise Code (UGB). mitment allowed the A1 Telekom Austria Group to continue on its successful path in the financial year 2018. I also wish At its meeting in July 2018, the Staff and Nomination Committo express my particular gratitude to the customers and sharetee addressed the appointment of Thomas Arnoldner to the holders of the A1 Telekom Austria Group for the confidence Management Board and the extension of the Management they have placed in us. The Supervisory Board will continue Board contracts of Alejandro Plater and Siegfried Mayrhofer. to address in detail and actively press ahead with the longterm strategic orientation and development of the A1 Telekom The Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board adAustria Group going forward. dressed the remuneration of the Management Board and the contracts of the Management Board members at one meeting and in three resolutions adopted by written procedure. Edith Hlawati Chair of the Supervisory Board The Annual Financial Statements of Telekom Austria AG and Vienna, March 2019 the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ending December 31, 2018, were issued with unqualified audit opinions by Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungs-GmbH. The Management Report and the Group Management Report are consistent with the Annual Financial Statements and the Consolidated Financial Statements respectively. After prior consultation with the Audit Committee and following an extensive discussion and review, the Supervisory Board approved the Annual Financial Statements for 2018, which have therefore been adopted in accordance with Section 96 (4) of the Austrian Stock Corporation Act (AktG). After prior consultation with the Audit Committee and following an extensive discussion and review, it also agreed on the Consolidated A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Consolidated Corporate Governance Report 2018 Commitment of the A1 Telekom In accordance with Rule 62 of the ACGC, the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s compliance with the provisions of the ACGC and the Austria Group to the Corporate accuracy of its public reporting in association with this are Governance Code evaluated externally every three years. The last evaluation was performed by Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft The shares of Telekom Austria AG have been listed on the m.b.H. in the first half of 2017. This evaluation found that the Vienna Stock Exchange since November 2000, where the Austrian Consolidated Corporate Governance Report of Telekom Austria Corporate Governance Code (ACGC) is generally accepted. AG for the financial year 2016 ended December 31, 2016 The current version of this Code (January 2018) can be viewed satisfies the legal provisions of section 243b UGB and section at www.corporate-governance.at or www.a1.group. 267a UGB in addition to the requirements of the ACGC and the statements made therein. The Corporate Governance Code pursues the goal of responsible management and control of companies geared towards a sustainable and long-term creation of enterprise value. It aims to ensure a high degree of transparency for all stakeholders Composition of executive and to serve as an important guideline for investors. The Code bodies of the company and is based on the provisions of Austrian stock company-, stock exchangeand capital market law, EU recommendations and executive body remuneration the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. The A1 Telekom Austria Group has been committed to voluntary compliance The Management Board with the ACGC since 2003. The Group complies with all the legal requirements set out by the ACGC in what are referred to The members of the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG as the “L” rules. as of the end of 2018 were Thomas Arnoldner, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Alejandro Plater, Chief Operating Officer (COO), To explain the deviations from the ACGC’s “C” rules, the and Siegfried Mayrhofer, Chief Financial Officer (CFO). A1 Telekom Austria Group has made the following statement regarding Rule 36, Rule 42 and Rule 54 of the ACGC: Thomas Arnoldner Chief Executive Officer (CEO): Member of the Management ▸ Ad C Rule 36: Given the culture of open discussion within Board since September 1, 2018. the Supervisory Board, the annual self-assessment of the Supervisory Board as stipulated in Rule 36 of the ACGC is Thomas Arnoldner became the Chief Executive Officer of the performed every two years in principle, and the last such A1 Telekom Austria Group on September 1, 2018. His contract self-assessment was performed for the financial year 2016. runs until August 31, 2021, with an option to renew the contract The Supervisory Board in its current form was first constiuntil August 31, 2023. tuted in May 2018, and therefore only performed its function for seven months as of the end of 2018. In order for the Thomas Arnoldner was born in 1977. He studied business self-assessment to produce representative results, the administration at the Vienna University of Economics and Supervisory Board therefore agreed in December 2018 to Business and at the Stockholm School of Economics. Thomas perform the next self-assessment in the financial year 2019. Arnoldner’s professional career began at Alcatel Austria in ▸ Ad C Rule 42: The shareholder representatives on the Su2003. After holding various positions within the company, he pervisory Board are appointed in line with the terms of the was made the CEO of Alcatel-Lucent Austria AG in 2013. From shareholders’ agreement between the controlling share2015 to 2016, he was part of the integration team for Nokia’s holder América Móvil and Österreichische Bundesund acquisition of Alcatel-Lucent and developed the combined Industriebeteiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB 1)). The Nomination company’s European market strategy. From 2016 to 2017, he Committee or the entire Supervisory Board submit was in charge of Nokia’s European growth strategy in its Smart nomination proposals to the Annual General Meeting City, National Broadband Program, and Public Safety areas as stipulated by these terms, where required by law. and responsible for the country strategies of its key growth ▸ Ad C Rule 54: The free float of the company (including markets. He was the Managing Director of T-Systems Austria treasury shares) is 20.58 %. The shareholder representaGesmbH from 2017 to 2018. tives on the Supervisory Board are appointed in line 1) ÖBIB will be transformed into a stock company due to the change of with the terms of the shareholders’ agreement between the “ÖIAG Gesetz 2000” according to Sec 245ff AktG. The company will the controlling shareholder América Móvil and ÖBIB. be transformed into Österreichische Beteiligungs AG (ÖBAG). A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 42 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Thomas Arnoldner does not hold any supervisory board Siegfried Mayrhofer holds Supervisory Board mandates at the mandates outside the A1 Telekom Austria Group. following subsidiaries: A1 Telekom Austria AG (Austria), A1 Bulgaria (Bulgaria), A1 Hrvatska (Croatia), velcom (Belarus), Alejandro Plater A1 Slovenija (Slovenia), Vip mobile (Republic of Serbia), one.Vip Member of the Management Board (Chief Operating Officer, (Republic of Macedonia). Siegfried Mayrhofer does not hold COO) since March 6, 2015. any supervisory board mandates outside the A1 Telekom Austria Group. Alejandro Plater was appointed as the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the A1 Telekom Austria Group on March 6, 2015. In the period from August 1, 2015, to August 31, 2018, Alejandro Plater was also the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in addition Report on Management to being the COO. His contract runs until August 31, 2021, with Board remuneration an option to renew the contract until August 31, 2023. The Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board is Alejandro Plater, born in 1967, has had a long international caresponsible for structuring Management Board remuneration. reer in the telecommunications industry. He started at Ericsson in In addition to basic remuneration (fixed salary including 1997 as Sales Director for Argentina and shortly thereafter took remuneration in kind), a variable performance-based compoon the responsibility of Head of Business Development. In 2004, nent was agreed upon with the Management Board members he moved to the group’s global headquarters in Stockholm, Thomas Arnoldner, Alejandro Plater, and Siegfried Mayrhofer. Sweden, to take up the position of Sales Director for the Latin This performance-based component is contingent upon the America region. Two years later, Plater was appointed Sales achievement of defined targets and is limited to a maximum of Director for Mexico and, in the following year, he was appoint150 % of the basic remuneration. The targets for the reporting ed Vice President and Key Account Manager. Alejandro Plater year consist of 85 % financial figures – revenue (weighting: studied Business Administration at the University of Buenos 42 %) and operating free cash flow (weighting: 43 %) – and Aires and has completed several post-graduate management 15 % strategic objectives. The Remuneration Committee destudies at Columbia University and the Wharton School in cides on the degree of target achievement and the amount of the USA and at the London Business School in the UK. the variable salary component on the basis of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the implementation of strategy. Alejandro Plater holds Supervisory Board mandates at Performance-based remuneration becomes payable after the following subsidiaries: A1 Telekom Austria AG (Austria), the result for the financial year in question has been resolved, A1 Bulgaria (Bulgaria), A1 Hrvatska (Croatia), velcom while an advance in the amount of 60 % of the fixed salary is (Belarus), A1 Slovenija (Slovenia), Vip mobile (Republic paid in 14 instalments over the current financial year. of Serbia), one.Vip (Republic of Macedonia). Alejandro Plater does not hold any supervisory board mandates Members of the Management Board also participate in the outside the A1 Telekom Austria Group. long-term incentive program (LTI). The multi-year share-based incentive program introduced in 2010 continued in the 2018 Siegfried Mayrhofer reporting year with the issue of the 2018 tranche. Chief Financial Officer (CFO): Member of the Management Board since June 1, 2014. His contract runs until The sixth tranche of the LTI program (LTI 2015) was paid out August 31, 2021, with an option to renew the contract in 2018, following the end of the three-year performance until August 31, 2023. period and the determination by the Remuneration Committee of the degree of achievement. The degree of target achieveSiegfried Mayrhofer, born in 1967, studied Industrial and ment for LTI 2015 was 87.4 %. Detailed information about this Mechanical Engineering at the Graz University of Technology. can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section on the remuneration of the indiHe began his professional career in 1994 at Voest Alpine vidual members of the Management Board. Eisenbahnsysteme in the international division for the acquisition of investments. From 1998 to 2000, he served The total expense for basic remuneration, including remuneras a consultant to Constantia Corporate Finance for ation in kind, of members of the Management Board in mergers and acquisitions in various industries. 2018 amounted to EUR 1.224 mn (2017: EUR 1.026 mn), and variable remuneration amounted to EUR 1.370 mn Siegfried Mayrhofer joined Telekom Austria AG in March 2000. (2017: EUR 1.087 mn). EUR 0.534 mn was spent on LTI 2015 After holding various management positions (including for active Management Board members in the 2018 reporting Head of Corporate Planning and Group Controlling, Fixed-Line year (amount spent on LTI 2014 in 2017: EUR 0.11 mn). Controlling, Fixed-Line Accounting), he became CFO of Telekom Austria TA AG in July 2009. Siegfried Mayrhofer was the Chief Financial Officer of A1 Telekom Austria AG from July 8, 2010, to May 31, 2015. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Assuming 100 % target achievement, the members of the For the Group companies included in the scope of consolidaManagement Board were provisionally allocated the following tion, the following applies with regard to the key principles of numbers of notional bonus shares in the context of the new the remuneration policy: The Chair of the Supervisory Board LTI 2018 tranche issued in September 2018: 34,878 shares for of the respective subsidiary is responsible for structuring Thomas Arnoldner, 44,842 shares for Alejandro Plater, 37,718 Management Board remuneration. The remuneration structure shares for Siegfried Mayrhofer. Any actual cash settlement will and the respective targets are based on target criteria and occur after the end of the three-year performance period, i. e. weightings defined for the Group as a whole by the Managenot before September 1, 2021, commensurate with the level ment Board of Telekom Austria AG. In addition to basic of achievement of objectives as determined by the Remuneraremuneration (fixed salary including remuneration in kind), tion Committee. a variable performance-based component has been agreed upon with the Management Board members of the respective In terms of old-age provisions, the Management Board consolidated subsidiaries. This performance-based compomembers receive a contribution to their voluntary pension nent is contingent upon the achievement of defined targets plans, which is paid into a corporate pension fund by the and is limited to an average of 60 % of the basic remuneration. company and amounts to 20 % of their respective fixed The targets for the reporting year consist of 80 % financial salaries (excluding expense allowances). Members will figures and 20 % strategic objectives. The Management Board receive an eventual payout from the corporate pension of Telekom Austria AG decides the degree of target achievefund only when they are over 55 years of age and are ment and therefore on the amount of the variable salary comno longer in a contractual relationship with the company. ponent on the basis of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Annual Financial Statements of the respective company The amount of the severance payment to be paid in the and the implementation of strategy. Performance-based event of the termination of a Board member’s appointment remuneration becomes payable after the result for the finanis based on the length of their employment and is capped cial year in question has been resolved. at one year’s total remuneration for Siegfried Mayrhofer. The “Mitarbeiterund Selbstständigenvorsorgegesetz” Members of the Management Board of the key consolidated (BMSVG – Austrian Corporate Employee and Entrepreneur Pensubsidiaries participated in the long-term incentive program sion Law) applies to Thomas Arnoldner and Alejandro Plater. (LTI) until the LTI 2016 tranche (issued in the financial year 2016 with a term of January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2018). Furthermore, the members of the Management Board are entitled to a company car, and casualty insurance provides cover in the event of death or invalidity. There is also supplementary health insurance cover for Management Board members. The members of the Management Board are included in Telekom Austria AG’s D&O insurance policy. Remuneration of the individual members of the Management Board Management Board Basic remuneration Variable Multi-year Total remuneration in EUR '000 (fixed salary incl. remuneration1) share-based reremuneration remuneration in kind) muneration (LTI) 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Thomas Arnoldner 2) 182 – 107 – – – 290 – Alejandro Plater 559 559 681 591 202 – 1,442 1,149 Siegfried Mayrhofer 482 468 582 497 333 110 1,397 1,075 Total 3) 1,224 1,026 1,370 1,087 534 110 3,129 2,224 1) Thomas Arnoldner has been member of the Management Board since September 1, 2018. 2) The variable remuneration for 2018 (2017) also includes variable remuneration components for 2017 (2016), which were paid out in the 2018 (2017) reporting year. 3) There may arise deviations in the totals due to rounding. Payments to former members of the Management Board (not shown in table): Hannes Ametsreiter resigned as CEO as of July 31, 2015 and his employment relationship was terminated at the same date by mutual agreement. The remuneration paid in 2018 for LTI 2015 amounts to EUR 77 thousand; the remuneration paid in 2017 for LTI 2014 amounted to EUR 71 thousand. Günther Ottendorfer’s contract with a term until August 31, 2016 was prematurely terminated as of March 5, 2015. The remuneration paid in 2018 for LTI 2015 amounts to EUR 185 thousand; the remuneration paid in 2017 for LTI 2014 amounted to EUR 102 thousand. Hans Tschuden’s contract with a term until March 31, 2015 was prematurely terminated as of May 31, 2014. The remuneration paid in 2018 for LTI 2015 amounts to EUR 28 thousand; the remuneration paid in 2017 for LTI 2014 amounted to EUR 49 thousand. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 44 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Long-term incentive programme (LTI) As of December 31, 2018, the members of the Management Board hold the following numbers of shares in the company, The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s share-based long-term some of which serve to satisfy LTI program participation incentive program (LTI) introduced in the financial year 2010 requirements: was continued in 2018, with eligible participants restricted to the Management Board of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft. LTI 2018 was issued on September 1, 2018 and has Of which for a term of three years. Shares LTI participation Thomas Arnoldner 17,439 17,439 The LTI is based on the performance-based allocation of Alejandro Plater 39,520 33,638 notional bonus shares. During the program, participants must Siegfried Mayrhofer 24,750 24,750 hold shares in Telekom Austria AG, the number of which is determined by the defined number of notional bonus shares for each entitled beneficiary. Any payment is made in cash, not in shares. The amount of the payment depends on the achievement of key figures defined by the Supervisory Board Since the Market Abuse Regulation became effective on July 3, within a three-year performance period, ranging from 0 % 2016, directors’ dealings are no longer disclosed by the Financial to a maximum of 350 % of the participant’s investment, with Market Authority (FMA) but by the issuer. a maximum target achievement of 175 %. Telekom Austria AG operates in accordance with the legal proThe A1 Telekom Austria Group’s long-term incentive program visions and reports transactions by Management Board and is consistent with the requirements of the Austrian Corporate Supervisory Board members and their related parties involving Governance Code. The relevant target performance indicators Telekom Austria shares on the company’s website. are based on the long-term development of the company. The targets and key performance indicators are determined There were no directors’ dealings disclosures in the 2018 by the Supervisory Board at the beginning of each tranche. reporting year. Each performance period is three years long. The following targets and key performance indicators were set for the LTI Supervisory Board 2015 tranche issued in the 2015 reporting year: EBITDA (weighting: 35 %), free cash flow (weighting: 30 %), and a The Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria AG comprises ten revenue-based indicator (weighting: 35 %). The following tarmembers, elected by the Annual General Meeting. The Central gets were set for the LTI 2016, LTI 2017, and LTI 2018 tranches Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria AG delegates four issued in the 2016, 2017, and 2018 reporting years: Return members and one member is delegated by the Staff Council on invested capital (ROIC) (weighting: 50 %) and revenue of Telekom Austria AG. Employee co-determination on the market share (weighting: 50 %) of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. Supervisory Board is a legally regulated aspect of the corporate governance system in Austria. Benefits under the LTI programme There was a change in the Supervisory Board at the Annual in the 2018 reporting year General Meeting on May 30, 2018: Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, The sixth LTI tranche (LTI 2015), which had been granted on Reinhard Kraxner and Stefan Pinter stepped down from September 1, 2015, was paid out to the entitled employees May 30, 2018. Edith Hlawati, Bettina Glatz-Kremsner, and of the Group in September 2018 after the end of the threeDaniela Lecuona Torras were elected as members of the year performance period and three years after the grant date. Supervisory Board by the Annual General Meeting on May 30, The tranche was paid out in line with the target achievement 2018. The Supervisory Board mandates of Carlos García of 87.4 % as determined by the Remuneration Committee of Moreno Elizondo, Oscar Von Hauske Solís, and Carlos M. the Supervisory Board at the value of 274,527 notional boJarque were renewed. Silvia Bauer, who had been appointed nus shares in total, measured using the average price of the by the Central Works Council, stepped down in October 2018, company’s shares for the fourth quarter of 2017 of EUR 7.883, and Renate Richter was appointed to replace her. and therefore EUR 2.164 mn (2017: EUR 1.16 mn). Of these amounts, 25,608 shares or EUR 0.202 mn were received by In accordance with section 86 (7) AktG, the Supervisory Board Alejandro Plater (2017: n. a.) and 42,185 shares or EUR 0.33 mn must consist of at least 30 % women and at least 30 % men by Siegfried Mayrhofer (2017: EUR 0.11 mn). The following (gender quota). Based on the declarations by the members amounts were paid to former Management Board members: of the Supervisory Board on February 28, 2018, in accordance 9,752 shares or EUR 0.077 mn to Hannes Ametsreiter (2017: with section 86 (9) AktG, singular fulfilment of the gender EUR 0.071 mn), 23,436 shares or EUR 0.185 mn to Günther quota in the Supervisory Board is required. Consequently, at Ottendorfer (2017: EUR 0.102 mn), and 3,594 shares or least three of the ten members of the Supervisory Board EUR 0.028 mn to Hans Tschuden (2017: EUR 0.049 mn). elected by the Annual General Meeting or Supervisory Board mandates must be women. As of the end of 2018, four of A detailed description of the long-term incentive program can the ten members of the Supervisory Board elected by the be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Annual General Meeting are women. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Supervisory Board members Name (year of birth) Profession Edith Hlawati, Chairperson (1957) Senior Partner at CHSH Cerha Hempel Spiegelfeld Hlawati Rechtsanwälte GmbH Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, Chairperson until May 2018 (1950) Carlos García Moreno Elizondo, CFO América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (Mexico) Deputy Chairperson (1957) Alejandro Cantú Jiménez (1972) General Counsel América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (Mexico) Karin Exner-Wöhrer (1971) CEO Salzburger Aluminium AG Bettina Glatz-Kremsner (1962) CFO Casinos Austria Aktiengesellschaft Peter Hagen (1959) Business Consultant Carlos M. Jarque (1954) Executive Director of International Affairs, Government Relations and Corporate Affairs, América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (Mexico) Peter F. Kollmann (1962) CFO Verbund AG Reinhard Kraxner (1970) Assistant General Counsel Treasury/Finance, Philip Morris International Inc. (USA) Daniela Lecuona Torras (1982) Head of Investor Relations, América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (Mexico) Stefan Pinter (1978) Member of the Management Board, GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Oscar Von Hauske Solís (1957) CEO Telmex Internacional (Mexico), Chief Fixed-Line Operations Officer América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (Mexico) Members of the Supervisory Board delegated by the Staff Council Silvia Bauer (1968) Member of the Central Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria AG Member of the European Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria Group Walter Hotz (1959) Chairman of the Staff Committee Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland of A1 Telekom Austria AG Chairperson of the European Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria Group Gottfried Kehrer (1962) Member of the Central Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria AG Werner Luksch (1967) Chairperson of the Central Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria AG Member of the European Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria Group Renate Richter (1972) Member of the Central Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria AG Alexander Sollak (1978) Chairperson of the Staff Council Committee of Telekom Austria AG Secretary-General of the European Works Council of A1 Telekom Austria Group 1) Term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting dealing with the 2018 financial year May 29, 2019. 2) Term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting dealing with the 2019 financial year (provisionally May 2020). 3) Term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting dealing with the 2020 financial year (provisionally May 2021). 4) Term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting dealing with the 2021 financial year (provisionally May 2022). 5) Term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting dealing with the 2022 financial year (provisionally May 2023). The “Arbeitsverfassungsgesetz” (Austrian Labor Constitutional of the current version of the Code. According to these provisions, Act) imposes special regulations for the fulfilment of the the members of the Supervisory Board are deemed to be indegender ratio among employee representatives, namely that the pendent if they have no business or personal relations with gender ratio does not apply to employee representatives the company or its Management Board that could result in a if there is no group works council. material conflict of interest and thus influence the members’ behavior. Independence of the The free float of the company (including treasury shares) is Supervisory Board 20.58 %. The shareholder representatives on the Supervisory The guidelines set out by the Supervisory Board in 2006 to Board are appointed in line with the terms of the shareholders’ determine the independence of its members were adjusted in agreement between the controlling shareholder América Móvil 2009 to comply with the modified provisions of the Austrian and ÖBIB. Corporate Governance Code and are consistent with Annex 1 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 46 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Other Supervisory Board End of current term of mandates and similar functions office on Supervisory at other listed companies Board of Telekom Austria AG Independence as per (as per the ACGC) First appointed or date of departure Rule 53 of the ACGC Österreichische Post Re-delegated on 30.05.2018 20235) Yes Aktiengesellschaft (Chairperson) 28.06.2001 to 29.05.2013 Supervisory Board member Flughafen Wien AG, RHI AG, NIS a.d. 27.05.2010 to 14.08.2014 30.05.2018 Yes (Republic of Serbia) Reappointed on 27.05.2015 Royal KPN N.V. 14.08.2014 20235) Yes (Netherlands) 14.08.2014 20191) Yes 27.05.2015 20202) Yes EVN AG (Chairperson); 30.05.2018 20235) Yes Flughafen Wien Aktiengesellschaft (Chairperson) VOEST Alpine AG 25.05.2016 20191) Yes 14.08.2014 20224) Yes 20.09.2017 20213) Yes 14.08.2014 30.05.2018 Yes 30.05.2018 20224) Yes 14.08.2014 30.05.2018 Yes 23.10.2012 20235) Yes 30.01.2009 to 03.11.2010, 12.10.2018 Re-delegated on 26.07.2012 Re-delegated on 06.05 2011 27.10.2010 03.08.2007 to 20.10.2010, Re-delegated on 11.01.2011 12.10.2018 03.11.2010 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Report on Supervisory Board Remuneration for the Supervisory Board for 2017 was paid in June 2018, following the approval of the actions of the remuneration Supervisory Board members by the Annual General Meeting. The remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board Total remuneration, including attendance fees, of EUR 0.357 mn for the financial year 2017 was resolved at the Annual General was paid to members of the Supervisory Board in the financial Meeting on May 30, 2018. The remuneration for the Chair of year 2018 (2017: EUR 0.358 mn). In addition, the members the Supervisory Board was set at EUR 40,000, at EUR 30,000 of the Supervisory Board are reimbursed for expenses incurred for the Deputy Chair, and at EUR 20,000 for other members of for travel and accommodation in connection with Supervisory the Supervisory Board elected by the Annual General Meeting; Board meetings. these figures are therefore unchanged as against the previous year. Members of a committee are paid EUR 10,000 each and The members of the Supervisory Board are included in the Chair of the committee receives EUR 12,000. Remunerathe D&O insurance policy taken out and paid for by Telekom tion for committee members is limited to one committee manAustria AG. date. This stipulates that committee members are each entitled to only one remuneration, even if they sit on more than one In the year under review, no member of the Supervisory Board committee. Until further notice, attendance fees per member attended fewer than 50 % of the Supervisory Board meetings. of the Supervisory Board amount to EUR 400 per meeting. Remuneration of Supervisory Board members Supervisory Board remuneration awarded 2018 attendance Name for 2017 and paid in 2018 (in EUR) fees (in EUR) Edith Hlawati 1) – 2,000 Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer 2) 52,000 2,400 Carlos García Moreno Elizondo 42,000 4,800 Alejandro Cantú Jiménez 30,000 2,400 Karin Exner-Wöhrer 20,000 2,800 Bettina Glatz-Kremsner 1) – 2,000 Peter Hagen 30,000 4,000 Carlos M. Jarque 30,000 5,200 Peter Kollmann 3) 8,466 5,200 Reinhard Kraxner 2) 20,000 1,200 Daniela Lecuona 1) – 1,600 Ronny Pecik 4) 13,151 – Stefan Pinter 2) 20,000 1,200 Oscar Von Hauske Solís 32,000 5,200 Walter Hotz – 4,000 Silvia Bauer 5) – 2,800 Werner Luksch – 2,800 Renate Richter 6) – 800 Alexander Sollak – 5,200 Gottfried Kehrer – 2,800 1) Attendance fee for the period May 30, 2018 to December 31, 2018. 2) Supervisory Board remuneration for 2017 and attendance fee for the period January 1, 2018 to May 30, 2018. 3) Supervisory Board remuneration for the period September 20, 2017 to December 31, 2017 and attendance for 2018. 4) Supervisory Board remuneration for the period January 1, 2017 to June 9, 2017. 5) Attendance fee for the period January 1, 2018 to October 12, 2018. 6) Attendance fee for the period October 12, 2018 to December 31, 2018. Information concerning the transparency and a policy of open communication. The group-wide areas of competence and responsibility are clearly working methods of the regulated by the Articles of Association of Telekom Austria AG Management Board and and the relevant statutory provisions. In addition, the duties, responsibilities and working methods are also described in the Supervisory Board greater detail in the Rules of Procedure for the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The A1 Telekom Austria Group complies with established principles to ensure sustainable, value-enhancing corporate development and is committed to the principles of A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 48 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 The Management Board defines the strategic focus of the In the financial year 2018, the Supervisory Board addressed Group in consultation with the Supervisory Board and provides the strategic orientation of the A1 Telekom Austria Group and the latter with regular reports on the implementation of the its business performance in detail at seven meetings of the strategy as well as on the company’s current situation, includSupervisory Board and several committee meetings. The main ing its risk situation. Furthermore, the Supervisory Board is activities of the Supervisory Board in 2018 are compiled in authorized to demand reports from the Management Board at the Supervisory Board’s report to the Annual General Meeting. any time on matters concerning the A1 Telekom Austria Group. To guarantee uniform management of the Group, members of The Supervisory Board has set up three committees, which the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG are represented provide effective support by carrying out preparatory work on at the following material subsidiaries: A1 Telekom Austria selected tasks and issues on behalf of the Supervisory Board: (Austria), A1 Bulgaria (Bulgaria), A1 Hrvatska (Croatia), velcom (Belarus), A1 Slovenija (Slovenia), Vip mobile ▸ As of the end of 2018, the Remuneration Committee (Republic of Serbia), and one.Vip (Republic of Macedonia). consisted of Edith Hlawati (Chair since May 30, 2018; preceded by Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer), Carlos García Moreno Elizondo (Deputy Chairman), and Oscar Von Hauske Solís. This committee is responsible for regulating relationships Diversity within the A1 Telekom between the company and the members of the ManageAustria Group (diversity concept) ment Board, including granting approval for additional occupation. Resolutions concerning the appointment The A1 Telekom Austria Group taps the valuable potential of its of Management Board members (or revocation thereof) employees through constant evolution in an international work and granting stock options in the company are resolved setting, and sees diversity and flexibility as the key to by the Supervisory Board as a whole. The Remuneration the company’s success. Diversity and flexibility form the founCommittee held one meeting in 2018 and adopted three dation of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s diversity concept. resolutions by written procedure. Diversity among employees is seen as the central driver of ▸ In line with the statutory provisions, at five committee the company vision “Empowering digital life” and encouraged meetings the Audit Committee dealt primarily with the by the communication of the guiding principles “Team, Trust, audit of and preparation for the adoption of the Annual and Agility”. Supporting women is one of the core elements Financial Statements, the audit of the Consolidated Finanof promoting diversity. cial Statements, the proposal for the distribution of profit, the Management Report, the Group Management Report, Goals for A1 Telekom Austria Group’s diversity concept and the consolidated Corporate Governance Report. High for 2018–2023: priority was also given to monitoring the accounting pro▸ 38 % women in management positions cess, the effectiveness of the internal control system, the ▸ Establishment of flexible working opportunities internal audit system, and the risk management system. ▸ Creation of a general framework to promote Furthermore, the committee prepared the appointment of continuous learning the auditor and verified the independence of the auditor of the Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements, parAppointment of positions on the ticularly with regard to the performance of additional serManagement Board and Supervisory vices. As of the end of 2018, the Audit Committee consisted of Carlos García Moreno Elizondo, as its Chairman and Board of the A1 Telekom Austria Group financial expert (in accordance with section 92(4a) AktG), When selecting and appointing members of the company’s Bettina Glatz-Kremsner (since May 30, 2018; preceded by Management Board, the Supervisory Board places emphasis Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer), Oscar Von Hauske Solís, Carlos on the skills and expertise necessary to manage a telecomM. Jarque, Peter Hagen and Peter Kollmann in addition to munications company. Walter Hotz, Werner Luksch (since May 30, 2018, preceded by Silvia Bauer) and Alexander Sollak as the employee Decisions are also based on other criteria such as educational representatives. background and career history, age, gender, and general personality traits. ▸ The Staff and Nomination Committee submits proposals to the Supervisory Board for appointments to positions The shareholder representatives on the Supervisory Board on the Management Board and Supervisory Board 2) that and the members of the company’s Management Board are have become vacant, and also deals with questions of appointed in line with the terms of the shareholders’ agreesuccession planning. Its members are Oscar Von Hauske ment between the controlling shareholder América Móvil and Solís (Chairman), Edith Hlawati (since May 30, 2018; preÖBIB 3). ceded by Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer), Carlos García Moreno Elizondo, Carlos M. Jarque, Alejandro Cantú Jiménez and Peter Kollmann in addition to Walter Hotz, Werner Luksch and Alexander Sollak. The Staff and Nomination Committee 2) See also information on C Rule 42. held one meeting in the financial year 2018. 3) See also information on C Rule 42. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 Measures to support women Report by Group Internal Audit On the Telekom Austria AG Supervisory Board, four of the ten and Risk Management shareholder representatives and one of the five members of the Staff Council are women. There is no female representation Group Internal Audit is established as a staff unit of the CFO on the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG. of Telekom Austria AG with a duty to report to the entire Management Board. There are also local Internal Audit units At the subsidiaries of the A1 Telekom Austria Group, at all material operating subsidiaries of Telekom Austria AG, five management positions (out of a total of 15) and four which report to Group Internal Audit. All companies, divisions Supervisory Board positions are held by women. and processes fall within the audit purview of Group Internal Audit without restriction. The associated rights and duties, Supporting women is one of the core elements of promoting in addition to the regulations for audit activities, are set out diversity. A1 Telekom Austria Group has set itself the goal in the Group Internal Audit Charter. of increasing the share of women in management positions at the company to 38% by 2018. At the end of 2018, the Group Internal Audit performs independent and objective share was 35%. It was not possible to secure a sufficient audits throughout the entire Group and reports to the entire number of women for management positions when filling Management Board of Telekom Austria AG. Audit subjects vacancies. In 2018, a five-year plan was therefore designed are specified as part of an annual audit plan, which is prewith a focus on work-life balance which is intended to ensure pared according to risk criteria and supplemented by ad hoc a higher share of women in management. audit orders as required. After an initial joint evaluation by Compliance, reports received via the “tell.me” whistleblowing Furthermore, women are specifically targeted in the recruitsystem are examined by Group Internal Audit. ment process, and new organization models and flexible leadership structures – such as part-time managers – are In accordance with C Rule 18 of the Austrian Corporate being pushed throughout the Group. Functional leadership Governance Code, the head of Group Internal Audit reports in virtual company-wide projects and programs lends women to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on the systematic and sustainable support in the context of the annual audit plan in addition to preparing an annual report diversity concept. on the audits performed and its material findings. Furthermore, significant issues as well as whistleblowing information In addition, the company promotes a good work-life balance from the “tell.me” system are reported to the Audit Committhroughout the Group by means of flexible working environtee of the Supervisory Board by Group Internal Audit on an ment and working time models and sabbaticals. There are intra-year basis where necessary. a range of facilities on offer to families, which vary from country to country, including childcare initiatives, paternity leave, The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s risk management system, which and a baby month. The company also provides an expanded the auditor has reported on to the Audit Committee, enables range of information for managers and employees and a the group-wide, structured identification, assessment and prowomen’s network with regular scheduled events in Austria. cessing of risks on the basis of a defined risk policy in addition to strategic and operational objectives. The Audit Committee monitors the functionality and suitability of risk management “Directors and Officers” and the effectiveness of the internal control system. (D&O) insurance The internal control system of the A1 Telekom Austria Group serves to ensure the effectiveness and profitability of business The A1 Telekom Austria Group has taken out a directors and activities, the integrity and reliability of financial reporting officers (D&O) insurance policy for the members of the and compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. In Group’s Management Board, executives and the members addition, Telekom Austria AG implemented an internal control of the Supervisory Board. It also pays the associated costs. system in accordance with US Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) in the financial year 2015. A group-wide capital market Certified public accountant compliance guideline has been implemented to prevent the disclosure or misuse of inside information. Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. has credibly demonstrated its impartiality to the Audit Committee The A1 Telekom Austria Group has also implemented a groupof the Supervisory Board, in particular regarding reporting wide information security policy that governs the use of in accordance with Section 270 (1a) of the Austrian Business confidential information such as customer data, traffic data, Enterprise Code (UGB). A detailed analysis by the Audit content data and business and trade secrets. This policy is Committee revealed no legal impediment to the appointment supplemented by country-specific guidelines at a local level. of Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. Information security and data protection managers have been The Annual General Meeting appointed Ernst & Young appointed at all Group subsidiaries. Regular internal and exWirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. as the auditor of ternal audits, in addition to staff training, ensure the effective the Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements for the implementation of this corporate policy. In 2005, A1 Telekom financial year 2018 on May 30, 2018. Austria AG became the first network operator in Austria to be A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 50 CONSOLIDATED CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 certified according to the ISO 27001 standard. It was followed In 2018, employees and managers completed around 7,600 by A1 Hrvatska in 2007, A1 Bulgaria in 2012, and one.Vip in classroom training sessions and around 24,000 online 2013. The processes demanded and stipulated by this standtraining sessions on corruption prevention and integrity, antiard ensure the highest possible level of data security within trust law, data protection and capital market compliance. the company. Since 2014, A1 Telekom Austria AG has also The compliance helpdesk “ask.me” is available to employees been able to offer its information technology outsourcing (ITO) to answer any questions. The “ask.me” helpdesk handled customers ISAE 3402 Type II standard certification via its interaround 460 questions in 2018. nal control system, which is especially relevant for performing IT services. The ICT Services division at A1 Telekom Austria AG The A1 Telekom Austria Group operates a whistleblowing has also been ISO 20000 certified since 2017. The effective platform (“tell.me”) to enable employees and third parties to implementation of IT service management quality standards inform the company about cases of potential misconduct – prescribed by this standard is ensured on an ongoing basis anonymously if preferred. Around 50% of the approximately by means of internal and external audits. A1 Marketplace has 20 tips received in 2018 were substantiated. In instances also been certified in accordance with the special security where misconduct was found to have occurred, consequences measures of ISO 27018 since 2016. extended from individual training to the termination of employment, depending on the extent of the transgression. Certified compliance management system of the Changes after the reporting date A1 Telekom Austria Group On January 15, 2019, A1 Telekom Austria Group entered into a committed credit line with a total volume of EUR 150 mn In recent years, the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG and a term until January 15, 2020. A further committed credit has taken numerous measures to comprehensively develop line with a total volume of EUR 50 mn and a term until year-end the group-wide compliance management system. The com2019 was entered into on January 28, 2019. pliance management system of the A1 Telekom Austria Group was audited according to the German audit standard IDW PS Vienna, January 30, 2019 980 in 2013. In 2016, essential elements of the group-wide The Management Board compliance management system were reviewed for effectiveness by Group Internal Audit with a successful outcome. In 2018, the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG again engaged a renowned international audit and consulting company to audit the compliance management system of the A1 Telekom Austria Group in terms of its design and effectiveness. The results of this comprehensive audit will be ready in 2019. Thomas Arnoldner, CEO The Management Board is regularly informed about activities Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft in the area of compliance management and, in particular, the compliance risk assessment and measures taken to prevent corruption and the management of other compliance risks; the Supervisory Board is informed annually. Moreover, the Supervisory Board is informed annually about the company’s Alejandro Plater, COO Siegfried Mayrhofer, CFO capital market compliance activities and other relevant statuTelekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft tory changes. The Group Compliance Director reports directly to the Management Board and is independent in his work. He is supported by experts in the Group Compliance division and the local compliance managers at the subsidiaries of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. The A1 Telekom Austria Group has a compliance management system in line with international standards (IDW PS 980, ISO 19600, ISO 37001, FCPA). The compliance measures necessary for this are firmly established in all divisions of the company. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Group Management Report 1) General economic environment 2) Industry trends and competition In 2018, economic growth in Europe continued but gradually Positive economic development in recent years continued in decelerated. In a forecast published in November of the year 2018 in the markets relevant for the A1 Telekom Austria Group. under review, the European Commission estimated that ecoNevertheless, the market environment in both the fixed-line nomic growth in the European Union would be 2.1 % in 2018 and the mobile communications markets proved to be highly and thus decreased its spring forecast from 2.3 %. In 2019, competitive once again. This was visible in the no-frills seggrowth is expected to be 1.9 %. The Austrian economy is expectment, as there was sustained pressure on prices due to the ed to record 2.7 % growth in 2018. In Bulgaria, the increase in aggressive pricing policy of mobile virtual network operators GDP is estimated at 3.5 % in 2018. In Croatia, the economy is (MVNOs). Furthermore, regulatory provisions continued to set to have expanded by 2.8 % in the same period. An increase negatively impact revenues and earnings. In particular, the in economic output of 4.0 % is expected for Belarus in 2018. abolition of retail roaming in the EU as of June 15, 2017 Based on European Commission estimates, Slovenia, the Reaffected the Group’s results. In addition, there was a further public of Serbia, and the Republic of Macedonia are expected termination rate cut in the Republic of Serbia. to have seen an increase in economic output of 4.3 %, 4.1 %, and 2.1 % respectively in 2018. The A1 Telekom Austria Group counters these factors through the systematic implementation of its convergence strategy, The European Central Bank (ECB) lowered again the volume of a clear focus on high-value customers, innovative products its bond buying program in the year under review. At the beginand services, as well as strict cost management. As already ning of March 2015, the bond buying program amounted to decided in 2017, the A1 Telekom Austria Group continued EUR 80 bn per month, but was scaled back in 2017 for the first to harmonize the brands within the Group which has already time. Starting from January, the amount was at EUR 30 bn per happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, and Croatia. month, from October until December 2018 it was EUR 15 bn per month and then discontinued since the beginning of 2019. In Austria, the A1 Telekom Austria Group offers a comprehenWhile the ECB kept its key interest rate unchanged at 0.00 % sive and convergent product portfolio comprising both fixedduring the year under review, the US Federal Reserve again line and mobile communications solutions. The latest market raised its key interest rate from 1.25–1.50 % to 2.25–2.50 % in report issued by the regulatory authority, which tracked the four stages in March, June, September and December 2018. most recent market data in Austria up to the end of the second quarter of 2018, describes the following average trends across all operators 3): Development of real GDP in ▸ The number of SIM cards increased by 7.0 % year-on-year the markets of A1 Telekom Austria from 14.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 to 15.7 Group (in %) million in the second quarter of 2018. As previously, strong stimulus for this trend came from smartphone users 4), 2017 2018e 2019e where an increase of 13.6 % to more than 5.5 million users Austria 2.6 2.7 2.0 was recorded. Total retail customer revenues also recorded Bulgaria 3.8 3.5 3.7 growth of 0.9 % in the same period of time. Croatia 2.9 2.8 2.8 ▸ In the Austrian fixed-line market, the number of fixed Belarus 2.4 4.0 3.1 access lines in the second quarter 2018 decreased by Slovenia 4.9 4.3 3.3 1.2 % year-on-year. The amount of voice minutes via Republic of Serbia 1.9 4.1 3.8 the fixed-line network also decreased by 9.8 % in the Republic of Macedonia 0.0 2.1 2.8 same period. Sources: IMF for Belarus; European Commission for all other countries 1) The following document is a translation from the original German version, which is solely valid. 2) Sources: GDP information for Belarus: IMF https://www.imf.org/~/media/Files/Publications/WEO/2018/October/English/main-report/Text.ashx?la=en , page 64; European Union, Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, Republic of Serbia, and Republic of Macedonia: https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/ economy-finance/ip089_en_0.pdf, dated November 2018, pages 89, 107, 125, 133, 145, 149, 199. 3) https://www.rtr.at/de/inf/telekom-monitor-q22018/RTR_Telekom_Monitor_Q2_2018.pdf; A1 Telekom Austria Group calculations. 4) The significant decrease in mobile broadband as well as the increases in smartphone tariffs are due to changes in query definitions and allocations. (Source: RTR Telekom Monitor Q2 2018). A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 52 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT ▸ At 90 %, NGA (next generation access) coverage in Austria ▸ Rapid growth of data volume in overall mobile telecomis in the top third of the EU, while the number of accesses munications, which consists of pure mobile broadband above 30 Mbps (27.2 %) is in the lowest third of the EU. 5) as well as smartphone users according to the definition ▸ In Q2 2018, the broadband market recorded 10.1 million of the regulatory authority, also continued in the second mobile and fixed-line broadband connections, with somequarter of 2018 with an increase of 46.4 % year-on-year. what weaker growth of 3.3 % year-on-year. According to Statistics Austria, the share of Austrian households with broadband connections in 2018 remained constant at 88 %, while the share among companies rose Upload and download from 98 % to 99 %. 6) volumes in Austria Volume in Terabytes In Bulgaria, the trend of the past years continued and the 346,200 344,300 Internet penetration rate across all households increased to 72.1 % in 2018 compared with 67.3 % in 2017. 7) 310,400 In Croatia, broadband penetration in the fixed-line business increased to 26.0 % in the third quarter of 2018 (Q3 2017: 25.3 %), while mobile broadband penetration 266,800 increased slightly from 81.2 % to 83.6 % in the same period. 8) In Belarus, the ICT market has developed strongly in recent 235,200 years, which has led to a steady increase in the number 223,100 of Internet customers, while the number of mobile network users continued to stagnate in 2017. At the end of 2017, 194,200 the proportion of households with Internet access was 67.2 % (2016: 62.5 %) 9) In Slovenia, the Internet penetration rate increased from 142,900 81.7 % in the previous year to 86.7 % in the year under review. 93.7 % of these users with Internet access also uti124,500 lized a mobile device to access the web (2017: 85.1 %). 10) 109,900 99,200 In the Republic of Serbia, the increase in the number of Internet connections continued, with 72.9 % of households 76,200 having Internet access in 2018 (2017: 68.0 %). Meanwhile, 93.0 % of all Serbian households also own mobile telephones (2017: 90.5 %) and 72.1 % have a computer (2017: 68.1%). 11) According to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Macedonia, 79.3 % of all Macedonian households had Internet access in the first quarter of 2018 (Q1 2017: 73.6 %), of which 81.0 % also used a mobile device to access the web (Q1 2017: 82.5 %).12) Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 2015 2016 2017 2018 Source: RTR 5) https://www.rtr.at/de/inf/GlasfaserOe2018/RTR_Glasfaser-Internetanschluesse_Oesterreich_10_2018.pdf. 6) http://www.statistik.at/web_de/statistiken/informationsgesellschaft/index.html. 7) http://www.nsi.bg/sites/default/files/files/pressreleases/ICT_hh2018_en_KV45Z0R.pdf 8) https://www.hakom.hr/UserDocsImages/2018/e_trziste/KVA%20ENG%20Q3%202018%20Fixed%20broadband%20penetration.pdf; https://www.hakom.hr/UserDocsImages/2018/e_trziste/KVA%20ENG%20Q3%202018%20Mobile%20broadband%20penetration.pdf. 9) http://www.belstat.gov.by/en/ofitsialnaya-statistika/real-sector-of-the-economy/communication-and-ict/communication/annual-data/ main-indicators-of-general-use-communications-development/; Statistical Yearbook of the Republic of Belarus, 2018: http://www.belstat.gov.by/en/ofitsialnaya-statistika/publications/statisticalpublications-data-books-bulletins/public_compilation/index_12543/?sphrase_id=474137/, page 342; Note: Figures for Belarus are available for 2017 only. 10) https://pxweb.stat.si/pxweb/Dialog/viewplus.asp?ma=H087E&ti=&path=../Database/Hitre_Repozitorij/&lang=1 ; A1 Telekom Austria Group calculations. 11) http://www.stat.gov.rs/en-us/oblasti/upotreba-ikt/upotreba-ikt-domacinstva/; http://publikacije.stat.gov.rs/G2017/PdfE/G20176006.pdf; http://data.stat.gov.rs/Home/Result/270101?languageCode=en-US. 12) http://www.stat.gov.mk/PrikaziSoopstenie_en.aspx?rbrtxt=77. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Regulation The processes regarding mobile and fixed-line termination rates have been suspended due to a lack of foundations The A1 Telekom Austria Group is subject to different regulatory at the European level (reworking the recommendation on regimes in its markets. In Austria, it is classified as a provider termination rates and developing a uniform cost accountwith substantial market power and is therefore subject to the ing system). These two processes are still open and expectcorresponding regulatory measures. These include extensive ed to continue in 2019. This results in a risk that mobile network access and price regulations. The international suband fixed-line termination rates may fall further. sidiaries of the A1 Telekom Austria Group are also subject to far-reaching regulatory provisions in their respective national markets. Decisions on regulation are made not only at national level, but also increasingly at a European level in order to create Mobile communications markets harmonized conditions within the EU. This applies for example As mentioned above, the mobile communications markets in the case of the roaming and net neutrality regulations of of the A1 Telekom Austria Group are subject to various reguthe European Commission 13), which apply equally to all EU latory systems. As members of the EU and the European member states. Economic Area (EEA), their respective regulations apply in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, and Slovenia. They define roaming charges and termination rates between individual market Fixed-line telecommunication players. The regulatory environment in Belarus, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic of Macedonia are at different markets stages of development. There are general signs of gradual harmonization with EU statutory provisions in these countries The fifth round of the statutory market review process originalas well. ly initiated by the Austrian regulatory authority in the spring of 2015 was tentatively completed in mid-2018. The decisions The new regulation on net neutrality and roaming has been on the key wholesale markets for central and local access in in force in the European Union since 2016. In accordance with particular basically allowed A1 Telekom Austria AG to roll out the regulation, Internet access service providers must treat vectoring technology in unbundled connection areas also in all data traffic equally regardless of transmitter, receiver, appliorder to offer broadband connections with higher bandwidths. cation, or device. In addition to Internet access services, speVirtual unbundling (VULA) was also confirmed as a direct recialized services can also be offered, although this has certain placement for the physical unbundling of customer lines. This limitations. However, the regulation on net neutrality estabhas now quickly established itself as the new, central type of lishes few details regarding implementation, which resulted in access for alternative operators and will replace traditional different interpretations in practice. A1 Telekom Austria AG is physical unbundling in the medium term. The relevant regulacurrently objecting to two decisions by the regulatory authority tion in the fixed-line network now has only a limited impact regarding net neutrality at the Austrian Federal Administrative at retail level. Court. The proceedings are not yet complete. Glide paths for mobile termination rates January 2016 July 2016 January 2017 July 2017 Since January 2018 Austria (EUR) 0.008049 0.008049 0.008049 0.008049 0.008049 Bulgaria (BGN) 0.019 0.019 0.014 0.014 0.014 Croatia (HRK) 0.0631) 0.0631) 0.0631) 0.0471) 0.0471) MTS: 0. 025/0.0125 MTS: 0.025/0.0125 MTS: 0.025/0.0125 MTS: 0.025/0.0125 MTS: 0.025/0.0125 Belarus (BYN) BeST: 0.018/0.0092) BeST: 0.018/0.0092) BeST: 0.018/0.009 2) BeST: 0.018/0.0092) BeST: 0.018/0.0092) Slovenia (EUR) 0.0114 0.0114 0.0114 0.0114 0.0114 Republic of Serbia (RSD) 3.43 2.75 2.07 2.07 1.43 Republic of Macedonia (MKD) 0.90 0.90 0.63 0.63 0.63 There are currently no further reductions expected. 1) National MTRs stated. International MTRs differ 2) Values that apply to Belarus: prime time/downtime. MTS: Mobile TeleSystems; BeST: Belarus Telecommunications Network 13) Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of November 25, 2015 establishing measures concerning open Internet access and amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and users’ rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and Regulation (EU) No. 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the Union. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 54 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT The contents of the roaming regulation have already been fully implemented in all the companies of the A1 Telekom Information on financial reporting Austria Group that operate in the EU member countries The A1 Telekom Austria Group reports on seven business Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, and Slovenia and have a longsegments: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia, the term negative impact on roaming revenues. Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia. The “Corporate & other, eliminations” segment performs strategic In 2016, the European Commission presented the first draft and management functions for all segments in addition to of a new directive revising the current framework, access, financing agendas and since the first quarter of 2017 has also authorization, and universal service directives and introducincluded A1 Digital International GmbH. A1 Digital Internationing a range of new regulations (European Electronic Comal GmbH focuses on the B2B market and offers digital services munications Code – EECC). This initial proposed legislation to actively support companies in the digitalization process. was negotiated in the European Parliament and at the level of the EU member states. An agreement on this was reached As of January 1, 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group applied IFRS in mid-2018. The European Parliament has again brought 15 for the first time, deciding in favor of the modified retroforward a previous proposal for the reduction of surcharges spective approach for the initial application in accordance with for international calls within the EU. It is now included in a the transition guidance. Accordingly, the information presentpackage of measures in a somewhat weaker form. The final ed for 2017 has not been restated – i. e. it is presented, as directive was issued in December 2018. This will involve previously reported, under IAS 18 and related interpretations. both legal-regulatory risks as well as financial risks in future. The following presentation is based on IAS 18 (i. e. without In particular, the reduction in surcharges for international adoption of IFRS 15). In the Selected Explanatory Notes to calls to a maximum of 19 Euro cents per minute and a maxithe Consolidated Financial Statements, a reconciliation from mum of 6 Euro cents per SMS text message starting May 15, IFRS 15 to IAS 18 is provided. The new revenue recognition 2019 will have negative financial effects on the entire teleaccounting standard under IFRS 15 requires accounting for communications industry. the lifecycle value of contracts by allocating the total revenues from a contract to the different deliverables of the contract The frequency allocation of the 3.4–3.8 GHz band is immibased on their relative fair values. nent in Austria. The bidding documents were published in September 2018, while the auction itself will take place The presentation and analysis of financial information and in the first quarter of 2019. The multi-band auction for 700, key performance indicators up to page 69 may differ from the 1500, and 2100 MHz is planned for the first quarter of 2020. financial information presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements. This is due to the fact that the presentation and analysis are partially based on proforma figures. EU roaming glide path Retail (in EUR) July 2014 April 30, 2016 Since June 15, 2017 Data domestic domestic (per MB) 0.20 tariff + 0.051) tariff Voice-calls made domestic domestic domestic (pro Minute) 0.19 tariff + 0.051) tariff Voice-calls received weighted average (pro Minute) 0.05 MTR1) 0 domestic domestic SMS (per SMS) 0.06 tariff + 0.021) tariff Wholesale (in EUR) July 2014 April 30, 2016 June 15, 2017 January 1, 2018 January 1, 2019 Data (per MB) 0.05 0.05 0.0077 0.006 0.0045 Voice (per minute) 0.05 0.05 0.032 0.032 0.032 SMS (per SMS) 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 1) The total of the domestic retail price and any surcharge applied to regulated roaming calls made, regulated roaming SMS messages sent or regulated data roaming services must not exceed EUR 0.19 per minute, EUR 0.06 per SMS message and EUR 0.20 per megabyte used. Any surcharge applied for calls received must not exceed the weighted average of mobile termination rates across the Union. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Alternative Performance Measures (APM) are used to describe The performance indicator EBITDA is reported in order to operational performance. This also includes proforma figures. present operational development of individual business These present comparison figures for previous periods as if units transparently. EBITDA is defined as the net result M&A transactions executed between the start of the comparexcluding financial result, income tax, depreciation, and ison period and the end of the reporting period had already amortization and, if applicable, impairment losses or been fully consolidated in the relevant months of the comparireversal of impairments. son period. Please therefore also refer to the financial information presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements, The use of automated calculation systems may give rise which do not contain proforma figures, as well as the reconto rounding differences. ciliation tables provided on page 70. Revenue and earnings development (proforma, IAS 18) Proforma view Key financials 2018 2017 Change in EUR million reported proforma in % Total revenues 4,466.4 4,388.5 1.8 EBITDA 1,380.6 1,398.9 –1.3 % of total revenues 30.9 % 31.9 % – EBITDA excl. restructuring 1,402.7 1,380.7 1.6 % of total revenues 31.4 % 31.5 % – Operating income 424.1 444.5 –4.6 % of total revenues 9.5 % 10.1 % – Proforma view Key financials 2018 2017 Change in EUR million reported proforma in % Cost of service –1,395.6 –1,396.6 0.1 Cost of equipment –626.9 –584.2 –7.3 Selling, general & administrative expenses –1,049.3 –996.7 –5.3 Other expenses –13.9 –12.1 –14.9 Total costs and expenses –3,085.8 –2,989.6 –3.2 thereof employee costs –850.6 –795.9 –6.9 thereof restructuring charges –22.1 18.2 n. m. Impairment charges 0.0 0.0 n. a. Depreciation and amortization –956.5 –954.4 –0.2 2018 2017 Change Reported view reported proforma in % Net result 242.7 345.5 –29.7 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,232.3 1,174.8 4.9 Earnings per share (in EUR) 0.36 0.48 –24.8 Free cash flow per share (in EUR) 0.58 0.58 –0.1 Capital expenditures 1) 771.0 736.9 4.6 Net debt 2,718.4 2,331.8 16.6 1) Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding asset retirement obligations. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 56 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Revenue and earnings ▸ Total one-off effects 15) of positive EUR 30.4 mn in revenues and EUR 21.3 mn in EBITDA in 2017 and of positive EUR development 5.0 mn in revenues and positive EUR 9.4 mn in EBITDA in 2018, with the following main effects: The following analysis is based on proforma ▸ There were positive EUR 10.6 mn in fixed-line service figures if not stated otherwise 14). revenues stemming from the reversal of an accrual for wholesale services and EUR 3.6 mn in other operIn the 2018 financial year, the A1 Telekom Austria Group conating income, stemming from the release of an asset tinued with the systematic implementation of its convergence retirement obligation in Austria in 2017. strategy as well as maintaining a clear focus on high-value ▸ In Bulgaria, other operating income was positively customers, innovative products and services as well as strict affected in 2017 by a one-off effect of EUR 5.8 mn cost management. Demand for mobile WiFi routers increased resulting from a legal settlement. further. Fixed-line business remained strong, with TV content ▸ A positive one-off effect in the Republic of Serbia in being an increasingly important element in competition. With the amount of EUR 3.8 mn in 2017 in other operating regard to retail customers, the dynamics in Austria and CEE income, resulting from changed parameters in the markets remained largely the same. A1 in Austria is faced with calculation of asset retirement obligations. new convergent providers. ▸ In Croatia, positive EUR 3.9 mn in 2018 in cost of service resulting from the reimbursement of frequency In 2017, the A1 Telekom Austria Group decided to harmonize fees by the government as a result of the reduction its brands throughout the Group and to roll out the “A1” brand of frequency fees in December 2017. in a gradual manner, depending on local circumstances, in ▸ Total negative FX effects amounted to EUR 30.7 mn in total all of its markets. This triggered the amortization of local brand revenues and EUR 14.9 mn in EBITDA in 2018, stemming values, which had reached a total of around EUR 350 mn by entirely from Belarus. the end of 2016. The respective companies will amortize the ▸ Restructuring expenses in Austria of EUR 22.1 mn combrand values until the phase-out of the old brands. As of pared to an income of EUR 18.2 mn in 2017. The latter December 31, 2018, EUR 319.7 mn have already been amorresulted from a revaluation due to changed parameters. tized, as the rebranding is complete in the Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia segments. In mobile communications, the number of A1 Telekom Austria Group subscribers increased by 1.7 % to 21.0 million subscribThe following factors should be considered in the analysis ers in the year under review. The number of contract customers of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s operating results: in all markets rose, while prepaid customer numbers declined. The number of A1 Digital M2M customers also rose. Almost ▸ Negative effects stemming from the abolition of all markets saw strong demand for mobile WiFi routers. The retail roaming in the EU as of June 15, 2017, number of revenue-generating units (RGUs) in the Group’s derive mostly from Austria, with further impacts fixed-line business increased by 3.7 % year-on-year. The dein Slovenia, Croatia and Bulgaria. cline in RGUs in Austria, which was driven primarily by voice ▸ The acquisition of the fixed-line operator Metronet RGUs, was more than offset by increases in the other markets. in Croatia, consolidated as of February 1, 2017. ▸ The acquisitions of the fixed-line providers Garant (Gomel), consolidated as of August 1, 2017, and Vitebsk Garant, consolidated as of May 1, 2018, both in Belarus. As the financial impact of Vitebsk Garant on the Belarus segment is marginal, no proforma view is provided on this acquisition. 14) Proforma figures are not audited and include effects of M&A transactions executed between the start of the comparison period and the end of the reporting period. 15) As of the beginning of 2018 all one-off effects are accounted for in the calculations. The main effects are explicitly explained. In the Group management report 2017 only the main effects were accounted for in the calculations. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Key figures of the A1 Telekom stable as higher content costs and costs for leased lines were outweighed by lower interconnection and network maintenance Austria Group costs. Advertising costs rose following the rebranding while bad debt declined. Investments in A1 Digital also led to higher In the 2018 financial year, the A1 Telekom Austria Group saw costs. Restructuring, originating entirely from the Austrian an increase in revenues of 1.8 % (reported: +1.9 %). Adjusted segment, resulted in expenses of EUR 22.1 mn in the year under for the one-off and FX effects described above, total revenues review after an income of EUR 18.2 mn in the previous year. rose by 3.1% compared to the previous year (reported: +3.2 %). This operational revenue growth was driven by all markets EBITDA decreased by 1.3 % in the 2018 financial year (reported: apart from Slovenia. In total, Group service revenues increased –1.2 %). Adjusted for the one-off and FX effects described by 1.3 % (reported: +1.4 %) and rose by 2.2 % (reported: +2.3 %) above as well as restructuring charges, EBITDA increased by excluding the above-mentioned one-off effects. 3.6 % (reported: +3.7 %) with growth in all segments except from Slovenia and Belarus. Furthermore, investments in A1 Group total costs and expenses increased by 3.2 % year-onDigital, included in the position “Corporate & other, eliminayear in the year under review (reported: +3.4 %). Investments tions”, had a negative impact on Group EBITDA. In total, the in high-value customers led again to a rise in cost of equipEBITDA margin decreased from 31.9 % in the previous year ment and higher sales area costs. The cost of service were to 30.9 % in the year under review. Key figures of the A1 Telekom Austria Group (proforma, IAS 18) (in Mio. EUR) Proforma view 2018 2017 Change Total revenues reported proforma in % Austria 2,658.0 2,622.3 1.4 Bulgaria 446.2 431.2 3.5 Croatia 444.5 437.3 1.6 Belarus 389.3 394.1 –1.2 Slovenia 214.1 216.1 –0.9 Republic of Serbia 249.2 230.8 8.0 Republic of Macedonia 119.2 114.0 4.5 Corporate & other, eliminations –53.9 –57.3 5.9 Total 4,466.4 4,388.5 1.8 2018 2017 Change EBITDA reported proforma in % Austria 905.7 914.2 –0.9 Bulgaria 138.0 130.1 6.1 Croatia 114.1 109.1 4.6 Belarus 163.8 181.8 –9.9 Slovenia 38.1 40.6 –6.1 Republic of Serbia 47.0 38.4 22.5 Republic of Macedonia 35.4 30.1 17.7 Corporate & other, eliminations –61.5 –45.3 –35.8 Total 1,380.6 1,398.9 –1.3 2018 2017 Change Operating income reported proforma in % Austria 473.9 442.1 7.2 Bulgaria –105.1 –85.6 –22.8 Croatia 7.6 13.0 –41.4 Belarus 87.6 123.0 –28.8 Slovenia 8.9 10.5 –15.2 Republic of Serbia 4.1 –6.8 n. m. Republic of Macedonia 9.3 –6.0 n. m. Corporate & other, eliminations –62.3 –45.8 –36.0 Total 424.1 444.5 –4.6 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 58 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT In the year under review, depreciation and amortization was stable at EUR 956.5 mn (+0.2 %; reported: +0.3 %) in comNet assets and financial position parison with the previous year. The brand value amortization The following analysis is presented solely in Bulgaria, Belarus, Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on a reported basis. in connection with the group-wide rebranding amounted to EUR 197.9 mn in the year under review (2017: EUR 121.8 mn). As of December 31, 2018, the balance sheet total declined As a result, operating income declined by 4.6 % to EUR 424.1 mn by 3.3 % compared to December 31, 2017. Current assets compared to the previous year (reported: –4.5 %). Excluding remained approximately the same, as the decrease in cash the D&A of the brand value amortizations, operating income and cash equivalents due to the redemption of the EUR 600 mn increased by 9.8 % (reported: +9.9 %). hybrid bond on February 1, 2018, was offset by higher receivables and increased installment sales as well as a short-term The following analysis is presented increase in inventories. Non-current assets decreased, due solely on a reported basis. primarily to the reduction in intangible assets, which was attributable to the brand value amortizations in connection The A1 Telekom Austria Group recorded a financial result of with the group-wide rebranding and to a lesser extent the negative EUR 81.7 mn in the year under review, which means an improvement of 14.4 % compared to the previous year. This was due to the reduction in interest expense and FX differences. The lower interest expense resulted from deferred Company Key Figures consideration paid for business combinations in 2017. FX Reported view differences amounted to positive EUR 5.1 mn in the reporting year compared to negative EUR 2.6 mn in 2017. 2018 2017 Change reported reported in % Tax expenses amounted to EUR 99.7 mn in the year under Earnings per share (in EUR) 0.36 0.48 –24.8 review. In the previous year, tax expenses amounted to Dividend per share EUR 3.0 mn due to the recognition of deferred tax assets on (in EUR) 0.211) 0.20 5.0 losses carried forward. Overall, the A1 Telekom Austria Group Free cash flow per share reported a 29.7 % lower net result of EUR 242.7 mn in the (in EUR) 0.58 0.58 –0.1 2018 reporting year. ROE 2) 9.1 % 12.1 % – ROIC 3) 6.7 % 6.9 % – 1) Proposal to the 2019 Annual General Meeting, which will take place on May 29, 2019. 2) Ratio of net result to average equity employed; serves as an indicator to measure the yield on equity. 3) Total return on invested capital, calculated as net operating profit after tax (NOPAT) divided by the average capital invested. Net assets and financial position (reported, IAS 18) Reported view Dec 31, 2018 As % of the Dec 31, 2017 As % of the Balance sheet structure (in EUR million) reported balance sheet total reported balance sheet total Current assets 1,235.5 16.7 1,226.3 16.1 Property, plant and equipment 2,716.1 36.8 2,627.9 34.4 Goodwill 1,277.9 17.3 1,276.3 16.7 Intangible assets 1,782.7 24.1 2,075.9 27.2 Other assets 376.3 5.1 431.9 5.7 Total assets 7,388.5 100.0 7,638.3 100.0 Current liabilities 1,624.8 22.0 1,243.7 16.3 Long-term debt 2,536.8 34.3 2,533.6 33.2 Employee benefit obligation 203.7 2.8 196.8 2.6 Non-current provisions 576.0 7.8 646.9 8.5 Other long-term liabilities 41.3 0.6 79.9 1.0 Stockholders’ equity 2,406.0 32.6 2,937.4 38.5 Liabilities and stockholders’ equity 7,388.5 100.0 7,638.3 100.0 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT amortization of frequencies. The increase in current liabilities The equity ratio as of December 31, 2018, amounted to 32.6 % was attributable to the drawings of short-term credit facilities after 38.5 % as of December 31, 2017. The decrease in shareas part of the refinancing of the above-mentioned hybrid bond holder’s equity was driven primarily by the redemption of and higher CAPEX especially in Q4 2018. the EUR 600 mn hybrid bond, which was classified as equity. Net debt (reported, IAS 18) Reported view Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2017 Net debt (in EUR million) reported reported Long-term debt 2,536.3 2,533.6 Short-term borrowings 245.3 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments –63.6 –202.4 Net debt 2,718.4 2,331.8 Net debt/EBITDA (last 12 months) 2.0 1.7 The redemption of the hybrid bond resulted in an increase in the comparison period was offset by higher CAPEX paid in in net debt and a higher net debt to EBITDA ratio. the reporting period. Regarding cash flow from financing activities the comparison period was characterized by the principal payments on a EUR 500 mn bond and the tap-issuance Cash flow of an existing bond in the amount of EUR 250 mn. There was also an outflow of funds totaling EUR 120 mn in the compariThe changes in “Working capital and other financial positions” son year due to exercising of the call option in connection with in the reporting period in the amount of EUR 180.8 mn the acquisition of the Telekom Slovenije Group’s 45 % stake (2017: EUR 204.4 mn) were driven by an increase in receivin Macedonian company one.Vip DOOEL. The financial year ables, as well as payments of income taxes, an increase in 2018 was characterized by the redemption of the EUR 600 mn installment sales and payments for restructuring, which hybrid bond on February 1, 2018. This cash outflow was partly were mitigated by an increase in liabilities. Net cash flow mitigated by drawings of short-term credit facilities. from operating activities increased year-on-year. Free cash flow 16) was stable year-on-year. This was due Cash flow from investing activities remained stable year-onto the higher cash flow from operating activities and lower year as the cash outflow from the acquisition of Metronet interest payments, which offset the higher CAPEX paid. Cash flow (reported, IAS 18) Reported view 2018 2017 Change Cash flow (in EUR million) reported reported in % Net cash flow from operating activities 1,232.3 1,174.8 4.9 Net cash flow from investing activities –765.1 –770.4 0.7 Net cash flow from financing activities –605.0 –659.3 8.2 Adjustment to cash flows due to exchange rate fluctuations, net –1.0 –0.2 n. m. Net change in cash and cash equivalents –138.8 –255.1 45.6 Capital expenditures 17) fact that the capitalization of a long-term IRU (Indefeasible Rights of Use) contract for fiber lines in Slovenia in the previous (reported, IAS 18) year was more than offset by higher intangible capital expenditures in Bulgaria, Austria, and Belarus in the reporting year. In the 2018 year under review, capital expenditures increased by 4.6 % year-on-year to EUR 771.0 mn. Tangible capital expenditures increased by 5.3 % to EUR 610.2 mn driven 16) Free cash flow is calculated as cash flow from operating activities less primarily by investments in the fiber rollout and in the data capital expenditures paid and interest paid plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. center in Austria. Intangible capital expenditures increased 17) For detailed figures, please refer to the reconciliation tables and the notes by 2.0 % to EUR 160.7 mn. This was attributable to the to the consolidated financial statements. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 60 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Segment analysis In the fixed-line business, total revenue generating units (RGUs) decreased in 2018 due mainly to losses of voice (proforma, IAS 18) RGUs. While demand for fiber upgrades remained continuously strong and TV RGUs also continued to exhibit solid growth, Segment Austria the number of fixed-line broadband RGUs declined slightly year-on-year. This was attributable mainly to substitution by As there have been no M&A transactions in Austria mobile WiFi routers. Overall, this resulted in an increase in between the beginning of the comparison period the Internet@Home business (pure fixed-line broad-band, and the end of the period under review, the following hybrid modem, and mobile WiFi router) of 3.0 %. analysis is based on reported figures. In the Austria segment, total revenues increased by 1.4 % yearIn Austria the dynamics compared to the previous year remained on-year despite positive one-off effects in the previous year. mostly unchanged despite the first time launch of convergent As mentioned above, these one-off effects in 2017 amounted offerings by the competition in autumn 2018. In the mobile busito positive EUR 10.6 mn in fixed-line service revenues and ness A1 continued to follow its multi-brand strategy and aimed EUR 3.6 mn in other operating income. Excluding the one-off for high granularity in market segmentation. In the high-value effects in 2017, total revenues rose by 2.1 % and service revesegment A1 pursued differentiation with attractive services such nues increased by 1.7 %. Fixed-line service revenues increased as Free Stream and the A1 Xplore Music app. Competition in on the back of the price increases and indexation measures the no-frills segment and the youth segment remained consistmentioned above. Solid demand for higher bandwidths and TV ently intense in the year under review, which A1 countered by options likewise drove the fixed-line service revenue increase means of targeted offers. In terms of regulation, official photo while fixed-line interconnection revenues declined due to lower identification will have to be shown when purchasing a SIM card volumes. Solutions and connectivity revenues increased due to from January 1, 2019. Existing anonymous SIM cards must be the completion of several large projects among other reasons. registered by September 1, 2019. In the mobile business, the negative effects of the stepwise abolition of retail roaming in the EU were outweighed by high Demand for broadband products with higher speeds and TV demand for mobile WiFi routers and higher-value tariffs as options remained strong, especially among existing customers. well as the above mentioned indexation measure. Equipment Next to the traditional fiber infrastructure, the hybrid modem revenues increased due to a higher-value hand-set portfolio. as a combination of the fixed-line and mobile networks remains important to providing fixed-line products with higher Costs and expenses in the Austrian segment rose by 2.6 % band-widths. Beyond that, the Austrian broadband market year-on-year. In 2018, restructuring expenses amounted to continued to be shaped by the ongoing high demand for moEUR 22.1 mn whereas an income in the amount of EUR 18.2 mn bile WiFi routers with unlimited data offerings. was posted in the comparative period. Excluding restructuring expenses, costs and expenses were stable (+0.2 %). Content Additionally, results profited from the price adjustments for the and leased lines costs, both driven by more Solutions & fixed-line products in the previous year as well as an indexation Connectivity projects rose. Advertising costs increased due for existing customers in the mobile business and in the fixedto more campaigns and the brand refreshment compared line business in the year under review. to previous year. Costs of equipment were higher than in the previous year due to higher average handset costs due to a The total number of mobile subscribers increased in 2018, as higher-value portfolio. Inter-connection costs decreased due the ongoing strong demand for mobile WiFi routers in the conto lower volumes, and roaming costs declined due mainly to tract segment and higher-value tariffs more than outweighed lower inter-operator tariffs while higher own work capitalized the decline in the prepaid segment. due to the subsidized broadband rollout had a positive effect on the costs. EBITDA excluding one-off effects and restructuring expenses thus increased by 5.4 % (reported: –0.9 %) amid higher service revenues, a better equipment margin, and stable total costs and expenses. Depreciation and amortization decreased by 8.6 % in the period under review compared to the same period last year. This decline resulted from the end of amortization of software investments and the YESSS! customer base in 2017. All in all, operating income in Austria increased by 7.2 % yearon-year. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Key performance indicators Austria Proforma view (= Reported view) Key financials 2018 2017 Change in EUR million reported reported in % Total revenues 2,658.0 2,622.3 1.4 Service revenues 2,394.8 2,365.5 1.2 thereof mobile service revenues 1,022.4 1,006.2 1.6 thereof fixed-line service revenues 1,372.4 1,359.4 1.0 Equipment revenues 209.4 198.5 5.5 Other operating income 53.8 58.3 –7.7 EBITDA 905.7 914.2 –0.9 % of total revenues 34.1 % 34.9 % – EBITDA excl. restructuring 927.8 896.0 3.5 % of total revenues 34.9 % 34.2 % – Operating income 473.9 442.1 7.2 % of total revenues 17.8 % 16.9 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 3,825.1 3,779.4 1.2 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 1,538.6 1,555.8 –1.1 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 5,363.7 5,335.2 0.5 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 964.3 947.4 1.8 ARPU (in EUR) 16.1 15.6 2.9 Churn (%) 1.6 % 1.7 % – Market share 37.8 % 38.8 % – Mobile penetration 160.5 % 156.2 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators reported proforma in % RGUs (in '000) 3,327.7 3,390.4 –1.9 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 1,434.8 1,447.3 –0.9 ARPL (in EUR) 30.7 29.1 5.3 Total access lines (in '000) 2,048.3 2,117.5 –3.3 Unbundled lines (in '000) 190.8 220.3 –13.4 Fixed line voice traffic (in million minutes) 1,168.1 1,225.6 –4.7 Mobile and fixed broadband penetration in % of households 141.3 % 139.1 % – Costs and expenses Proforma view (= Reported view) 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Cost of service –868.5 –875.2 0.8 Cost of equipment –261.9 –257.3 –1.8 Selling, general & administrative expenses –614.6 –568.1 –8.2 Other expenses –7.3 –7.4 1.5 Total costs and expenses –1,752.3 –1,708.1 –2.6 thereof employee costs –622.3 –583.2 –6.7 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 62 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Segment Bulgaria The mobile contract segment remained stable in 2018. The total number of mobile subscribers was, however, down yearAs there have been no M&A transactions in Bulgaria on-year, which was attributable to the prepaid segment. Total between the beginning of the comparison period fixed-line revenue generating units (RGUs) increased as the and the end of the period under review, the following positive trends in TV and broadband were able to offset the analysis is based on reported figures. decline in fixed-line voice services. In the year under review, the Bulgarian market was characterIn the Bulgaria segment, total revenues rose by 3.5 % and by ized by positive trends, due mainly to growth in the fixed-line 4.8 % excluding one-off effects. Other operating income in business and an improved subsidy level. The positive develop2017 was positively affected by a one-off effect of EUR 5.8 mn. ment in the fixed-line business resulted from corporate soluRevenue growth was attributable to the increase in fixed-line tions as well as successful upand cross selling residential service revenues and equipment revenues. Fixed-line service customers. In addition, the sports channels with exclusive revenues rose, supported by strong demand for the exclusive TV content are still making a significant contribution to the sports content and higher speeds as well as by customized positive development of the RGU and ARPL trends. The mobile fixed-line corporate solutions. Equipment revenues grew due business continued to improve and grew slightly year-on-year, to lower subsidies per handset and higher-value devices. Mobile with active customer retention measures in the mobile resiservice revenues increased as growth in the business segment dential segment helping to reduce churn. During May 2018, more than outweighed the decline in the prepaid segment. Mobiltel was successfully rebranded into A1 Bulgaria. Key performance indicators Bulgaria Proforma view (= Reported view) Key financials 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Total revenues 446.2 431.2 3.5 Service revenues 372.0 359.0 3.6 thereof mobile service revenues 268.8 267.0 0.7 thereof fixed-line service revenues 103.1 92.0 12.1 Equipment revenues 66.5 59.4 12.1 Other operating income 7.6 12.8 –40.5 EBITDA 138.0 130.1 6.1 % of total revenues 30.9 % 30.2 % – Operating income –105.1 –85.6 –22.8 % of total revenues –23.6 % –19.8 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 3,505.2 3,500.4 0.1 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 429.1 476.8 –10.0 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 3,934.3 3,977.1 –1.1 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 430.0 422.3 1.8 ARPU (in EUR) 5.6 5.5 3.1 Churn (%) 1.6 % 2.2 % – Market share 39.4 % 38.7 % – Mobile penetration 142.8 % 145.6 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators reported proforma in % RGUs (in '000) 1,029.0 1,005.0 2.4 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 448.3 434.8 3.1 ARPL (in EUR) 12.6 11.6 8.9 Total access lines (in '000) 536.0 531.2 0.9 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Costs and expenses rose, amongst other factors, due to higher Segment Croatia cost of equipment as a result of the continuous demand for higher-value devices. Interconnection costs also rose due to The following analysis is based on proforma figures higher outgoing traffic to other networks. Content costs rose if not stated otherwise. 18) in line with more TV customers and sport content production. Personnel costs also rose due to increased salaries in cusIn 2018, competition in the Croatia segment focused on contomer-facing areas while administration, commissions and vergent solutions and heavily discounted offers in order to acnetwork maintenance costs were lower. quire customers. In addition to upselling measures, the growing demand for mobile WiFi routers developed into a driving In the Bulgarian segment, rising total revenues more than factor in the mobile business. As bundles and convergent offset higher costs and expenses, which led to EBITDA growth products with content became increasingly important, Vipnet of 6.1 % (excluding one-off effects: +8.6 %). Depreciation launched a new sports TV package in June 2018. From October 1, and amortization increased by 12.7 % due to the brand value 2018, Vipnet was successfully rebranded into A1 Hrvatska. amortization in the amount of EUR 144.0 mn (2017: EUR 99.7 mn) in connection with the group-wide rebranding. This again resulted in negative operating income in 2018 in the amount of EUR 105.1 mn (2017: EUR –85.6 mn). Excluding the D&A of the brand value amortization, operating income increased by 175.3 % year-on-year. Key performance indicators Croatia Proforma view Key financials 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Total revenues 444.5 437.3 1.6 Service revenues 386.4 381.9 1.2 thereof mobile service revenues 261.7 258.8 1.1 thereof fixed-line service revenues 124.7 123.1 1.3 Equipment revenues 52.0 49.0 6.2 Other operating income 6.0 6.3 –5.5 EBITDA 114.1 109.1 4.6 % of total revenues 25.7 % 24.9 % – Operating income 7.6 13.0 –41.4 % of total revenues 1.7 % 3.0 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 1,043.9 965.2 8.2 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 789.4 807.5 –2.2 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 1,833.3 1,772.7 3.4 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 204.6 173.2 18.2 ARPU (in EUR) 12.0 12.2 –1.3 Churn (%) 2.3 % 2.6 % – Market share 36.5 % 36.5 % – Mobile penetration 121.5 % 117.5 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators (proforma) reported proforma in % RGUs (in '000) 681.8 654.1 4.2 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 254.0 250.0 1.6 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators (reported) reported reported in % ARPL (in EUR) 30.2 29.3 2.9 Total access lines (in '000) 296.9 296.6 0.1 18) Proforma figures are not audited and include effects of M&A transactions executed between the start of the comparison period and the end of the reporting period. In the Croatia segment, this applies to the acquisition of fixed-line operator Metronet in Croatia, consolidated as of February 1, 2017. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 64 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT With regards to regulation, frequency usage fees were cut Segment Belarus for the first time in December 2017, and a further reduction was announced in November 2018. In connection with this, The following analysis is based on proforma figures the government announced in the third quarter of 2018 if not stated otherwise. 19) that it would reimburse the excess frequency usage fees of EUR 3.9 mn paid. Macroeconomic improvements in Belarus continued in the year under review, and GDP is expected to have grown by The higher number of mobile subscribers is attributable to 4.0 %(IMF estimate) in 2018 (2017: +2.4 %). The Belarusian growth in the contract subscriber base. This was due to the Rouble devalued sharply in April, but the devaluation then solid growth in mobile WiFi routers, the ongoing shift from slowed and amounted to 9.3 % over the course of the year prepaid to postpaid subscribers and cross selling. Despite (period average). In addition, the government continued the shift toward mobile WiFi routers, the revenue generating to be restrictive on price increases in order to stabilize inflaunits (RGUs) in the fixed-line business increased, which was tion, which came in at 5.6 % year-on-year. driven mainly by the strong demand for TV solutions. Despite its lack of a 4G license, velcom maintained its In the Croatia segment, total revenues increased by 1.6 % yearsuperior standard in terms of the coverage and quality of on-year (reported: +2.2 %), as the lower revenues from visitor its mobile network. Competition in the mobile business roaming and lower interconnection revenues were compensawas intense with regard to tariffs based on unlimited data ted by the strong demand for mobile WiFi routers and higher offers. These offers had a negative impact on the sale of equipment revenues. Revenues from visitor roaming declined data packages. In light of this, velcom deployed unlimited as a result of prices within the A1 Group and with other comdata and voice offers with speed restrictions depending panies were lowered which could not be compensated for with on the chosen tariff. The shift from prepaid offers towards higher data usage. Interconnection revenues fell due to the contract offers continued. Meanwhile, demand for expentermination rate cut in July 2017. Equipment revenues rose as sive devices remained high and the margin on handsets a result of higher quantities on the basis of measures to prevpositive. The position in the fixed-line business was strengthent customer churn. Fixed-line service revenues also increased ened by the acquisition of Vitbesk Garant, consolidated from as the shift toward mobile WiFi routers was more than offset May 1, 2018. As the financial impact of Vitebsk Garant on by higher solutions and connectivity revenues. the Belarus segment is marginal, no proforma view is provided. The rise in total costs and expenses in the year under review Inflation-linked price increases of 2.9 % and 2.4 % were implewas attributable to higher costs for equipment driven by higher mented in the mobile business as of April 1 and September quantities resulting from churn-prevention activities. Content 1, 2018, respectively. In March and October 2018, velcom costs rose due to UEFA Champions League rights. Rebranding increased the fixed-line tariffs for existing customers by 9.0 % costs and commissions as well as higher roaming costs also and 5.0 % respectively. contributed to the increase, while bad debt expenses and frequency costs decreased. The latter were also influenced by Total revenues in the Belarus segment decreased by 1.2 % a positive one-off effect of EUR 3.9 mn, which resulted from the (reported: –0.3 %). Excluding minor positive one-off effects reimbursement of frequency fees mentioned above. in the reporting and comparison period as well as a negative FX effect of EUR 40.0 mn, they rose by 8.4 % year-on-year The higher costs and expenses were more than offset by (reported: +9.5 %). This increase in local currency resulted revenue growth, which excluding the above mentioned onefrom higher equipment revenues. These were due to more off effect led to an EBITDA increase of 0.4 % (reported: +5.7 %). expensive devices and higher quantities, which were supportAs a result of the higher depreciation and amortization, due ed by an attractive smartphone portfolio, advertising camprimarily to the brand value amortization in the amount of paigns, and installment sales. Service revenues fell as the EUR 19.7 mn (2017: EUR 6.9 mn) in conjunction with the higher fixed-line service revenues did not compensate for group-wide rebranding, this led to 41.4 % lower operating the lower mobile service revenues as a result of the above income (reported: –38.6 %). Excluding the D&A of the above mentioned decreased data monetization. mentioned brand value amortization, operating income increased by 36.9 % year-on-year (reported: +41.1 %). 19) Proforma figures are not audited and include effects of M&A transactions executed between the start of the comparison period and the end of the reporting period. In the Belarus segment, this applies to the acquisition of fixed-line operator Garant (Gomel) in Belarus, consolidated as of August 1, 2017. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Total costs and expenses rose on a local currency basis, driven Segment Slovenia by higher costs of equipment due to more expensive handsets and higher quantities, as well as other costs settled in hard As there have been no M&A transactions in Slovenia currency and personnel costs. Content costs were also higher. between the beginning of the comparison period Interconnection expenses increased due to the rise in outgoand the end of the period under review, the following ing traffic. analysis is based on reported figures. Excluding FX effects and one-off effects, EBITDA fell by 1.9 % In the year under review, the Slovenian telecommunications (reported: –1.6 %), mainly as the lower mobile service revemarket was still characterized by fierce competition in the nues could not be offset by the higher fixed-line service revemobile market, with a focus on convergent tariffs with high nues. Together with higher depreciation in comparison with discounts and competitive mobile tariffs including high data the previous year as a result of the brand value amortization allowances. In order to meet these challenges, A1 Slovenija in the amount of EUR 31.3 mn (2017: EUR 13.0 mn), operatintroduced simplified price plans in the mobile segment and ing income fell by 28.8 %. Excluding the D&A of the brand included the use of certain services such as music and chat value amortization, operating income increased by 12.6 % apps, which can be used without consuming data. However, year-on-year. price increases were also implemented in the mobile and fixed-line business, some of which also applied to existing customers. The price increases were partly due to the higher content costs. Key performance indicators Belarus Proforma view Key financials 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Total revenues 389.3 394.1 –1.2 Service revenues 286.9 307.1 –6.6 thereof mobile service revenues 247.0 273.1 –9.5 thereof fixed-line service revenues 39.9 34.0 17.3 Equipment revenues 84.3 71.5 17.8 Other operating income 18.1 15.5 16.5 EBITDA 163.8 181.8 –9.9 % of total revenues 42.1 % 46.1 % – Operating income 87.6 123.0 –28.8 % of total revenues 22.5 % 31.2 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 4,041.1 3,964.5 1.9 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 832.0 899.7 –7.5 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 4,873.0 4,864.2 0.2 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 280.1 303.2 –7.6 ARPU (in EUR) 4.2 4.7 –9.5 Churn (%) 1.5 % 1.7 % – Market share 42.0 % 42.5 % – Mobile penetration 122.4 % 120.5 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators (proforma) reported proforma in % RGUs (in '000) 657.3 463.4 41.8 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 246.7 212.0 16.4 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators (reported) reported reported in % ARPL (in EUR) 5.6 7.3 –22.6 Total access lines (in '000) 451.8 306.4 47.5 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 66 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Key performance indicators Slovenia Proforma view (= Reported view) Key financials 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Total revenues 214.1 216.1 –0.9 Service revenues 161.0 167.9 –4.1 thereof mobile service revenues 125.8 132.9 –5.3 thereof fixed-line service revenues 35.1 35.0 0.3 Equipment revenues 47.4 43.8 8.0 Other operating income 5.7 4.3 32.9 EBITDA 38.1 40.6 –6.1 % of total revenues 17.8 % 18.8 % – Operating income 8.9 10.5 –15.2 % of total revenues 4.2 % 4.8 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 611.7 605.8 1.0 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 85.4 97.5 –12.5 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 697.1 703.3 –0.9 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 47.7 46.8 1.9 ARPU (in EUR) 15.1 15.6 –3.2 Churn (%) 1.4 % 1.7 % – Market share 28.1 % 29.1 % – Mobile penetration 119.6 % 116.0 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators reported proforma in % RGUs (in '000) 182.1 183.0 –0.5 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 73.7 70.4 4.8 ARPL (in EUR) 35.7 35.4 1.1 Total access lines (in '000) 73.8 70.5 4.8 In the Slovenia segment, total revenues fell as a result of lower Segment Republic of Serbia mobile service revenues, while equipment revenues increased. The latter were attributable to more expensive devices and As there have been no M&A transactions in the higher quantities. Total costs and expenses increased slightly, Republic of Serbia between the beginning of driven by higher equipment and interconnection costs while the comparison period and the end of the period advertising costs and roaming costs decreased. The lower under review, the following analysis is based on mobile service revenues and higher costs and expenses resultreported figures. ed in an overall decline in EBITDA of 6.1 %. Despite the lower depreciation and amortization, operating income declined by In the segment Republic of Serbia, vip mobile faces a highly 15.2 % year-on-year. competitive mobile market. The company successfully introduced flat tariffs in 2017, and the resulting increase in postpaid subscribers continued in the year under review. Trends were also supported by the high demand for mobile WiFi routers. Since the first half of the year, the competition has also launched flat tariffs, and one competitor introduced a premium price-plan with an unlimited data proposition. Another factor on the competitive landscape is the shift toward more attractive devices with higher subsidies. Termination rates were cut in January 2018. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Total revenue growth in the Serbia segment was attributable Excluding one-off effects, EBITDA rose by 24.1 % yearto the higher mobile service revenues resulting from the on-year (reported: +22.5 %), as the rise in mobile service increasing proportion of mobile subscribers in the new tariff revenues more than compensated for the lower equipportfolio and growth in mobile WiFi routers. In addition, ment margins and the higher salesforce costs. Together other operating income included a positive one-off effect with somewhat lower depreciation and amortization of EUR 3.8 mn in 2017. than in the previous year, this resulted in positive operating income of EUR 4.1 mn (2017: EUR –6.8 mn) in the Total costs and expenses rose, driven mainly by higher costs year under review. for equipment and higher salesforce costs. The increase in costs for equipment was due to higher quantities as a result of intensive advertising campaigns. Key performance indicators Republic of Serbia Proforma view (= Reported view) Key financials 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Total revenues 249.2 230.8 8.0 Service revenues 166.4 145.8 14.1 thereof mobile service revenues 159.7 139.6 14.4 thereof fixed-line service revenues 6.7 6.2 7.8 Equipment revenues 79.9 76.4 4.5 Other operating income 3.0 8.5 –65.1 EBITDA 47.0 38.4 22.5 % of total revenues 18.9 % 16.6 % – Operating income 4.1 –6.8 n. m. % of total revenues 1.6 % –2.9 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 1,481.8 1,367.8 8.3 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 713.4 814.9 –12.5 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 2,195.2 2,182.8 0.6 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 174.1 140.2 24.2 ARPU (in EUR) 6.1 5.4 13.4 Churn (%) 3.2 % 3.2 % – Market share 23.8 % 24.1 % – Mobile penetration 132.3 % 128.6 % – A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 68 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Segment Republic of Macedonia Total revenue growth in the Macedonia segment was driven mainly by higher mobile service revenues, which continued As there have been no M&A transactions in the Republic to be supported by upselling measures to higher tariffs. of Macedonia between the beginning of the compariAlthough the synergy effects from the merger into one.Vip son period and the end of the period under review, the are diminishing, the costs and expenses fell slightly yearfollowing analysis is based on reported figures. on-year. This was due mainly to lower bad debts. Altogether, this led to EBITDA growth of 14.1% (excluding minor one-off In the 2018 financial year, market players in the Macedonia effects). Depreciation and amortization declined year-onsegment focused mainly on customer retention and upselling year due to the end of amortization of licenses in 2017 deexisting customers. In the mobile as well as the fixed-line spite brand value amortization in the amount of EUR 2.9 mn markets, customers are still leaning toward multiple-play offers (2017: EUR 1.7 mn). Overall, operating income improved from rather than maintaining multiple single-play subscriptions. negative EUR 6.0 mn in 2017 to positive EUR 9.3 mn in 2018. The number of revenue generating units (RGU) showed a strong increase. In the mobile business, the shift from prepaid to postpaid subscribers continued. As of the end of March 2018, one.Vip increased the data volume in its mobile tariffs to meet customer demands. Key performance indicators Republic of Macedonia Proforma view (= Reported view) Key financials 2018 2017 Change (in EUR million) reported proforma in % Total revenues 119.2 114.0 4.5 Service revenues 110.5 106.6 3.7 thereof mobile service revenues 84.3 80.6 4.6 thereof fixed-line service revenues 26.2 26.0 0.9 Equipment revenues 7.2 6.7 8.1 Other operating income 1.4 0.7 97.8 EBITDA 35.4 30.1 17.7 % of total revenues 29.7 % 26.4 % – Operating income 9.3 –6.0 n. m. % of total revenues 7.8 % –5.2 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireless indicators reported proforma in % Postpaid subscribers (in '000) 660.5 647.4 2.0 Prepaid subscribers (in '000) 396.0 424.9 –6.8 Wireless subscribers (in '000) 1,056.5 1,072.3 –1.5 thereof mobile broadband subscribers (in '000) 2.7 2.6 2.9 ARPU (in EUR) 6.6 6.1 7.5 Churn (%) 1.8 % 2.1 % – Market share 48.9 % 47.8 % – Mobile penetration 104.1 % 108.1 % – 2018 2017 Change Wireline indicators reported proforma in % RGUs (in '000) 383.1 340.7 12.5 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 131.6 114.6 14.8 ARPL (in EUR) 11.6 12.3 –5.4 Total access lines (in '000) 164.4 149.3 10.1 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Reconciliation tables – it is presented, as previously reported, under IAS 18 and related interpretations. The following tables IAS 18 and IFRS 15 reconciliation provide a reconciliation from IFRS 15 to IAS 18. The new revenue recognition accounting standard As of January 1, 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group applied under IFRS 15 re-quires accounting for the life cycle IFRS 15 for the first time, deciding in favor of the modified value of contracts by allocating the total revenues retrospective approach for the initial application in accorfrom a contract to the different deliverables of the dance with the transition guidance. Accordingly, the inforcontract based on their relative fair values. mation presented for 2017 has not been restated – i. e. Income statement: Full Year 2018 (reported) 1–12 M 2018 1–12 M 2017 1–12 M 2018 in Mio. EUR IAS 18 IAS 18 % change IFRS 15 Service revenues 3,828.2 3,775.3 1.4 3,680.8 Equipment revenues 546.2 504.4 8.3 662.6 Other operating income 91.9 102.8 –10.5 91.9 Total revenues 4,466.4 4,382.5 1.9 4,435.4 Cost of service –1,395.6 –1,394.2 –0.1 –1,395.6 Cost of equipment –626.9 –584.2 –7.3 –627.9 Selling, general & administrative expenses –1,049.3 –994.9 –5.5 –1,007.0 Other expenses –13.9 –11.8 –18.2 –13.9 Total costs and expenses –3,085.8 –2,985.1 –3.4 –3,044.5 EBITDA 1,380.6 1,397.3 –1.2 1,390.9 % of total revenues 30.9 % 31.9 % 31.4 % Depreciation and amortization –956.5 –953.4 –0.3 –956.5 EBIT 424.1 443.9 –4.5 434.4 % of total revenues 9.5 % 10.1 % 9.8 % Interest income 15.5 14.3 8.3 5.4 Interest expense –86.9 –95.3 8.8 –86.9 Other financial expense –14.8 –11.2 –31.5 –14.8 Foreign currency exchange differences 5.1 –2.6 n. m. 5.1 Equity interest in net income of affiliates –0.8 –0.7 –13.3 –0.8 Earnings before income tax (EBT) 342.4 348.5 –1.8 342.5 Income tax –99.7 –3.0 n. m. –98.8 Net result 1) 242.7 345.5 –29.7 243.7 1) Attributable to equity holders of the parent, non-controlling interests and hybrid capital owners ARPU: Full Year 2018 (reported) 1–12 M 2018 1–12 M 2017 1–12 M 2018 Absolute in EUR million IAS 18 IAS 18 % change IFRS 15 change Austria 16.1 15.6 2.9 14.5 –1.6 Bulgaria 5.6 5.5 3.1 5.2 –0.5 Croatia 12.0 12.2 –1.3 10.8 –1.2 Belarus 4.2 4.7 –9.5 4.2 0.0 Slovenia 15.1 15.6 –3.2 14.5 –0.6 Republic of Serbia 6.1 5.4 13.4 6.8 0.7 Republic of Macedonia 6.6 6.1 7.5 5.6 –1.0 Group ARPU 8.6 8.6 0.0 8.0 –0.6 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 70 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT ARPL: Full Year 2018 (reported) 1–12 M 2018 1–12 M 2017 1–12 M 2018 Absolute in EUR million IAS 18 IAS 18 % change IFRS 15 change Austria 30.7 29.1 5.3 30.7 0.0 Bulgaria 12.6 11.6 8.9 12.5 –0.1 Croatia 30.2 29.3 2.9 30.2 0.0 Belarus 1) 5.6 7.3 –22.6 5.6 0.0 Slovenia 35.7 35.4 1.1 35.7 0.0 Republic of Serbia n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. Republic of Macedonia 11.6 12.3 –5.4 11.4 –0.2 1) ARPL in Belarus is affected by the acquisitions of the fixed-line providers Garant (Gomel), consolidated as of August 1, 2017, and Vitebsk Garant, consolidated as of May 1, 2018, which have a comparably low ARPL. EBITDA per segment Information on alternative adjusted for FXand one-off effects performance measures as well as restructuring charges The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared accord1–12 M 2018 1–12 M 2017 ing to applicable accounting standards. The presentation in EUR million reported proforma % change and analysis of financial information and key performance Austria 927.8 880.5 5.4 indicators may differ substantially from the financial inforBulgaria 136.3 125.5 8.6 mation presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Croatia 109.5 109.1 0.4 This is due to the fact that the presentation and analysis Belarus 177.4 180.7 –1.9 are partially based on proforma figures which include M&A Slovenia 38.1 41.5 –8.1 transactions between the start of the comparison period Republic of Serbia 45.8 36.9 24.1 and the end of the reporting period. Republic of Macedonia 34.8 30.5 14.1 Corporate & other, To reflect the performance on an operational basis, the proeliminations –61.5 –45.3 –35.8 forma figures present comparison figures for previous periods Total adjusted EBITDA 1,408.2 1,359.4 3.6 as if M&A transactions executed between the start of the comparison period and the end of the reporting period had already been fully consolidated in the relevant months of the comparGroup EBITDA ison period. Alternative performance measures are used to adjustments for FXand one-off effects describe operational performance. Please therefore also refer as well as restructuring charges to the financial information presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which do not contain proforma figures, in EUR million 1–12 M 2018 1–12 M 2017 % change as well as the following reconciliation tables. EBITDA (reported) 1,380.6 1,397.3 –1.2 FX translation effect 14.9 – – One-off effects –9.4 –21.3 – Restructuring charges 22.1 –18.2 – Adjusted EBITDA Austria EBITDA (reported) 1,408.2 1,357.8 3.7 M&A effect – 1.6 – adjustments for one-off effects and Adjusted EBITDA restructuring charges (proforma) 1,408.2 1,359.4 3.6 in EUR million 1–12 M 2018 1–12 M 2017 % change EBITDA (reported) 905.7 914.2 –0.9 One-off effects – –15.5 – Restructuring charges 22.1 –18.2 – Adjusted EBITDA (reported) 927.8 880.5 5.4 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT ARPL (reported) ARPU (reported) ARPL-relevant revenues are fixed retail revenues and fixed ARPU-relevant revenues are wireless service revenues, i. e. interconnection revenues. The ARPL is calculated by dividing mobile retail revenues (incl. customer roaming) and mobile ARPL-relevant revenues by average fixed access lines in a cerinterconnection as well as visitor roaming and national tain period. The difference to fixed-line and other revenues roaming revenues. The ARPU is calculated based on ARPUare interconnection transit revenues, solutions and connectivrelevant revenues divided by the average number of subity reve-nues, fixed equipment revenues and other revenues. scribers in a certain period. Presentation of proforma ARPL-relevant revenues reconciliation 2018 2017 The following section provides for the proforma values in the in EUR million reported reported % change previous section the corresponding reported values as well Austria 767.8 754.7 1.7 as the difference between both. The difference stems from the Bulgaria 80.4 74.2 8.4 M&A activities listed below. Croatia 106.8 106.0 0.7 Belarus 25.8 19.3 33.9 ▸ The acquisition of the fixed-line operator Metronet Slovenia 30.7 29.9 2.5 in Croatia, consolidated as of February 1, 2017. Republic of Serbia n. a. n. a. n. a. Republic of Macedonia 21.6 21.2 2.3 ▸ The acquisitions of the fixed-line providers Garant (Gomel), consolidated as of August 1, 2017, and Vitebsk Garant, consolidated as of May 1, 2018, both in Belarus. As the finanTotal access lines cial impact of Vitebsk Garant on the Belarus segment is marginal, no proforma view is provided on this acquisition. 2018 2017 in '000 reported reported % change Austria 2,048.3 2,117.5 -3.3 For further details on purchasing prices and cash outflow, Bulgaria 536.0 531.2 0.9 see Note (34). Croatia 296.9 296.6 0.1 Belarus 451.8 306.4 47.5 Slovenia 73.8 70.5 4.8 Free cash flow (reported) Republic of Serbia n. a. n. a. n. a. 2018 2017 Republic of Macedonia 164.4 149.3 10.1 in EUR million reported reported % change Net cash flow from operating activities 1,232.3 1,174.8 4.9 Capital expenditures Belarus Key Financials in EUR and BYN paid –771.5 –705.4 –9.4 Proceeds from sale Due to the impact on the consolidated results of occasionally of plant, property substantial fluctuations in the Belarusian Rouble, the perand equipment 7.5 15.1 –50.3 formance for the Belarus segment is also presented in local Interest paid –84.2 –99.8 15.6 currency. Free cash flow 384.2 384.7 –0.1 Belarus Key Financials 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Total revenues 389.3 390.5 –0.3 394.1 –1.2 3.7 Total costs and expenses –225.5 –209.2 –7.8 –212.4 –6.2 –3.2 EBITDA 163.8 181.3 –9.6 181.8 –9.9 0.5 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute Abweichung in BYN million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Total revenues 936.4 851.8 9.9 859.9 8.9 8.0 Total costs and expenses –542.4 –456.4 –18.8 –463.3 –17.1 –6.9 EBITDA 394.0 395.5 –0.4 396.6 –0.7 1.1 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 72 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Group summary Key financials 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Total revenues 4,466.4 4,382.5 1.9 4,388.5 1.8 6.1 EBITDA 1,380.6 1,397.3 –1.2 1,398.9 –1.3 1.6 % of total revenues 30.9 % 31.9 % – 31.9 % – – EBITDA excl. restructuring 1,402.7 1,379.1 1.7 1,380.7 1.6 1.6 % of total revenues 31.4 % 31.5 % – 31.5 – – Operating income 424.1 443.9 –4.5 444.5 –4.6 0.6 % of total revenues 9.5 % 10.1 % – 10.1 % – – Total costs and expenses 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Cost of service –1,395.6 –1,394.2 –0.1 –1,396.6 0.1 –2.4 Cost of equipment –626.9 –584.2 –7.3 –584.2 –7.3 0.0 Selling, general & administrative expenses –1,049.3 –994.9 –5.5 –996.7 –5.3 –1.8 Other expenses –13.9 –11.8 –18.2 –12.1 –14.9 –0.3 Total costs and expenses –3,085.8 –2,985.1 –3.4 –2,989.6 –3.2 –4.5 thereof employee costs –850.6 –793.9 –7.2 –795.9 –6.9 –2.1 thereof restructuring charges –22.1 18.2 n. m. 18.2 n. m. 0.0 Impairment charges 0.0 0.0 n. a. 0.0 n. a. 0.0 Depreciation and amortization –956.5 –953.4 –0.3 –954.4 –0.2 –1.0 Segment Croatia Key financials 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Total revenues 444.5 434.9 2.2 437.3 1.6 2.4 Service revenues 386.4 379.7 1.8 381.9 1.2 2.2 thereof mobile service revenues 261.7 258.8 1.1 258.8 1.1 0.0 thereof fixed-line service revenues 124.7 120.9 3.2 123.1 1.3 2.3 Equipment revenues 52.0 49.0 6.1 49.0 6.2 0.0 Other operating income 6.0 6.2 –3.4 6.3 –5.5 0.1 EBITDA 114.1 108.0 5.7 109.1 4.6 1.1 % of total revenues 25.7 % 24.8 % 24.9 % Operating income 7.6 12.4 –38.6 13.0 –41.4 0.6 % of total revenues 1.7 % 2.9 % 3.0 % Wireline indicators 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) RGUs (in '000) 681.8 654.1 4.2 654.1 4.2 0.0 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 254.0 250.0 1.6 250.0 1.6 0.0 The reconciliation table does not show wireless indicators as the M&A transaction in the segment only comprises the fixed-line business. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Segment Belarus Key financials 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Total revenues 389.3 390.5 –0.3 394.1 –1.2 3.7 Service revenues 286.9 303.7 –5.5 307.1 –6.6 3.3 thereof mobile service revenues 247.0 273.1 –9.5 273.1 –9.5 0.0 thereof fixed-line service revenues 39.9 30.6 30.2 34.0 17.3 3.3 Equipment revenues 84.3 71.5 17.8 71.5 17.8 0.0 Other operating income 18.1 15.2 19.0 15.5 16.5 0.3 EBITDA 163.8 181.3 –9.6 181.8 –9.9 0.5 % of total revenues 42.1 % 46.4 % – 46.1 % – – Operating income 87.6 123.1 –28.8 123.0 –28.8 0.0 % of total revenues 22.5 % 31.5 % – 31.2 % – – Wireline indicators 2018 2017 Veränderung 2017 %-Veränderung Absolute change in EUR million reported reported in % proforma proforma (proforma – reported) RGUs (in '000) 657.3 463.4 41.8 463.4 41.8 0.0 thereof fixed broadband RGUs 246.7 212.0 16.4 212.0 16.4 0.0 The reconciliation table does not show wireless indicators as the M&A transaction in the segment only comprises the fixed-line business. Revenues 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Austria 2,658.0 2,622.3 1.4 2,622.3 1.4 0.0 Bulgaria 446.2 431.2 3.5 431.2 3.5 0.0 Croatia 444.5 434.9 2.2 437.3 1.6 2.4 Belarus 389.3 390.5 –0.3 394.1 –1.2 3.7 Slovenia 214.1 216.1 –0.9 216.1 –0.9 0.0 Republic of Serbia 249.2 230.8 8.0 230.8 8.0 0.0 Republic of Macedonia 119.2 114.0 4.5 114.0 4.5 0.0 Corporate & other, eliminations –53.9 –57.3 5.9 –57.3 5.9 0.0 Total revenues 4,466.4 4,382.5 1.9 4,388.5 1.8 6.1 EBITDA 2018 2017 2017 %% change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Austria 905.7 914.2 –0.9 914.2 –0.9 0.0 Bulgaria 138.0 130.1 6.1 130.1 6.1 0.0 Croatia 114.1 108.0 5.7 109.1 4.6 1.1 Belarus 163.8 181.3 –9.6 181.8 –9.9 0.5 Slovenia 38.1 40.6 –6.1 40.6 –6.1 0.0 Republic of Serbia 47.0 38.4 22.5 38.4 22.5 0.0 Republic of Macedonia 35.4 30.1 17.7 30.1 17.7 0.0 Corporate & other, eliminations –61.5 –45.3 –35.8 –45.3 –35.8 0.0 Total EBITDA 1,380.6 1,397.3 –1.2 1,398.9 –1.3 1.6 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 74 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Depreciation & amortization 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Austria –431.8 –472.2 8.6 –472.2 8.6 0.0 Bulgaria –243.1 –215.7 –12.7 –215.7 –12.7 0.0 Croatia –106.5 –95.6 –11.4 –96.0 –10.9 –0.5 Belarus –76.2 –58.2 –30.9 –58.8 –29.6 –0.5 Slovenia –29.2 –30.1 2.9 –30.1 2.9 0.0 Republic of Serbia –42.9 –45.1 4.9 –45.1 4.9 0.0 Republic of Macedonia –26.0 –36.0 27.7 –36.0 27.7 0.0 Corporate & other, eliminations –0.8 –0.5 –55.4 –0.5 –55.4 0.0 Total depreciation & amortization –956.5 –953.4 –0.3 –954.4 –0.2 –1.0 EBIT 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Austria 473.9 442.1 7.2 442.1 7.2 0.0 Bulgaria –105.1 –85.6 –22.8 –85.6 –22.8 0.0 Croatia 7.6 12.4 –38.6 13.0 –41.4 0.6 Belarus 87.6 123.1 –28.8 123.0 –28.8 0.0 Slovenia 8.9 10.5 –15.2 10.5 –15.2 0.0 Republic of Serbia 4.1 –6.8 n. m. –6.8 n. m. 0.0 Republic of Macedonia 9.3 –6.0 n. m. –6.0 n. m. 0.0 Corporate & other, eliminations –62.3 –45.8 –36.0 –45.8 –36.0 0.0 Total EBIT 424.1 443.9 –4.5 444.5 –4.6 0.6 Capital expenditures 1) 2018 2017 2017 % change Absolute change in EUR million reported reported % change proforma proforma (proforma – reported) Austria 469.3 435.5 7.8 435.5 7.8 0.0 Bulgaria 86.5 81.3 6.5 81.3 6.5 0.0 Croatia 87.8 84.7 3.6 85.2 3.1 0.4 Belarus 49.7 47.1 5.6 47.8 4.0 0.7 Slovenia 27.5 41.8 –34.3 41.8 –34.3 0.0 Republic of Serbia 34.1 35.1 –2.9 35.1 –2.9 0.0 Republic of Macedonia 19.2 21.3 –9.9 21.3 –9.9 0.0 Corporate & other, eliminations –3.1 –10.0 68.5 –10.0 68.5 0.0 Total capital expenditures 771.0 736.9 4.6 738.0 4.5 1.1 1) Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding asset retirement obligations. Capital expenditures – tangible 2018 2017 in EUR million reported reported % change Austria 389.5 361.2 7.8 Bulgaria 52.4 53.8 –2.6 Croatia 70.7 69.3 2.0 Belarus 36.7 37.9 –3.4 Slovenia 17.9 19.3 –6.9 Republic of Serbia 25.3 26.0 –2.6 Republic of Macedonia 17.0 17.9 –4.9 Corporate & other, eliminations 0.8 –6.0 n. m. Total capital expenditures – tangible 610.2 579.3 5.3 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Capital expenditures – intangible 2018 2017 in EUR million reported reported % change Austria 79.9 74.3 7.4 Bulgaria 34.1 27.5 24.3 Croatia 17.1 15.4 10.7 Belarus 13.0 9.1 42.8 Slovenia 9.5 22.5 –57.7 Republic of Serbia 8.8 9.1 –3.6 Republic of Macedonia 2.2 3.5 –35.9 Corporate & other, eliminations –3.9 –3.9 –0.6 Total capital expenditures – intangible 160.7 157.6 2.0 Consolidated non-financial agreement between ÖBIB, América Móvil and América Móvil B.V., Netherlands (“América Móvil B.V.”; formerly “Carso Telecom B.V.”), statement came into force on June 27, 2014 (see Note (28)). Under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement, the parties have underWe refer to the separate consolidated non-financial taken to jointly pursue a long-term policy with regard to the report in accordance with Section 267a (6) UGB. management of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft by exercising their voting rights on a concerted basis. The shareholders’ agreement also contains provisions on the joint exercise of Disclosure in accordance with voting rights in the committees of the company for the election of Supervisory Board and Management Board members and Section 243a of the Austrian restrictions on the sale of shares. The Supervisory Board of the Business Enterprise Code (“UGB”) company consists of ten shareholder representatives, of which eight members are nominated by América Móvil B.V. and two by ÖBIB. ÖBIB has the right to nominate the chairman of the Shareholder structure Supervisory Board. América Móvil B.V. has the right to nominate the deputy chairman. The Management Board of the comand capital disclosures pany consists of three members. Two members are nominated At the end of 2018, a total of 51.00 % or 338,895,000 shares of by América Móvil B.V., while one member of the Management Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft were held by América Móvil Board, namely the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), is nominated B.V., Netherlands (“América Móvil B.V.”; formerly Carso Telecom by ÖBIB. The Extraordinary General Meeting on August 14, B.V.), a wholly owned subsidiary of América Móvil, S.A.B. de 2014 also amended the Articles of Association to state that, C.V. (“América Móvil”). The Republic of Austria holds 28.42 % as long as the Republic of Austria directly or indirectly holds at via Österreichische Bundesund Industriebeteiligungen GmbH least 25 % plus one share of the share capital of the company, (“ÖBIB”) 20), while the remaining 20.58 % of the shares are in resolutions on capital increases and the issue of instruments free float. 0.1 % or 0.4 million shares of the latter were held by containing a conversion right or a conversion obligation for the company itself. Employee shares that are being held in a shares of the company and amendments to the provisions of collective custody account are also part of the free float. The asthe Articles of Association relating to capital increases and sociated voting rights are exercised by a custodian (notary). The such instruments shall require a majority of at least three total number of no-par value shares remains at 664,500,000. quarters of the share capital represented at the vote on the resolution. Change ÖBIB and América Móvil B.V. have agreed that at least 24 % 2018 2017 in % of the shares of the company should be in free float while the Treasury Shares 415,159 415,159 0.0 shareholders’ agreement is in place. This minimum free float requirement is based on ÖBIB’s maximum equity interest of 25 % plus one share. If ÖBIB holds more than 25 % plus one Further details on treasury shares are provided in Section 28 share of the share capital of the company, the minimum free of the Notes. float requirement decreases accordingly so that América Móvil can retain an equity interest in the company of 51 %. If the Standard change-of-control clauses that could ultimately number of shares in free float falls below the minimum while lead to the termination of contracts affect the majority of the shareholders’ agreement is in place, (i) América Móvil financing agreements. None of these clauses came into effect 20) ÖBIB will be transformed into a stock company due to the change of the‚ in the 2018 financial year or up until the date of this report. ÖIAG Gesetz 2000‘ according to Sec 245ff AktG. The company will be transformed into Österreichische Beteiligungs AG. The following information concerning the shareholders’ 21) Information on the takeover offer (May 9, 2014): https://www.a1.group/en/ir/12474 agreement is based solely on publicly available information. 21) Information on the capital increase as of November 7, 2014: The company has no additional information. The shareholders’ https://www.a1.group/en/ir/14887. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 76 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT B.V. undertakes to sell shares within the next 24 months and interest of 25 % plus one share. ÖBIB’s veto rights in connec(ii) América Móvil undertakes to ensure that neither it nor its tion with capital increases and the issue of certain convertible subsidiaries purchase any additional shares until the minimum instruments are also set out in the Articles of Association of the free float requirement is restored. company. If ÖBIB’s equity interest falls below 20 % but remains above 10 %, ÖBIB shall retain certain veto rights. The voting As long as ÖBIB holds 25 % plus one share or more of the share rights agreement shall expire automatically if the equity intercapital of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, ÖBIB shall have est held by one of the parties falls below 10 %. the following rights of codetermination in accordance with the voting rights agreement: the right to veto capital increases of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft and its subsidiaries, the Changes to the Management Board issue of certain convertible instruments, the appointment of and the Supervisory Board the auditor of the financial statements, related party transactions, the relocation of the registered office of the company At the Annual General Meeting on May 30, 2018, the Superand material business functions, including research and devisory Board mandates of Carlos García Moreno Elizondo, velopment, the disposal of the company’s core business, and Carlos M. Jarque and Oscar Von Hauske Solís were extended. changes to the name of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft Edith Hlawati was elected as Chairperson of the Supervisory and the brands of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, among Board, while Bettina Glatz-Kremsner and Daniela Lecuona other things. ÖBIB shall also be granted the blocking minority Torras were elected as members after Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, rights accruing by law to a minority shareholder with an equity Stefan Pinter, and Reinhard Kraxner left the Supervisory Board. Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft: members of the Supervisory Board End of current term Name (year of birth) Date of first appointment of office/leaving date Alejandro Cantú Jiménez (1972) 14.08.2014 2019 1) Karin Exner-Wöhrer (1971) 27.05.2015 2020 2) Carlos García Moreno Elizondo, first Deputy Chairman (1957) 14.08.2014 2023 5) Bettina Glatz-Kremsner (1962) 30.05.2018 2023 5) Peter Hagen (1959) 25.05.2016 2019 1) Edith Hlawati (1957), Chair 6) 28.06.2001 to 29.05.2013, 2023 5) reappointed on 30.05.2018 Carlos M. Jarque (1954) 14.08.2014 2022 4) Peter F. Kollmann (1962) 20.09.2017 2021 3) Reinhard Kraxner (1970) 14.08.2014 30.05.2018 Daniela Lecuona Torras (1982) 30.05.2018 2022 4) Stefan Pinter (1978) 14.08.2014 30.05.2018 Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, Chairman (1950) 7) 27.05.2010 to 14.08.2014, 30.05.2018 reappointed on 27.05.2015 Oscar Von Hauske Solís (1957) 23.10.2012 2023 5) Members of the Supervisory Board delegated by the Staff Council Silvia Bauer (1968) 30.01.2009 to 03.11.2010, 26.07.2012 to 12.10.2018 Walter Hotz (1959) Re-delegated on 06.05.2011 Werner Luksch (1967) 03.08.2007 to 20.10.2010, re-delegated on 11.01.2011 Renate Richter (1972) 12.10.2018 Alexander Sollak (1978) 03.11.2010 Gottfried Kehrer (1962) 27.10.2010 1) The term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting for the 2018 financial year (May 29, 2019). 2) The term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting for the 2019 financial year (provisionally May 2020). 3) The term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting for the 2020 financial year (provisionally May 2021). 4) The term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting for the 2021 financial year (provisionally May 2022). 5) The term of office ends at the Annual General Meeting for the 2022 financial year (provisionally May 2023). 6) Chairperson since May 30, 2018. 7) Chairperson until May 30, 2018. Thomas Arnoldner was elected Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Officer (COO), and Siegfried Mayrhofer, Chief Financial Officer of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft as of September 1, 2018 (CFO), were renewed and run as long as Thomas Arnoldner’s for a term of three years with an extension option of two addicontract until August 31, 2021 with an extension option of two tional years. The contracts of Alejandro Plater, Chief Operating additional years to August 31, 2023. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Cash use policy strategic meetings (LTM), a multi-year plan is also created. This close integration of business planning and risk manageThe A1 Telekom Austria Group pursues a conservative finance ment ensures appropriate risk control. strategy, with a solid investment grade rating of Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB by Standard & Poor’s at its core. This orienA1 Telekom Austria Group’s risk management is monitored tation ensures a solid balance sheet structure with moderate by the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. leverage (net debt to EBITDA) as well as financial flexibility for investments and unrestricted access to debt capital marThe most important risk categories and individual risks that kets. In the 2018 year under review, the company rating of could materially influence the net assets, financial position the A1 Telekom Austria Group was confirmed by Standard and results of operations of the A1 Telekom Austria Group and Poor’s (BBB) with the outlook “positive” and increased are explained below. from Baa2 to Baa1 with the outlook “stable” from Moody’s. Based on the improved operational and financial performance Risks of the Group, a new expected dividend level was agreed upon by América Móvil and Österreichische Bundesund Industrie1. Market and strategic risks beteiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB) in 2016. Starting with the 2016 High competitive intensity in the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s financial year, this dividend expectation entails the payment markets is leading to price reductions in both mobile commuof EUR 0.20 per share to be maintained or increased on a nications and data traffic. There is a risk that competition will sustainable basis in line with the operational and financial increase amidst the infrastructure by Open Access Network developments of the Group. providers (OAN). Additional competition is arising from innovative over-the-top players (OTTs), who are able to offer their In this context, the Management Board plans to propose a services without owning a network. There is a risk that traffic dividend of EUR 0.21 per share to the Annual General Meetvolume growth cannot offset these price declines. In addition, ings 2019 and 2020 for the financial years 2018 and 2019. the monitoring of key macroeconomic indicators in order to assess any changes in consumer behavior is an important aspect of risk management as well as strategic pricing and Risk management product design. The telecommunications sector is facing the challenge of Principles and methods being able to offer new services and products at increasingly faster rates. Cloud services, over-the-top services and maAs one of the leading telecommunications companies in chine-to-machine are just a few examples of new business Austria as well as Central and Eastern Europe, the A1 Telekom areas where the A1 Telekom Austria Group is convinced of Austria Group is exposed to a wide range of risks and changes their growth potential. In addition, the growing importance in market circumstances. The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s risk of digitalization is taken into account with A1 Digital Intermanagement system analyses risk areas systematically, asnational GmbH. However, shorter innovation cycles are also sesses the potential impact, improves existing risk avoidance associated with innovation risks. Within the América Móvil and risk elimination measures, and reports on the status and Group, the A1 Telekom Austria Group is involved in the disdevelopments in the Supervisory Board. In this process, the cussion on innovations. A1 Telekom Austria Group relies on close cooperation between Group officers and the local risk officers. The risk management 2. Compliance risks system is made up of seven risk categories. The annual compliance risk assessment process – which is an essential element of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s comRisk management is performed by analyzing risks and opporpliance management system – identifies relevant compliance tunities in connection with the short-term and medium-term risks on the basis of structured management interviews and planning and ongoing business operations. One key element workshops and defines risk-mitigating measures. The A1 of risk management is to develop effective measures for reducTelekom Austria Group focuses on prevention by means of ing and perceiving risks. These are continuously updated by training and uncompromising application of internal and way of monthly performance calls (MPC) and leadership team external guidelines – such as capital market compliance and meetings (LTM) and by analyzing critical deviations and initiata focus on compliance at management level (tone at the ed measures. The overall risk situation of this risk category is top). The Compliance Management System (CMS) is also derived from the sum of the individual risks. In addition to the regularly reviewed internally and externally. fixed-line and mobile communications market in Austria, the A1 Telekom Austria Group holds leading positions in six other Data protection risks are a relevant section of compliance risks. telecommunications markets abroad. This ensures diversifiThe products and services of the A1 Telekom Austria Group cation in terms of both sectors and geographical regions. are subject to data protection and data security risks, particuThe risk sets of the respective markets vary, which is why risk larly with regard to unauthorized access to customer, partner management is the responsibility of the local operational or employee data. Violations of the EU General Data Protection units. Risk management is controlled by the holding company. Regulation (GDPR), which has been in force since May 25, 2018, In addition to the regular operating meetings (MPC) and may result in considerable legal and financial risks. To minimize A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 78 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT potential risk, the EU General Data Protection Regulation has Essential elements in managing cyber risks are continuous been implemented in interdisciplinary projects within the A1 assessments and software updates to the infrastructure to Telekom Austria Group since early 2016. Technical and organbe protected as well as employee training. The A1 Telekom izational measures have also been implemented on the basis Austria Security Committee is made up of highly qualified of risk assessments. All companies of the A1 Telekom Austria security experts from all countries in which the A1 Telekom Group undertake to comply with the most stringent data protecAustria Group operates and regularly exchanges information tion and data security standards. In 2018, there was a particuabout the latest local, regional, and global cyber risks and lar focus on data privacy during the compliance risk assesscyber attacks. This working group also discusses and coordiment in order to check the implementation of GDPR. nates cross-country protection measures in critical situations. 3. Physical risks 5. Operational risks Technical and topographical risks In addition to operational management of business-critical Maintaining availability and a high level of reliability of the systems (billing, call servers, gateways, etc.), which is perservices and products offered is a key aspect of operational formed by means of redundancies, standard processes, and risk management, as different threats such as natural disauthorization as well as access management, this category asters, major technical disruptions, third-party construction includes personnel risks. work, hidden faults or criminal activities can all impair their quality. Long-term planning takes technological developments The A1 Telekom Austria Group counters personnel-related into account. The redundancy of critical components ensures risks in various ways. For example, young talent is recruited failure safety, and efficient organizational structures for operas part of the “1A Career” program, which focuses on gradations and security serve to secure high standards of quality. uates, students and apprentices and ensures diversity in the Furthermore, a separate Group guideline ensures uniform company. The risk of losing key employees is counteracted methods for the recognition and management of the most by means of forward-looking skill management, succession important risks. The ongoing identification and assessment planning, and Group-wide talent management. The in-house of risks flows into the decision-making process in terms of A1 Learning Hub development platform supports employees the implementation of risk minimization measures and the in the development of their skills and abilities and serves as self-sustaining ability of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. Whena platform for the Group-wide transfer of expertise. A central ever a major disruption occurs, causes are clarified and cone-learning platform provides training at any time and in any clusions are drawn on ways to reduce the risks of repeating the place throughout the Group. In addition to business-plansame causes of error. A central approach of insurance against oriented cost planning, human resources planning includes physical damage also helps to minimize the financial effects. measures aimed at encouraging employee mobility. Environmental risks In 2018, management of personnel risks added the challenge Climate change can give rise to risks for the A1 Telekom of developing digital competencies in all departments to its Austria Group’s network infrastructure (ranging from rising focus. These digital competencies are an essential pillar of a average temperatures and high rainfall levels through to future-oriented company and allow an optimization of human flooding, mudslides, etc.). The A1 Telekom Austria Group is resources by means of a digital shift of sales, service, and actively committed to climate protection and continuously monitoring processes. They are also essential to do more than observes developments in this area in order to ensure that it just survive in new markets and with digitalized business can initiate measures to protect its infrastructure facilities models. This is being initiated via the integration of start-ups, as necessary. The impact of this risk category on financials broad-based development measures, and the digital developand customer experience was limited in recent years. ment of key employees of the A1 Telekom Austria Group and will be focused on in the coming years. 4. Cyber risks The A1 Telekom Austria Group places great emphasis on the implementation of cyber security standards. These are covered by a series of internal guidelines and procedures that are controlled, implemented and monitored for effectiveness in critical situations by means of defined responsibilities. Prevention of possible risks is the primary focus in critical and important network elements as well as business and operational support systems (BSS & OSS). The A1 Telekom Austria Group uses the international IT standards for security techniques (ISO 27001) as a basis and has defined uniform and state-of-the-art security information standards and security information policies. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT In 1996, civil servants of the Republic of Austria were allocated As described in the “Regulation” section, a new regulation to Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft or predecessor companies on net neutrality and roaming came into force in 2016 until their retirement in accordance with the Austrian Postal that has far-reaching effects on subsidiaries within the EU. Services Structure Act (“Poststrukturgesetz”). Transfers within Although the Body of European Regulators has issued and outside the A1 Telekom Austria Group are limited. Civil guiding principles on net neutrality in order to specify how servants are employed in accordance with public law. The rights the regulation should be applied in more detail, the topic and duties associated with their employment status are exclusively of net neutrality is still open to interpretation and legal unbased on provisions under public law, particularly the Public Sector certainty so that harmonized, uniform implementation Employment Law of 1979 (“Beamten-Dienstrechtsgesetz 1979”). within the EU is not guaranteed. Therefore the extent of their effects cannot be fully predicted and may vary beCivil servants cannot be laid off. Therefore, their employment tween member states. In turn, this gives rise to legal-regucontract cannot be unilaterally terminated if the need for their latory and financial uncertainty. employment no longer exists. In the event of a breach of duty, performance deficiencies, or a permanent incapacity to work, The European Electronic Communications Code described complex administrative procedures are necessary. Due to their in the “Regulation” section includes policy objectives for a salary structure, civil servants normally move to the next remu“gigabit society” and a 5G plan of action. In addition, the neration level every two years. above-mentioned cap on surcharges for international calls within the EU that applies starting May 2019 will have signiAround 45 % of employees in the Austria segment have civil ficant effects on the revenues of telecommunications operservant status. This corresponds to around 19 % at Group ators in Europe. This will involve both legal-regulatory risks level. To address the structure of employee costs, the Austria as well as financial risks in the future. segment has developed not only several social plans in cooperation with employee representatives, but also models The A1 Telekom Austria Group and its subsidiaries are party that enable employees with civil servant status to transfer to a number of legal proceedings both in and out of court to government ministries. Civil servants are also encouraged with public authorities, competitors, and other parties. An to take part in internal mobility initiatives within the context ongoing dialog with the stakeholders involved and a regular of integrated skill management. exchange of information on controversial issues that could pose a threat to the company enable the Group to identify 6. Financial risks problems at an early stage and develop measures to counterThe A1 Telekom Austria Group is exposed to liquidity, credit, act them in a targeted manner if need be. foreign currency exchange rate, transfer and interest rate risks (see Note (33)). Internal control system Investment risks for financial reporting In general, the A1 Telekom Austria Group counters investment risks through measures such as the active manageTelekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft has an internal control ment of equity investments by means of target requirements, system (ICS) for the financial reporting process, as required coordination processes and, where acquisitions of equity by law. The ICS is intended to provide reasonable assurinterests are concerned, thorough due diligence and enterance regarding the reliability, completeness, and accuracy prise valuation (see Notes (17) and (18)). of external financial reporting in compliance with international and national accounting standards. Regular internal 7. Political, legal, and regulatory risks reporting to Management and the review of the internal conTelecommunications services offered by a provider with trol system by Internal Audit also ensure that weaknesses are significant market power are subject to extensive network identified promptly or at an early stage as well as reportaccess and price regulations. In Austria, the A1 Telekom ed and eliminated accordingly. The most important content Austria Group is classified as this kind of provider in severand principles apply to all A1 Telekom Austria Group subal sub-markets. Regulation at the wholesale level restricts sidiaries. The effectiveness of this system is reviewed, anaoperational flexibility with regard to products. There is also lyzed and assessed at regular intervals. At the end of each an obligation to provide access to infrastructure and fixedyear, the Group’s Management carries out an assessment line services to alternative providers. The foreign subsidiaries of the ICS for relevant companies with the involvement of are also subject to regulatory frameworks. Additional reguthe respective business units. Based on the findings of this latory decisions, such as further reductions in mobile and assessment and the defined criteria, the Management has fixed-line termination rates as a result of the European Comdetermined that the internal control system regarding finanmission’s new legal framework (European Electronic Comcial reporting as of December 31, 2018 is effective. munications Code) as well as the reduction of surcharges for international calls within the EU, could negatively affect Due to the listing of the ultimate parent, América Móvil, on the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s earnings development. the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the implementation of the U.S. Sarbanes–Oxley Act (SOX) is required. To this end, an adjustment and amendment of the internal control system to reflect this standard was implemented in the 2015 financial year. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 80 GROUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT Outlook A1 Telekom Austria Group will remain committed to the fiber rollout in Austria and the further development of its mobile A1 Telekom Austria Group outlook for 2019 infrastructure, especially with regards to the preparation of In 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group again achieved growth in 5G, in its markets in 2019. Capital expenditures before specits revenues and its EBITDA adjusted for one-off and FX effects trum investments and acquisitions are expected to remain as well as restructuring charges. This was achieved thanks to approximately stable in 2019. a clear focus on high-value customers in the mobile business and an ongoing strong fixed-line business with increasing The frequency allocation of the 3.4–3.8 GHz band is imminent significance of TV content and a growing solutions & connecin Austria. The bidding documents were published in September tivity business. Demand for mobile WiFi routers also increased. 2018, while the auction itself will take place in the first quarter In Austria, the competition launched convergent offerings of 2019. for the first time in autumn 2018. In the mobile market, the dynamics in Austria and most CEE markets were relatively Based on the improved operational and financial performance unchanged year-on-year. At the same time, the economic of the Group, a new expected dividend level was agreed upon situation remained positive in all of the Group’s markets. by América Móvil and Österreichische Bundesund IndustrieThe Belarusian Rouble depreciated by 9.3 % against the Euro beteiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB) in 2016. Starting with the financial (based on the period average). Ongoing cost efficiency year 2016, this dividend expectation entails the payment of increases enabled the translation of the solid revenue growth EUR 0.20 per share to be maintained or increased on a sustaininto solid growth of operational EBITDA. able basis in line with the operational and financial developments of the Group. For the full year 2019, most of the market dynamics mentioned above are expected to remain. In Austria, development with In this context, the Management Board plans to propose a divregard to the new convergent providers is yet to be seen, while idend of EUR 0.21 per share to the Annual General Meetings the competitive environment in the mobile markets of the CEE 2019 and 2020 for the financial years 2018 and 2019. are expected to show similar trends as in 2018. However, demand for fixed-line services is expected to serve as a positive In order to ensure its financial flexibility, A1 Telekom Austria driver across all markets. As in 2018, TV content and solutions Group remains committed to maintaining a solid invest& connectivity will be an important element here. ment grade rating of Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB from Standard & Poor’s (currently Baa1 from Moody’s and BBB In this business environment, the Management of A1 Telekom from Standard & Poor’s). Austria Group remains committed to its growth strategy, which is focused on three strategic elements: exceling in the core Vienna, February 11, 2019 business, expanding the portfolio, and targeted M&A. As in The Management Board previous years, results are expected to gain support from ongoing efforts to continuously increase operating efficiency. For 2019, the Management of A1 Telekom Austria Group expects to achieve growth in total revenues on a reported basis. The negative effect of the reduction of surcharges for international calls within the EU is anticipated to amount to 1 % Thomas Arnoldner, CEO of Group EBITDA. Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft The development in Belarus is again expected to be negatively affected by the devaluation of the Belarusian Rouble in 2019. The Management of A1 Telekom Austria Group expects the currency to depreciate by 5–10 % versus the Alejandro Plater, COO Siegfried Mayrhofer, CFO euro (period average), whereas it must be noted that the Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft predictability of the Belarusian Rouble is generally limited. The harmonization of the brands under the “A1” brand will be continued. The respective companies will amortize the brand values until the phase-out of the old brands. More than 90 % of these amortizations have already materialized as of year-end 2018. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 Consolidated financial statements 2018 1) TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 83 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 84 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 85 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 86 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 88 (1) Segment Reporting 88 (22) Accounts Payable 117 (2) The Company 91 (23) Accrued Liabilities and Current Provisions, Asset Retirement (3) Basis of Presentation 91 Obligation and Restructuring 118 (4) Use of Estimates 98 (24) Contract Liabilities and Current (5) Revenues 99 Defferred Income 120 (6) Cost and Expenses 101 (25) Long-term Debt 121 (7) Financial Result 102 (26) Deferred Revenues and Other (8) Earnings per Share 103 Non-current Liabilities 122 (9) Cash and Cash Equivalents 104 (27) Employee Benefits 122 (10) Accounts Receivable: Subscribers, (28) Stockholders’ Equity 126 Distributors and Other, Net 104 (29) Income Taxes 126 (11) Related Party Transactions 104 (30) Leases 131 (12) Inventories 105 (31) Share-based Compensation 132 (13) Other Current Assets 105 (32) Cash Flow Statement 133 (14) Contract Asstes 107 (33) Financial Instruments 134 (15) Property, Plant and Equipment 107 (34) Companies and Business (16) Intangibles 109 Combinations 141 (17) Goodwill 112 (35) Commitments and Contingent Assets and Liabilities 144 (18) Investments in Associates 115 (36) Remuneration Paid to (19) Investments 116 the Management Board (20) Other Non-current Assets 116 and Supervisory Board 144 (21) Short-term Debt and Current (37) Employees 144 Portion of Long-term Debt 117 (38) Subsequent Events 144 (39) Release for Publication 145 1) The Consolidated Financial Statements are a translation from the original German version, which is the decisive version in all cases. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 82 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in TEUR Notes 2018 2017 Service revenues (incl. other operating income) 3,772,765 3,878,051 Equipment revenues 662,635 504,432 Total revenues (incl. other operating income) (5) 4,435,401 4,382,483 Cost of service – 1,395,625 – 1,394,198 Cost of equipment – 627,941 – 584,243 Selling, general & administrative expenses – 1,007,027 – 994,910 Other expenses – 13,930 – 11,784 Total cost and expenses (6) – 3,044,524 – 2,985,135 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization EBITDA 1,390,877 1,397,347 Depreciation and amortization (15) (16) – 956,518 – 953,435 Operating income EBIT 434,360 443,912 Interest income 5,382 14,329 Interest expense – 86,866 – 95,274 Interest on employee benefits and restructuring and other financial items, net – 14,754 – 11,220 Foreign currency exchange differences, net 5,145 – 2,594 Equity interest in net income of associated companies – 768 – 678 Financial result (7) – 91,861 – 95,437 Earnings before income tax EBT 342,499 348,474 Income tax (29) – 98,793 – 3,006 Net result 243,706 345,468 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 241,079 319,151 Non-controlling interests (34) 408 1,005 Hybrid capital owners (28) 2,219 25,313 Basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent in Euro (8) 0.36 0.48 Other comprehensive income items: Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss: Effect of translation of foreign entities (3) (28) – 10,340 – 32,450 Realized result on hedging activities, net of tax (33) 4,380 4,380 Unrealized result on debt instruments at fair value, net of tax (19) –7 0 Realized result on debt instruments at fair value, net of tax (7) 30 0 Unrealized result on securities available-for-sale, net of tax (19) 0 198 Realized result on securities available-for-sale, net of tax (7) 0 – 33 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations, net of tax (27) – 2,180 8,181 Total other comprehensive income (loss) – 8,119 – 19,724 Total comprehensive income (loss) 235,587 325,744 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 232,960 299,424 Non-controlling interests (34) 408 1,008 Hybrid capital owners (28) 2,219 25,313 See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of automated calculation systems may give rise to rounding differences. As a result of the application of the modified retrospective method for IFRS 15 and IFRS 9, the comparative figures for 2017 have not been restated. 3 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Financial Position December 31, January 1, December 31, in TEUR Notes 2018 2018 2017 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents (9) 63,631 202,390 202,390 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other, net (10) 830,375 708,307 679,292 Receivables due from related parties (11) 1,382 944 944 Inventories, net (12) 131,171 102,401 87,442 Income tax receivable (29) 2,609 2,807 2,807 Other current assets, net (13) 153,140 140,599 253,376 Contract assets (14) 141,114 145,639 0 Total current assets 1,323,422 1,303,087 1,226,251 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment, net (15) 2,716,084 2,627,919 2,627,919 Intangibles, net (16) 1,782,681 2,075,878 2,075,878 Goodwill (17) 1,277,910 1,276,342 1,276,342 Investments in associated companies (18) 33,188 33,971 33,971 Long-term investments (19) 11,475 13,385 12,891 Deferred income tax assets (29) 245,513 325,375 327,077 Other non-current assets, net (20) 17,809 10,112 57,947 Total non-current assets 6,084,660 6,362,981 6,412,026 TOTAL ASSETS 7,408,082 7,666,069 7,638,277 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt (21) – 245,257 – 566 – 566 Accounts payable (22) – 937,898 – 784,243 – 784,243 Accrued liabilities and current provisions (23) – 233,738 – 246,167 – 265,855 Income tax payable (29) – 27,078 – 35,935 – 35,935 Payables due to related parties (11) – 528 – 554 – 554 Contract liabilities (24) – 160,160 – 161,595 0 Deferred revenues (24) 0 0 – 156,570 Total current liabilities – 1,604,659 – 1,229,059 – 1,243,722 Non-current liabilities Long-term debt (25) – 2,536,792 – 2,533,607 – 2,533,607 Deferred income tax liabilities (29) – 14,992 – 51,024 – 41,619 Deferred revenues and other non-current liabilities (26) – 22,580 – 28,474 – 38,270 Asset retirement obligation and restructuring (23) – 575,956 – 646,852 – 646,852 Employee benefits (27) – 203,654 – 196,842 – 196,842 Total non-current liabilities – 3,353,974 – 3,456,799 – 3,457,190 Stockholders’ equity Capital stock – 1,449,275 – 1,449,275 – 1,449,275 Treasury shares 7,803 7,803 7,803 Additional paid-in capital – 1,100,148 – 1,100,148 – 1,100,148 Hybrid capital 0 – 591,186 – 591,186 Retained earnings – 603,461 – 534,828 – 491,948 Other comprehensive income (loss) items 698,286 690,171 690,137 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent (28) – 2,446,794 – 2,977,462 – 2,934,617 Non-controlling interests – 2,655 – 2,748 – 2,748 Total stockholders’ equity – 2,449,449 – 2,980,210 – 2,937,365 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY – 7,408,082 – 7,666,069 – 7,638,277 See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of automated calculation systems may give rise to rounding differences. As a result of the application of the modified retrospective method for IFRS 15 and IFRS 9, the comparative figures for 2017 have not been restated. 4 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 84 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in TEUR Notes 2018 2017 Earnings before income tax EBT 342,499 348,474 Items not requiring the use of cash and other reconciliation: Depreciation (15) 500,146 532,354 Amortization of intangible assets (16) 456,371 421,082 Result from measurement of investments (7) 107 0 Equity interest in net income of associated companies (18) 768 678 Result on sale of investments (7) 39 – 76 Result on sale of property, plant and equipment (5) (6) 4,871 5,684 Net period cost of labor obligations and restructuring (7) (23) (27) 39,350 – 5,511 Foreign currency exchange differences, net (7) – 5,145 2,594 Interest income (7) – 5,382 – 14,329 Interest expense (7) 94,635 99,100 Other adjustments – 4,860 – 10,807 Changes in financial positions: Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other, net (10) – 121,615 – 40,049 Prepaid expenses (13) 6,352 6,696 Due from related parties (11) – 438 – 19 Inventories (12) – 29,096 – 5,919 Other assets (13) (20) – 3,869 – 15,772 Contract assets (14) 4,836 0 Employee benefits and restructuring (23) (27) – 101,288 – 108,450 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (22) (23) 113,841 – 264 Due to related parties (11) – 26 – 5,864 Contract liabilities (24) – 1,484 0 Deferred revenues (24) (26) 0 – 6,629 Others: Interest received (7) 5,423 14,329 Income taxes paid (29) – 63,699 – 42,491 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,232,337 1,174,810 Capital expenditures paid (32) – 771,459 – 705,422 Dividends received from associates (18) 771 –0 Proceeds from sale of plant, property and equipment (15) 7,520 15,141 Purchase of investments (19) – 231 – 45 Proceeds from sale of investment (19) 1,921 2,620 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (34) – 3,727 – 86,731 Sale of shares of associated companies (18) (34) 127 4,052 Net cash flow from investing activities – 765,078 – 770,386 Long-term debt obtained (25) (32) 0 248,762 Repayments of long-term debt (25) (32) 0 – 522,000 Interest paid (7) – 84,243 – 99,841 Change in short-term debt (21) (32) 7,877 1,857 Dividends paid (28) – 167,341 – 166,885 Issuance of short-term debt 240,000 0 Redemption of hybrid bond (28) – 600,000 0 Acquisition of non-controlling interest (34) – 105 – 1,235 Deferred consideration paid for business combinations (34) – 1,200 – 120,000 Net cash flow from financing activities – 605,012 – 659,342 Adjustment to cash flows due to exchange rate fluctuations, net (3) – 1,006 – 152 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 138,759 – 255,070 Cash and cash equivalents beginning of period (9) 202,390 457,460 Cash and cash equivalents end of period (9) 63,631 202,390 See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of automated calculation systems may give rise to rounding differences. As a result of the application of the modified retrospective method for IFRS 15 and IFRS 9, the comparative figures for 2017 have not been restated. 5 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 85 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity Additional Common stock Treasury shares paid-in Hybrid Retained in TEUR Par value at cost capital capital earnings At January 1, 2017 1,449,275 – 7,803 1,100,148 591,186 306,338 Net result 0 0 0 0 344,464 Other comprehensive income (loss) 0 0 0 0 0 Total comprehensive income 0 0 0 0 344,464 Distribution of dividends 0 0 0 0 – 158,131 Change in reporting entities 0 0 0 0 – 722 At December 31, 2017 1,449,275 – 7,803 1,100,148 591,186 491,948 Impact of change in accounting policy 0 0 0 0 42,879 At January 1, 2018 1,449,275 – 7,803 1,100,148 591,186 534,828 Net result 0 0 0 0 243,298 Other comprehensive income (loss) 0 0 0 0 0 Total comprehensive income 0 0 0 0 243,298 Distribution of dividends 0 0 0 0 – 165,827 Redemption of hybrid capital 0 0 0 – 591,186 – 8,814 Addition from acquisition 0 0 0 0 0 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 0 0 0 0 – 24 At December 31, 2018 1,449,275 – 7,803 1,100,148 0 603,461 In 2017, the measurement of debt instruments includes the available-for-sale reserve (see Notes (19) and (3)). For changes in accounting policies, see Note (3). See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of automated calculation systems may give rise to rounding differences. The tax benefit resulting from the accrued interest attributable to hybrid capital holders is included in the distribution of dividends (see Note (28)). In the change in reporting entities in 2017, non-controlling interests related to acquisitions as well as acquisitions made within the business year are netted. 6 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 86 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Total Remeasurement of Measurement of Hedging Translation Non-controlling stockholders' defined benefit plans debt instruments reserve reserve Total interests equity – 37,336 – 221 – 28,468 – 604,384 2,768,734 1,993 2,770,727 0 0 0 0 344,464 1,005 345,468 8,181 165 4,380 – 32,454 – 19,727 3 – 19,724 8,181 165 4,380 – 32,454 324,736 1,008 325,744 0 0 0 0 – 158,131 – 318 – 158,449 0 0 0 0 – 722 65 – 657 – 29,155 – 56 – 24,088 – 636,837 2,934,617 2,748 2,937,365 0 – 34 0 0 42,845 0 42,845 – 29,155 – 90 – 24,088 – 636,837 2,977,462 2,748 2,980,210 0 0 0 0 243,298 408 243,706 – 2,180 22 4,380 – 10,337 – 8,115 –3 – 8,119 – 2,180 22 4,380 – 10,337 235,183 404 235,587 0 0 0 0 – 165,827 – 774 – 166,602 0 0 0 0 – 600,000 0 – 600,000 0 0 0 0 0 355 355 0 0 0 0 – 24 – 78 – 102 – 31,335 – 68 – 19,709 – 647,175 2,446,794 2,655 2,449,449 7 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements 2018 STATEMENTS 2018 TELEKOM AUSTRIA AG – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (1) Segment Reporting 2018 (in TEUR) without application of IFRS 15 Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus External revenues 2,629,618 435,286 436,283 388,801 Intersegmental revenues 28,352 10,874 8,169 468 Total revenues (incl. other operating income) 2,657,971 446,160 444,452 389,269 Segment expenses – 1,752,277 – 308,131 – 330,326 – 225,475 EBITDA 905,693 138,029 114,126 163,794 Depreciation and amortization – 431,751 – 243,149 – 106,488 – 76,179 Operating income EBIT 473,942 – 105,120 7,638 87,614 Interest income 2,357 2,579 4,304 1,920 Interest expense – 22,850 – 515 – 7,115 – 2,481 Other financial result – 5,979 – 5,692 4,546 – 1,636 Equity interest in net income of associated companies 127 0 0 0 Earnings before income tax EBT 447,596 – 108,748 9,373 85,418 Income taxes – 112,015 15,548 – 2,610 – 15,543 Net result 335,580 – 93,200 6,763 69,875 EBITDA margin 34.1% 30.9% 25.7% 42.1% Capital expenditures intangible 79,876 34,139 17,087 13,040 Capital expenditures tangible 389,473 52,364 70,699 36,655 Total capital expenditures 469,349 86,502 87,786 49,695 Assets by segment 4,969,389 752,519 664,110 379,731 Property, plant and equipment 1,790,177 228,982 260,687 189,847 Goodwill 708,212 242,691 127,762 13,703 Brand names and patents 158,351 7,571 0 21,833 Licenses and rights of use 884,604 42,487 51,450 19,894 Other intangible assets 182,927 47,495 62,015 24,034 Investments in associated companies 0 0 0 0 Liabilities by segment – 2,490,712 – 144,462 – 450,944 – 104,076 2017 (in TEUR) Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus External revenues 2,594,580 421,001 424,222 388,757 Intersegmental revenues 27,731 10,206 10,669 1,698 Total revenues (incl. other operating income) 2,622,311 431,207 434,891 390,456 Segment expenses – 1,708,079 – 301,060 – 326,871 – 209,187 EBITDA 914,232 130,147 108,020 181,269 Depreciation and amortization – 472,171 – 215,717 – 95,587 – 58,212 Operating income EBIT 442,061 – 85,571 12,433 123,057 Interest income 2,244 3,178 5,123 441 Interest expense – 20,611 – 631 – 9,358 – 3,018 Other financial result – 9,153 – 3,972 1,156 – 4,949 Equity interest in net income of associated companies – 277 0 0 0 Earnings before income tax EBT 414,264 – 86,995 9,355 115,531 Income taxes – 100,123 10,598 – 1,835 – 19,741 Net result 314,141 – 76,397 7,520 95,790 EBITDA margin 34.9% 30.2% 24.8% 46.4% Capital expenditures intangible 74,341 27,468 15,431 9,135 Capital expenditures tangible 361,194 53,787 69,312 37,927 Total capital expenditures 435,536 81,255 84,742 47,062 Assets by segment 4,903,251 840,842 676,234 393,977 Property, plant and equipment 1,705,260 236,142 248,295 191,795 Goodwill 708,211 242,691 126,041 14,146 Brand names and patents 158,351 144,017 19,431 54,673 Licenses and rights of use 950,634 45,249 54,217 23,525 Other intangible assets 175,203 59,563 65,697 24,163 Investments in associated companies 0 0 0 0 Liabilities by segment – 2,441,252 – 138,719 – 472,477 – 100,032 The EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing EBITDA by total revenues (including other operating income). Additions to assets do not include additions related to ARO, see Notes (15) and (16). “Without application of IFRS 15” signifies reported according to IAS 18 as in the previous year. 8 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 88 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Slovenia Slovenia Serbia Serbia Macedonia Macedonia Corporate & Corporate Other & Other Eliminations Eliminations Consolidated Consolidated 209,460 209,460 242,443 242,443 117,616 117,616 6,904 6,904 0 0 4,466,412 4,466,412 4,593 4,593 6,799 6,799 1,547 1,547 5,604 5,604 –– 66,405 66,405 0 0 214,053 214,053 249,242 249,242 119,163 119,163 12,507 12,507 –– 66,40566,405 4,466,412 4,466,412 –– 175,956 175,956 –– 202,232 202,232 –– 83,797 83,797 –– 68,200 68,200 60,581 60,581 –– 3,085,814 3,085,814 38,098 38,098 47,009 47,009 35,366 35,366 –– 55,693 55,693 –– 5,824 5,824 1,380,598 1,380,598 –– 29,210 29,210 –– 42,933 42,933 –– 26,048 26,048 –– 1,608 1,608 850 850 –– 956,518 956,518 8,888 8,888 4,077 4,077 9,317 9,317 –– 57,30157,301 –– 4,974 4,974 424,081 424,081 2,313 2,313 1,534 1,534 294 294 33,535 33,535 –– 33,310 33,310 15,524 15,524 –– 479 479 –– 1,175 1,175 –– 1,280 1,280 –– 84,292 84,292 33,321 33,321 –– 86,866 86,866 –– 141 141 243 243 46 46 379,991 379,991 380,987 –– 380,987 9,609 –– 9,609 0 0 0 0 0 0 895 –– 895 0 0 768 –– 768 10,580 10,580 4,679 4,679 8,378 8,378 271,037 271,037 –– 385,950385,950 342,362 342,362 –– 1,200 1,200 –– 142 142 –– 1,077 1,077 16,225 16,225 1,147 1,147 –– 99,668 99,668 9,380 9,380 4,536 4,536 7,301 7,301 287,262 287,262 384,803 –– 384,803 242,694 242,694 17.8% 17.8% 18.9% 18.9% 29.7% 29.7% n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 30.9% 30.9% 9,544 9,544 8,787 8,787 2,214 2,214 2,368 2,368 –– 6,3096,309 160,747 160,747 17,932 17,932 25,318 25,318 16,989 16,989 4,192 4,192 –– 3,389 3,389 610,232 610,232 27,476 27,476 34,105 34,105 19,203 19,203 6,560 6,560 –– 9,698 9,698 770,979 770,979 434,768 434,768 374,123 374,123 185,662 185,662 7,687,801 7,687,801 8,059,581 –– 8,059,581 7,388,521 7,388,521 69,829 69,829 84,185 84,185 82,328 82,328 4,638 4,638 5,412 5,412 2,716,084 2,716,084 147,632 147,632 0 0 30,060 30,060 131,281 131,281 –– 123,430 123,430 1,277,910 1,277,910 910 910 4,536 4,536 722 722 1,981 1,981 0 0 195,904 195,904 68,730 68,730 127,927 127,927 24,298 24,298 0 0 7,239 –– 7,239 1,212,150 1,212,150 21,760 21,760 19,713 19,713 13,010 13,010 3,531 3,531 142 142 374,627 374,627 0 0 0 0 0 0 33,188 33,188 0 0 33,188 33,188 –– 69,338 69,338 –– 118,992 118,992 –– 62,520 62,520 –– 3,472,225 3,472,225 1,930,715 1,930,715 –– 4,982,555 4,982,555 Slovenia Slovenia Serbia Serbia Macedonia Macedonia Corporate & Corporate Other & Other Eliminations Eliminations Consolidated Consolidated 211,562 211,562 224,193 224,193 112,019 112,019 5,729 5,729 418 418 4,382,483 4,382,483 4,517 4,517 6,608 6,608 2,007 2,007 6,784 6,784 70,219 –– 70,219 0 0 216,079 216,079 230,801 230,801 114,025 114,025 12,513 12,513 69,801 –– 69,801 4,382,483 4,382,483 –– 175,514 175,514 –– 192,434 192,434 –– 83,966 83,966 –– 53,760 53,760 65,736 65,736 –– 2,985,135 2,985,135 40,565 40,565 38,368 38,368 30,059 30,059 41,247 –– 41,247 –– 4,065 4,065 1,397,347 1,397,347 –– 30,090 30,090 –– 45,131 45,131 –– 36,039 36,039 –– 429 429 –– 59 59 –– 953,435 953,435 10,475 10,475 –– 6,763 6,763 –– 5,9805,980 –– 41,676 41,676 –– 4,124 4,124 443,912 443,912 2,273 2,273 801 801 242 242 36,580 36,580 36,554 –– 36,554 14,329 14,329 –– 1,306 1,306 –– 1,628 1,628 –– 1,391 1,391 –– 93,862 93,862 36,529 36,529 –– 95,274 95,274 1 1 3,220 3,220 653 653 715,234 715,234 716,005 –– 716,005 13,814 –– 13,814 0 0 0 0 0 0 –– 400 400 0 0 –– 678 678 11,444 11,444 –– 4,370 4,370 –– 6,477 6,477 615,876 615,876 –– 720,154 720,154 348,474 348,474 –– 907 907 –– 569 569 269 269 108,600 108,600 701 701 3,006 –– 3,006 10,537 10,537 –– 4,939 4,939 6,207 –– 6,207 724,476 724,476 –– 719,453 719,453 345,468 345,468 18.8% 18.8% 16.6% 16.6% 26.4% 26.4% n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 31.9% 31.9% 22,548 22,548 9,113 9,113 3,454 3,454 1,576 1,576 –– 5,494 5,494 157,572 157,572 19,255 19,255 25,998 25,998 17,861 17,861 1,129 1,129 7,169 –– 7,169 579,294 579,294 41,803 41,803 35,111 35,111 21,316 21,316 2,705 2,705 12,663 –– 12,663 736,866 736,866 432,967 432,967 375,932 375,932 190,198 190,198 7,910,058 7,910,058 8,085,181 –– 8,085,181 7,638,277 7,638,277 70,180 70,180 82,177 82,177 81,943 81,943 1,563 1,563 10,563 10,563 2,627,919 2,627,919 147,632 147,632 0 0 30,060 30,060 131,025 131,025 –– 123,465 123,465 1,276,342 1,276,342 990 990 4,873 4,873 6,429 6,429 1,907 1,907 0 0 390,671 390,671 73,305 73,305 141,633 141,633 26,544 26,544 0 0 4,116 –– 4,116 1,310,990 1,310,990 18,390 18,390 16,742 16,742 12,965 12,965 1,520 1,520 28 –– 28 374,217 374,217 0 0 0 0 0 0 33,971 33,971 0 0 33,971 33,971 –– 73,584 73,584 –– 125,992 125,992 –– 74,359 74,359 –– 3,239,035 3,239,035 1,964,537 1,964,537 –– 4,700,912 4,700,912 9 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 89 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 A1 Telekom Austria Group has aligned its management structure and the resulting segment reporting on geographical markets and reports separately based on its seven operating segments: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia, Serbia and Macedonia. The Management Board of A1 Telekom Austria Group, which regularly meets in Management Board meetings, acts as the chief operating decision maker. Members of the Management Board are the Group CEO, the Group COO and the Group CFO (see Note (36)). The Management Board focuses on revenue, EBITDA and capital expenditure (CAPEX). Revenue and EBITDA are managed without the application of IFRS 15, i.e. according to IAS 18 (see Note (3)). The following table provides a reconciliation of the total reportable segments’ revenues and results (“without application of IFRS 15”) to A1 Telekom Austria Group’s total consolidated revenues and results (“as reported IFRS 15”): Without application As reported 2018 (in TEUR) of IFRS 15 Adjustments IFRS 15 External revenues 4,466,412 – 31,011 4,435,401 Total revenues (incl. other operating income) 4,466,412 – 31,011 4,435,401 Segment expenses – 3,085,814 41,290 – 3,044,524 EBITDA 1,380,598 10,279 1,390,877 Depreciation and amortization – 956,518 0 – 956,518 Operating income EBIT 424,081 10,279 434,360 Interest income 15,524 – 10,142 5,382 Interest expense – 86,866 0 – 86,866 Other financial result – 9,609 0 – 9,609 Equity interest in net income of associated companies – 768 0 – 768 Earnings before income tax EBT 342,362 137 342,499 Income taxes – 99,668 875 – 98,793 Net result 242,694 1,012 243,706 Assets by segment 7,388,521 19,561 7,408,082 Liabilities by segment – 4,982,555 23,922 – 4,958,633 The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those of A1 Telekom Austria Group without application of IFRS 15, i.e. according to IAS 18 (see Note (3)). The segments offer the services and products disclosed in Note (5), for brand names, see Note (16). Segment revenues, segment expenses and segment results include deliveries and services between operating segments. Such deliveries and services are accounted for at transfer prices that are constantly monitored and documented to ensure that pricing is at arm’s length. These intersegmental transactions are eliminated in consolidation. The column Corporate & Other comprises mainly holding companies, the group financing company as well as A1 Digital, which focuses its business activities on the CEE region and Germany and which will be further expanded internationally. Other financial income reported in the column Corporate & Other relates mostly to dividend income from fully consolidated subsidiaries that is eliminated in consolidation, thus having no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The column Corporate & Other is reported in addition to the column Eliminations for improved transparency. The elimination column contains intersegment consolidation entries and the reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to consolidated total assets and liabilities. Capital expenditures, as well as depreciation and amortization, relate to property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. None of the segments records revenues from transactions with a single external customer amounting to at least 10% or more of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s revenues. The item other financial result in the segment reporting includes interest on employee benefits and restructuring and other financial items as well as foreign exchange differences. 10 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 90 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 (2) The Company Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft (Telekom Austria AG) is incorporated as a joint stock corporation under the laws of the Republic of Austria and is located in Austria, Lassallestrasse 9, 1020 Vienna. Telekom Austria AG and its subsidiaries (A1 Telekom Austria Group) provide the services and products listed in revenues (Note (5)) in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Belarus, Slovenia, Serbia and Macedonia. The ultimate parent company of A1 Telekom Austria Group is América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (América Móvil), which is located in Mexico. The Federal Republic of Austria, through Österreichische Bundesund Industriebeteiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB), is the second significant shareholder of A1 Telekom Austria Group. América Móvil’s and ÖBIB’s stakes in A1 Telekom Austria Group are disclosed in Note (28). In addition to the related party transactions disclosed in Note (11), the Federal Republic of Austria regulates certain activities of A1 Telekom Austria Group in Austria via the Rundfunk und Telekom Regulierungs-GmbH (RTR). In addition, the government holds the taxing authority for the Austrian operations of A1 Telekom Austria Group and imposes taxes such as corporate income tax and value-added taxes. (3) Basis of Presentation Functional currency The Consolidated Financial Statements of A1 Telekom Austria Group are prepared in euro. Unless indicated otherwise, all amounts are reported in thousand euro (TEUR). The use of automated calculation systems may give rise to rounding differences. Financial statements of subsidiaries where the functional currency is a currency other than the euro are translated using the functional currency principle. For these entities, assets and liabilities are translated using the year-end exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated using the average exchange rates prevailing during the year. The resulting foreign currency translation is recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI) and until the disposal of the respective subsidiary presented in the translation reserve in stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations between the recognition of the transaction and payment date or translation at year-end are recognized in the financial result. The following table provides the exchange rates for the currencies in which A1 Telekom Austria Group conducts its transactions: Exchange rates at December 31 Average exchange rates for the year 2018 2017 2018 2017 Bulgarian Lev (BGN) 1.9558 1.9558 1.9558 1.9558 Croatian Kuna (HRK) 7.4125 7.5137 7.4184 7.4635 Czech Koruna (CZK) 25.7240 25.5350 25.6444 26.3345 Hungarian Forint (HUF) 320.9800 310.3300 318.8321 309.2175 Serbian Dinar (CSD) 118.1946 118.4727 118.2737 121.4206 Swiss Franc (CHF) 1.1269 1.1702 1.1551 1.1112 Rumanian Leu (RON) 4.6635 4.6585 4.6542 4.5683 Turkish Lira (TRY) 6.0588 4.5464 5.6996 4.1186 Macedonian Denar (MKD) 61.4950 61.4950 61.5121 61.5748 Belarusian Rouble (BYN) 2.4734 2.3553 2.4055 2.1816 US Dollar (USD) 1.1450 1.1993 1.1817 1.1291 Great Britain Pound (GBP) 0.8945 0.8872 0.8846 0.8765 Bosnian convertible mark (BAM) 1.9558 1.9558 1.9558 1.9558 Polish Zloty (PLN) 4.3014 4.1770 4.2605 4.2577 Accounting A1 Telekom Austria Group prepared the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2018 in compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS), issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and the interpretation of the former Standards Interpretation Committee (SIC), effective as of December 31, 2018 and as endorsed by the European Union, as well as in accordance with the supplemental regulations of Section 245a of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB). 11 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Significant accounting policies The general accounting policies are presented in the respective Notes to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the Statement of Financial Position. Changes in accounting policies The following amendments to existing and new IFRS are effective as of January 1, 2018. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Clarifications IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments to IFRS 2) Several IFRSs Annual Improvements 2014 – 2016 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRS 4 Amendments: Application of IFRS 9 with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to IAS 40) Impact of IFRS 15 In May 2014, the IASB issued the new standard IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. The new standard for revenue recognition aims at standardizing the multitude of regulations previously included in various standards. The amount of revenue recognized and its timing is determined based on a five-step model. The type of transaction or the sector of the entity is not relevant. IFRS 15 contains additional qualitative and quantitative disclosure obligations. These are aimed at enabling users of the financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and the uncertainties of revenue and the resulting cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In April 2016, the IASB issued clarifications to IFRS 15 related to identifying performance obligations, principal versus agent considerations, as well as licensing. As the standard itself, the European Union has endorsed these clarifications. Impact at January 1, 2018 At January 1, 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group initially applied IFRS 15, electing the modified retrospective approach for the initial application in accordance with the transition guidance. Accordingly, the comparative figures for 2017 were not adjusted, i.e. they correspond to the figures published according to IAS 18 and the respective interpretations. The following table shows the quantitative effects of the initial application of IFRS 15 on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of January 1, 2018 including detailed explanations (see columns a) to f)): in TEUR at January 1, 2018 Total a) b) c) d) e) f) Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other, net (10) 29,015 155,852 – 17,550 – 109,288 Inventories (12) 14,959 14,959 0 Contract assets (14) 145,639 145,639 Contract cost (13) 42,316 42,316 0 Prepaid expenses (13) – 35,562 – 35,562 0 Other assets (13) – 17,565 – 17,565 Installment sales (13) (20) – 149,802 – 149,802 0 Contract liabilities (24) – 161,595 – 150,421 – 11,174 Accrued liabilities (23) 19,688 18,483 1,205 Deferred revenues (24) (26) 166,366 131,938 34,428 Deferred taxes (29) – 11,108 0 – 11,108 Stockholders' equity – 42,352 – 6,050 38,152 0 – 42,316 – 43,246 11,108 For references related to the Notes, see brackets. The equity effect of the loss allowance of TEUR 2,277 (see “Impact of IFRS 9”) is included in column e). a) According to IAS 18, installment sales receivables were recognized at the present value of the installments. Based on the current status, financing components are considered insignificant according to IFRS 15 on an individual contract level. Thus installment sales receivables are not discounted anymore as long as the discounting effect continues to be insignificant. Installment sales receivables discounted at December 31, 2017 were re-measured at their nominal value at January 1, 2018 and the related accretion effect was recognized directly in shareholders’ equity. 12 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 92 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Starting 2018, this leads to an improvement in EBITDA, as installment sales revenues that were recognized previously at the present value with the interest component reported in the financial result shall now be recognized at their full amount in revenues (see table “Impact on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income”). In addition, starting 2018, the total amount of installment sales receivables is reported in accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net. b) According to IAS 18, dealers reselling mobile devices acquired from A1 Telekom Austria Group to end customers were considered principals. Due to the regulations of IFRS 15, hardware sales to dealers will no longer be recognized as revenue as the dealers are now considered agents. Revenue will be recognized only once the mobile devices are sold to end customers. The effect of the derecognition of accounts receivable and revenue related to mobile devices in dealers’ stock at December 31, 2017 as well as the effect of the recognition of these mobile devices in inventory was reported directly in shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018. According to IAS 18, subsidies to dealers were recognized in prepaid expenses at the date of sale of mobile devices and expensed over the minimum contractual term. According to IFRS 15, these subsidies are treated as a reduction in revenue. Thus the prepaid expenses were derecognized and the effect was recognized directly in shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018. Starting 2018, the classification of dealers as agents leads to a later recognition of equipment revenues effected via dealers. At the same time, the fact that subsidies are recognized as a reduction in revenue in 2018 will lead to a shift from expenses to equipment revenues (see table “Impact on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income”). c) Provisions for discounts granted retrospectively on the basis of service revenue generated and deferred income are qualified as contract liabilities according to IFRS 15 and were reclassified accordingly. d) According to IAS 18, discounts and provisions granted to third parties and to employees were fully expensed. If these discounts and provisions are incremental costs of obtaining a customer contract, they are recognized as deferrals (contracts costs) according to IFRS 15 and are expensed according to the expected duration of the underlying contract. The effect from the initial recognition of contract costs at January 1, 2018 was reported directly in shareholders’ equity. Starting 2018, this results in a later recognition of expense, yet there was no further significant impact on EBITDA in 2018 (see table “Impact on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income”). e) A1 Telekom Austria Group had already previously allocated the majority of transaction prices of multiple-element arrangements to goods and services based on a determination of a separable value to the customer for each deliverable on a standalone basis. IFRS 15 requires the identification of separate performance obligations in multiple-element arrangements based on certain criteria as well as the allocation of transaction prices to the performance obligations in proportion to the fair values of the underlying goods and services (stand-alone selling prices). The application of the criteria for identifying performance obligations according to IFRS 15 resulted in a re-evaluation of performance obligations for fixed-line services. For mobile communication services, the allocation according to IFRS 15 results in a higher transaction price for mobile equipment and a lower transaction price for mobile services compared to the allocation according to IAS 18. The adjusted allocation of the transaction price has also insignificant effects on the amount of deferrals for customer loyalty programs. The effect of the re-evaluation of performance obligations for fixed-line services as well as, in accordance with IFRS 15, the effect of the allocation of the transaction price for multiple-element arrangements for mobile services and on deferrals for customer loyalty programs was recognized directly in shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018. Starting 2018, the change in the allocation of transaction prices leads to a shift from service revenues to equipment revenues; the related effect on EBITDA is not significant. For fixed-line telephone services, the application of the criteria of IFRS 15 for identifying performance obligations results in a later revenue recognition in 2018, which did not have a significant impact (see table “Impact on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income”). f) The effects on equity of the changes described above are only temporary shifts of results. Thus deferred taxes were recognized for the effects related to the initial application of IFRS 15. 13 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 93 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Impact on the period reported The following tables summarize the effects of applying IFRS 15 on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (items without any adjustments are summarized in “Other”): Impact on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income As reported Without application 2018 (in TEUR) IFRS 15 Adjustments of IFRS 15 Service revenues (incl. other operating income) 3,772,765 147,398 3,920,163 Equipment revenues 662,635 – 116,387 546,249 Total revenues (incl. other operating income) 4,435,401 31,011 4,466,412 Cost of service – 1,395,625 0 – 1,395,625 Cost of equipment – 627,941 1,009 – 626,932 Selling, general & administrative expenses – 1,007,027 – 42,299 – 1,049,326 Other expenses – 13,930 0 – 13,930 Total cost and expenses – 3,044,524 – 41,290 – 3,085,814 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization EBITDA 1,390,877 – 10,279 1,380,598 Interest income 5,382 10,142 15,524 Other – 1,053,760 0 – 1,053,760 Earnings before income tax EBT 342,499 – 137 342,362 Income tax – 98,793 – 875 – 99,668 Net result 243,706 – 1,012 242,694 Impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As reported Without application in TEUR, at December 31, 2018 IFRS 15 Adjustments of IFRS 15 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other, net 830,375 – 75,946 754,429 Inventories, net 131,171 – 13,967 117,204 Other current assets, net 153,140 143,144 296,284 Contract assets 141,114 – 141,114 0 Other 65,013 0 65,013 Total current assets 1,323,422 – 87,883 1,235,539 Deferred income tax assets 245,513 4,846 250,359 Other non-current assets, net 17,809 63,476 81,285 Other 5,821,338 0 5,821,338 Total non-current assets 6,084,660 68,322 6,152,982 TOTAL ASSETS 7,408,082 – 19,561 7,388,521 Accrued liabilities and current provisions – 233,738 – 18,183 – 251,921 Contract liabilities – 160,160 160,160 0 Deferred revenues 0 – 162,135 – 162,135 Other – 1,210,760 0 – 1,210,760 Total current liabilities – 1,604,659 – 20,157 – 1,624,816 Deferred income tax liabilities – 14,992 5,419 – 9,574 Deferred revenues and other non-current liabilities – 22,580 – 9,184 – 31,763 Other – 3,316,402 0 – 3,316,402 Total non-current liabilities – 3,353,974 – 3,765 – 3,357,739 Retained earnings – 603,461 43,500 – 559,960 Other comprehensive income (loss) items 698,286 – 17 698,269 Other – 2,541,619 0 – 2,541,619 Total stockholders’ equity – 2,449,449 43,483 – 2,405,966 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY – 7,408,082 19,561 – 7,388,521 14 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 94 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows As reported Without application 2018 (in TEUR) IFRS 15 Adjustments of IFRS 15 Earnings before income tax EBT 342,499 – 137 342,362 Items not requiring the use of cash and other reconciliation: Interest income – 5,382 – 10,142 – 15,524 Other 1,086,283 0 1,086,283 Changes in financial positions: Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other, net – 121,615 48,266 – 73,349 Prepaid expenses 6,352 2,463 8,816 Inventories – 29,096 – 992 – 30,088 Other assets – 3,869 – 49,646 – 53,515 Contract assets 4,836 – 4,836 0 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 113,841 – 1,505 112,336 Contract liabilities – 1,484 1,484 0 Deferred revenues 0 4,903 4,903 Interest received 5,423 10,142 15,565 Other – 165,451 0 – 165,451 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,232,337 0 1,232,337 The adoption of IFRS 15 does not have an effect on cash flows from investing and financing activities. Impact of IFRS 9 In July 2014 the IASB issued IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and replacing IAS 39 “Financial Instruments”. IFRS 9 introduces changes regarding the classification and measurement of financial instruments, the impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. A1 Telekom Austria Group initially applies IFRS 9 at January 1, 2018, electing the modified retrospective approach for initial application in accordance with the transition guidance. The initial application of IFRS 9 in A1 Telekom Austria Group has effects on the classification and measurement of financial assets that are not significant overall. The business model of A1 Telekom Austria Group is “hold to collect” and “hold to collect and sell”, respectively, and no derivative financial instruments are held. The contractual cash flows of non-derivative financial instruments consist mainly of principal and interest. All equity instruments held at December 31, 2017 are classified in the measurement category “at fair value through profit or loss”. Financial investments formerly carried at cost are now recognized at their fair value, which leads to an increase in shareholders’ equity of TEUR 493 at January 1, 2018 due to the changed measurement category. 15 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 95 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 The following table shows the effects on the classification and the existing book values of financial assets according to IAS 39 in TEUR (there are no effects on financial liabilities): Carrying amount Carrying amount at Dec. 31, 2017 at Jan. 1, 2018 Item Classification IAS 39 Classification IFRS 9 IAS 39 IFRS 9 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets at amortized cost 202,390 202,390 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other Loans and receivables Financial assets at amortized cost 679,292 679,292 Receivables due from related parties Loans and receivables Financial assets at amortized cost 944 944 Other current financial assets Loans and receivables Financial assets at amortized cost 111,631 111,631 Other non-current financial assets Loans and receivables Financial assets at amortized cost 49,390 49,390 Long-term investments 12,891 13,385 thereof: Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive Quoted bonds Available-for-sale investments income mandatory 3,563 3,563 Equity instruments at fair value Quoted equity instruments Available-for-sale investments through profit or loss mandatory 1,798 1,798 Debt instruments at fair value Other long-term investments* Available-for-sale investments through profit or loss mandatory 2,177 2,177 Fixed deposits Available-for-sale investments Financial assets at amortized cost 3,808 3,808 Equity instruments at fair value Unquoted equity instruments Carried at cost through profit or loss mandatory 1,546 2,039 *Solely payment of principal and interest (“SPPI”) criterium not met The loss allowance of accounts receivable trade is measured in accordance with the simplified approach of IFRS 9 at an amount equal to lifetime expected losses. Due to the good credit quality of the customers, the current measurement of accounts receivable according to the incurred loss method differs only insignificantly from the required method of lifetime expected credit losses. Thus the adoption of IFRS 9 does not have a significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements (see Note (33)). The application of the simplified approach for the calculation of lifetime expected credit losses on financial assets, accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other as well as contractual assets and contractual costs according to IFRS 9 leads to a reduction in shareholders’ equity of TEUR 2,277 at January 1, 2018. Allowance in TEUR December 31, 2017 Adjustments January 1, 2018 Financial assets and accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other 236,108 – 1,998 234,110 Contract assets 0 3,344 3,344 Contract cost 0 931 931 Total 236,108 2,277 238,385 The effect on shareholders’ equity (“Adjustments”) is included in column (e) of the table on IFRS 15. As at December 31, 2017, A1 Telekom Austria Group invests only short-term with counterparties with investment grade rating, the calculation resulted in insignificant expected credit losses on all other financial assets (see Note (33)). The new requirements of IFRS 9 regarding hedge accounting do not have an effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements of A1 Telekom Austria Group, as hedge accounting is not applied. Compared to IAS 39, the application of IFRS 9 has an immaterial effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements 2018. 16 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 96 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Impact on Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity The following tables summarize the effects of the initial application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 on consolidated shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018. Retained Measurement of Available-for-sale Total stockholders’ earnings debt instruments reserve equity Reclassification available-for-sale to FVPL 34 – 34 0 Reclassification available-for-sale to FVOCI – 90 90 0 Valuation financial instruments at cost to FVPL 493 493 Application of IFRS 15 42,352 42,352 Impact of change in accounting policy 42,879 – 90 56 42,845 FVPL: at fair value through profit or loss, FVOCI: at fair value through other comprehensive income (see Note (19)) For details on the adoption of IFRS 15, see “Impact of IFRS 15 at January 1, 2018” table. The effect of the loss allowance according to IFRS 9 on shareholders’ equity amounting to TEUR 2,277 (“Adjustments”) is included in the line “Application of IFRS 15”. The initial application of the remaining standards (IAS, IFRS) mentioned above had an insignificant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements since the amendments were not fully applicable. The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB, but were not effective at the reporting date. A1 Telekom Austria Group has not early adopted these standards and interpretations and will apply them as of their effective date. Effective * Effective** IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 January 1, 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Tax Treatments January 1, 2019 January 1, 2019 IFRS 9 Amendments: Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation January 1, 2019 January 1, 2019 Several IFRSs Annual Improvements 2015 – 2017 January 1, 2019 not endorsed IAS 28 Amendments: Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures January 1, 2019 not endorsed IAS 19 Amendments: Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement January 1, 2019 not endorsed IFRS 3 Amendments: Definition of a Business January 1, 2020 not endorsed IAS 1 and 8 Amendments: Definition of Material January 1, 2020 not endorsed Framework Amendments: References to the Conceptual Framework January 1, 2020 not endorsed IFRS 17 Amendments: Application of IFRS 9 with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts January 1, 2021 not endorsed * This standard/interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after the presented date (in accordance with IASB). ** This standard/interpretation is effective for annual periods beginning on or after the presented date (in accordance with EU endorsement). A1 Telekom Austria Group is evaluating the impact of these standards and interpretations on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Impact of IFRS 16 At January 1, 2019, A1 Telekom Austria Group initially applies IFRS 16, which replaces the former leasing standard IAS 17 as well as its respective interpretations. Under IFRS 16, lessors continue to classify into operating lease and finance lease as previously under IAS 17, while lessees will be required to introduce extensive modifications. The initial application of IFRS 16 is based on the modified retrospective approach, therefore the comparative figures for previous periods are not adjusted. The overall impact on net assets, financial position and results of operations of A1 Telekom Austria Group as well as other components of the Consolidated Financial Statements, which was analyzed in a group-wide project for the implementation of IFRS 16, is the following: In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, assets are now recognized as follows: rights of use to leased assets in the amount of the future discounted payment obligation. The recognition exemptions for low-value assets and short-term leases will be elected for certain rights of use that are immaterial for business operations. The recognition exemptions will not be applied to base stations, technical sites and facilities as well as buildings and vehicles. For all contracts already classified as operating leasing, the right of use assets recognized are based on the future payment obligations discounted at the incremental borrowing rate of A1 Telekom Austria Group plus existing prepayments and other deferred direct costs. According to the current status of analysis of lease contracts, the initial adoption of IFRS 16 will result in lease obligations and right of use assets of approximately TEUR 948,000 at January 1, 2019. Retained earnings are not expected to change materially. The increase in total assets and total liabilities will reduce the equity ratio from 33% to 29%. In the Statement of Comprehensive Income there will be a shift from rental and lease expenses, which are reported in EBITDA, to depreciation and interest expense by roughly TEUR 160,000. No significant impacts are expected for EBT. 17 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 97 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 In the Statement of Cash Flows, payments for operating leasing contracts were included in the cash flow from operating activities up to now. In future, these payments will essentially be reported in the cash flow from financing activities, broken down into redemption of lease liability and interest payment. Prepayments and other deferred direct costs, which are paid before delivery of the lease asset, are shown in the cash flow from investing activities. Actual effects at January 1, 2019 may differ from the expected effect as the functionality of controls ensuring that the amounts recognized, which are calculated by IT systems, are in conformity with IFRS 16 has not been completely examined yet. IFRS 16 will require estimates that affect the valuation of right-of-use assets as well as the lease liabilities. This will include the determination of contracts that fall under IFRS 16, lease terms, and the incremental borrowing rate used for discounting the future payment obligations. For lease contracts with an indefinite term, the length of the contract is estimated to be in line with the planning period of seven years to 15 years for certain leases related to fixed lines. The incremental borrowing rate will be derived from risk-free interest rates representing the related contract term adjusted for country, currency and entity risks. (4) Use of Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires the Management Board to make estimates and assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities reported at the end of any given period, and revenues and expenses for that reported period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Management has made judgments in the process of applying A1 Telekom Austria Group’s accounting policies. Additionally, at the reporting date, Management has made the following key assumptions concerning the future and has identified other key sources of estimation uncertainty that are subject to the risk of a material change in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year. For all sensitivity analyses, the remaining parameters of the original calculation remain unchanged, thus no possible correlation effects are taken into account. a) Revenues: Changes in the allocation of the transaction prices of multi-element arrangements for goods and services as well as changes in the expected average contractual term may lead to a shift in timing of revenue recognized (see Note (5)). b) Employee benefit plans: The measurement of the various pension and other post-employment benefit plans as well as service awards is based on a method that uses various parameters, such as the expected discount rate, pension and salary increases, mortality rate and rate of employee turnover. Changes in these parameters could result in higher or lower expenses (see Note (27)). c) Impairments: The impairment test for goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is generally based upon discounted estimated future net cash flows from the continuing use and ultimate disposal of the assets. Changes in the discount rates used, in the development of revenues, in cost drivers as well as in capital expenditures could lead to impairments or, to the extent permitted, to reversals of impairments (see Note (17)). For more information on the carrying amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, see Notes (17), (16) and (15). d) The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to depreciation and amortization represent the estimated periods during which the assets will be in use. With respect to changes in depreciation and amortization resulting from changes in the useful lives, see Note (15). e) Share-based compensation: Obligations under the long-term incentive program are measured based on the fair value, which depends on expected target achievement and the expected share price at vesting date. Compensation expense and liabilities could differ from the estimated amount as of the reporting date if the underlying parameters were to change (see Note (31)). f) Deferred taxes: In assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, Management considers whether it is probable that all deferred tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences will become deductible. If A1 Telekom Austria Group does not generate sufficient taxable income, deferred tax assets cannot be realized and therefore will not be recognized (see Note (29)). g) Restructuring (includes provisions for onerous contracts according to IAS 37 as well as provisions for social plans according to IAS 19): The provision is based on various parameters such as discount rate, salary increase and the probability of the acceptance of termination offers. Changes in these parameters could result in higher or lower expenses (see Note (23)). 18 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 98 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 h) Allowances for financial assets and contract assets are based on the estimated probability of default. Deviation of actual customer behavior may result in higher or lower expenses (see Note (33)). i) Asset retirement obligation: The calculation of the provision is based on parameters such as estimated decommissioning costs, discount rate and inflation rate. Changes in these parameters may result in higher or lower provisions (see Note (23)). (5) Revenues Operating revenues include all revenues resulting from the ordinary operations of A1 Telekom Austria Group. Operating revenues are stated net of value-added tax and any other taxes and fees, collected from the customer on behalf of tax and other relevant authorities. A1 Telekom Austria Group generates revenues from the sale of end-user terminal equipment as well as fixed-line services and mobile communication services to individuals, commercial and non-commercial organizations and other national and foreign carriers. Furthermore, A1 Telekom Austria Group offers innovative digital products, cloud and IoT services as well as mobile payment services. Fixed-line services include access fees, domestic and long distance services including Internet services, fixed-to-mobile calls, international traffic, voice value-added services, interconnection, call center services, data and ICT solutions, television services, IPTV and smart home services. Mobile communications services comprise digital mobile communications services including value-added services, text and multimedia messaging, m-commerce, music platform and information services. The following table shows the disaggregated revenues per product line and segment: 2018 (in TEUR) as reported IFRS 15 Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus Slovenia Serbia Macedonia Other* Consolidated Mobile service revenues 923,627 245,793 234,990 247,018 120,977 178,096 71,257 – 18,176 2,003,582 Fixed-line service revenues 1,373,930 102,324 125,011 39,858 35,281 6,670 25,760 – 31,595 1,677,239 Service revenues 2,297,556 348,117 360,001 286,876 156,258 184,766 97,018 – 49,771 3,680,820 Mobile equipment revenues 250,260 85,909 61,639 85,654 45,889 71,007 20,145 7 620,510 Fixed-line equipment revenues 35,869 3,459 2,273 274 293 0 421 – 464 42,125 Equipment revenues 286,129 89,368 63,912 85,929 46,182 71,007 20,565 – 457 662,635 Other operating income 53,791 7,623 5,996 18,107 5,732 2,973 1,393 – 3,670 91,945 Total revenues (incl. OOI) 2,637,476 445,109 429,909 390,911 208,172 258,746 118,976 – 53,898 4,435,401 2017 (in TEUR) without application of IFRS 15 Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus Slovenia Serbia Macedonia Other* Consolidated Mobile service revenues 1,006,174 267,027 258,824 273,078 132,919 139,639 80,624 – 19,292 2,138,992 Fixed-line service revenues 1,359,366 91,990 120,860 30,631 35,001 6,189 26,002 – 33,736 1,636,304 Service revenues 2,365,540 359,017 379,684 303,709 167,920 145,828 106,626 – 53,028 3,775,296 Mobile equipment revenues 164,430 57,549 48,239 71,515 43,471 76,444 6,367 – 786 467,229 Fixed-line equipment revenues 34,043 1,819 758 18 376 0 328 – 139 37,203 Equipment revenues 198,473 59,367 48,997 71,533 43,848 76,444 6,695 – 924 504,432 Other operating income 58,298 12,822 6,210 15,214 4,312 8,529 704 – 3,336 102,755 Total revenues (incl. OOI) 2,622,311 431,207 434,891 390,456 216,079 230,801 114,025 – 57,288 4,382,483 *Other includes: Corporate & Other and Eliminations The shift from service revenues to equipment revenues is substantially due to the adoption of IFRS 15 (see Note (3)). 19 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 99 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 The following table shows revenues from customer contracts and from other sources: in TEUR 2018 Service revenues 3,652,699 Equipment revenues 662,635 Total customer contract revenues 4,315,334 Other service revenues 28,121 Other operating income 91,945 Total other revenues 120,066 Total revenues (incl. other operating income) 4,435,401 Equipment revenues comprise an effect of accrued interest for installment sales amounting to TEUR 1,667, which is entirely due to the segment Belarus. Other service revenues include essentially income from the rental of private automatic branch equipment (“PABX”), set top boxes, routers, servers, equipment for fixed-line customers as well as telecommunication circuits. Other operating income comprises mainly collection fees, penalties, revenues from sale of electricity and rental income. Furthermore, income from impaired receivables is included (see Note (33)). In 2018 and 2017, other operating income includes research tax credits amounting to TEUR 1,466 and TEUR 1,649, respectively. The accounting principles that were applied to the recognition of revenue in 2018 (IFRS 15) are presented as follows (for the accounting principles applied in 2017 (IAS 18), see Note (3)): Service revenues are recognized upon providing the service and are generally billed on a monthly basis. Certain SIM card services, access fees, monthly base fees, maintenance contracts, services and leased line revenues for business customers are to some extent billed in advance. These fees and revenues are recognized as deferrals (in 2018 in contract liabilities and in 2017 in deferred income (see Notes (24) and (26))) and as income over the period the service is provided or at the time the service is provided. In accordance with contract terms, equipment revenues are recognized upon delivery and acceptance by the customers. For sales that are neither part of multiple-element arrangements nor installment sales, customers pay at the time of sale. For sales that are part of multipleelement arrangements, customers pay the amount recognized in contract assets as part of the monthly fees invoiced over the term of the contract. In case of installment sales, customers pay equal installments over the term of the contract. Receivables and revenues from installment sales are not discounted if the period between the provision of goods and services and the payment is less than one year or if the discounting effect is insignificant. The materiality of the discounting effect of receivables with remaining terms of more than one year is considered on an individual contract level. In 2018, a discounting effect had to be recognized in Belarus only. A possible accretion effect is recognized in equipment revenues. When equipment is sold through dealers, these distributors are considered agents, i.e. the revenue is recognized once the mobile devices are sold to end customers. At the same time, dealer subsidies are treated as a reduction in revenue. Certain arrangements that A1 Telekom Austria Group enters into provide for the delivery of multiple deliverables. For mobile communication, these multiple-element arrangements typically include the sale of a handset, the activation fee, the service contract and, in Austria, the yearly SIM card fee. For fixed-line, these arrangements typically include Internet and fixed-line services including installation and optional TV and mobile communication services. If the requirements of IFRS 15 are met, A1 Telekom Austria Group generally determines that such arrangements are divided into separate “units of account” based on a determination of a separable benefit for the end customer for each deliverable on a standalone basis. Transaction prices are allocated to the performance obligations by reference to the relative stand-alone selling prices of the products and services. The stand-alone selling prices of products are based on the market prices of alternative providers whereas the stand-alone selling prices of services are available separately, as services are also offered on a stand-alone basis, i.e. without hardware. 20 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 100 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Customer loyalty programs, which lead to claims for the acquisition of new mobile handsets or accessories on the basis of sales made and which are settled with customers in the form of bonus points, are included in the calculation of multiple deliverables as well. Revenue is reduced at the time of the granting of the award credits, while revenue is recognized once the goods are redeemed or the awards expire. The stand-alone selling prices of bonus points are determined based on the stand-alone selling prices of the future services, adjusted for the probability of usage. For the majority of the contracts, A1 Telekom Austria Group applies the practical expedient according to IFRS 15 to pool similar contracts into portfolios, based on contract characteristics and duration. Only a small number of more complex contracts with major clients is calculated on individual contract basis. A1 Telekom Austria Group recognizes revenue from connection and roaming services to its customers based upon calling minutes or data volume used as income at the time that the service is provided, as long as connection and roaming services are not covered by contractually agreed fee schedules. Revenues due from other national and foreign carriers for incoming calls from outside A1 Telekom Austria Group’s network (interconnection) and roaming revenues are recognized in the period the call occurs or the data volume is used. Cash discounts and discounts granted retrospectively are accounted for as a reduction in revenue when granted. The discounts are calculated on an individual customer basis depending on the service revenue generated. Discounts (standardized multiple-element subsidies) are generally included in the multiple-element calculation leading, in the case of pure service contracts, to an equal reduction of revenue over the term of the contract. In multiple-element contracts, discounts are usually allocated to separate performance obligations according to the method of relative stand-alone prices, whereby a part of the revenue for equipment is reduced at a certain point in time and the other part of the revenue from services is reduced over a period of time. Due to the volumes they purchase, certain customers are granted also discounts on hardware and sometimes on services during the term of the service contract in addition to standardized multiple-element subsidies. These are included in the multiple-element calculation as well (“discounts granted for hardware”). There are no substantial warranties exceeding legal warranty obligations. Furthermore, there are no significant obligations for returns. At December 31, 2018, the total transaction price of the unfulfilled (or partly unfulfilled) performance obligations related to multipleelement arrangements amounts to up to 30% of segment revenues and will be realized over a contract term of twelve to 33 months as a general rule. The transaction price of unfulfilled performance obligations and timing of revenue recognition are not disclosed for performance obligations recognized at the amount to which A1 Telekom Austria Group has a right to invoice. (6) Cost and Expenses The following table shows cost and expenses according to type: in TEUR 2018 2017 Cost of equipment 627,941 584,243 Employee expenses, including social benefits and taxes 850,581 793,851 Other operating expenses 1,566,001 1,607,041 Total costs and expenses 3,044,524 2,985,135 The cost of equipment corresponds to material expense. Employee expenses, including social benefits and taxes, comprise all benefits to employees excluding own work capitalized, which is reported on a net basis. in TEUR 2018 2017 Own work capitalized 63,870 56,684 Own work capitalized represents the work performed for own purposes consisting mainly of employee costs and direct overheads capitalized primarily as part of property, plant and equipment. For the capitalization of internally developed software, see Note (16). 21 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 101 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Impairment losses of financial assets classified at amortized cost (2017: loans and receivables) are reported in the line item selling, general and administrative expenses and amount to (see Note (33)): in TEUR 2018 2017 Impairment losses 45,128 54,066 The line item depreciation and amortization in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is broken down as follows: in TEUR 2018 2017 Cost of service 630,306 683,038 Cost of equipment 24,134 27,346 Selling, general & administrative expenses 302,078 243,052 Depreciation and amortization 956,518 953,436 The increase in amortization in selling, general & administrative expenses is due mainly to the amortization of the local brands because of the roll-out of the brand A1 (see Note (16)). At the Annual General Meeting, Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. (EY) was appointed as group auditor for Telekom Austria AG. Expenses related to the group auditor amount to: in TEUR 2018 2017 Audit fees 1,121 1,298 Other reviews 26 184 Other services 110 142 Fees EY 1,257 1,623 The expenses in 2017 also include charges for 2016. In 2018, other reviews relate to expenses incurred for the certification of the internal control system according to ISAE3402-1 requested by customers, while in 2017, other reviews relate to expenses incurred for the issuance of bonds (see Note (25)). (7) Financial Result 2018 2017 Interest income on financial assets at amortized cost 5,306 14,198 Interest income on investments at fair value through profit or loss 65 0 Interest income on investments at fair value through other comprehensive income 10 130 Interest income 5,382 14,329 In 2017, interest income on investments at fair value through other comprehensive income includes interest income on available-for-sale financial assets. The decrease in interest income on financial assets at amortized cost (2017: “interest income on loans and receivables as well as cash deposits”) is due to the application of IFRS 15, since the presentation of a possible accretion effect was changed (see Notes (3) and (5)). in TEUR 2018 2017 Interest expense on financial liabilities 85,683 88,053 Interest capitalized – 3,369 – 5,833 Interest expense on asset retirement obligations 4,465 4,720 Interest expense on deferred considerations 88 8,333 Interest expense 86,866 95,274 Interest is recognized using the effective interest method. In 2017, interest expense on deferred considerations relates primarily to one.Vip in Macedonia (see Note (32)). 22 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 102 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost of the asset. A qualifying asset is an asset that requires a substantial period of time to be prepared for its intended use. In 2018 and 2017, interest capitalized on internally developed software as well as on qualifying assets of property, plant and equipment (see Notes (15) and (16)) was based on an interest rate of 2.9% and 3.3%, respectively. In 2018 and 2017, the calculation of interest capitalized for licenses was based on an interest rate of 3.125%, which is derived from a specific financing facility. in TEUR 2018 2017 Interest expense on employee benefit obligations 3,316 3,117 Interest expense on restructuring provision 3,861 4,824 Fees for unused credit lines 2,375 2,312 Dividends received – 339 – 471 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale securities transferred from other comprehensive income 0 – 44 Loss on disposal of debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 39 0 Result from other investments 0 – 32 Interest on taxes 5,394 1,514 Income from measurement of instruments at fair value through profit or loss – 326 0 Loss from measurement of instruments at fair value through profit or loss 434 0 Interest on employee benefits and restructuring and other financial items, net 14,754 11,220 Restructuring provisions contain onerous contracts in accordance with IAS 37 as well as provisions for social plans in accordance with IAS 19. For information on the interest rate for restructuring provisions and employee benefit obligations, see Notes (23) and (27). In 2018, interest on taxes relates to the final decision on a tax audit in Bulgaria covering the years 2008 and 2009 (see Note (29)). The amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and subsequently recognized in profit or loss are disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. in TEUR 2018 2017 Foreign exchange gains 14,452 10,359 Foreign exchange losses – 9,307 – 12,953 Foreign exchange differences 5,145 – 2,594 (8) Earnings per Share Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income or loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the year: As reported Without application IFRS 15 of IFRS 15 2018 2018 2017 Net result attributable to owners of the parent in TEUR 241,079 240,067 319,151 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 664,084,841 664,084,841 664,084,841 Basic and diluted earnings per share in euro 0.36 0.36 0.48 For the number of shares, see Note (28). According to IAS 33.12, the after-tax dividend on the hybrid capital is deducted from the net result attributable to owners of the parent, since the hybrid capital represents equity but does not constitute net result attributable to owners of the parent (see Note (28)). Due to Management’s decision to settle all share-based compensation plans in cash, no related dilutive effect occurred as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 23 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 103 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 (9) Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in banks and financial investments with remaining maturities of up to three months from the date of acquisition. The financial resource fund in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows is equal to cash and cash equivalents reported in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s investments are entered into with counterparties holding investment grade ratings, thus the result of the calculation of expected credit losses for cash and cash equivalents was immaterial and was not recognized. (10) Accounts Receivable: Subscribers, Distributors and Other, Net in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Accounts receivable, gross 1,071,578 898,399 Allowances – 241,204 – 219,106 Accounts receivable, net 830,375 679,292 Thereof remaining term of more than one year 66,126 0 The cumulated effect of the initial application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 was recognized in the opening balance at January 1, 2018 in accordance with the modified retrospective approach (see Note (3) – Impact at January 1, 2018). At December 31, 2018, accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other with remaining term of more than one year relate to installment sales receivables. For the change in presentation of installment sales receivables, see Notes (3), (13) and (20). The development of the allowance for accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other as well as their age structure is disclosed in “credit risk” in Note (33). (11) Related Party Transactions The significant shareholders América Móvil and ÖBIB are considered related parties due to their stake in Telekom Austria AG allowing them to control and to exercise significant influence, respectively. Through América Móvil, A1 Telekom Austria Group is also related to its subsidiaries. Through ÖBIB, A1 Telekom Austria Group is related to the Republic of Austria and its subsidiaries, which are mainly ÖBB Group, ASFINAG Group and Post Group as well as Rundfunk und Telekom Regulierungs-GmbH (RTR), all of which qualify as related parties. A1 Telekom Austria Group has determined the type and amount of the transactions entered into with these related parties. In 2018 and 2017, revenues generated with these related parties amounted to approximately 2% of total revenues. In 2018 and 2017, services received from the related parties mentioned above relate mainly to postage fees, transportation, commissions, roaming and fees to RTR and amount to approximately 3% of total cost and expenses excluding employee expenses (see Note (6)). A1 Telekom Austria Group is obligated to provide communication services for disadvantaged individuals at reduced tariffs for which it is entitled to appropriate compensation from the Republic of Austria on a contractual basis. The contract with the Republic of Austria entered into in July 2016 specifies the reimbursement of EUR 10.00 per customer per month for customers having a valid official notice. The total reimbursement recorded as revenue in the service period was TEUR 12,260 and TEUR 13,419 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. See Note (23) regarding the transfer of civil servants, who cannot be laid off, to the federal government and the related expenses, provisions and liabilities. The revenues from and expenses charged to associated companies are set forth in the following table: in TEUR 2018 2017 Revenues (incl. other operating income) 1,690 1,591 Expenses 569 10,759 In 2017, the expenses relate mainly to advertising and marketing services provided by media.at-Group, which was sold on July 18, 2017 (see Note (18)). At December 31, 2018 and 2017, accounts receivable due from related parties and accounts payable due to related parties, as recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, relate primarily to Telecom Liechtenstein (see Note (18)) and subsidiaries of América Móvil. 24 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 104 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 All transactions with related parties are continually monitored and documented to ensure that pricing is at arm’s length. The following table shows the compensation of key management personnel as well as the expenses for pensions and severance for other employees. Key management personnel is defined as the members of the management boards and the managing directors of all significant operating companies of A1 Telekom Austria Group registered in the Company Register as well as the members of the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG. in TEUR 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 7,389 7,393 Pensions 383 538 Other long-term benefits 306 229 Termination benefits 98 685 Share-based payments 759 1,752 Compensation of key management 8,933 10,599 Expenses for pensions and severance for other employees 21,803 21,142 Expenses for pensions and severance for Management Board 291 235 For members of the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG, see Note (36). Expenses for pensions and severance consist of voluntary and legal severance expenses, contributions to pension plans and other pension payments. (12) Inventories Inventories consist of merchandise sold in the shops of A1 Telekom Austria Group or by distributors and are measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost being determined on the basis of weighted average cost less allowance based on the turnover rate of the last twelve months. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated selling expense. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying amount of merchandise measured at fair value less cost to sell amounted to TEUR 36,754 and TEUR 47,482, respectively. The net amount related to impairment loss and reversal of impairment of inventory that is recognized in cost of equipment consists of: in TEUR 2018 2017 Write-down/ reversals of write-down of inventories – 513 – 973 Impairment loss: negative values; reversal of impairment: positive values (13) Other Current Assets Other current assets are broken down as follows: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Prepaid expenses 62,017 103,782 Other current assets 50,928 149,594 Contract costs 40,195 0 Total 153,140 253,376 Prepaid expenses in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Advances to employees 16,169 16,920 Rent 9,910 11,106 Marketing expenses 1,997 38,421 Concession fees 18,517 22,559 Other 15,425 14,777 Prepaid expenses 62,017 103,782 25 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 105 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 At December 31, 2017, prepaid marketing expenses consist mainly of subsidies for mobile handsets, which were expensed over the minimum contractual term. According to IFRS 15, these subsidies are recognized as a reduction in revenue (see Note (3)). Other current assets in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Installment sales 0 116,785 Other financial assets 7,495 10,077 Financial assets 7,495 126,862 Fiscal authorities 3,064 4,932 Customer loyalty program deferrals 0 17,565 Advance payments 2,859 1,617 Government grants 30,962 8,264 Other non-financial assets 9,837 8,136 Non-financial assets 46,721 40,512 Other current assets, gross 54,216 167,374 Less allowance for financial assets – 724 – 15,231 Less allowance for non-financial assets – 2,564 – 2,550 Other current assets 50,928 149,594 At December 31, 2017, installment sales receivables relate to mobile handsets and tablets and equal the present value of the installments less already amortized amounts and relate to all segments. As of 2018, installment sales receivables are reported in accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net (see Notes (3) and (10)). According to IFRS 15, deferrals for customer loyalty programs are reported in contract assets (see Notes (3) and (14)). The increase in government grants is due to the expansion of the broadband network in Austria. Other current non-financial assets consist mainly of claims against the Republic of Austria (see Note (11)), indemnification payments due from insurance companies and receivables due from employees. The development of the allowance for financial assets as well as their age structure is disclosed in “credit risk” in Note (33). Contract costs Provisions paid to third parties and to employees are recognized as deferrals if they are costs of obtaining a customer contract and if they are expected to be recovered. As contract costs are expected to be realized in A1 Telekom Austria Group’s normal operating cycle, they are classified as current. A1 Telekom Austria Group applies the practical expedient not to capitalize incremental costs of obtaining a contract with an amortization period of one year or less. in TEUR 2018 Contract costs gross 41,111 Allowance contract costs – 917 Contract costs, net 40,195 Thereof remaining term of more than one year 14,652 At January 1, 2018, contract costs amounting to TEUR 42,316 were recognized (see Note (3)). Contract costs are expensed over the expected duration of the underlying contract using the straight-line method. In 2018, the amortization of TEUR 36,869 was recognized in selling expenses. Impairment losses are recognized in selling expenses if the related customer receivable or contract asset has to be remeasured according to IFRS 9. The following table shows the development of the valuation allowance for contract costs: 26 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 106 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 in TEUR 2018 At January 1 931 Foreign currency adjustment 2 Reversed – 808 Charged to expenses 792 At December 31 917 (14) Contract Assets A1 Telekom Austria Group recognizes contract assets for contractual rights to consideration for goods transferred or services performed. Contract assets include mainly deferrals for relevant multiple-element arrangements for mobile communication services and for performance obligations for fixed-line services as well as deferrals for customer loyalty programs, discounts granted for hardware and installation fees (see Note (5)). As contract assets are expected to be realized as part of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s normal operating cycle, they are classified as current. Contract assets are reclassified to receivables when the right to the consideration becomes unconditional. Contract liabilities for customer loyalty programs and discounts granted for hardware amounting to TEUR 65,800 are included in the multiple-element calculation and thus netted with contract assets. The following table shows the development of gross contract assets as well as a reconciliation with net contract assets and its portion with a remaining term of more than one year: in TEUR 2018 At January 1 148,983 Increases 218,896 Transfers to receivables – 223,293 Foreign currency adjustments 324 At December 31 144,910 Allowances – 3,796 Contract assets, net 141,114 Thereof remaining term of more than one year 50,248 The development of the allowance regarding contract assets is disclosed in “credit risk” in Note (33). (15) Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, which includes certain costs that are capitalized during the installation and expansion of the assets, for example material, payroll, direct overhead and interest costs as well as the present value of estimated decommissioning and restoration obligations (see Note (23)). Value-added tax (VAT), which is charged by suppliers and refunded by the tax authorities, is not included in cost. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred, while replacements and improvements are capitalized. The cost and accumulated depreciation of assets sold or retired are removed from the accounts, and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in other operating expenses or other operating income. 27 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Network in Construction in Inventories for operation Land and progress operation of the in TEUR and equipment buildings Other assets and advances network Total Cost At January 1, 2017 9,971,254 876,137 475,633 232,261 141,061 11,696,346 Additions 245,001 10,541 29,989 229,625 97,515 612,670 Disposals – 305,532 – 6,873 – 61,729 – 1,037 – 7,764 – 382,935 Transfers 319,405 4,745 21,521 – 213,683 – 104,153 27,835 Translation adjustment – 29,298 – 3,455 – 8,266 – 3,991 273 – 44,736 Changes in reporting entities 81,965 1,296 3,779 1,624 167 88,831 At December 31, 2017 10,282,795 882,392 460,926 244,799 127,099 11,998,011 Additions 181,302 32,024 34,676 251,932 115,244 615,179 Disposals – 398,563 – 10,444 – 39,330 – 992 – 6,805 – 456,134 Transfers 293,446 26,067 10,775 – 210,296 – 122,540 – 2,548 Translation adjustment – 686 – 624 – 2,061 – 1,142 264 – 4,248 Changes in reporting entities 5,647 391 114 61 85 6,297 At December 31, 2018 10,363,942 929,806 465,100 284,361 113,348 12,156,558 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At January 1, 2017 – 8,093,974 – 641,526 – 369,598 0 – 40,495 – 9,145,592 Additions – 452,321 – 25,977 – 43,006 0 – 11,051 – 532,354 Disposals 295,367 4,828 60,606 0 2,929 363,730 Transfers – 22,026 – 129 – 251 0 0 – 22,405 Translation adjustment 16,615 521 3,537 0 – 92 20,580 Changes in reporting entities – 51,485 – 54 – 2,511 0 0 – 54,051 At December 31, 2017 – 8,307,823 – 662,338 – 351,223 0 – 48,708 – 9,370,092 Additions – 439,612 – 22,186 – 45,854 0 7,505 – 500,146 Disposals 384,043 6,994 38,450 0 4,941 434,428 Transfers – 4,211 – 14 3,409 0 0 – 816 Translation adjustment – 2,086 – 234 803 0 – 114 – 1,631 Changes in reporting entities – 2,170 – 47 0 0 0 – 2,217 At December 31, 2018 – 8,371,858 – 677,825 – 354,414 0 – 36,377 – 9,440,474 Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 1,992,084 251,981 110,686 284,361 76,971 2,716,084 December 31, 2017 1,974,972 220,054 109,703 244,799 78,391 2,627,919 Other assets include mainly office and business equipment as well as automobiles. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method. If an event or circumstance indicates that the assets may be impaired, they are tested for impairment (see impairment test in Note (16)). Property, plant and equipment under finance lease and leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the lease term or the estimated useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter. The useful lives are: Years Network in operation and equipment 3-20 Buildings and leasehold improvements 3-50 Other assets 2-14 Inventories for operation of the network are used primarily for A1 Telekom Austria Group’s network expansion. In accordance with IAS 16.8, they are reported in property, plant and equipment as A1 Telekom Austria Group expects to use these items during more than one period. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the carrying amount of land amounted to TEUR 59,791 and TEUR 59,347, respectively. Government grants for assets totaling TEUR 33,603 and TEUR 10,727 were deducted from acquisition cost in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in government grants is due to the expansion of the broadband network in Austria. 28 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 108 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 At December 31, 2018 and 2017, contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amount to TEUR 145,836 and TEUR 153,005, respectively. Sensitivity analysis The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and of intangible assets represent the periods in which the assets are estimated to be used by A1 Telekom Austria Group. A change in the useful lives by one year would lead to the following changes in depreciation and amortization: in TEUR 2018 2017 Decrease due to extension by one year 205,818 243,924 Increase due to reduction by one year 316,325 356,251 Due to the amortization of local brands (see Note (16)), the reduction of useful life by one year resulted in a significant increase in 2017, as brands might have been completely amortized within a year. (16) Intangibles Advances/ Licenses and Brand names Customer construction in in TEUR rights of use and patents Software base progress Total Cost At January 1, 2017 2,148,093 658,150 1,280,135 1,131,356 61,633 5,279,367 Additions 26,216 2,234 44,549 0 84,573 157,572 Disposals – 1,943 – 51,487 – 50,614 – 41,298 – 63 – 145,404 Transfers – 21,467 2,994 64,243 1,906 – 75,510 – 27,835 Translation adjustment 1,641 – 8,606 – 6,552 – 34,760 – 665 – 48,943 Changes in reporting entities 5,768 3,907 7,232 23,830 0 40,737 At December 31, 2017 2,158,307 607,192 1,338,995 1,081,033 69,968 5,255,494 Additions 7,883 8,671 55,715 3,286 85,191 160,747 Disposals – 15,030 – 14,562 – 100,155 0 – 181 – 129,927 Transfers 18,474 – 17,428 71,551 240 – 70,291 2,548 Translation adjustment – 1,131 – 2,504 – 1,256 – 9,911 – 189 – 14,991 Changes in reporting entities 0 287 132 685 0 1,105 At December 31, 2018 2,168,505 581,656 1,364,982 1,075,333 84,499 5,274,976 Accumulated amortization and impairment At January 1, 2017 – 741,399 – 141,148 – 1,027,844 – 1,047,581 0 – 2,957,973 Additions – 127,404 – 127,442 – 142,452 – 23,784 0 – 421,082 Disposals 1,780 51,468 50,481 41,298 0 145,027 Transfers 21,960 756 – 310 0 0 22,405 Translation adjustment 798 – 153 5,358 34,148 0 40,151 Changes in reporting entities – 3,052 0 – 5,094 0 0 – 8,145 At December 31, 2017 – 847,317 – 216,521 – 1,119,860 – 995,918 0 – 3,179,616 Additions – 119,692 – 199,669 – 122,238 – 14,773 0 – 456,371 Disposals 14,981 14,562 100,004 0 0 129,547 Transfers – 5,431 14,790 – 8,543 0 0 816 Translation adjustment 1,104 1,086 975 10,165 0 13,330 Changes in reporting entities 0 0 0 0 0 0 At December 31, 2018 – 956,355 – 385,752 – 1,149,662 – 1,000,526 0 – 3,492,295 Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 1,212,150 195,904 215,321 74,807 84,499 1,782,681 December 31, 2017 1,310,990 390,671 219,135 85,114 69,968 2,075,878 Licenses not yet put into operation are included in licenses and rights of use. 29 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 109 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Intangible assets with finite useful lives are recognized at acquisition cost and amortized over their respective useful lives. If there is an indication of impairment, intangible assets are tested for impairment (see impairment test). Amortization using the straight-line method is based on the following useful lives: Years Mobile communications and fixed net licenses 8-20 Rights of use 2-33 Patents 5-12 Software 2-14 Subscriber base 2-16 Rights of use with useful lives of more than 20 years relate to indefeasible rights of use of cable fiber or wavelengths that are used over a fixed period of time. These rights of use are amortized over the term of the contract. A1 Telekom Austria Group holds mobile telecommunication licenses (GSM, UMTS and LTE) provided by regulatory authorities in Austria, Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia, Bulgaria, Belarus and Macedonia. Licenses are recorded at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis. The total cost incurred for the major license agreements, which will expire between 2019 and 2033, amounts to TEUR 1,967. The following table shows expected amortization expense related to intangible assets with a finite useful life for each of the following periods: in TEUR 2019 269,950 2020 209,102 2021 183,979 2022 150,728 2023 125,495 Thereafter 683,095 The following table shows the changes in the carrying amounts of brand names by segment: Corporate & in TEUR Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus Slovenia Macedonia Other Total At January 1, 2017 158,351 243,704 25,301 76,184 1,391 5,276 0 510,207 Amortization 0 – 99,697 – 7,473 – 12,983 – 1,391 – 1,664 0 – 123,207 Translation adjustment 0 0 198 – 9,089 0 –4 – 35 – 8,929 Changes in reporting entities 0 0 1,404 561 0 0 1,942 3,907 At December 31, 2017 158,351 144,007 19,431 54,673 0 3,609 1,907 381,978 Amortization 0 – 144,007 – 19,680 – 31,377 0 – 2,886 0 – 197,950 Translation adjustment 0 –0 249 – 1,751 0 –1 73 – 1,429 Changes in reporting entities 0 0 0 287 0 0 0 287 At December 31, 2018 158,351 0 –0 21,833 0 722 1,981 182,886 Regarding the changes in business combinations, see Note (34). Brand names are classified as intangible assets with an indefinite useful life based on an analysis of product life cycles, contractual and legal control of the asset and other pertinent factors. In the course of business combinations, brand names are recognized at fair value based on the “relief of royalty” method. If a brand name is intended for discontinuation in the foreseeable future, its carrying amount is amortized over its remaining estimated useful life. In September 2017, harmonization of the brands in the entire A1 Telekom Austria Group was resolved. Depending on the 30 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 110 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 respective markets, the Austrian brand “A1” will be rolled out to all segments by the third quarter of 2019 at the latest, and the local brands are therefore amortized accordingly in the relevant business segments (see amortization in the table on changes in the carrying values of brand names by segment). The following table shows the recognized brand names: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 A1 Telekom Austria 144,910 144,910 Cable Runner 491 491 YESSS! 12,950 12,950 Total Austria 158,351 158,351 Mobiltel 0 144,007 Total Bulgaria 0 144,007 Vipnet 0 18,576 Metronet 0 855 Total Croatia 0 19,431 velcom 21,833 54,673 Total Belarus 21,833 54,673 one 722 3,609 Total Macedonia 722 3,609 Exoscale 1,981 1,907 Total Corporate & Other 1,981 1,907 Total Brand Names 182,886 381,978 Thereof with indefinite useful lives 160,331 160,258 Thereof with definite useful lives 22,554 221,720 Certain direct and indirect development costs associated with internally developed software are capitalized once the project has reached the application development stage. The development costs are generally amortized using the straight-line method over a period not to exceed four years, beginning when the asset is essentially ready for use. Development costs requiring capitalization include direct costs of materials and purchased services as well as payroll costs. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, maintenance and training costs as well as research and development costs (with the exception of the above-mentioned capitalizable development costs) are expensed immediately in the year they arise. The following table shows internally developed software included in the line item “Software”: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Total cost 125,093 120,965 Accumulated amortization – 105,069 – 97,531 Carrying amount 20,025 23,435 Additions 2,595 1,922 In 2018 and 2017, transfers include reclassifications of advances/construction in progress to tangible and intangible assets. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, contractual commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets amounted to TEUR 27,278 and TEUR 25,852, respectively. 31 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 111 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 In 2018, the estimated useful lives of certain software programs in the segments Austria and Bulgaria were reduced due to fast technological progress, which led to an increase in amortization of TEUR 8,255. Impairment test Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for impairment if facts or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset could be above its fair value. The impairment test is performed for all property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, regardless of whether they are intended for sale or not. In accordance with IAS 36, an impairment loss is recognized when an asset’s carrying amount exceeds the higher of its fair value less costs to sell or its value in use. Fair value is the amount obtainable from the sale of the asset in an arm’s length transaction. Value in use is based on the discounted cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. Impairment charges are recorded separately in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. If there is any indication that the impairment recognized in prior periods no longer exists, A1 Telekom Austria Group considers the need to reverse all or a portion of the impairment charge. Brand names classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year in accordance with IAS 36, as described in Note (17). If an event or circumstance indicates that an asset may be impaired, impairment tests are carried out. Since brand names do not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets, the value in use can be determined only for the asset’s cash-generating unit. The second step according to IAS 36.107 is to determine whether an impairment loss should be recognized based on the total cash-generating unit. (17) Goodwill Goodwill is recognized in the course of business combinations and is measured as the difference between the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred as of the acquisition date and the amount of any non-controlling interest less the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The following table illustrates the changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to the individual cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination: in TEUR Austria Bulgaria Croatia Belarus Slovenia Macedonia A1 Digital Total At January 1, 2017 708,211 242,691 102,203 11,018 147,632 30,068 0 1,241,823 Translation adjustment 0 0 515 – 1,533 0 –8 – 138 – 1,164 Acquisitions 0 0 23,322 4,662 0 0 7,698 35,682 At December 31, 2017 708,211 242,691 126,041 14,146 147,632 30,060 7,560 1,276,342 Translation adjustment 0 0 1,721 – 616 0 0 290 1,396 Acquisitions 0 0 0 173 0 0 0 173 At December 31, 2018 708,212 242,691 127,762 13,703 147,632 30,060 7,851 1,277,910 For details of acquisitions, see Note (34). Acquisition cost of goodwill amounted to: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Segment Austria 712,232 712,231 Segment Bulgaria 642,691 642,691 Segment Croatia 132,868 131,078 Segment Belarus 437,684 459,386 Segment Slovenia 175,556 175,556 Segment Macedonia 35,171 35,171 A1 Digital 7,851 7,560 Total cost 2,144,052 2,163,673 32 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 112 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements20182018 Cumulative impairment charges of goodwill amounted to: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Segment Austria 4,020 4,020 Segment Bulgaria 400,000 400,000 Segment Croatia 5,106 5,037 Segment Belarus 423,981 445,240 Segment Slovenia 27,924 27,924 Segment Macedonia 5,111 5,111 Accumulated impairment 866,141 887,332 Impairment test Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and other intangible assets that are not yet available for use are not amortized, but are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 at least once a year in the fourth quarter, irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, by comparing their carrying amounts with their recoverable amounts. If an event or circumstance indicates that an asset may be impaired, impairment tests are also carried out. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are summarized in cash-generating units, which are the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash inflows and that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units or groups of units, starting from the acquisition date. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall: (a) represent the lowest level within the entity at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and (b) not be larger than an operating segment. Cashgenerating units to which goodwill has been allocated shall be tested for impairment annually by comparing the carrying amount of the unit, including its goodwill, with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. A1 Telekom Austria Group performs these impairment tests by calculating the value in use based on capital-market-oriented valuation methodology. The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) applied corresponds to the weighted average interest on equity and debt. Value in use is determined by estimating the future net cash flows of the cash-generating unit based on the business plans with a detailed planning period of five years. Significant assumptions to determine the value in use comprise the development of revenues, cost drivers, working capital changes, capital expenditure, growth rate and discount rate. Assumptions in terms of revenue development are based on historical performance, industry forecasts, and external market data such as the development of gross domestic product (GDP), inflation rates, currency rates, population and other parameters. Cost drivers and capital expenditure are based on past experience and internal expectations. Growth rates applied to the perpetual annuity consider general growth rates and company-specific revenue growth rates of prior periods and those used in detailed planning, respectively. The discount rate applied for discounting future cash flows is determined for each cash-generating unit separately based on market data and taking into account specific risks associated with the cash-generating unit. The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the investors. The cost of debt as well as beta factors and capital structure are derived from the peer group based on publicly available market data. 33 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 113 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 20182018 The following parameters were used to calculate the value in use: Growth rates perpetual annuity Pre-tax interest rates* 2018 2017 2018 2017 Segment Austria 1.5% 1.1% 7.2% 6.8% Segment Bulgaria 3.0% 1.6% 8.4% 7.4% Segment Croatia 2.5% 2.9% 10.7% 9.2% Segment Belarus 8.5% 9.7% 18.4% 20.0% Segment Slovenia 1.3% 1.2% 8.6% 8.2% Segment Macedonia 1.4% 0.3% 11.0% 9.5% A1 Digital 1.5% 1.1% 7.0% 6.5% * Based on a risk-free interest rate, adjusted for market, country and industry-specific risks. A standard discount rate is used for all planning periods. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the value in use in the segment Austria amounts to TEUR 6,877,996 and TEUR 6,743,288, respectively, in the segment Bulgaria TEUR 1,294,350 and TEUR 1,182,835, respectively, in the segment Croatia TEUR 374,186 and TEUR 389,824, respectively, in the segment Belarus TEUR 1,001,662 and TEUR 1,110,626, respectively, in the segment Slovenia TEUR 379,349 and TEUR 411,851, respectively, in the segment Macedonia TEUR 224,553 and TEUR 202,172, respectively, and in the cash-generating unit A1 Digital the value in use amounts to TEUR 86,997 and TEUR 467,318, respectively. The value in use is compared with the carrying amount of the cash-generating units (including goodwill). Impairment charges are recognized in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the cash-generating units exceeds the value in use. The impairment loss shall first be allocated to the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit, and then to the other assets of the cash-generating unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the cash-generating unit, provided that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit. These reductions in the carrying amounts represent impairment losses on individual assets. If the value in use of the cash-generating unit exceeds its carrying amount, the cash-generating unit and the goodwill allocated to that cashgenerating unit shall be regarded as not impaired. Rather, A1 Telekom Austria Group examines if impairment losses recognized in the past (with the exception of goodwill) must be reversed again. Sensitivity analysis The use of the following pre-tax interest rates would lead to the carrying amount equaling the value in use at December 31, 2018 and 2017: Pre-tax interest rates* 2018 2017 Segment Austria 14.0% 13.3% Segment Bulgaria 14.4% 11.0% Segment Croatia 13.0% 11.1% Segment Belarus 38.1% 45.6% Segment Slovenia 8.9% 9.2% Segment Macedonia 15.6% 13.8% A1 Digital 14.0% 26.5% * Based on a risk-free interest rate, adjusted for market, country and industry-specific risks. In the segment Austria, the sensitivity analysis was carried out for A1 Telekom Austria AG only. 34 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 114 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 The following table lists the changes in revenues, cost drivers, and capital expenditure that would lead to the carrying amounts equaling the value in use at December 31, 2018 and 2017 with respect to the key markets: 2018 Revenues Cost Capital expenditures Segment Austria – 10.8% 18.3% 51.3% Segment Bulgaria – 10.4% 18.0% 48.2% Segment Croatia – 3.4% 5.5% 15.8% Segment Belarus – 21.4% 50.1% 99.9% Segment Slovenia – 0.9% 1.3% 5.6% Segment Macedonia – 7.7% 13.3% 43.9% A1 Digital – 7.2% 8.8% 67.6% 2017 Revenues Cost Capital expenditures Segment Austria – 10.3% 17.3% 48.1% Segment Bulgaria – 8.3% 13.9% 43.7% Segment Croatia – 3.2% 5.0% 15.6% Segment Belarus – 25.7% 60.0% 141.1% Segment Slovenia – 2.6% 3.9% 18.8% Segment Macedonia – 7.9% 13.9% 39.6% A1 Digital – 18.2% 25.7% 153.6% In the segment Austria, the sensitivity analysis was carried out for A1 Telekom Austria AG only. (18) Investments in Associates At December 31, 2018 and 2017, investments in associates accounted for using the equity method relate to Telecom Liechtenstein AG only. The capital share as well as the allocation to the segments are disclosed in Note (34). The following table shows the development of investments in associates: in TEUR 2018 2017 At January 1 33,971 40,820 Dividends received – 771 0 Recognized income – 895 – 529 Changes in reporting entities 0 – 4,200 Translation adjustment 882 – 2,120 At December 31 33,188 33,971 Dividends received are reported in the net cash flow from investing activities. On July 18, 2017, A1 Telekom Austria Group sold its 25.3% stake in media.at for a consideration of TEUR 4,052, which was paid in cash. In 2017, the resulting loss of TEUR 148 was recognized in the line item “Equity interest in net income of associated companies”. In 2018, a further payment of TEUR 127 was made and recognized in the line item “Equity interest in net income of associated companies”. The following table shows the difference between the investment in associates and their proportionate equity: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Proportionate equity 14,963 14,661 Goodwill 10,882 10,882 Purchase price allocation 7,343 8,428 Investments in associates 33,188 33,971 35 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 115 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements 2018 STATEMENTS 2018 (19) Investments in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss mandatory 3,705 0 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income mandatory 2,826 0 Debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss mandatory 1,614 0 Investments at amortized cost 3,330 0 Other investments carried at cost 0 1,546 Other long-term investments* 0 580 Marketable securities available-for-sale, long-term 0 10,765 Investments 11,475 12,891 * For the classification of financial instruments according to IFRS 9 and IAS 39, see Note (3). All equity instruments held at December 31, 2018 are classified as “at fair value through profit or loss”. “Equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss – mandatory” comprise both quoted and unquoted equity instruments. “Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income – mandatory” include quoted bonds with investment grade ratings, thus the result of the calculation of expected credit losses is immaterial and was not recognized. Interest income is recognized in profit or loss and calculated the same way as interest income on financial assets at amortized cost, i.e. the premium is recognized in profit or loss over the remaining term according to the effective interest method (see Note (7)). The remaining changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI), net of income tax. “Debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss – mandatory” include other long-term financial investments that do not meet the solely payment of principal and interest (“SPPI”) criterium and serve partially as coverage for the provision for pensions in Austria. Financial assets at amortized cost include fixed deposits and serve mainly as cash reserve for the subsidiary paybox Bank AG according to the requirements of the Capital Requirements Regulation, the “Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process” and contractual obligations to the licensor VISA. Marketable securities available-for-sale at December 31, 2017 include quoted bonds and equity instruments as well as other financial investments. In accordance with IAS 39, A1 Telekom Austria Group carried these securities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses resulting from the change in their fair value were recorded in other comprehensive income (OCI), net of income tax. Other long-term investments at December 31, 2017 include fixed deposits. Other investments carried at cost at December 31, 2017 include investments in unquoted equity instruments (investments). (20) Other Non-current Assets in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Installment sales 0 49,606 Other financial assets 9,191 1,555 Financial assets 9,191 51,161 Other non-financial assets 8,618 8,557 Other non-current assets, gross 17,809 59,718 Less allowance for financial assets 0 – 1,771 Other non-current assets 17,809 57,947 For information on installment sales receivables, see Note (13). Starting 2018, installment sales receivables are reported in accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net (see Notes (3) and (10)). Other non-financial assets include essentially prepayments for maintenance agreements, license fees and rent. Development of the allowance for non-current installment sales receivables and other non-current financial assets as well as their age structure is disclosed in “Credit risk” in Note (33). 36 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 116 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 (21) Short-term Debt and Current Portion of Long-term Debt in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Short-term debt 245,000 17 Current portion of lease obligations 256 549 Short-term debt 245,257 566 For further information regarding the current portion of lease obligations as well as of long-term financial debt, see Notes (25) and (30). Further funding sources are disclosed in Note (33). (22) Accounts Payable Accounts payable consist of the following items: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Fiscal authorities 58,077 63,097 Social security 11,244 10,483 Employees 38,765 35,546 Long-term incentive program 2,627 2,823 Employees transferred to government 303 1,249 Prepayments from customers 12,147 11,903 Government 153 142 Other non-financial liabilities 5,435 4,153 Current non-financial liabilities 128,751 129,395 Suppliers 745,377 592,032 Deferred consideration from business combinations 1,271 19 Accrued interest 29,990 29,990 Cash deposits received 10,635 9,921 Other current financial liabilities 21,874 22,886 Current financial liabilities 809,147 654,848 Accounts payable 937,898 784,243 Liabilities due to tax authorities include mostly value-added taxes and payroll taxes. Liabilities regarding social security relate to statutory contributions to the social security system. Liabilities due to employees relate mainly to salaries payable (including overtime and travel allowances), unused vacation days as well as one-time termination benefits and service awards. For information on the long-term incentive program, see Note (31). The liabilities regarding employees transferred to government include compensation for reductions in salaries, lump sum payments for any shortfall in pension payments, as well as one-off payments to civil servants of A1 Telekom Austria Group (see Note (23)). At December 31, 2018 and 2017, accounts payable amounting to TEUR 11,199 and TEUR 20,788, respectively, have a maturity of more than twelve months. Purchase price liabilities from business combinations relate to the acquisition of Metronet in 2017 (see also Note (32)). Accrued interest includes interest on bonds (see Note (25)). In 2018 and 2017, other current financial liabilities include mainly customer deposits related to vouchers for parking and shopping. 37 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 117 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 (23) Accrued Liabilities and Current Provisions, Asset Retirement Obligation and Restructuring Asset retirement in TEUR Restructuring Employees obligation Legal Other Total At January 1, 2018 500,957 105,208 247,692 13,301 25,860 893,018 Additions 68,990 33,646 3,171 931 6,547 113,284 Changes in estimates – 464 0 – 10,332 0 0 – 10,796 Used – 91,656 – 30,544 – 3,577 – 509 – 5,130 – 131,416 Released – 47,700 – 13,382 – 2,315 – 6,223 – 3,752 – 73,373 Accretion expense 3,861 0 4,465 0 0 8,326 Reclassifications* – 206 10,597 0 0 5 10,397 Translation adjustment 0 12 – 156 36 17 – 91 Changes in reporting entities 0 0 0 0 344 344 At December 31, 2018 433,782 105,538 238,948 7,535 23,891 809,694 Thereof long-term December 31, 2018 337,008 0 238,948 0 0 575,956 December 31, 2017 399,159 0 247,692 0 0 646,852 * Reclassification to current liabilities and short-term portion of employee benefit obligations. The cumulative effect of the initial application of IFRS 15 was recognized in the opening balance at January 1, 2018 in accordance with the modified retrospective approach (see Note (3) – Impact at January 1, 2018). In calculating provisions, the Management Board must assess if there are obligations to third parties that will probably lead to a payment outflow for A1 Telekom Austria Group and that can be estimated reliably. Provisions are recognized in the amount of the probable utilization. Even if a payout of the provisions is not expected in the following financial year, provisions and accrued liabilities, with the exception of the asset retirement obligation and the provision for restructuring, are reported as short-term provisions since A1 Telekom Austria Group has no influence on the timing of the utilization. Restructuring In 2008, a comprehensive restructuring program was initiated in the segment Austria. The provision for restructuring includes future compensation of employees who will no longer provide services for A1 Telekom Austria Group but who cannot be laid off due to their status as civil servants. These employment contracts are onerous contracts under IAS 37, as the unavoidable cost related to the contractual obligation exceeds the future economic benefit. The restructuring program also includes social plans for employees whose employments will be terminated in a socially responsible way. In 2009 and every year from 2011 to 2018, new social plans were initiated that provide for early retirement, special severance packages and golden handshake options. Due to their nature as termination benefits, these social plans are accounted for according to IAS 19. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the corresponding liability amounts to TEUR 420,987 and TEUR 482,858 and includes 1,863 and 1,879 employees, respectively. Provisions for restructuring are recorded at their present value. In 2018 and 2017, the rates of compensation increase used to measure the provisions are the same as those used for employee benefit obligations (see Note (27)). The following table provides the discount rates used, which are determined based on the Mercer Yield Curve Approach taking into account the respective maturities: 2018 2017 Employees permanently leaving the service process 1.50% 1.25% Social plans 0.75% 0.75% Civil servants transferred to the government 1.50% 1.25% Changes in the provision are recognized in employee expense and reported in the line item “Selling, general and administrative expenses”, while the accretion expense is reported in the financial result in the line item “Interest expense on restructuring provision” (see Note (7)). The provision was reversed, mainly because a number of employees returned to regular operations, were transferred to the government or opted for plans such as golden handshakes, special severance packages and early retirement to an extent not foreseeable at the time of measurement in the previous year. 38 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 118 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Based on the general agreement for the transfer of personnel, which was entered into with the Austrian government in 2013, civil servants transferring voluntarily to the government can apply for a permanent transfer after a probation period of six months. During this probation period, A1 Telekom Austria Group bears the salary expense. In case of a permanent transfer, A1 Telekom Austria Group must compensate the government for any excess expense arising due to differing professional classifications of work places. Furthermore, compensation payments (or one-off payments) must be made to civil servants up to the age of 62. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, the provision for the transfer of civil servants to the government amounts to TEUR 12,796 and TEUR 18,099 and comprises 159 and 176 employees, respectively. For information on the liability for employees transferred to the government, see Note (22). Weighted average duration The weighted average duration of the restructuring obligations is as follows: 2018 2017 Employees permanently leaving the service process 7.2 7.6 Social plans 3.4 3.4 Civil servants transferred to the government 6.3 6.7 Sensitivity analysis A change of one percentage point in the discount rate or in the rate of compensation would lead to the following changes in provisions (negative values indicate a reduction in provisions): in TEUR, at December 31, 2018 1 percentage point increase 1 percentage point decrease Change in discount rate – 16,001 14,563 Change in rate of compensation 13,830 – 13,151 in TEUR, at December 31, 2017 Change in discount rate – 20,334 19,268 Change in rate of compensation 17,998 – 16,987 Employees The provisions for employees contain mainly bonuses and the short-term portion of employee benefit obligations for severance, service awards and pensions (see also Note (27)). In its judgement of November 11, 2014, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled that the Austrian law determining the reference date for salary increments for Austrian civil servants (this date determines the length of service and thus the date for advancing to the next salary level) conflicted with European Union law. For this reason, A1 Telekom Austria Group recognized a provision in its consolidated financial statements of TEUR 45,734 and TEUR 50,487 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively for imminent back payments of salaries to the civil servants assigned to it. Asset retirement obligation Liabilities for asset retirement obligations are measured at their net present value in accordance with IAS 37, the increase in the liability that reflects the passage of time is recognized in profit or loss (see Note (7)). The effects of changes in the measurement from existing provisions are accounted for in accordance with IFRIC 1. Changes in the measurement of these liabilities resulting from changes in the estimated timing or amount of the outflow of resources or changes in the parameters shall be added to or deducted from the cost of the assets in the current period. The amount deducted from the asset shall not exceed its carrying amount. Any excess amount is reported in profit or loss. If the adjustment results in an addition to the asset, the company must review whether there is an indication that the new carrying amount of the asset may not be fully recoverable. If there is such an indication, the asset shall be tested for impairment and any impairment losses shall be recorded. A1 Telekom Austria Group records asset retirement obligations for the retirement and decommissioning of wooden masts impregnated with tar or salt, base stations, payphones as well as land and buildings including rented premises. The asset retirement obligation for masts impregnated with tar or salt is based on estimated settlement dates and expected cash flows. 39 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 119 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 A1 Telekom Austria Group operates base stations on land, rooftops and on other premises under various types of rental contracts. In estimating the fair value of the retirement obligation for its base stations, A1 Telekom Austria Group has made a range of assumptions such as retirement dates, timing and percentage of early cancellations, development of technology and the cost of removing network equipment and remediating the sites. Additionally, A1 Telekom Austria Group records asset retirement obligations for buildings concerning obligations for the disposal of hazardous substances as well as the decontamination of land when decommissioning a building. A1 Telekom Austria Group records asset retirement obligations for buildings and rented premises under operating leases in accordance with the obligation to refurbish the sites at the expiration of the lease contracts. The following table provides the parameters used for the measurement of the obligation: 2018 2017 Discount rate 1.5% – 12.0% 1.5% – 10.9% Inflation rate 2.0% – 5.5% 2.0% – 6.7% The discount rate applied to the calculation of asset retirement obligations reflects current market expectations with regard to interest effects as well as specific risks of the obligation. The discount rate in the non-eurozone is based on the risk-free interest rate of German federal bonds with a maturity of 30 years, adapted for country-specific risk by the Damodaran Rating based default spread. For those countries whose currencies are not tied to the euro, the respective inflation differential according to the OECD is taken into account as well. In the eurozone, the discount rate is based on government bonds with matching maturities, as the specific risks were taken into account in the estimated cash flows. The inflation rates are adapted quarterly to reflect the general development in the individual countries. In essence, the change in these parameters as well as changes in the estimated outflow of resources resulted in an increase of the asset retirement obligation and an increase in the book value of the related item of property, plant and equipment (see change in estimates in the table of provisions). TEUR 2,413 were recognized in other operating income as the related tangible asset is already fully depreciated. Sensitivity analysis A change of one percentage point in the discount rate or in the inflation rate would lead to the following changes in provisions (negative values indicate a reduction in provisions): 1 percentage point 1 percentage point in TEUR at December 31, 2018 increase decrease Change in discount rate – 24,272 26,089 Change in inflation rate 26,279 – 24,073 in TEUR at December 31, 2017 Change in discount rate – 23,603 29,810 Change in inflation rate 29,643 – 23,994 Legal Provisions relate mainly to expenses for legal advice and litigation. Other provisions Other provisions relate mainly to taxes (excluding income taxes), guarantees, rents and penalties. (24) Contract Liabilities and Current Deferred Income A contract liability is recognized where a customer has paid an amount of consideration prior to goods or services being transferred by A1 Telekom Austria Group. Contract liabilities include prepaid fees, prepaid vouchers, fees for leased lines and site sharing, and discounts granted as well as one-time fees, activation fees and installation fees. 40 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 120 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 The following table shows the development of contract liabilities: in TEUR 2018 At January 1 161,595 Increases due to cash received 980,378 Revenues recognized in the current period from: Amounts included in the contract liability at beginning of the period – 143,168 Increases due to cash received in current period – 838,720 Foreign currency adjustments 76 At December 31 160,160 Thereof remaining term of more than one year 19,490 At December 31, 2018, contract liabilities with remaining term of more than one year relate mainly to deferred rental income from base stations and data circuits as well as one-time fees, activation fees, and installation fees. in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Unearned income 0 122,142 Customer loyalty programs 0 34,428 Deferred income, current portion 0 156,570 Unearned income at December 31, 2017, relates mainly to prepaid access fees, monthly base fees, leased lines, prepaid mobile fees and rental income from site sharing. These fees are recognized over the period the service is provided. According to IFRIC 13 “Customer Loyalty Programs”, the award credits granted were recognized as deferred income until redeemed or forfeited. For the changes according to IFRS 15, see Note (3). (25) Long-term Debt The terms and conditions of long-term debt and its current portion are summarized in the following table: At December 31, 2018 At December 31, 2017 Carrying Carrying Currency Maturity Nominal interest rate Face value amount Nominal interest rate Face value amount Bonds TEUR 2021 fixed 3,125% 750,000 746,954 fixed 3,125% 750,000 745,913 TEUR 2022 fixed 4,000% 750,000 746,232 fixed 4,000% 750,000 745,077 TEUR 2023 fixed 3,500% 300,000 298,855 fixed 3,500% 300,000 298,601 TEUR 2026 fixed 1,500% 750,000 744,375 fixed 1,500% 750,000 743,670 Total Bonds 2,550,000 2,536,417 2,550,000 2,533,262 Leases (Note (30)) 632 632 894 894 Financial debt 2,550,632 2,537,048 2,550,894 2,534,156 Current portion of long-term debt – 256 – 256 – 549 – 549 Long-term debt 2,550,375 2,536,792 2,550,346 2,533,607 Bonds Bonds are recognized at the actual amount received. Discount and issue costs are amortized over the related term using the effective interest rate method. In March 2012, A1 Telekom Austria Group initiated a Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) program with a maximum volume of TEUR 2,500,000. On April 2, 2012, A1 Telekom Austria Group issued a bond under the EMTN program with a face value of TEUR 750,000, discount and the issue costs of TEUR 11,575, a maturity of ten years and a coupon of 4.0%. On July 4, 2013, A1 Telekom Austria Group issued a bond under the EMTN program with a face value of TEUR 300,000, discount and issue costs of TEUR 2,574, a maturity of ten years and a coupon of 3.5%. 41 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 121 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 On December 3, 2013, A1 Telekom Austria Group issued a bond under the EMTN program with a face value of TEUR 750,000, discount and issue costs of TEUR 8,336, a maturity of eight years and a coupon of 3.125%. On December 7, 2016, A1 Telekom Austria Group issued a bond with a face value of TEUR 500,000, a maturity of ten years and a coupon of 1.5%. On July 14, 2017, a tap issuance with a volume of TEUR 250,000 was settled. In August 2017, the outstanding bond and the tap were consolidated and have the same terms in all respects. Discount and issue costs amount to TEUR 6,990. (26) Deferred Revenues and Other Non-current Liabilities in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Cash deposits received 756 745 Deferred consideration 3,329 5,532 Miscellaneous other non-current financial liabilities 13,516 13,665 Other non-current financial liabilities 17,600 19,942 Long-term incentive program 854 2,561 Miscellaneous other non-current non-financial liabilities 4,125 5,970 Deferred revenues, other 0 9,796 Other non-current non-financial liabilities 4,979 18,328 Deferred revenues and other non-current liabilities 22,580 38,270 Deferred considerations from business combinations relate to the acquisition of Metronet and Akenes in 2017 (see Note (34)). Other noncurrent non-financial liabilities include liabilities for pension contributions. See Note (31) regarding the long-term incentive program. Other deferred revenues at December 31, 2017, relate mainly to rental revenue. For the changes according to IFRS 15, see Note (3). (27) Employee Benefits A1 Telekom Austria Group records employee benefit obligations under defined contribution and defined benefit plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, A1 Telekom Austria Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension or severance insurance plans on a mandatory or contractual basis. Once the contributions have been paid, which are recognized in employee expenses in the respective functional area, A1 Telekom Austria Group has no further payment obligations. All other employee benefit obligations are unfunded defined benefit plans for which A1 Telekom Austria Group records provisions that are calculated using the projected unit credit method in accordance with IAS 19. in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Service awards 62,394 62,477 Severance 136,069 129,277 Pensions 5,153 5,088 Other 39 0 Long-term employee benefit obligations 203,654 196,842 According to IAS 19.133, A1 Telekom Austria Group chooses to distinguish between current and non-current liabilities arising from employee benefit obligations (see also Note (23)). For severance and pensions, A1 Telekom Austria Group recognizes actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income (OCI), whereas re-measurement gains and losses for service awards are immediately recognized in profit or loss. The re-measurement of defined benefit plans relates to actuarial gains and losses only, as A1 Telekom Austria Group holds no plan assets. Interest expense related to employee benefit obligations is reported in the financial result, while service cost is reported in employee expenses in the respective functional area. 42 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 122 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Actuarial assumptions The actuarial assumptions used to measure the obligations for service awards, severance payments and pensions are as follows: 2018 2017 Discount rate service awards 1.25% 1.00% Discount rate severance 2.00% 2.00% Discount rate pensions 1.75% 1.50% Rate of compensation increase – civil servants 4.40% 4.40% Rate of compensation increase – other employees 3.00% 3.00% Rate of compensation increase – civil servants released from work 3.50% 3.50% Rate of increase of pensions 1.60% 1.60% Employee turnover rate* 0.0% – 1.51% 0.0% – 1.72% * Depending on years of service. As in the prior year, the determination of the discount rate is based on the Mercer Yield Curve Approach, taking into account the respective maturities. Life expectancy in Austria is based on “AVÖ 2018-P – Rechnungsgrundlagen für die Pensionsversicherung – Pagler & Pagler” (2017: “AVÖ 2008-P – Rechnungsgrundlagen für die Pensionsversicherung – Pagler & Pagler”). The effect of this change in estimate is presented in the actuarial gain/loss from changes in demographic assumptions in the following tables. The obligation related to the international subsidiaries was measured on the same actuarial basis due to their insignificant amount. Weighted average duration The weighted average duration of the obligations is as follows: 2018 2017 Service awards 5.6 5.9 Severance 14.5 15.0 Pensions 11.2 11.7 Service awards Civil servants and certain employees (together “employees”) are eligible to receive service awards. Under these plans, eligible employees receive a cash bonus of two months’ salary after 25 years of service and four months’ salary after 40 years of service. Employees with at least 35 years of service when retiring (at the age of 65) or who are retiring based on specific legal regulations are also eligible to receive the service award of four monthly salaries. The provision is formed over the period of service, taking into account the employee turnover rate of employees who leave service early. The main risk that A1 Telekom Austria Group is exposed to is the risk of development of salary increases and changes of interest rates. The following table provides the components and a reconciliation of the changes in the provisions for service awards: in TEUR 2018 2017 At January 1 68,456 72,816 Service cost 2,024 2,193 Interest cost 661 707 Actuarial gain/loss based on experience adjustment – 318 – 1,645 Actuarial gain/loss from changes in demographic assumptions 5,927 –4 Actuarial gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions – 1,096 – 201 Recognized in profit or loss 7,199 1,050 Benefits paid – 5,843 – 5,410 Obligation at December 31 69,811 68,456 Less short-term portion – 7,418 – 5,979 Non-current obligation 62,394 62,477 43 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 123 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Of the defined benefit obligations for service awards, less than 1% relate to foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Severance Defined contribution plans Employees starting to work for A1 Telekom Austria Group in Austria on or after January 1, 2003 are covered by a defined contribution plan. A1 Telekom Austria Group paid TEUR 2,367 and TEUR 2,157 (1.53% of the salary) into this defined contribution plan (BAWAG Allianz Mitarbeitervorsorgekasse AG) in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Defined benefit plans Severance benefit obligations for employees hired before January 1, 2003, excluding civil servants, are covered by defined benefit plans. Upon termination by A1 Telekom Austria Group or retirement, eligible employees receive severance payments. Depending on the time in service, severance is equal to a multiple of the eligible monthly compensation that comprises fixed compensation plus variable element such as overtime or bonuses, with a maximum of twelve monthly salaries. In case of death, the heirs of eligible employees receive 50% of the severance benefits. A1 Telekom Austria Group is exposed to the risk of development of salary increases and changes of interest rates. The following table provides a detailed reconciliation of the changes in severance benefit obligations: in TEUR 2018 2017 At January 1 130,555 134,433 Service cost 4,517 5,230 Interest cost 2,577 2,316 Recognized in profit or loss 7,094 7,546 Actuarial gain/loss based on experience adjustment 1,830 – 4,295 Actuarial gain/loss from changes in demographic assumptions 547 – 1,034 Actuarial gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions 0 – 4,795 Recognized in other comprehensive income 2,378 – 10,125 Benefits paid – 1,974 – 1,321 Foreign currency adjustments 1 22 Other – 1,972 – 1,299 Obligation at December 31 138,054 130,555 Less short-term portion – 1,986 – 1,279 Non-current obligation 136,069 129,277 Approximately 3% of the defined benefit obligations for severance relate to foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Pensions Defined contribution pension plans In Austria, pension benefits are generally provided by the social security system, for employees, and by the government, for civil servants. The contributions of 12.55% that A1 Telekom Austria Group made in 2018 and 2017 to the social security system and the government in Austria, amount to TEUR 62,547 and TEUR 61,276, respectively. Contributions of the foreign subsidiaries into the respective systems range between 7% and 29% and amount to TEUR 22,836 and TEUR 21,233 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Additionally, A1 Telekom Austria Group sponsors a defined contribution plan for employees of some of its Austrian subsidiaries. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s contributions to this plan are based on a percentage of the compensation not exceeding 5%. The annual expenses for this plan amounted to TEUR 11,997 and TEUR 12,006 in 2018 and 2017, respectively. Defined benefit pension plans A1 Telekom Austria Group provides defined benefits for certain former employees in Austria. All such employees are retired and were employed prior to January 1, 1975. This unfunded plan provides benefits based on a percentage of salary and years employed, not exceeding 80% of the salary before retirement, and taking into consideration the pension provided by the social security system. A1 Telekom Austria Group is exposed to the risk of development of life expectancy and inflation because the benefits from pension plans are lifetime benefits. Furthermore, approximately 7% of the pension benefit obligations at December 31, 2018 relate to the employees of the company Akenes in Lausanne, acquired in 2017. 44 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 124 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 The following table provides a detailed reconciliation of the changes in pension benefit obligations: in TEUR 2018 2017 At January 1 5,562 6,595 Service cost 150 0 Interest cost 78 94 Recognized in profit or loss 228 94 Actuarial gain/loss based on experience adjustment 226 – 720 Actuarial gain/loss from changes in demographic assumptions 287 0 Actuarial gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions – 118 0 Recognized in other comprehensive income 394 – 720 Benefits paid – 571 – 501 Change in reporting entities 0 97 Foreign currency adjustments 11 –5 Other – 560 – 408 Obligation at December 31 5,624 5,562 Less short-term portion – 471 – 474 Non-current obligation 5,153 5,088 Sensitivity analysis The following table summarizes the short and long-term provisions recorded: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Service awards 69,811 68,456 Severance 138,054 130,555 Pensions 5,624 5,562 A change in the discount rate of half a percentage point would lead to the following changes in provisions (negative values indicate a reduction in provisions): in TEUR, at December 31, 2018 0.5 percentage point decrease 0.5 percentage point increase Service awards 1,950 – 1,867 Severance 10,336 – 9,442 Pensions 288 – 262 in TEUR, at December 31, 2017 Service awards 2,033 – 1,943 Severance 9,855 – 8,992 Pensions 332 – 296 A change in the rate of compensation of one percentage point would lead to the following changes in provisions (negative values indicate a reduction in provisions): in TEUR, at December 31, 2018 1 percentage point decrease 1 percentage point increase Service awards – 3,553 3,790 Severance – 18,068 21,200 Pensions – 465 541 in TEUR, at December 31, 2017 Service awards – 3,690 3,953 Severance – 17,193 20,216 Pensions – 445 588 45 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 125 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 A change in the employee turnover rate of half a percentage point would lead to the following changes in provisions (negative values indicate a reduction in provisions): in TEUR, at December 31, 2018 0.5 percentage point decrease 0.5 percentage point increase Service awards 17 – 1,915 Severance 4,557 – 5,225 in TEUR, at December 31, 2017 Service awards 47 – 2,016 Severance 3,927 – 5,028 No employee turnover rate is applied to the calculation of the pension provision as the eligible employees have already retired. The calculation of a 0.5% decrease is limited to a maximum of 0.0% of the employee turnover rate. (28) Stockholders’ Equity Capital management The capital structure of A1 Telekom Austria Group consists of financial liabilities and equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company, comprising common stock, treasury shares, additional paid-in capital, retained earnings, remeasurement of defined benefit plans, measurement of debt instruments, hedging reserve and translation reserve as well as hybrid capital in 2017. A1 Telekom Austria Group manages its capital structure to safeguard its solid capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence as well as to provide sustainable support to the future operational development of A1 Telekom Austria Group. Maintaining a solid investment grade rating is the number one priority of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s finance strategy. This will allow A1 Telekom Austria Group to obtain the financial flexibility required for strategically important projects. A transparent dividend policy ensures the balance between shareholder remuneration and the utilization of cash to redeem outstanding debt. Share capital As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the common stock of Telekom Austria AG amounts to TEUR 1,449,275, and is divided into 664.5 million bearer shares. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, América Móvil indirectly holds a stake of 51.00% through its 100% subsidiary América Móvil B.V., Netherlands (América Móvil B.V., formerly Carso Telecom B.V.), ÖBIB holds a stake of 28.42% and free floated shares including treasury shares amount to 20.58%. The shares have no par value. According to the Austrian Banking Act and the Capital Requirements Regulation, a regulation for banks by the European Union, the subsidiary paybox Bank AG must fulfil regulatory minimum equity requirements regarding bank-related risks, notably credit risk and operational risks as well as liquidity coverage requirements. On December 31, 2018 and 2017, these requirements were fulfilled. The number of authorized, issued and outstanding shares and shares in treasury is presented below: At December 31 2018 2017 Shares authorized 664,500,000 664,500,000 Shares issued 664,500,000 664,500,000 Shares in treasury – 415,159 – 415,159 Shares outstanding 664,084,841 664,084,841 The shares issued are fully paid. 46 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 126 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Dividend payment The following dividends were approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and paid by Telekom Austria AG (regarding the coupon payments on the hybrid capital, see “Hybrid capital“): 2018 2017 Date of Annual General Meeting May 30, 2018 June 9, 2017 Dividend per share in euro 0.20 0.20 Total dividend paid in TEUR 132,817 132,817 Date of payment June 8, 2018 June 20, 2017 The net income of Telekom Austria AG according to Austrian GAAP amounts to: in TEUR 2018 2017 Net income 381,546 1,060,490 Allocation to reserves reported in retained earnings – 350,523 – 995,373 Profit carried forward from prior year 212,683 280,383 Unappropriated retained earnings 243,706 345,500 The unappropriated retained earnings of Telekom Austria AG according to Austrian GAAP are not subject to a dividend limitation as the restrictions of Section 235 UGB do not apply. The Management Board plans to propose to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to distribute a dividend of EUR 0.21 per share from unappropriated retained earnings. Treasury shares At the Annual General Meeting of Telekom Austria AG held on May 29, 2013, the Management Board was empowered to: (a) use these treasury shares to settle obligations under the share-based compensation plans disclosed in Note (31) and/or to transfer them for or without a consideration to employees, managers and members of the Management Board/management of Telekom Austria AG and of its affiliated companies; (b) use them as consideration for acquisitions, or (c) sell treasury shares at any time via the stock exchange or by public offer. Shares held in treasury as of December 31 2018 2017 Number of treasury shares 415,159 415,159 Average price per share in euro 18.80 18.80 Deduction in equity in TEUR 7,803 7,803 Additional paid-in capital The additional paid-in capital results from the incorporation of A1 Telekom Austria Group as well as subsequent reorganization of the group. Furthermore, effects related to the employee participation plan and the retirement of treasury shares are reported in additional paid-in capital. Hybrid capital On February 1, 2018, the hybrid bond, issued on January 24, 2013, with a volume of TEUR 600,000 was repaid according to Section 5 (3) of the terms and conditions of the bond. The hybrid bond was a subordinated bond with indefinite maturity which, based on its conditions, was classified as stockholders’ equity according to IFRS. Accordingly, related discount and issue cost in the amount of TEUR 11,752 were recorded net of a tax benefit of TEUR 2,938 in stockholders’ equity. Therefore, stockholders’ equity was increased by TEUR 591,186 in 2013. Coupon payments of TEUR 33,750 each made in February 2018 and 2017 were recognized as distribution of dividends in stockholders’ equity. In the local financial statements, coupon payments are recognized as interest expense in profit or loss according to Austrian GAAP. While the tax benefit resulting from the accrued interest is recognized in profit or loss according to local GAAP, it is recognized in stockholders’ equity as “distribution of dividend” in the Consolidated Financial Statements according to IAS 12. The net result attributable to hybrid capital holders is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in the allocation of the net result and equals interest 47 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 127 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 recognized in profit or loss in 2018 and 2017 according to local GAAP amounting to TEUR 2,959 and TEUR 33,750, respectively, net of the related tax benefit of TEUR 740 and TEUR 8,438, respectively, which are recognized in stockholders’ equity in 2018 and 2017. Other comprehensive income (loss) items (OCI) The other comprehensive income (loss) contains the remeasurement of severance and pension obligations (see Note (27)), measurement of debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (2017: the available-for-sale reserve, see Note (19)), the hedging reserve (see Note (33)) as well as the translation reserve (see Note (3)). Their development is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity. The foreign currency translation adjustment relates mainly to the consolidation of velcom in Belarus and Vip mobile in the Republic of Serbia. (29) Income Taxes Income taxes are calculated for each taxable entity based on the expected actual income tax rate applicable. For the purpose of calculating deferred tax assets and liabilities, A1 Telekom Austria Group uses the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period the tax rate is effectively enacted. The distribution of dividends by Telekom Austria AG has no effect on the tax rate. Investment tax credits are recognized as a reduction in income taxes in the period in which these credits are granted. Income tax attributable to income before income taxes consists of the following (negative values indicate an income tax benefit): in TEUR 2018 2017 Current income tax 54,974 61,098 Deferred income tax 43,818 – 58,092 Income tax 98,793 3,006 The table below provides information about the allocation of total income tax in the Consolidated Financial Statements: in TEUR 2018 2017 Continuing operations 98,793 3,006 Income tax on realized result on hedging activities* 1,460 1,460 Income tax on result of debt instruments (2017: securities available-for-sale)* 9 47 Income tax on remeasurement of defined benefit obligations* – 597 2,664 Tax benefit related to hybrid capital** – 740 – 8,438 Effect of initial application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9*** 11,108 0 Total income tax 110,024 – 1,260 * Recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). **See Note (28). ***See Note (3). The following table shows the major reconciling items between the reported income taxes and the amount of income taxes that would have resulted by applying the Austrian statutory income tax rate of 25% to pre-tax income: in TEUR 2018 2017 Income tax expense at statutory rate 85,625 87,119 Foreign tax rate differential 5,442 5,610 Tax-non-deductible expenses 10,400 10,288 Tax incentives and tax-exempted income – 5,077 – 6,281 Tax-free income (loss) from investments 141 216 Tax benefit/expense previous years – 5,315 – 3,352 Changes in deferred tax assets not recognized 12,062 – 185,221 Impairments (reversals of impairments) of investments in subsidiaries and other intragroup transactions – 3,250 94,500 Other – 1,234 128 Income tax 98,793 3,006 Effective income tax rate 28.84% 0.86% 48 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 128 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 In 2018 and 2017, non-deductible expenses consist mainly of withholding taxes on dividends and representation expenses as well as various non-deductible expenses in the individual countries. Tax incentives and tax-exempted income relate mainly to investment and other tax incentives in the individual countries. Furthermore, it includes the tax-free income on the fictitious amortization of tax goodwill related to the Austrian tax group. Amortizations of tax goodwill according to Section 9 (7) KStG are treated as a temporary differences on investments in subsidiaries for tax purposes. According to IAS 12.39, no deferred tax liabilities are recorded in that case, thus there are no differences in deferred tax liabilities in 2018 and 2017. In 2018, the tax benefit for prior periods results mainly from the finalization of the tax audit in Bulgaria covering the years 2008 to 2009. A1 Bulgaria received the tax assessments for the tax audit covering the years 2010 to 2013, which do not include brand name and customer base including interest to be tax deductible. An appeal was filed against these tax assessments as the Supreme Administrative Court decided in favor of A1 Bulgaria regarding the amortization of customer base including interest for the years 2007 to 2009. Tax and interest of TEUR 15,844 related to the brand name for the years 2010 to 2013 is provided for and bank guarantees of TEUR 48,193 were issued to secure these and further possible tax claims and interest. The tax effect of impairments (reversals of impairments) of investments relates to taxable write-downs and reversals of write-downs of investments in affiliated companies in Austria. In 2017, these reversals of impairments as well as improved earnings prospects led to a tax gain due to the reduction in deferred tax assets, which were not recognized. In accordance with IAS 12, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and their tax bases, for current-year tax losses and tax losses carried forward as well as certain impairment losses on investments for which recognition for tax purposes is deferred over a specified period. The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are set out below: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets Deferred deduction for impairments of investments in subsidiaries 39,074 62,946 Loss carry-forwards 223,073 270,839 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other 8,058 8,423 Accrued liabilities and accounts payable suppliers 9,936 6,006 Provisions, long-term 48,001 58,730 Employee benefit obligations 27,224 25,737 Property, plant and equipment 5,387 5,903 Other 3,461 8,195 Deferred tax assets 364,214 446,778 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment – 37,305 – 39,040 Other intangible assets – 85,244 – 118,256 Contract cost – 6,979 0 Other – 4,167 – 4,024 Deferred tax liabilities – 133,695 – 161,320 in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets 245,513 327,077 Deferred tax liabilities – 14,992 – 41,619 Deferred taxes, net 230,519 285,458 Impairments of investments in subsidiaries relate to impairments for which the recognition of expense is deferred over seven years according to Austrian tax law and for which deferred tax is calculated (according to the respective guidance in “Effects of tax write-downs according to Section 12 (3) No 2 of the Austrian Corporate Tax Act on the accounting of income taxes according to IAS 12 in consolidated or single IFRS financial statements” issued by the Austrian Financial Reporting and Auditing Committee). Deferred tax assets on long-term provisions relate mostly to the provision for the asset retirement obligation, which is only partly recognized for tax purposes, as well as to differences in the IFRS and tax value of the restructuring provision in Austria (see Note (23)). 49 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 129 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements 2018 STATEMENTS 2018 Deferred tax assets on employee benefit obligations result from the difference between the amount recognized in accordance with Section 14 of the Austrian Income Tax Act (EStG) and the amount of the projected unit credit method in accordance with IAS 19 (see Note (27)). Deferred tax liabilities on property, plant and equipment are due mostly to differences in the carrying value of assets with retirement obligations as well as to increases in carrying values in Belarus from 2011 to 2014 due to hyperinflation accounting according to IAS 29, which are not recognized for tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities on other intangible assets are due mainly to purchase price allocations according to IFRS in the course of acquisitions. Contract costs must not be recognized for tax purposes in Austria, resulting in deferred tax liabilities. In Austria, A1 Telekom Austria Group established a tax group according to Section 9 of the Austrian Corporate Tax Act (KStG), with Telekom Austria AG as the head of the tax group. Deferred tax assets and liabilities for the members of the tax group (currently all significant Austrian subsidiaries) are reported on a net basis since the tax group is treated as one taxable entity. The following deferred tax assets were not recognized as the realization in the near future is not probable according to tax planning. in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Net operating loss carry-forwards 356,587 329,875 Temporary differences related to impairments of investments in consolidated subsidiaries 54,428 87,157 Deferred tax assets not recognized 411,015 417,032 In assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, Management considers whether it is probable that all deferred tax assets will be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which these temporary differences become deductible. These are based on business plans with a detailed planning period of five years. Management considers the scheduled release of deferred tax liabilities and projected future taxable income when making this assessment. At December 31, 2018, the loss carry-forwards and the years these will expire are the following: Year in TEUR 2019 121,056 2021 9,340 2022 142 2023 1,271 2024 1,290 2026 420 Carry forward indefinitely 2,303,941 Total 2,437,460 The loss carry-forwards expiring in the years listed above relate mainly to the Republic of Serbia. Due to tax relief according to Article 50a of the Serbian Corporate Tax Act, the tax rate applicable at December 31, 2018 amounts to 1.6%. The remaining net operating loss carry-forwards relate mainly to companies located in Austria and can be carried forward indefinitely. In Austria, the annual usage is generally limited to 75% of the taxable income for a year. No deferred taxes are recognized on the following temporary differences related to shares in subsidiaries, since it is not probable that these temporary deferred taxes will be reversed in the foreseeable future: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Temporary differences 59,902 52,218 50 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 130 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 (30) Leases Lessee Lease agreements in which A1 Telekom Austria Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership as a lessee are classified as finance leases; otherwise, they are classified as operating leases. Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance leasing is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The non-cancellable operating lease contracts will expire on various dates through 2028 and comprise mainly leases of base stations, property and vehicles. Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating lease contracts as well as finance lease contracts as of December 31, 2018 are: Other Operating in TEUR finance leases leases 2019 256 77,744 2020 181 60,691 2021 124 49,155 2022 65 42,118 2023 6 35,803 after 2023 108,335 Total minimum lease payments 632 373,846 Less amount representing interest –1 Present value of lease payments 632 Less current portion – 256 Non-current lease obligations 375 In 2018 and 2017, the rental and leasing expenses recognized in the Statement of Comprehensive Income amount to TEUR 165,580 and TEUR 162,026, respectively. Assets under finance leases relate to automobiles. Lessor If, substantially, all risks and rewards are attributable to A1 Telekom Austria Group as a lessor, the leased asset is recognized by A1 Telekom Austria Group. Measurement of the leased asset is then based on the accounting policies applicable to that asset in accordance with IAS 16. A1 Telekom Austria Group receives minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating lease contracts that relate mainly to indefeasible right of use contracts, private automatic branch exchange equipment (PABX) as well as set-top boxes. These payments are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the terms of the contracts and, at December 31, 2018, they amount to: in TEUR Operating leases 2019 12,642 2020 6,765 2021 4,027 2022 3,446 2023 2,819 after 2023 4,255 Total minimum lease payments 33,953 51 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 131 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 (31) Share-based Compensation Long-term incentive (LTI) program A1 Telekom Austria Group introduced a long-term incentive program (LTI) in 2010. In accordance with IFRS 2, share-based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date. The expense is recognized over the vesting period. Due to the Management Board’s decision to settle bonus shares granted in the course of the long-term incentive program in cash (subsequently called fictitious bonus shares), the share-based payments are recorded as a liability. Participants of this program are required to invest an amount depending on the annual gross basic salaries and the management level of the entitled employee in Telekom Austria shares and to hold these shares until the end of the holding period (at least three years). For each tranche, the number of fictitious bonus shares granted is calculated based on the average Telekom Austria stock price for a defined period. The performance period for meeting the performance targets was determined to be three years. The target values for these key indicators were determined by the Supervisory Board. At the vesting date (at the earliest three years after the grant date), fictitious bonus shares will be allocated to the participants and will be settled in cash. If the targets are fully met, fictitious bonus shares equal to the double personal investment will be allocated to the participants. If the targets are exceeded, proportionally additional fictitious bonus shares will be allocated up to a maximum of 350% of the shares on a pro rata basis. This maximum amount of fictitious bonus shares is allocated if the targets are overachieved by 175% or more. In case of a significant underperformance, no bonus shares will be allocated. On September 1, 2015, the sixth tranche (LTI 2015) was granted. EBITDA comparable, free cash flow and a revenue-based key figure were defined as key performance indicators. The actual performance and the bonus shares allocated are summarized in the subsequent table, settlement was effected in cash. On September 1, 2016, the seventh tranche (LTI 2016) was granted. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) and the market revenue share of A1 Telekom Austria Group (weighted with 50% each) were defined as key performance indicators. On June 1, 2017, the eight tranche (LTI 2017) was granted. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) and the market revenue share of A1 Telekom Austria Group (weighted with 50% each) were defined as key performance indicators. The LTI 2017 was granted only to the members of the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG in 2017, Alejandro Plater and Siegfried Mayrhofer. On September 1, 2018, the ninth tranche (LTI 2018) was granted. Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) and the market revenue share of A1 Telekom Austria Group (weighted with 50% each) were defined as key performance indicators. The LTI 2018 was granted only to the members of the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG, Thomas Arnoldner, Alejandro Plater and Siegfried Mayrhofer. The following table summarizes the significant terms and conditions for the tranche settled this year and for each tranche not yet settled: LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 Start of the program January 1, 2018 January 1, 2017 January 1, 2016 January 1, 2015 Grant date September 1, 2018 June 1, 2017 September 1, 2016 September 1, 2015 End of vesting period December 31, 2020 December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Vesting date September 1, 2021 June 1, 2020 September 1, 2019 September 1, 2018 Personal investment at grant date 58,719 54,271 204,334 240,835 Personal investment at reporting date* 58,719 54,271 175,231 168,945 Expected performance** 128.70% 115.60% 113.00% 87.40% Expected bonus shares*** 151,143 125,473 396,022 0 Maximum bonus shares*** 205,517 189,947 613,308 0 Fair value of program in TEUR 945 809 2,610 0 Allocated bonus shares 0 0 0 274,527 Average stock price at end of vesting period in euro 0 0 0 7.88 Share-based compensation in TEUR 0 0 0 2,164 * For LTI 2015, personal investment at the end of the vesting period. ** For LTI 2015, actual performance at the end of the vesting period. *** Taking into account the allocation of fictitious bonus shares equal to the double personal investment. As of the reporting date, a liability measured at fair value for the portion of the expected future expense of the LTI program that has already vested, has been recognized. The fair value of the liability is measured based on the expected target achievement and the expected share 52 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 132 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 price, as determined by applying a binomial calculation model generally used for share price analysis, taking into account expected dividends. The liability is recognized over the vesting period (see Notes (22) and (26)). The following personnel expense is recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (negative values indicate income): in TEUR 2018 2017 Personnel expense LTI 609 2,803 Sensitivity analysis A change of one euro in the average stock price expected at the end of the vesting period would result in the following changes in fair values (negative values indicate a reduction): in TEUR, at December 31 1 euro increase 1 euro decrease Fair value of LTI 2018 151 – 152 Fair value of LTI 2017 126 – 125 (32) Cash Flow Statement The following table provides a reconciliation of capital expenditures paid to total capital expenditures: in TEUR 2018 2017 Capital expenditures paid 771,459 705,422 Reconciliation of additions in accounts payable 22,218 39,707 Reconciliation of government grants – 22,698 – 8,264 Total capital expenditures 770,979 736,866 The reconciliation of additions in accounts payable includes the adjustment of capital expenditures of the current period not yet paid as well as capital expenditures of prior periods paid in the current period in accordance with IAS 7.43. The reconciliation of government grants contains grants not yet paid, which have already been deducted from capital expenditures (see Notes (13) and (15)). Total capital expenditures include interest capitalized (see Note (7)), but do not include additions related to asset retirement obligations. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, TEUR 171,885 and TEUR 161,275, respectively, of the additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the current year are unpaid (see Notes (15) and (16)). In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in 2018 and 2017, other adjustments in the items not requiring the use of cash and other reconciliation relate to non-cash effects of the asset retirement obligation, which are recognized in other operating income (see Note (23)). The dividends received in 2018 and 2017 and recognized in the financial result (see Note (7)) had already been settled in cash as of December 31 and are reported in cash flow from operating activities. In 2018 and 2017, dividends paid include dividends paid to the noncontrolling interests of subsidiaries in the amount of TEUR 774 and TEUR 318, respectively (see Note (34)). In 2018 and 2017, cash and cash equivalents acquired totaled TEUR 485 and TEUR 624, respectively (see Note (34)). 53 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 133 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 The following table provides a reconciliation of the development of debt (see Notes (21) and (25)): in TEUR 2018 2017 Change in short-term debt 244,691 – 499,499 Change in long-term debt 3,184 230,112 Change in debt 247,875 -269,388 Thereof: Issuance of bonds 0 248,762 Repayments of bonds 0 – 500,000 Repayments of long-term debt 0 – 22,000 Change in short-term debt 7,877 1,857 Issuance of short-term debt 240,000 0 Total cash flows 247,877 – 271,381 Acquisitions 0 1,993 Foreign exchange differences –2 0 Non-cash changes –2 1,993 The following table provides a reconciliation of deferred consideration from business combinations (see Notes (7), (22), (26) and (34)): in TEUR 2018 2017 Change in deferred consideration – 951 – 106,116 Thereof: Deferred Consideration one.vip at January 1, 2017 0 – 111,667 Interest expense on deferred considerations 0 – 8,333 Deferred consideration paid for Metronet – 1,200 0 Deferred consideration paid for business combinations – 1,200 – 120,000 Interest expense on deferred considerations 88 0 Acquisitions 0 5,565 Foreign exchange differences 161 – 14 Non-cash changes 248 5,551 (33) Financial Instruments Concentration of risks At the reporting dates, A1 Telekom Austria Group does not have any significant concentration of business transacted with a particular supplier or creditor or customer. Furthermore, A1 Telekom Austria Group does not have any concentration of risk with respect to contractors, other services, franchises or other rights which could, if suddenly eliminated, severely impact operations. A1 Telekom Austria Group invests its cash with various institutions with appropriate credit standings. A1 Telekom Austria Group operates in markets in the Central Eastern European (CEE) region. Operations in the CEE region involve uncertainties, including transfer, currency and tax uncertainties that may affect business activities. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the Management Board’s assessment of the impact of the CEE business environment on the operations and the financial position of A1 Telekom Austria Group. The actual development of the future business environment may differ from Management’s assessment. Financial risk management Overview A1 Telekom Austria Group is exposed to various financial risks with respect to its financial assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions, including liquidity risk, interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risk and credit risk. The financial risk management is centrally organized. The guideline establishing policies, responsibilities and competences is valid for both the Group Treasury and the financial departments of the subsidiaries. The existing risks are regularly monitored and, if necessary, A1 54 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 134 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Telekom Austria Group responds to changes in market conditions. A1 Telekom Austria Group neither holds nor issues derivative financial instruments for trading, hedging or speculative purposes. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that A1 Telekom Austria Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that A1 Telekom Austria Group will always have sufficient liquidity to meet liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions. A monthly rolling consolidated liquidity planning is drawn up for this purpose and serves as the basis for determining the liquidity requirement. Furthermore, there is a liquidity reserve in the form of committed credit lines. Funding sources A1 Telekom Austria Group’s treasury department acts as an internal financial services provider, realizing potential synergies in financing the operations of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s subsidiaries. Its primary goal is to assure liquidity in a cost-effective manner by applying the pooling of cash flows and the clearing of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s accounts to enable the management of short-term investments and borrowings at optimal interest rates with minimal administrative effort. Cash flow from operations is the basis for securing sufficient liquidity of A1 Telekom Austria Group. Principal sources of external funding are bank loans and capital markets. For details of outstanding long-term debt and a description of the different classes of the debt as of the reporting date, see Note (25). In order to diversify its short-term funding sources, A1 Telekom Austria Group implemented a multi-currency short-term treasury notes program (multi-currency notes) with a maximum volume of TEUR 300,000 in 2007. The program was entered into for an indefinite period. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, no multi-currency notes were issued. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, A1 Telekom Austria Group had total credit lines of TEUR 1,015,000 and TEUR 1,265,000, respectively. These credit lines were not utilized. The credit line commitment of TEUR 15,000 has a term until June 2019, the remaining credit lines commitments have a maximum term until November 2019. Exposure to liquidity risk The following table sets forth the contractual (undiscounted) interest and redemption payments of financial liabilities. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, no variable interest-rate liabilities existed. Foreign currencies were translated at the rates valid on the reporting date. Contractual 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 more than in TEUR cash flow or less months years years 5 years At December 31, 2018 Bonds 2,882,813 30,000 45,188 75,188 1,948,688 783,750 Bank debt 245,000 245,000 0 0 0 0 Accounts payable trade 745,377 714,657 19,465 9,861 551 844 Lease obligations 632 122 135 181 195 0 Other financial liabilities 51,380 33,770 0 0 7,829 9,782 At December 31, 2017 Bonds 2,958,000 30,000 45,188 75,188 1,702,125 1,105,500 Bank debt 17 17 0 0 0 0 Accounts payable trade 592,032 562,527 8,718 6,997 13,403 388 Lease obligations 933 532 17 144 240 0 Other financial liabilities 71,453 50,294 2,971 2,749 5,668 9,772 It is not expected that the cash flows of the financial liabilities included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. Market risks Market risk is the risk of changes in market prices. A1 Telekom Austria Group faces the risk of market price changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. 55 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 135 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Interest rate risk Since A1 Telekom Austria Group’s long-term and short-term debt has fixed interest rates, no cash flow exposure due to fluctuating interest rates exists (see Note (25)). However, the fair value of fixed rate debt increases when market rates are below the rates fixed on these loans. Exposure to interest rate risk The risk of changes in interest rates related to investment activities is considered low due to the short-term nature of financial assets. Fair value sensitivity analysis for financial instruments One measure used to express the potential change in the value of a portfolio of financial liabilities in response to a change in interest rates is the modified duration. Modified duration (sensitivity measure) follows the concept that interest rates and the price of fixed-rate financial instruments move in opposite directions. The sensitivity is based on the assumption of a one-percentage-point parallel shift in market interest rates for all terms occurring at the reporting date. The methods and assumptions used remained unchanged to those used in prior years. The modified duration (sensitivity) is set forth in the following table (negative amounts represent decreases in financial liabilities): Change in financial portfolio in TEUR, at December 31 Capital amounts Increase Decrease 2018 Fixed rate financial liabilities 2,795,000 Sensitivity at a modified duration of 4.053% – 113,281 113,281 2017 Fixed rate financial liabilities 2,550,000 Sensitivity at a modified duration of 4.344% – 110,761 110,761 Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate financial instruments Since A1 Telekom Austria Group’s debts have fixed interest rates at December 31, 2018 and 2017, no sensitivity analysis is provided. Information with respect to hedging reserve The hedging reserve results from the three forward-starting interest rate swap contracts (pre-hedges) entered into in 2011 with a face value of TEUR 100,000 each. The related hedging reserve is released in profit or loss in accordance with the recognition of interest expense on the bond, which was issued on July 4, 2013, as the interest rate risk on that bond was hedged. In 2018 and 2017, the release of the hedging reserve through other comprehensive income resulted in interest expense amounting to TEUR 5,840 and a tax benefit amounting to TEUR 1,460. Exchange rate risk At December 31, 2018 and 2017, of all accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net as well as accounts payable trade, only the following are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the reporting entities (for foreign exchange rates, see Note (3)): in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 denominated in EUR USD Other EUR USD Other Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other 14,051 12,573 9,543 2,095 9,587 37,647 Accounts payable trade 90,474 23,736 2,970 70,486 15,832 4,878 At December 31, 2018 and 2017, a change of 10% in the exchange rate for the monetary items listed above (see Note (3)) would increase/decrease foreign exchange rate differences as follows: in TEUR 2018 2017 Croatian Kuna (HRK) 2,394 2,282 Serbian Dinar (CSD) 2,938 1,792 Belarusian Rouble (BYN) 736 400 No sensitivity analysis was performed for other accounts receivable or for accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies, as there is no significant risk. 56 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 136 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from accounts receivable trade and investment activities. Due to internal guidelines and counterparty limits there is neither significant credit risk nor concentration. Financial investments and cash and cash equivalents A1 Telekom Austria Group’s investments are generally of a short-term nature and entered into only with those counterparties holding investment grade ratings. If no such external rating is available, an internal rating based on quantitative ratios is carried out. Therefore, no exposure to any significant credit risk was identified for financial investments and cash and cash equivalents. The carrying amount of financial assets and cash and cash equivalents represents the maximum credit risk exposure (see Notes (9) and (19)): in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Investments 11,475 12,891 Cash and cash equivalents 63,631 202,390 Carrying amount 75,106 215,281 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors, contract assets and other assets A1 Telekom Austria Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer or group of customers. The demographics of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, have less of an influence on credit risk. Within the framework of the applicable legal regulations, each new customer is analyzed individually for creditworthiness. Credit risk or the risk of default in payment by contractual partners is monitored via credit checks, credit limits and verification routines. Due to the large number of customers and the high level of diversification of the portfolios, the default of any single debtor would not entail grave consequences (low concentration risk) in respect of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Within A1 Telekom Austria Group, operative credit risk management functions are performed at the operating company level. The following table sets forth the maximum exposure to credit risk for contract assets, other financial assets and accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net, which equals the carrying amount (see Notes (10), (13), (14) and (20)): in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other 830,375 679,292 Financial assets 15,962 161,022 Contract assets 141,114 0 Carrying amount 987,451 840,314 Accounts receivable from related parties are not included as they are immaterial. As a result of the low concentration of credit risk described above, A1 Telekom Austria Group has no insurance for its accounts receivable. However, based on the credit assessment of retail and wholesale customers, A1 Telekom Austria Group requires bank guarantees, comfort letters and cash deposits (see Notes (22) and (26)). in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Cash deposits 11,391 10,666 Guarantees 17,012 9,165 A1 Telekom Austria Group uses a provision matrix to calculate expected lifetime credit losses for accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other as well as contract assets. The following table sets forth total gross book values at default in payment (“Gross”) and the expected average credit loss (“ECL”) in 2018, calculated with the provision matrix, as well as gross and valuation allowance (“VA”) in 2017 for accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other as well as other financial assets: 57 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 137 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Gross ECL Gross VA in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2018 2017 2017 unbilled & not yet due 744,324 16,446 733,633 21,137 Past due 0-30 days 54,434 5,112 52,166 5,249 Past due 31-60 days 26,980 5,803 26,504 6,537 Past due 61-90 days 10,465 4,992 16,798 5,700 More than 90 days 252,060 209,573 247,321 197,485 Total 1,088,264 241,927 1,076,422 236,108 The cumulated effect of the initial application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 was recognized in the opening balance at January 1, 2018 in accordance with the modified retrospective approach (see Note (3) – Impact at January 1, 2018). In 2018, financial assets amount to TEUR 16,686 gross and TEUR 724 ECL (see Notes (13) and (20)). A1 Telekom Austria Group has grouped accounts receivable according to loss patterns observed in the past (accounts receivable: subscribers, installments, distributors, interconnection and roaming) and the provision rates are based on days past due. The provision matrix is based on A1 Telekom Austria’s historically observed default rates, which are updated on a yearly basis. Due to the large number of customers and the high degree of diversification of the portfolios, forward-looking information, such as forecasts of changes in unemployment rates or gross domestic product, has no substantial impact on default rates. The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic conditions and expected credit losses is a significant estimate. The amount of expected credit losses is sensitive to changes in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customer’s actual default in the future. Impairment losses of contract assets and accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other are measured at the expected full lifetime credit loss (see Note (6)). The following table shows the development of the allowance for other financial assets and accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net: in TEUR 2018 2017 At January 1 234,110 225,654 Foreign currency adjustment 563 – 763 Change in reporting entities 27 1,035 Reversed – 5,389 – 6,353 Charged to expenses 50,518 60,419 Amounts written-off – 37,901 – 43,883 At December 31 241,927 236,108 The cumulated effect of the initial application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 amounting to TEUR 1,998 was recognized in the opening balance at January 1, 2018 in accordance with the modified retrospective approach (see Note (3) – Impact at January 1, 2018). In 2018, the charge to expenses includes the valuation allowance of TEUR 154 for a financial asset (see Note (13)). The following table shows the development of the valuation allowance of contract assets: in TEUR 2018 At January 1 3,344 Foreign currency adjustment 12 Reversed – 5,524 Charged to expenses 5,964 At December 31 3,796 The cumulated effect of the initial application of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 was recognized in the opening balance at January 1, 2018 in accordance with the modified retrospective approach (see Note (3) – Impact at January 1, 2018). Upon recognition of contract assets, the related impairment loss is recognized at the credit default rate of the receivables “not yet billed as well as billed and not yet due”. Upon reclassification to receivables, the impairment of contract assets is derecognized. 58 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 138 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 The maximum credit risk of accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net broken down by geographic region as well as the breakdown of the allowance are: in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Domestic 961,342 818,399 Foreign 110,236 80,000 Allowances – 241,204 – 219,106 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other 830,375 679,292 Thereof Specific allowance 7,360 6,799 General allowance 233,843 212,307 The increase in accounts receivable is due to the change in recognition of installment sales receivables (see Note (3) – Impact at January 1, 2018). If there is objective evidence that A1 Telekom Austria Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms, a default in payment is expected and an impairment is recorded (specific allowance). Serious financial difficulties of the debtor, the probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or delinquency in payments are considered to be indicators that the receivable is impaired. Furthermore, a default in payment of a financial asset is expected if contractual payments are more than 90 days overdue. A financial asset is impaired if the collection of contractual cash flows cannot be reasonably expected. In 2018 and 2017, income from impaired receivables that are still in the process of debt collection amounted to TEUR 6,958 and TEUR 10,701, respectively, and was recognized in other operating income (see Note (5)). Accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other from A1 Telekom Austria Group’s customer with the highest turnover amount to TEUR 17,225 and TEUR 1,749 at December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Thus, no major concentration of credit risk exists. Classification of financial instruments Financial assets and financial instruments are classified at initial recognition. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized when A1 Telekom Austria Group becomes a party to a financial instrument. A1 Telekom Austria Group uses the settlement date for recording regular purchases and sales of financial assets. Derivative financial instruments are recognized at the trade date and derecognized when settled. Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognized at the fair value of the consideration given or received. Transaction costs are included in the initial measurement, except for financial instruments, which are recognized at their fair value through profit or loss. In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortized cost or fair value through OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are “solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI)” on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed at an instrument level. The business models of A1 Telekom Austria Group are “hold to collect” and “hold to collect and sell”, respectively, and no derivative financial instruments are held. The contractual cash flows of non-derivative financial instruments consist mainly of principal and interest. Financial assets include in particular cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net as well as contract assets, other receivables and receivables due from related parties, which are measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Furthermore, financial instruments are included that are measured at fair value (see Note (19)). Financial liabilities include, in particular, accounts payable trade, issued bonds, other financial liabilities and payables due to related parties and are recognized initially in the amount corresponding to the financial inflow. Differences between the amount received and the amount to be repaid are recognized over the term of the liability in the financial result (amortized cost) using the effective interest rate method. For financial liabilities carried at amortized cost, gains or losses are recognized in profit or loss when the financial liability is derecognized. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the Statements of Financial Position only when A1 Telekom Austria Group has a contractual right to offset the recognized amounts and intends to settle on a net basis. Fair value of financial instruments According to IFRS 13, the fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. A three-level hierarchy is to be applied. Level 1 contains financial assets and liabilities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 contains financial assets and liabilities based on inputs other than quoted market prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the 59 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 139 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 3 contains financial assets and liabilities based on inputs that are unobservable. When determining the fair value, the risk of non-fulfilment is taken into account as well. The following table shows the carrying amounts and the fair values of the financial instruments per class of financial assets: Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value in TEUR, at December 31 2018 2017 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 63,631 63,631 202,390 202,390 Accounts receivable: Subscribers, distributors and other 830,375 830,375 679,292 679,292 Receivables due from related parties 1,382 1,382 944 944 Other current financial assets 6,771 6,771 111,631 111,631 Other non-current financial assets 9,191 9,191 49,390 49,390 Investments at amortized cost 3,330 3,330 0 0 Financial assets at amortized cost 914,680 914,680 1,043,648 1,043,648 Equity instruments at fair value through profit or loss mandatory 3,705 3,705 0 0 Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income mandatory 2,826 2,826 0 0 Debt instruments at fair value through profit or loss mandatory 1,614 1,614 0 0 Financial assets at fair value 8,145 8,145 0 0 Available-for-sale investments 0 0 11,345 11,345 At December 31, 2017, other current and non-current financial assets comprised installment sales receivables that are reported in accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other, net as of 2018 (see Note (3) – Impact of IFRS 15). At December 31, 2017, financial assets at amortized cost were classified into cash and cash equivalents and loans and receivables. For details on the classification of financial assets and investments in the course of the implementation of IFRS 9 see Note (3) – Impact of IFRS 9. Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other as well as receivables due from related parties are generally not discounted. As their carrying amounts reported approximate their fair values, no further information on the classification in the fair value hierarchy is provided. At December 31, 2017, other financial assets essentially comprised installment sales receivables (see Notes (13) and (20)), the fair values corresponded to the present values of the payments related to the assets. At December 31, 2018, TEUR 199,952 of the carrying amount of accounts receivable: subscribers, distributors and other relate to installment sales in all segments and have a fair value of TEUR 194,036. The calculation of the fair values takes into account the current interest rates that reflect market and partner-based changes to terms, conditions and expectations and are thus classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Fair value hierarchy of financial investments The following table shows the fair value hierarchy of financial investments measured at fair value that reflects the market proximity of the inputs in such fair value measurements: in TEUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At December 31, 2018 Financial assets measured at fair value 7,136 1,009 0 8,145 At December 31, 2017 Available-for-sale investments 10,765 580 0 11,345 60 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 140 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 The following table shows the carrying amounts and the fair values of the financial instruments per class of financial liabilities (debts): Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2018 2017 Financial liabilities Liabilities to financial institutions 245,000 245,051 17 17 Bonds 2,536,417 2,743,779 2,533,262 2,818,434 Other current financial liabilities 33,780 33,780 51,309 51,309 Lease obligations 632 632 894 894 Other non-current liabilities 17,600 17,600 19,942 19,942 Accounts payable trade 745,377 745,377 592,032 592,032 Payables due to related parties 528 528 554 554 Accrued interest 29,990 29,990 29,990 29,990 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 3,609,324 3,816,737 3,228,000 3,513,172 Accounts payable trade and other liabilities have predominantly maturities below one year. Thus their carrying amounts approximate their fair values and no further information on the classification in the fair value hierarchy is provided. The fair values of the quoted bonds (EMTN bonds and Eurobonds) equal the face value multiplied by the price quotations at the reporting date and are thus classified as Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The fair values of bank and leasing liabilities and of other financial liabilities are measured at the present values of the cash flows associated with the debt, based on the applicable yield curve and credit spread curve for specific currencies, and are thus classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. (34) Companies and Business Combinations Capital share at Method of Capital share at Method of Name and company domicile December 31, 2018 in % consolidation* December 31, 2017 in % consolidation* Segment Austria A1 Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Telekom Austria Personalmanagement GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Telekom Austria Beteiligungen GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC CableRunner GmbH, Vienna 76.00 FC 76.00 FC CableRunner Austria GmbH & Co. KG, Vienna 76.00 FC 76.00 FC World-Direct eBusiness solutions Gesellschaft m.b.H., Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC paybox Bank AG, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC paybox Service GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC wedify GmbH, Vienna (2017: 3G Mobile Telecommunications GmbH) 100.00 FC 100.00 FC mk Logistik GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream Hungary Kft., Budapest 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream Slovakia s.r.o., Bratislava 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream RO s.r.l., Bucharest 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream TR Telekomünikasyon Hizmetleri Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi, 100.00 100.00 FC Istanbul FC JetStream Switzerland GmbH, Zurich 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream Poland Spolka Z Ograniczona Odpowiedzialnoscia, Warsaw 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream Germany GmbH, Frankfurt on the Main 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream Italy S.r.l., Milan 100.00 FC 100.00 FC TA CZ sítě s.r.o., Prague 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream BH d.o.o. drustvo za telekomunikacije, Sarajevo 100.00 FC 100.00 FC JetStream England Limited, London 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Segment Bulgaria A1 Bulgaria EAD, Sofia (2017: Mobiltel EAD) 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Cabletel-Prima AD, Nessebar 51.00 FC 51.00 FC Citynet TV OOD, Aytos ME 51.00 FC Cable Information System AD, Russe LIQ 87.55 NC 61 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 141 Consolidated CONSOLIDATED Financial FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 Capital share at Method of Capital share at Method of Name and company domicile December 31, 2018 in % consolidation* December 31, 2017 in % consolidation* Segment Croatia A1 Hrvatska d.o.o., Zagreb (2017: Vipnet d.o.o.) 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Vipnet usluge d.o.o., Zagreb ME 100.00 FC Metronet Telekomunikacije d.d., Zagreb ME 100.00 FC Segment Belarus Unitary enterprise velcom, Minsk 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Unitary enterprise TA-Engineering, Minsk 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Adelfina Ltd. i.Liqu., Minsk 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Unitary enterprise Solar Invest, Bragin town 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Vitebskiy oblastnoy technotorgovyi tsentr Garant i.Liqu, Vitebsk 100.00 FC A1 Content, Minsk 100.00 NC Gomel Regional Technological Trade Center “Garant” Open Joint-Stock Company, Gomel LIQ 98.70 FC Segment Macedonia one.Vip DOOEL, Skopje-Zentar 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Telemedia DOOEL, Skopje (2017: Vip operator uslugi DOOEL) 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Astra Plus DOOEL, Kocani ME 100.00 FC Digi plus Multimedia DOOEL, Skopje ME 100.00 FC Segment Serbia Vip mobile d.o.o., Belgrade 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Amis Telekomunikacije d.o.o., Belgrade LIQ 100.00 FC Segment Slovenia A1 Slovenija d.d., Ljubljana 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Telekomunikacijski sistem Radvanje Pekre Limuš d.d., Maribor 50.02 FC 11.52 NC Corporate & Other Telekom Projektentwicklungs GmbH, Vienna ME 100.00 FC Telekom Finanzmanagement GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Mobilkom Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC mobilkom Bulgarien Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC mobilkom CEE Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC mobilkom Mazedonien Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC mobilkom Belarus Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Kroatien Beteiligungsverwaltung GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC SB Telecom Ltd., Limassol 100.00 FC 100.00 FC A1 Digital International GmbH, Vienna 100.00 FC 100.00 FC A1 Digital Deutschland GmbH, Munich 100.00 FC 100.00 FC Akenes S.A., Lausanne 88.83 FC 88.83 FC Akenes GmbH, Berlin 100.00 NC 100.00 NC Telecom Liechtenstein AG, Vaduz 24.90 EQ 24.90 EQ * FC – full consolidation, EQ – equity method, LIQ – liquidation, ME – merged, NC – not consolidated because not material, SO – sold All affiliated companies have December 31 as their reporting date. According to IFRS 3, business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date when the acquirer obtains control over the acquiree. Goodwill is measured as the difference between the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred as of the acquisition date, the amount of any non-controlling interest, and, in a business combination achieved in stages, the fair value of the acquirer’s previously-held equity interest in the acquiree less the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Non-controlling interests are not measured at fair value but at their share of the fair value of identified net assets of the acquiree. In accordance with IFRS 3.45, goodwill may be adjusted for subsequent changes in the estimated purchase price. If the fair value of the assets acquired exceeds the consideration transferred, the gain resulting from bargain purchase is immediately recognized in other operating income in profit or loss. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. In case of an acquisition achieved in stages, the previously held interest is restated at fair value and any resulting difference is recognized in profit or loss. All transactions with non-controlling interest holders are directly recognized in stockholder’s equity. In the course of purchase price allocations, fair values of assets and liabilities acquired are determined based on state-of-the-art discounted cash flow methods. The input factors used are categorized as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy defined by IFRS 13. 62 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 142 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 On April 24, 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group acquired 97.07% of Vitebskiy oblastnoy technotorgovyi tsentr Garant (“Vitebsk Garant”) via its Belarusian subsidiary velcom. In the second quarter, the remaining shares were acquired, the fair value of shares outstanding was already included in the total purchase consideration and no non-controlling interest was recognized at initial consolidation. Vitebsk Garant is a broadband-, cableand IP-TV-operator in Belarus providing services mainly for residential customers in both, Vitebsk and other small cities in the region. The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date are reported in the segment Belarus: Acquisition of Vitebsk Garant in TEUR Fair values on acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 3,636 Intangible assets 973 Other assets and receivables 388 Cash and cash equivalents 145 Deferred tax liabilities – 390 Accounts payable – 851 Net assets acquired 3,900 Goodwill 173 Total purchase consideration 4,073 Cash and cash equivalents acquired – 145 Net cash outflow 3,928 The factors contributing to goodwill are expectations of positive returns due to regional synergies, upselling of cable TV customers and further cost synergies. In the second quarter 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group acquired the non-controlling interest of 49.0% in “City TV OOD” in Bulgaria with a carrying value of TEUR 75 for a consideration of TEUR 100 as well as the non-controlling interest of 1.3% in “Gomel Garant” in Belarus with a carrying value of TEUR 6 for a consideration of TEUR 5. The excess of the purchase price over the carrying value of the non-controlling interest, amounting to TEUR 24, is recorded in retained earnings. On November 2, 2018, A1 Telekom Austria Group acquired the remaining non-controlling interest of 31.69% of Telekomunikacijski sistem Radvanje Pekre Limuš d.d („TS RPL Slovenia“) via its Slovenian subsidiary A1 Slovenija. The fair value of the previously held share of 18.34% was remeasured and the resulting loss of TEUR 44 was recognized in the financial result. TS RPL Slovenia is a provider of Internet and cable TV in Slovenia. The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date are reported in the segment Slovenia: Acquisition of TS RPL Slovenia in TEUR Fair values on acquisition date Property, plant and equipment 445 Other assets and receivables 46 Cash and cash equivalents 340 Accounts payable – 120 Net assets acquired 711 Non-controlling interests – 355 Gain resulting from bargain purchase – 138 Consideration transferred 218 Shares already held – 79 Cash and cash equivalents acquired – 340 Net cash outflow – 201 Since the effect of the acquired entities on the Consolidated Financial Statements of A1Telekom Austria Group is not considered significant, no pro-forma information is presented. 63 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 143 Consolidated Financial CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Statements STATEMENTS 2018 2018 (35) Commitments and Contingent Assets and Liabilities In the normal course of business, A1 Telekom Austria Group is subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims, including proceedings under laws and regulations related to network access. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and the outcomes are not predictable with certainty. Consequently, Management is unable to ascertain the ultimate aggregate amount of the monetary liability or the impact on the financial position of A1 Telekom Austria Group with respect to these matters at December 31, 2018. These matters could affect the operating results or cash flows of any quarter when resolved in future periods. However, Management believes that, after final settlement, any monetary liability or financial impact on A1 Telekom Austria Group, beyond such provided for at year-end, would not be material to its Consolidated Financial Statements. (36) Remuneration Paid to the Management Board and Supervisory Board At December 31, 2018, the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG consists of three members: Thomas Arnoldner as Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Alejandro Plater as Chief Operating Officer (COO) and Siegfried Mayrhofer as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). On April 19, 2018, Thomas Arnoldner was nominated as new CEO of Telekom Austria AG by the two main shareholders, América Móvil and Österreichische Bundesund Industriebeteiligungen GmbH (ÖBIB). The appointment of Thomas Arnoldner was resolved by the Supervisory Board. He took office on September 1, 2018. At December 31, 2017, the Management Board of Telekom Austria AG was composed of Alejandro Plater as CEO and at the same time as COO, as well as Siegfried Mayrhofer as CFO. Since March 6, 2015, Alejandro Plater has been a member of the Management Board and, since August 1, 2015, CEO. Since June 1, 2014, Siegfried Mayrhofer has been a member of the Management Board. The following table summarizes the remuneration of members of the Management Board and Supervisory Board: in TEUR 2018 2017 Basic remuneration (fixed salary incl. remuneration in kind) 1,224 1,026 Variable remuneration 1,370 1,087 Share-based compensation (Long Term Incentive Program)* 534 110 Total 3,129 2,224 Compensation Supervisory Board 357 358 * See Note (31) Hannes Ametsreiter resigned from his function as CEO as per July 31, 2015 and his employment relationship was amicably terminated at the same date. Günther Ottendorfer’s CTO contract with a term until August 31, 2016 was prematurely terminated as per March 5, 2015. Hans Tschuden’s CFO contract with a term until March 31, 2015 was prematurely terminated as per March 31, 2014. The share-based compensation for LTI 2015 amounting to TEUR 290 and paid in 2018 as well as the share-based compensation for LTI 2014 of TEUR 222 and paid in 2017 to former Management Board members is not included in the table of management remuneration. (37) Employees The average number of employees during the years 2018 and 2017 was 18,847 and 18,659, respectively. At December 31, 2018 and 2017, A1 Telekom Austria Group employed 18,705 and 18,957 employees (full-time equivalents), respectively. (38) Subsequent Events On January 15, 2019, A1 Telekom Austria Group entered into a committed credit line with a total volume of TEUR 150,000 and a term until January 15, 2020. A further committed credit line with a total volume of TEUR 50,000 and a term until year-end 2019 was entered into on January 28, 2019. 64 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 144 ConsolidatedFINANCIAL CONSOLIDATED FinancialSTATEMENTS Statements2018 2018 (39) Release for Publication On February 11, 2019, the Management Board approved the Consolidated Financial Statements for submission to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board will review the Consolidated Financial Statements and report its decision on approval. Vienna, February 11, 2019 CEO Thomas Arnoldner COO Alejandro Plater CFO Siegfried Mayrhofer 65 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 145 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s Report 1) Report on the Consolidated Key Audit Matters Financial Statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the fiscal year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Audit Opinion consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate We have audited the consolidated financial statements of opinion on these matters. Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, Vienna, and of its subsidiaries (the Group) comprising the consolidated statement We considered the following matters as key audit matters of financial position as of December 31, 2018, the consolifor our audit: dated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated state▸ 1. Valuation of property, plant and equipment ment of cash flows for the fiscal year then ended and the notes and intangible assets, including goodwill to the consolidated financial statements. ▸ 2. Revenues and related IT systems including the first-time adoption of “International Financial Reporting Standard 15 – Based on our audit the accompanying consolidated financial Revenue from Contracts with Customers” statements were prepared in accordance with the legal regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the assets and the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and its financial performance for the year then ended in 1. Valuation of property, plant accordance with the International Financial Reportings Standand equipment and intangible ards (IFRS) as adopted by EU, and the additional requirements under Section 245a Austrian Company Code UGB. assets, including goodwill Description Basis for Opinion A1 Telekom Austria Group shows significant amounts of goodwill (mEUR 1,278), intangible assets (mEUR 1,783) We conducted our audit in accordance with the regulation and property, plant and equipment (mEUR 2,716) in its (EU) no. 537/2014 (in the following “EU regulation”) and in consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2018. accordance with Austrian Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Our responsibilities under those regulations and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Austrian General Accepted 1) This report is a translation of the original report in German, which is solely valid. Publication or sharing with third parties of the consolidated financial Accounting Principles and professional requirements and we statements together with our auditor’s opinion is only allowed if the conhave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance solidated financial statements and the management report for the Group with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence are identical with the German audited version. This audit opinion is only applicable to the German and complete consolidated financial statements we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide with the management report for the Group. Section 281 paragraph 2 UGB a basis for our opinion. (Austrian Company Code) applies to alternated versions. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 146 AUDITOR’S REPORT Under IFRS, an entity is required to annually test the amount in equity of mEUR 42.4 as of January 1, 2018. For multipleof goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life for element arrangements for mobile communication services, impairment. For intangible assets with a definite life as well the application of IFRS 15 leads to a shift from services as property, plant and equipment, it is required to assess revenues to equipment revenues due to changed allocation on each balance sheet date whether impairment indicators of the transaction price to the individual performance exist and if they exist, an impairment test is required for obligations from 2018 onwards. these assets. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s disclosures about revenues and A1 Telekom Austria Group’s disclosures about goodwill, intanthe first time application of IFRS 15 are included in Note3 gibles assets and property, plant and equipment and related (Basis of Presentation) and 5 (Revenues) in the consolidated impairment testing are included in Note 4 (Estimations), Note financial statements. 15 (Property, plant and equipment), Note 16 (Intangibles) and Note 17 (Goodwill) in the consolidated financial statements. Revenues and related IT systems were important for our audit as there is an industry inherent risk around the accuracy of We considered the impairment testing of property, plant and revenues recorded given the complexity of systems and the equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill, as a large volume of data processed as well as the impact of key audit matter as the related asset amounts are significant changing pricing models to revenue recognition (tariff strucand the assessment process itself is complex and requires tures, incentive arrangements, discounts etc.). judgment. The impairment tests include assumptions that are affected by future market or economic conditions. How our audit addressed the matter Our audit procedures included, among others, the following: How our audit addressed the matter Our audit procedures included, among others, the following: We verified the accounting policies relating to revenue recognition (including multiple element contracts as well as customer We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the loyalty programs) and the impact of new business models. controls over the impairment testing process and evaluated With regard to the initial application of IFRS 15 as of January 1, management’s identification of cash generating units (CGU’s). 2018, we assessed the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s process for assessing the impact and implementing the new standard. With the assistance of EY valuations specialists, we challenged As part of these audit procedures, we challenged the key the main assumptions in management’s valuation models inaccounting estimates and judgements made under IFRS 15. cluding forecasted revenues, EBITDA margins, capital expenditure and changes in working capital as well as discount rates Furthermore, we tested the design and operating effectiveand growth rates. Furthermore, we reconciled the key assumpness of the controls over the revenue processes including the tions to the plans submitted to the audit committee and tested revenue related IT systems (rating, billing and other support the mathematical accuracy of the models. systems) and IT general controls with involvement of EY IT specialists. We also assessed the design of processes and conWe also assessed the adequacy of disclosures made regarding trols implemented by management to ensure the appropriate impairment testing and related assumptions. application of the new standard and the related implications on IT systems. 2. Revenues and related We performed substantive audit procedures on revenues to corroborate the results of the design and implementation IT systems including assessment of controls over revenue related processes and the first-time adoption IT systems. of “International Financial Reporting Standard 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers” Description A1 Telekom Austria Group’s revenues in 2018 resulted from various revenue streams and IT systems processing millions of records per day. A1 Telekom Austria Group implemented the new standard on revenue recognition “International Financial Reporting Standard 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (IFRS 15) as of January 1, 2018 and used the option on initial application to recognize the cumulative effect of the transition directly in equity in accordance with the transitional provisions. The transition to IFRS 15 lead to an increase A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 147 AUDITOR’S REPORT Responsibilities of Management error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal and of the Audit Committee control. for the Consolidated Financial ▸ obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are approStatements priate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s Management is responsible for the preparation of the consoliinternal control. dated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted ▸ evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the EU, and the additional requirements under Section 245a and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and relatAustrian Company Code UGB for them to present a true and ed disclosures made by management. fair view of the assets, the financial position and the financial ▸ conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of performance of the Group and for such internal controls as the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the management determines are necessary to enable the prepaaudit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty ration of consolidated financial statements that are free exists related to events or conditions that may cast signiffrom material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. icant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, In preparing the consolidated financial statements, managewe are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to ment is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to conthe related disclosures in the consolidated financial statetinue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters ments or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our related to going concern and using the going concern basis opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternafuture events or conditions may cause the Group to cease tive but to do so. to continue as a going concern. ▸ evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s of the consolidated financial statements, including the financial reporting process. disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Auditor’s Responsibilities for ▸ obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities the Audit of the Consolidated within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated Financial Statements financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about solely responsible for our audit opinion. whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud We communicate with the Audit Committee regarding, among or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, significant audit findings, including any significant deficienbut is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accorcies in internal control that we identify during our audit. dance with the EU regulation and in accordance with Austrian Standards on Auditing, which require the application of We also provide the Audit Committee with a statement that we ISA, always detect a material misstatement when it exists. have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding inMisstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considdependence, and to communicate with them all relationships ered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. From the matters communicated with the Audit Committee, As part of an audit in accordance with the EU regulation and we determine those matters that were of most significance in accordance with Austrian Standards on Auditing, which rein the audit of the financial statements of the current period quire the application of ISA, we exercise professional judgment and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in We also: extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter ▸ identify and assess the risks of material misstatement should not be communicated in our report because the of the consolidated financial statements, whether due adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that communication. is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 148 AUDITOR’S REPORT Report on Other Legal and Additional information in accordance Regulatory Requirements with article 10 EU regulation We were elected as auditor by the ordinary general meeting Comments on the Management at May 30, 2018. We were appointed by the Supervisory Board on October 15, 2018. We are auditors without cease Report for the Group since 2015. Pursuant to Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the management report for the Group is to be audited We confirm that the audit opinion in the Section “Report on as to whether it is consistent with the consolidated financial the consolidated financial statements” is consistent with statements and as to whether the management report for the additional report to the audit committee referred to in the Group was prepared in accordance with the applicable article 11 of the EU regulation. legal regulations. We declare that no prohibited non-audit services (article 5 Management is responsible for the preparation of the par. 1 of the EU regulation) were provided by us and that management report for the Group in accordance with we remained independent of the audited company in conAustrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and ducting the audit. other legal or regulatory requirements. We conducted our audit in accordance with Austrian Responsible Austrian Certified Standards on Auditing for the audit of the management Public Accountant report for the Group. The engagement partner is Mr. Erich Lehner, Certified Opinion Public Accountant. In our opinion, the management report for the Group was prepared in accordance with the valid legal requirements, Vienna, February 11, 2019 comprising the details in accordance with Section 243a Austrian Company Code UGB, and is consistent with the Ernst & Young consolidated financial statements. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. Statement Based on the findings during the audit of the consolidated Mag. Erich Lehner mp Mag. (FH) Severin Eisl mp financial statements and due to the thus obtained understandWirtschaftsprüfer / Certified Wirtschaftsprüfer / Certified ing concerning the Group and its circumstances no material Public Accountant Public Accountant misstatements in the management report for the Group came to our attention. Other Information Management is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the management report for the Group and the auditor’s report thereon. The annual report is estimated to be provided to us after the date of the auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, as soon as it is available, and, in doing so, to consider whether – based on our knowledge obtained in the audit – the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 149 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 Consolidated non-financial report Consolidated non-financial report 1) of Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft in accordance with Section 267a of the Austrian Company Code (UGB) on environmental, social and employee matters, human rights, and combating corruption and bribery The Telekom Austria AG, listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange, the requirements of the internal control system, the Code is a leading provider of digital services and communications of Conduct and the compliance guidelines. Integrated solutions in Central and Eastern Europe with around 25 million sustainability management, which comprises defined standcustomers in seven countries: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia ards, processes and reporting, compliance with the princiand Slovenia (A1), Belarus (velcom), the Republic of Serbia ples of the UN Global Compact and regard for human rights (Vip mobile), and the Republic of Macedonia (one.Vip). ensure the development of strategies and goals oriented Via its affiliated company A1 Digital International GmbH towards sustainability and the involvement of all business (hereinafter referred to as A1 Digital), the Telekom Austria AG units and hierarchies. offers digital solutions in its core markets as well as in Germany and Switzerland. See the 2018 Group Management Report A materiality analysis was conducted with the help of various and Consolidated Financial Statements for information on interest groups to identify central sustainability issues and business operations and the scope of consolidation. material impacts. The analysis takes place on a regular (every two to three years) basis. Goals, which will be reviewed on Telekom Austria AG and its affiliated companies, hereinafter an annual basis and adjusted if necessary, were derived from referred to as the A1 Telekom Austria Group, strive to increase the results of the materiality analysis. enterprise value in a sustainable manner, while taking into account all relevant economic, ecological and social aspects. 1) The German text of the signed statement, which refers to the German This goal is supported by the Group’s commitment to the Version of the Report, is the only binding one. The English translation Austrian Corporate Governance Code and the application of all is not binding and shall not be used for the interpretation. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 150 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 Identifying topics in the context of sustainability Involved stakeholders 1. Topic identification Identifying 68 relevant topics considering the requirements of the GRI Reporting Standard (topics, indicators, sector supplement). Topics determined in the course of the ongoing stakeholder dialogue as well as sector-specific topics were also covered in the process. Two-stage evaluation process resulting in 21 summarised topic groups Internal experts, external Topic validation by external and internal experts experts from the fields of science, research and from NGOs 2. Impact evaluation Evaluation of potential impact of selected topics in the course of a workshop and in talks with external and internal experts (on a scale of 1 to 4 depending on impact magnitude) Assessment of relevant initiatives’ contribution in the light of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 3. Online survey Employees, customers, suppliers, the Assessment of the 21 selected topic groups by internal and external stakeholders economy, politicians & special interest in the course of an online survey (response: 700 participants) groups, media, the scientific, research Selection and rating of top 10 topics in order of importance & education communities Materiality matrix Data security & protection Very high Communication Customer orientation infrastructure Ecological Responsible Energy demand network design Stakeholder relevance Compliance purchasing Employee health Digitalisation Skills & promoting development & talent Fair & flexible innovation promotion working Children & youth media protection Waste Media literacy Emissions Electromagnetic fields Recycling ICT products providing ICT products ecological value Low Involvement Diversity & antiproviding of residents discrimination social value Low Impact Very high Bubble size represents business relevance for A1 Telekom Austria Group. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 151 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 1. Information on the topics Certifications such as ISO 27001 (in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, and the Republic of Macedonia), the security information derived for the A1 Telekom policy, security information standards and business continuity Austria Group from the plans are included in the management approaches applied (see also 2018 Group Management Report). These aim to materiality analysis 2017 guarantee state-of-the-art data protection and a high security standard in order to avoid negative impacts within and outside A topic’s materiality (see the graphic “Identifying topics in the company as best as possible. Also used for this purpose the context of sustainability”) is based on its impacts on are is the implementation of teams that specialize in respondthe environment, society and economy as well as how intering rapidly and efficiently to cyber incidents (e. g. A1 CERT; esting it is to A1 Telekom Austria Group’s stakeholders. computer emergency response team). Important security Thus, the topics most important to A1 Telekom Austria Group aspects are coordinated group-wide, such as the implemenare those that have the biggest impact and those that are tation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) – most relevant to the stakeholders. As an additional dimension, supported by sharing experiences in national (e. g. Cyber the topics were assessed with regard to their business releSecurity Platform of the Federal Chancellery) and international vance for A1 Telekom Austria Group. This allows for a perspecsecurity associations (e. g. ETIS). The service lines, employtive that takes into account the topics’ sustainability context ees in shops, support communities, and contact forms on the and their economic significance for the company. websites are available as complaint mechanisms to all stakeholders. The position of data protection officer has also been In the following, the A1 Telekom Austria Group reports on its created within the A1 Telekom Austria Group in response to own activities and measures with regard to all topics derived the broader requirements for companies imposed by the Genfrom the analysis and from the Austrian Sustainability and Dieral Data Protection Regulation of the European Union. The versity Improvement Act. Within the A1 Telekom Austria Group, core of this regulation is the protection of personal data. The responsibilities for all of these topics have been defined in EU General Data Protection Regulation entered into force on one or several departments. May 25, 2018, and the A1 Telekom Austria Group has gradually implemented it in the countries covered by the regulation, starting in 2016. With regards to projects and products pro2. Topics relating to business cess adjustments were made and the annual risk assessment was adapted in order to comply with the requirements of the operations General Data Protection Regulation. The materiality analysis 2017 revealed the following topics Furthermore, the A1 Telekom Austria Group encourages relating to business operations: security and data protection, training and further education regarding security and data communication infrastructure, digitalization & promoting protection. Management systems are evaluated regularly. innovation, and customer orientation. For example, the ISO certifications are evaluated annually and these were also carried out in 2018. Effectiveness is reviewed and monitored regularly on the basis of predefined Security and data protection key figures, which are not disclosed for competitive reasons. Adjustments are made on an intra-year basis, if necessary, The topic of security and data protection was identified as for example in the event of attacks on databases such as material by all stakeholder groups in the materiality analysis the one in Austria in early October 2018. Besides extensive 2017. Through its business operations, the A1 Telekom cooperation with the data protection authorities, measures Austria Group directly contributes to data protection in its such as the blocking of access were taken immediately. In markets. addition, more than 23,800 e-learning modules on the topic of data protection were completed group-wide in 2018 The A1 Telekom Austria Group reports on the material risks (2017: 32,246). relating to security and data protection in the risk report of the 2018 Group Management Report. These risks include the unauthorized use of personal data and cyberattacks on Communication infrastructure IT infrastructure. Compliance with high data protection standards is a fundamental requirement for the A1 Telekom Austria In the materiality analysis 2017, the topic “communication Group and safeguards customers’ trust in the Group and infrastructure” was identified as material both by stakeholders thus solidifies its reputation. Long-standing trust and a (particularly business representatives, customers, and the heightened reputation in this field can lead to a competitive media) and with regard to impacts. The A1 Telekom Austria advantage. Various measures are taken in order to guard Group directly contributes in its markets by means of its busiappropriately against risks and make the best possible use ness operations, which include the installation of communiof opportunities, ranging from access policies and user cation infrastructure. access management to standardized and group-wide policies (e. g. information security policy) and training for employees. The A1 Telekom Austria Group is pursuing demand-oriented infrastructure expansion with the goal of driving forward digitalization in its markets. The infrastructure expansion is A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 152 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 an important part of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s technology A1 Telekom Austria Group is using LTE carrier aggregation with strategy. The strategy takes the approach of ensuring a secure 256 QAM (a complex modulation technique) at selected locaand stable network with a high level of system stability and the tions in Austria, Croatia, and the Republic of Serbia, enabling best possible transmission rates. Complaint mechanisms such data rates of up to 400 Mbps. As part of the roll-out of 4G LTE as stores, service lines, and contact forms on the websites are Advanced Pro in all countries covered by the A1 Telekom Austria available to all stakeholders. Group, 4x4 MIMO (multiple input multiple output) is also being used to increase data transmission speeds on a targeted basis The A1 Telekom Austria Group reports on the material risks where these capacities are required. relating to communication infrastructure in the risk report of the 2018 Group Management Report. Potential risks to an In the area of management systems, the A1 Telekom Austria uninterrupted, seamless supply of bandwidth through the Group has initiated the development of the future operations communication infrastructure include natural disasters caused support system (future OSS). Systems of this type differ by climate change (e. g. mudslides, avalanches, and floods) from existing management systems in that the data to be and human error (e. g. operating errors and insufficient redunprocessed is stored in a data lake and processed from there. dancies). Measures to minimize risks include certification, This open structure makes it possible to respond to new the standardization of processes and the guarantee of multiple requirements extremely quickly and to address new questions redundancies (multiple network layers that can temporarily in service assurance in a short space of time. In addition, compensate for the loss of a single level). With regard to opporthe use of established management systems such as ISO 9001 tunities, the ongoing protection and continuous improvement will also continue. of communication infrastructure and supply performance provide a quality advantage as well as an enhanced image and Management systems are evaluated regularly. For example, reputation and thus potentially a competitive advantage. the ISO certifications are evaluated annually and were also carried out successfully in 2018. Effectiveness is reviewed The further development of the network infrastructure will play and monitored regularly, as well as adjusted if necessary, on a central role in ensuring that the Group is optimally equipped the basis of predefined key figures, which are not published for the dynamically growing requirements in an era of digital for competitive reasons. change. This also forms the basis for innovative products and services. Accordingly, the Group’s mobile and fixed network infrastructure was continuously expanded once again in 2018. Digitalization and promoting Convergence, i. e. the intelligent combination of the mobile innovation and fixed network infrastructure, enables efficient and extended regional coverage with increasingly large bandwidths. The materiality analysis 2017 determined that the topic of digitalization and promoting innovation is considered as State-of-the-art and highly secure data centers will continue material – both to stakeholders (particularly those in science to gain in importance in the future. Accordingly, they represent and education, business representatives and the media) and the third pillar of the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s infrastructure with regard to the impacts. Digitalization is promoted primarily strategy alongside mobile and fixed-line. In this context, the by telecommunications companies, whereby the A1 Telekom A1 Telekom Austria Group successfully completed the construcAustria Group has a direct and indirect impact on society, tion of another ultra-modern data center in Vienna in 2018. the environment, and the economy with regards to this issue. In Austria, the fixed-line broadband expansion was continThe A1 Telekom Austria Group understands digitalization and uously driven forward by the accelerated fiber roll-out in the the promotion of innovation as opportunities, as they offer form of FTTC (fiber to the curb), FTTB (fiber to the building) potential to tap into new business areas in line with the corand FTTH (fiber to the home). While fiber is coming closer orate strategy and allow customer requirements to be identiand closer to the customer, the capacity of existing copper fied at an early stage in order to design appropriate products lines is also being increased. This is being done with a combiand bring them to market. With regard to digitalization, it is nation of vectoring – a technology for suppressing interfering particularly important within the company to help employees signals – with transmission technologies such as VDSL2 and develop the skills and abilities required. G.fast. In order to meet the requirements of future mobile communication technologies such as 5G and the accompaThe A1 Telekom Austria Group sees itself as an enabler of nying new services, the Group has also continued to push the digitalization with the aim of driving it forward in its markets. roll-out of fiber to all mobile base stations. The growing significance of digitalization is taken into account with A1 Digital International GmbH and A1 Digital Deutschland The A1 Telekom Austria Group offers the LTE (long-term evoGmbH. A1 Digital advises companies in digital transformation lution) mobile communication standard in Austria, Bulgaria, and assists them with the digitalization of their business areas. Croatia, Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic The focus lies on sector-specific applications for the Internet of of Macedonia. The further acceleration of the roll-out of 4G Things (IoT), cloud-based products for the modern workplace, LTE Advanced Pro in 2018 led to a significant expansion in and security solutions. the supply of superfast mobile Internet in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, and the Republic Another concept to encourage innovation is the support for of Macedonia. To achieve even faster mobile Internet, the new companies as part of the “A1 Start Up Campus” initiative A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 153 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 by the Austrian subsidiary A1. By 2018, 19 start-ups had The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s objective is, in addition to already been promoted since the initiative started in 2011. providing high-performance fixed-line and mobile infrastrucResearch partnerships with notable scientific and industrial ture, to become the first point of contact and key partner partners and joint projects with national and international for digital transformation in order to unlock new potential in institutions are supporting the A1 Telekom Austria Group in digital services. A variety of management systems, such as the launch of technologies of the future for marketand cusISO 18295-1 for customer contact centers, are used for this tomer-oriented communications solutions. The A1 Telekom purpose in order to offer customers the best possible serAustria Group is also a partner of the Industry 4.0 platform vice. Complaint mechanisms such as service lines, e-mails, and is addressing the interoperability of IoT platforms within and contact form on the company websites are available the Europe-wide H2020 project symbIoTe. to all stakeholders in the A1 Telekom Austria Group. The effectiveness of the management system is reviewed on a Customer orientation regularly basis and then measures are taken and adjustments are made if necessary, based on predefined key figures, which In the materiality analysis 2017, the topic of customer orientaare not published for competitive reasons. tion was identified as material by stakeholders (especially by customers, suppliers, business representatives, and employees), therefore the A1 Telekom Austria Group focuses on this topic. Key figures: RGUs and mobile communication RGUs 1) (in '000) 2018 2017 Change in Austria 3.327,7 3.390,4 –1,9 % in Bulgaria 1.029,0 1.005,0 2,4 % in Croatia 681,8 654,1 4,2 % in Belarus 657,3 463,4 41,8 % in Slovenia 182,1 183,0 –0,5 % in the Republic of Macedonia 383,1 340,7 12,5 % Total 6.260,9 6.036,5 3,7 % of which Broadband-RGUs in Austria 1.434,8 1.447,3 –0,9 % of which Broadband-RGUs in Bulgaria 448,3 434,8 3,1 % of which Broadband-RGUs in Croatia 254,0 250,0 1,6 % of which Broadband-RGUs in Belarus 246,7 212,0 16,4 % of which Broadband-RGUs in Slovenia 73,7 70,4 4,8 % of which Broadband-RGUs in Macedonia 131,6 114,6 14,8 % TV-RGUs 1.646,9 1.421,4 15,9 % Mobile communication customers (in '000) in Austria 5.363,7 5.335,2 0,5 % in Bulgaria 3.934,3 3.977,1 –1,1 % in Croatia 1.833,3 1.772,7 3,4 % in Belarus 4.873,0 4.864,2 0,2 % in Slovenia 697,1 703,3 –0,9 % in the Republic of Serbia 2.195,2 2.182,8 0,6 % in the Republic of Macedonia 1.056,5 1.072,3 –1,5 % Total 20.999,6 20.657,7 1,7 % 1) Revenue Generating Unit A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 154 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 3. Material environmental issues Energy demand and ecological network design In terms of environmental issues, the material impact by the A1 Telekom Austria Group is energy consumption. ApproxiIn the materiality analysis 2017, the topic of energy demand mately 80 % of its total energy consumption results from the was identified as material with regard to impacts and by stakeelectricity consumption to operate its network. This includes holders (especially business representatives, politicians, and the most important environmental measures to achieve maxthe media). The A1 Telekom Austria Group has a direct impact imum efficiency in this regard and to reduce the energy deprimarily through operating the communication infrastructure mand as far as possible. The materiality analysis 2017 showed as part of its business operations. The topic of ecological netthat the most material issues with regard to the environment work design, which includes the activities and measures for are energy demand, ecological network design, and informasustainably creating the company’s own infrastructure, was tion and communication technology (ICT) products providing identified as being material in the materiality analysis 2017 ecological value. Unless otherwise stated, the risks and with regard to the impacts. The A1 Telekom Austria Group has their management can be found in the risk report of the 2018 a direct impact on the environment through the installation Group Management Report. and operation of communication infrastructure. Besides natural disasters caused partly by climate change The A1 Telekom Austria Group has set itself the goal of stabi(see “Communication infrastructure”), CO₂ emissions due lizing or rather reducing energy demand and, at the same to communication infrastructure’s energy demand are also time, reducing CO₂ emissions. The Austrian subsidiary A1 is a risk in terms of the environment. In terms of opportunities, doing this with the help of recognized management systems digital and ICT products can help to lower emissions by such as ISO 50001 for energy management and ISO 14001 increasing the efficiency of processes and either saving or for environmental management. The latter is also implemented significantly reducing the consumption of resources – e. g. in Slovenia and the Republic of Serbia. The network design due to reduced travel activities. To reduce the risks, 100 % of should be carried out as ecologically as possible, depending electricity is sourced from renewable energy in Austria, solar on the framework conditions. The A1 Telekom Austria Group power is promoted throughout the Group, and numerous has summarized its commitment in a group-wide environmental measures are taken to use the required energy as efficiently policy. It has set itself the goal of reducing electricity demand as possible. These measures can range from using low-conper transferred data volume (energy efficiency indicator) by sumption equipment to increasing average temperatures at 30 % from 2015 to 2018 (based on 2015, measured by MWh IT locations in order to reduce the need for cooling. per terabyte) and reduce CO₂ emissions by 25 % by 2020 (based on 2012). The latter A1 Telekom Austria Group has not The environmental management system at A1 Telekom Austria been able to come closer (status: +11 % CO₂ emissions) by Aktiengesellschaft in Austria, A1 Slovenija d.d. in Slovenia, now due to acquisitions. In 2018, the energy efficiency indicator Vip mobile d.o.o. in the Republic of Serbia and one.Vip DOOEL was 0.18 (2017: 0.24) MWh/terabyte. From 2015 to 2018, in the Republic of Macedonia is certified in accordance with the electricity demand for transported data volumes had already ISO 14001. Furthermore, EMAS (eco management and audit been reduced by 69 %. The target was thus overachieved. scheme) requirements in Austria and Slovenia are met. Energy management at A1 Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft is also Management systems are evaluated regularly. For example, the ISO 50001 certified. Since 2014, A1 Telekom Austria AktienISO certifications are evaluated annually and were successfully gesellschaft has been the first carbon neutral network in acquired for 2018. Effectiveness is reviewed and monitored Austria to be assessed and validated by TÜV SÜD in line with regularly on the basis of predefined key figures. Adjustments the PAS 2060 international standard. are made throughout the year if necessary. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 155 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 Direct and indirect energy (in MWh) In accordance with the GRI Standard for Sustainability Reports: 302-1, 302-4 Total energy2018 Electricity1) Heating fuels 2) District Heating Fuels3) consumption Austria 300,611 14,304 30,165 46,544 391,624 Bulgaria 116,747 114 325 11,374 128,561 Croatia 65,423 3,716 3,378 5,942 78,459 Belarus 84,684 0 3,684 4,887 93,255 Slovenia 30,024 0 255 595 30,875 Republic of Serbia 51,613 82 1,430 2,896 56,020 Republic of Macedonia 30,173 0 0 1,976 32,148 A1 Telekom Austria Group 679,275 18,216 39,238 74,213 810,942 2017 Austria 298,853 16,572 29,321 48,297 393,044 Bulgaria 108,380 126 298 12,170 120,973 Croatia 59,643 3,798 3,861 4,602 71,904 Belarus 75,548 0 3,346 4,809 83,703 Slovenia 29,984 0 278 626 30,887 Republic of Serbia 43,772 81 1,452 2,797 48,102 Republic of Macedonia 28,127 2,085 0 1,917 32,129 A1 Telekom Austria Group 644,307 22,662 38,556 75,218 780,742 Change (in %) Austria 1% –14 % 3% –4 % 0% Bulgaria 8% –9 % 9% –7 % 6% Croatia 10 % –2 % –13 % 29 % 9% Belarus 12 % n. m. 10 % 2% 11 % Slovenia 0% n. m. –8 % –5 % 0% Republic of Serbia 18 % 1% –2 % 4% 16 % Republic of Macedonia 7% –100 % n. a. 3% 0% A1 Telekom Austria Group 5% –20 % 2% –1 % 4% At the time of preparation, the environmental indicators for fiscal year 2018 were not yet available. In the table above, the figures include the period from November 1, 2017 to October 31, 2018, which can be considered a representative comparison period forfiscal year 2018. There were no significant requirement changes wherefore no fluctuations are assumed. Tables are subject to rounding differences. 1 joule = 2.77777778 x 10 –10 MWh 1) Acquisition and own production, as well as diesel for emergency power generator 2) Oil and gas, not climatically adjusted 3) Diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG and natural gas without diesel for emergency power generator Due to the on-going shift to district heating, fuels for heating 100 % from 2017 to 2018. Due to acquisitions the vehicle were reduced by 14 % in Austria. In Macedonia, only one locafleet increased in Croatia and led to an increase in motor fuel tion was heated with fuel. This location has been relinquished, by 29 % in the same period. which results in a reduction of heating fuels in Macedonia by A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 156 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 Direct an indirect greenhouse gas most important CO₂ source. Besides the increase of energy efficiency the use of renewable energy are measures to reduce emissions (CO₂-equivalents in t) CO₂ emissions. Scope-1-emissions include emissions from In accordance with the GRI Standard for combustion of fossil fuels for heating and mobility. Scope-2sustainability reporting: 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 emissions indicate emissions, which arise from electric energy and district heating. Energy demand not only represents A1 Telekom Austria Group’s most significant environmental impact, but also its Direct Indirect Total Total (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 1+2) (Scope1+2+Comp.) locationmarketlocationmarketlocationmarket2018 based based based based based based Austria 16,040 101,101 9,023 117,141 25,063 101,856 9,778 Bulgaria 4,344 66,455 66,455 70,799 70,799 70,799 70,799 Croatia 2,633 29,688 29,688 32,321 32,321 32,321 32,321 Belarus 1,753 22,684 22,684 24,437 24,437 24,437 24,437 Slovenia 158 12,625 18,348 12,783 18,506 12,783 18,506 Republic of Serbia 1,060 44,944 44,944 46,005 46,005 46,005 46,005 Republic of Macedonia 1,015 27,898 26,167 28,913 27,182 28,913 27,182 A1 Telekom Austria Group 27,003 305,395 217,310 332,398 244,313 317,113 229,028 2017 Austria 17,090 100,311 8,777 117,401 25,867 101,483 9,949 Bulgaria 4,443 61,705 61,705 66,148 66,148 66,148 66,148 Croatia 2,319 27,300 27,300 29,619 29,619 29,619 29,619 Belarus 1,744 20,352 20,352 22,097 22,097 22,097 22,097 Slovenia 174 12,614 6,789 12,788 6,963 12,788 6,963 Republic of Serbia 982 38,174 38,174 39,156 39,156 39,156 39,156 Republic of Macedonia 1,115 26,501 26,501 27,615 27,615 27,615 27,615 A1 Telekom Austria Group 27,867 286,957 189,599 314,824 217,466 298,906 201,548 Change (in %) Austria –6 % 1% 3% 0% –3 % 0% –2 % Bulgaria –2 % 8% 8% 7% 7% 7% 7% Croatia 14 % 9% 9% 9% 9% 9% 9% Belarus 1% 11 % 11 % 11 % 11 % 11 % 11 % Slovenia –9 % 0% 170 % 0% 166 % 0% 166 % Republic of Serbia 8% 18 % 18 % 17 % 17 % 17 % 17 % Republic of Macedonia –9 % 5% –1 % 5% –2 % 5% –2 % A1 Telekom Austria Group –3 % 6% 15 % 6% 12 % 6% 14 % At the time of preparation, the environmental indicators for fiscal year 2018 were not yet available. In the table above, the figures include the period from 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2018, which can be considered a representative comparison period for fiscal year 2018. There were no significant requirement changes wherefore no fluctuations are assumed. Direct Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels for heating and mobility; emissions from cooling agents are not considered. Indirect Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. According to GHG protocol, “location-based scope 2” figures refer to the average emissions factors in the area in which the energy consumption takes place. The average value at national level is used. According to GHG protocol, “market-based scope 2” figures refer to energy suppliers’ emissions factors, insofar as these are available, or an individual energy product. In Slovenia market-based scope 2 emissions rose by 170 %, due to changes in the calculation method – for the first time the calculations were based on energy suppliers’ emissions factors. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 157 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 Fuel consumption by renewable and non-renewable energy source (in MWh) From non-renewable From renewable 2018 energy sources 1) energy sources 2) A1 Telekom Austria Group 97,013 4,449 2017 A1 Telekom Austria Group 100,592 4,492 Change in %) A1 Telekom Austria Group –4 % –1 % 1) Oil, diesel, gasoline, LPG, CNG, and natural gas, including diesel for emergency power generators 2) Share of biofuels in diesel and gasoline ICT products providing ecological value Media literacy Included among ICT products providing ecological value are In the materiality analysis 2017, the topic of media literacy products and services that make a significant contribution was identified as material with regard to the impact. Secure to more efficient use of resources and enable the users to reand competent interaction with new media is essential for duce their environmental footprint. In the materiality analysis employment and therefore also contributes to closing the 2017, the topic was identified as material with regard to the digital gap. The A1 Telekom Austria Group’s “A1 Internet for impact. A direct impact within and outside the company is All” media literacy initiative offers free courses for everyone caused by the development of relevant products. Regarding to encourage interaction with digital media. This has a direct ICT products providing ecological value no risks for the A1 impact on society and the economy. Regarding media Telekom Austria Group are known. literacy no risks for the A1 Telekom Austria Group are known. Regular evaluation of client requirements and innovation The A1 Telekom Austria Group has set itself the goal to make management help to develop ICT products with environmental a contribution to closing the digital gap. With the help of the added value, with the potential to contribute to reducing CO₂ group-wide “A1 Internet for All” initiative, it promotes media emissions and preserving resources. These products include literacy in the countries in which it operates. The A1 Telekom for example videoconference systems to reduce travelling Austria Group set itself the goal of reaching 150,000 particactivities. The products are regularly evaluated and assessed ipants in free Internet training by 2018. The “A1 Internet for with regard to marketability and customer requirements and if All” initiative has already had more than 180,000 participants necessary adapted or taken off the market. Complaint mechsince 2011 so the goal has been surpassed. anisms for products such as stores, service lines, and contact forms on the websites are available to all stakeholders. Performance is reviewed and monitored regularly based on predefined key figures, such as the number of participants 4. Social issues in media literacy training sessions. In Austria, the initiative is supported and evaluated scientifically by the NPO Center With regard to social issues, the A1 Telekom Austria Group of the Vienna University of Economics. In 2018, the latter fulfills its responsibility to society with a special focus on reconfirmed that “A1 Internet for All” is making a contribution teaching media literacy and reducing the digital gap in the to closing the digital gap in Austria. Adjustments are made countries in which it operates. throughout the year if necessary. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 158 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 Participations in media literacy trainings: “A1 Internet for All” 2018 2017 Change (in %) Austria 26,923 26,615 1.2 Bulgaria 2,300 2,087 10.2 Croatia n. a. 42 n. a. Belarus 20 20 0.0 Slovenia n. a. 13 n. a. Republic of Serbia 21 40 –47.5 Republic of Macedonia 820 n. a. n. a. A1 Telekom Austria Group 30,084 28,817 4.4 5. Employee matters measures. Around 45 % of existing employees in Austria have civil servant status (2017: 47 %). The number of employees in The A1 Telekom Austria Group had 18,705 employees/ full the CEE segments was in total slightly declining. The increase time equivalents (FTE) at the end of 2018 (2017:18,957). in “Holding incl. A1 Digital” is attributable to the continued Headcount in the Austria segment was reduced by around increase in the workforce of its affiliate A1 Digital, which was 3 % to 8,010 employees as part of the ongoing restructuring founded in the previous year. Employees 1) as of 31 December 2018 2018 2017 Change (in %) Austria 8,010 8,246 –2.9 Bulgaria 3,685 3,751 –1.8 Croatia 1,682 1,680 0.1 Belarus 2,581 2,575 0.2 Slovenia 555 565 –1.9 Republic of Serbia 1,032 977 5.6 Republic of Macedonia 785 819 –4.1 Holding incl. A1 Digital 376 345 8.9 A1 Telekom Austria Group 18,705 18,957 –1.3 1) Full-time equivalent In the A1 Telekom Austria Group’s view, the opportunities and To further expand its competitiveness and innovative drive, risks in terms of employee matters particularly relate to the the A1 Telekom Austria Group invests in sound professional promotion of flexible and modern working and guaranteeing training for its employees on an ongoing basis. For this the right conditions for maintaining a work-life balance and purpose the use of its central e-learning platform should be a healthy work environment. Increased competitiveness as a enhanced to provide training to all its employees throughresult of higher employee productivity and the acquisition out the company at any time and in any place. The platform of qualified employees are seen as opportunities here. There currently comprises 15 learning providers and 1,920 online are risks, for example, relating to reputation and the positioncourses (2017: 894 online courses) and virtual classes. ing as an attractive employer as well as the lack of key em99,578 online courses were completed in 2018. Furthermore, ployees or the right skills in the era of digitalization. Measures employee skills are also developed using a group-wide collabto minimize risks include regular employee surveys (“Culture orative tool that ensures virtual teamwork within the company. Pulse Checks”) and regular employee meetings as part of the The A1 Learning Hub functions as a development platform. “ROAD” performance model in order consequently to derive It developed and organized more than 42 training opportunimeasures. ties for 526 participants (2017: 500) in the course of 2018. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 159 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 In addition to this central training, the A1 Telekom Austria and flexible working time models. In addition, up-to-date Group subsidiaries have also developed their own training performance management is used, which increasingly focusprograms tailored to the needs of their respective markets. es on further training for employees. To meet future requirements for experts and managers, the A1 Telekom Austria Group in Austria is particularly comDiversity among employees is seen as the central driver of the mitted to apprenticeship training and offers university and company vision “Empowering digital life” and encourages the college graduates a twelve-month graduate program, as Guiding Principles of “Team, Trust, and Agility” through comwell as a dual study program in cooperation with University munication. Supporting women is one of the core elements of Applied Sciences Technikum Wien. of promoting diversity. A1 Telekom Austria Group has set itself the goal of increasing the proportion of women in manageAnother core element of the opportunities of employee matters ment positions at the company to 38 % by 2018. At the end of is presented in the topic of fair and flexible working conditions 2018, the proportion was 35 %. Regarding the occupation within the company, which came up in the materiality analysis. of open positions it was not achieved to attract enough women Fair and flexible working means creating framework conditions to leadership positions. Therefore, in the year 2018, a 5-year that make flexible work in terms of time and location possible, plan was drafted with the focus on reconciling work and family, whilst meeting all statutory requirements. With this in mind, the which should ensure an increase in the proportion of women A1 Telekom Austria Group aims to promote virtual collaboration in management. Share of female employees and share of female managers as of 31 December 2018 Share of Share of female employees female managers 1) in % 2018 2017 2018 2017 Austria 26 26 18 19 Bulgaria 49 49 50 50 Croatia 38 41 36 39 Belarus 60 53 42 46 Slovenia 44 44 43 40 Republic of Serbia 59 58 50 49 Republic of Macedonia 44 45 43 45 A1 Telekom Austria Group 2) 40 38 35 36 1) Managers includes all persons with staff responsibility for at least one employee. 2) Including Holding and A1 Digital Share of locals in leadership teams and share of women in senior management positions Share of locals in Share of women in senior management positions 1), 2) senior management positions 2) in % 2018 2017 2018 2017 Austria 100 100 33 40 Bulgaria 89 89 22 22 Belarus 57 57 14 0 Cluster Croatia / Macedonia 75 78 13 11 Cluster Serbia / Slovenia 100 100 43 38 A1 Telekom Austria Group 3) 84 84 24 21 1) Locals includes all those who have citizenship for the country in which they work. A leadership team consists of Senior Directors and the respective Chief Executive Officers. 2) Persons in senior management positions correspond to local leadership team 3) Including Holding and A1 Digital In addition to central innovation and training offers, the needs of their respective markets. For example, this includes A1 Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries have also developed company physicians, health days, and blood donation drives. their own training and health initiatives tailored to the A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 160 CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL REPORT 2018 6. Human rights A1 Telekom Austria Group’s compliance management system was revised and reviewed by a leading audit firm. The A1 With its admission to the UN Global Compact, the A1 Telekom Telekom Austria Group was assured that the principles and Austria Group has been committed to implementing fundameasures presented are, with reasonable assurance, suitable mental requirements in the areas of human rights, work, enboth for identifying risks of material violations of applicable vironment, and combating corruption. This commitment corruption requirements, anti-trust law and capital market has been acknowledged, for example, by being integrated compliance regulations in due time, and for preventing such into the Austrian subsidiary’s General Terms and Conditions. violations. In addition, it was attested that the compliance management system conforms to the international ISO 19600 and ISO 37001 standards and meets the requirements of 7. Compliance and combating the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the European Cartel Law, and the UN Global Compact. corruption In order to appropriately highlight the importance of compliActing with honesty, fairness, and transparency is an imporance across the entire Group and as a significant preventive tant component of the corporate culture at the A1 Telekom measure in the compliance management system, the compliAustria Group. In order to achieve this standard of integrity, ance organization prioritized online and classroom training the company has a comprehensive compliance management on the issues of integrity, anti-corruption, capital market comsystem. The example set by top management and the responpliance, antitrust law, and data protection in 2018. Employees sibility of all employees for their own actions are increasingly were trained in 7,600 compliance trainings in person and important, in particular. With the aim of avoiding potential misresolved practical questions in a dialog with the compliance conduct, the A1 Telekom Austria Group has determined clear managers. In addition, managers and employees completed rules for acting in a manner complying with the law and with more than 24,000 e-learnings on the above topics in 2018, integrity in all business relationships. In addition, appropriate especially on the new requirements of the General Data Procontrols have been integrated within its business processes. tection Regulation. The group-wide Code of Conduct was revised in 2017 and adapted to the new Guiding Principles (see “Employee matVienna, January 30, 2019 ters”). In addition to the Code of Conduct, which is available The Management Board in every national language of the subsidiaries, as well as in English, there are also detailed compliance guidelines providing assistance on specific topics. This includes the Anti-Corruption and Conflicts of Interest guidelines, which were also revised in 2017 and correspond to the ISO 37001 international standard. The compliance guidelines provide support in ensuring that acting with integrity is a natural part of daily work. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the compliance manageThomas Arnoldner, CEO ment system is supported by regular communication measures Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft and training, the “ask.me” helpdesk, internal audits and the whistleblowing platform “tell.me,” which can be used anonymously if desired. The needs-based further development of the compliance program is ensured by the annual compliance risk assessment, which defines a catalog of risk-focused measAlejandro Plater, COO Siegfried Mayrhofer, CFO ures for the coming year. In 2018, the design of the entire Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 161 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s Report To the Board of Telekom Austria Clarifications to our Engagement Aktiengesellschaft ▸ The objective of our engagement was neither a financial audit nor a financial audit review. We did not perform any Report about the Independent Assurance of the assurance procedures on data, which were subject of the non-financial reporting annual financial audit, the corporate governance report Independent assurance regarding the non-financial or the risk reporting. We merely checked that data were disclosures and data 2018 of Telekom Austria AG presented in accordance with the NaDiVeG requirements. ▸ Neither the detection and investigation of criminal offensAttention: This letter has been translated from German to es, such as embezzlement or other fraudulent actions, English for referencing purposes only. Please refer to the offinor the assessment of effectiveness and efficiency of cially legally binding version as written and signed in German. management were subject to our engagement. Only the German version is the legally binding version. ▸ Limited assurance over prospective information was not subject to our engagement. ▸ We have not tested comparative data, derived from Engagement the Reporting from previous years. ▸ We did not test data derived from external surveys, We were requested to perform a limited assurance engagewe only verified that relevant disclosures and data are ment regarding the non-financial reporting 2018 (hereafter correctly quoted in the Reporting. “Reporting” or “Report”) in accordance with the requirements of the § 267a UGB Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz (NaDiVeG) of Telekom Austria AG. Criteria The assurance engagement covers the Reporting as follows: The information included in the Reporting was based on the criteria applicable in the year 2018 (“The Criteria”), consisting of: “Consolidated non-financial report in accordance with § 267a UGB” ▸ Requirements according to § 267a UGB (NaDiVeG) in connection with the requirements in the AFRAC statement 9. The objective of our engagement regarding disclosures and data in the Report 2018 of Telekom Austria AG were processes We believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance and internal systems of capturing, collecting and consolidatengagement. ing of the figures at Group level. At the site level, only disclosures and data for Austria were the objective of our engagement. For other locations, no assurance of these disclosures and data has been made. Our procedures have been designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than for that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 162 AUDITOR’S REPORT Management responsibilities ▸ Reviewed data and processes on a sample basis to test whether they had been collected, consolidated and reportThe management of Telekom Austria AG is responsible for the ed appropriately at Group level. This included reviewing Reporting and that the information therein is in accordance data samples to test whether the data had been reported with the criteria mentioned above. This responsibility includes in an accurate, reliable and complete manner; designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls. ▸ Reviewed the coverage of material issues against the These are essential for the elimination of material misstatekey issues raised in the stakeholder dialogues, areas ments in the Reporting. of performance covered in external media reports and the environmental and social reports of peers; ▸ Evaluated the materiality assessment, including sector Our responsibilities specific megatrends and ▸ Assessment whether the requirements according to § 267a It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on the inforUGB (NaDiVeG) in connection with the requirements in the mation included in the Reporting on the basis of the limited AFRAC statement 9 have been adequately applied. assurance engagement. Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Federation of AccountOur Conclusion ants’ ISAE 3000 (Revised) and the Code of Ethics for ProfesBased on the scope of our review nothing has come sional Accountants, issued by the International Federation to our attention that causes us to believe that the disof Accountants (IFAC), which includes requirements in relation closures and data in the Reporting were not prepared to our independence. in accordance with the criteria identified above. The objective of our engagement is not to account for the Vienna, January 30th 2019 interests of any third parties. Our work solely serves the client and his purpose. Our engagement is thus not destined Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. to be used as a basis of decision-making for third parties. The “General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions” 1), are binding for this engagement. According Erich Lehner Georg Rogl to that, our liability is limited and an accountant is only liable Wirtschaftsprüfer / Certified Wirtschaftsprüfer / Certified for violating intentionally or by gross negligence the contracPublic Accountant Public Accountant tual duties and obligations entered into. In cases of gross negligence the maximum liability towards Telekom Austria AG and any third party together is EUR 726,730 in the aggregate. What we did to form our conclusion We have performed all the procedures deemed necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. The assurance engagement was conducted at the company´s headquarter in Vienna. Our main procedures were: ▸ Obtained an overview over the industry as well as the characteristics and governance of the organisation; ▸ Interviewed a selection of Group and functional senior managers and executives to understand key expectations and identify systems, processes and internal control processes to support them; ▸ Reviewed Group level, Board and Executive documents to assess awareness and priority of the topics in the Report and to understand how progress is tracked; ▸ Examined risk management and governance processes related to sustainability and critical evaluation of the representation in the Reporting; 1) Version of April 18th 2018 (AAB 2018) issued by the Chamber of Public ▸ Performed analytical procedures at Group level; Accountants and Tax Advisors, section 7 http://www.kwt.or.at/PortalData/1/Resources/aab/AAB_2018_de.pdf. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 163 GRI CONTENT INDE X GRI Content Index with reference to the GRI Standards The following GRI Content Index lists all topics that have been Unless indicated otherwise, page numbers refer to identified as material for A1 Telekom Austria Group as a whole the combined Annual Report 2018 of the A1 Telekom in the course of the materiality assessment in 2017. Austria Group. Information concerning the role of the supervisory board is provided in the Corporate Governance Report, which is part of combined Annual Report 2018 of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. Description Reference / response GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102–1 Name of the organization see page 4f 102–2 Organization’s most important brands, see page 4f and Group Management Report 2018 products and services 102–3 Location of headquarters see page 176 102–4 Countries in which the organization operates see page 4f to a significant extent 102–5 Ownership and legal form see page 4f, 27ff and Group Management Report 2018 102–6 Markets served A1 Telekom Austria Group offers its products and services to business and private customers from all sectors. see page 4 and Group Management Report 2018 102–7 Scale of the organization A1 Telekom Austria Group has seven operating companies which are in accordance with the GRI definition of “operation”. In some cases the holding company also fulfills these criteria and is high-lighted accordingly. see page 27ff and Group Management Report 2018 102–9 Supply chain see page 17 see also www.A1.group/en/csr/sustainable-supply-chain-management 102–10 Significant changes to the organization No significant changes in the reporting period to the and its supply chain organization’s size, structure and supply chain in the reporting period. For details on the ownership structure: see page 27ff 102–11 Precautionary Principle or approach In all its activities, A1 Telekom Austria Group honours the precautionary principle by taking into account potential future developments and findings in its decisions (e. g. scenario analysis in the context of risk management, please see Group Management Report 2018) 102–12 External initiatives see page 15 102–13 Association memberships see page 15 Strategy 102–14 Highest decision-maker’s statement on the see page 6f importance of sustainability and organization’s sustainability strategy A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 164 GRI CONTENT INDE X Ethics and integrity 102–16 Organization’s values and code of conduct see page 12ff, 30f, 38f Code of conduct: www.A1.group/en/group/compliance-guidelines Governance 102–18 Governance structure Since 2010, A1 Telekom Austria Group has been using a group-wide, integrated sustainability management system. A Corporate Sustainability Team, as part of Group Communiations and Sustainability, reports directly to the CEO. With the introduction of an internal social media platform, A1 Telekom Austria Group established a digital group-wide knowledge platform and communicates and coordinates its activities through it. There is no separate committee for decision-making on ecologic and social topics. With respect to committees on economic decisions please refer to the Corporate Governance. Stakeholder engagement 102–40 List of incorporated stakeholder groups Employees, customers, suppliers, the economy, politicians & special interest groups, media, the scientific, reasearch & education communities. see also www.A1.group/en/csr/sustainability-strategy 102–41 Collective bargaining agreements Around 50 % of all employees are covered by the provisions of collective bargaining agreements. National requirements are observed at all subsidiaries. see also page 30ff 102–42 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders All groups that are impacted by A1 Telekom Austria Group’s regular business activity form the basis for stakeholder identification. Stakeholder selection was based on priorisation via internal databases. 102–43 Approach to stakeholder involvement see page 15f and whether stakeholders have been involved in report preparation 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised As a result of antoher materiality analysis in the spring of by stakeholders 2017, the topics of data security and protection as well as communication infrastructure emerged as the most important ones. Both customers and suppliers rank data security and protection as the most significat one. Employees, on the other hand, regard fair and flexible working as the most important topic. Overall, stakeholders give topics such as waste and employee health less priority. see page 16 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 165 GRI CONTENT INDE X Reporting practice 102–45 Entities included in the consolidated see consolidated financial statements 2018 financial statements 102–46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Boundaries for material topics were defined according to an impact assessment inside and/or outside the organization. A1 Telekom Austria Group’s ability to influence the topic was considered as well. see also A1.group/en/csr/sustainability-strategy 102–47 List of material topics see page 16 102–48 Restatements of information No re-phrasing of information from past reports took place. 102–49 Changes in reporting No changes to the extent and topical boundaries compared to earlier reporting periods. 102–50 Reporting period Full year 2018 if not stated otherwise. Environmental KPI’s were collected for the period 01 November 2017 to 31 October 2018 and can be considered as representative for the full year 2018. 102–51 Date of most recent report The report for the 2017 periode was published in April 2018. 102–52 Reporting cycle The combined Annual Report is published once a year. 102–53 Contact point for questions regarding the report see page 5 102–54 Report of the “in-accordance”-option The report was published with reference to the GRI Standards. 102–55 GRI content index see page 164ff 102–56 External assurance An external assurance is planned within the next two years. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Material topics explanation and boundaries Based on the materiality analysis the following topics are 103–2 Components of the management approach material: communication infrastrucutre, data security & 103–3 Evaulation of the management approach protection, digitalization & promoting innovation, ecological network design, energy demand, customer orientation, edia literacy and ICT products providing ecological value. see page 150 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201–1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Net added value 2018: EUR 882 mn to employees, EUR 771mn for paid investments, EUR 251mn to capital providers and EUR 156 mn to public agencies. GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202–2 Proportion of senior management hired see page 173 from the local community GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203–1 Infrastructure investments and services supported see page 20ff and Group Management Report 2018 203–2 Significant indirect economic impacts see page 34ff A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 166 GRI CONTENT INDE X GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205–1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption In 2018, the holding company as well as the seven operating companies A1 (Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slowenia), velcom, Vip mobile and one.Vip were internally assessed with regards to corruption risks. The companies generated almost 100 % of A1 Telekom Austria Group’s overall turnover and all locations of the above mentioned subsidiaries were taken into account. In the course of the risk analysis, the management analysed 18 different corruption scenarios and defined mitigating measures. Taking into consideration the measures that have already been implemented, no significant remaining risks could be identified. see page 38f 205–2 Communication and training about All employees and business partners are given access to anti-corruption policies and procedures information on compliance as well as corruption prevention (see www.A1.group/en/group/compliance). Almost 100 % of employees, managers and suppliers were actively informed. Approximately 5,000 (approx. 27 %) of employees and managers (including Board members) received training on corruption prevention. The Holding’s Supervisory Board and Executive Board as well as all subsidiaries receive corruption prevention information at least once per year, the entire Executive Board receives training annually. see page 38f, 175 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301–3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials see page 34ff, 170 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302–1 Energy consumption within the organization see page 20ff, 170 302–2 Energy consumption outside of the organization In 2018, energy consumption outside the organization came in at 91,085 MWh. This includes the electricity used by mobile phones sold to customers as well as A1 Telekom Austria Group business trips using taxi, train or aeroplanes. 302–3 Energy intensity see page 20ff, 170 302–4 Reduction of energy consumption see page 20ff, 34ff, 170 302–5 Reductions in energy requirements see page 20ff of products and services GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Biogenic Scope 1 emissions amounted to 1,326 tons of CO2; no data is available for Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. see page 171 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions see page 171 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions see page 171 305–4 GHG emissions intensity see page 171 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions see page 171 305–7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), see page 171 and other significant air emissions A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 167 GRI CONTENT INDE X GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306–2 Waste by type and disposal method A1 Telekom Austria Group is committed to proper waste disposal and complies with the regulations in the respective countries. see page 172 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Benefits are available to all employees equally. not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404–2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and see page 30ff transition assistance programs 404–3 Percentage of employees receiving regular At A1 Telekom Austria Group, a group-wide performance performance and career development reviews management standards process make sure that the quantifiable performance of employees is given just as much attention as the “how” aspect of their daily work based on A1 Telekom Austria Group’s Guiding Principles. Personal development is a major aspect within the performance management process and will be even more in focus in the years to come. Contemporary styles of leadership strongly includes the use of feedback. A1 Telekom Austria Group encourages employees to appreciate each other using peer-to-peer feedback based on behavioural best practice examples in line with the Guiding Principles. see page 30f GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees see page 97 see Corporate Governance Report 2018 and Group Management Report 2018 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418–1 Number of substantiated complaints see page 26 concerning breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 168 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Sustainability KPIs Environment Calculation Method – Emissions Calculation Method – Energy In its calculation method for direct, indirect and other indirect The calculation method is — as long as self provision is not emissions, A1 Telekom Austria Group follows the internationalconcerned — based on the invoices issued by the respective ly recognised definition of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the energy providers. For the conversion into kilowatt hours WRI/WBCSD (World Resources Institute and World Business factors of the ecoinvent database have been taken into Council for Sustainable Development). Included in the calcuaccount. When data was not available, estimates were made lation for direct emissions are all greenhouse gases,not just in some cases. Furthermore, term inaccuracies may occur those covered by the Kyoto Protocol. The calculation methods if invoices do not exactly match the reporting period. For are based on data published by ecoinvent (AR4 100-year the energy share of fuels the heating value was considered. (IPCC 2007-4th Assessment Report)). Figures given as CO₂ Neither steam nor cooling energy was purchased. equivalents. Nature of gases and source of emission factors and of Global Warming Potentials (GWP) reported by energy providers for Scope 2 emissions as well as calculated Scope 3 emissions are unknown. The base year according to GRI is not relevant to A1 Telekom Austria Group. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 169 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Direct and indirect energy Brennstoffe GesamtenergieTotal energy consumption Gesamtenergie 2018 (in MWh) 2017 Electricity Strom1)1) Heating fuels2)2) Dirctrict für Heizung Fernwärme heating TreibstoffeFuels3)3) verbrauch (in MWh) verbrauch (in TJ) Österreich Austria 298.853 300,611 14,304 16.572 30,165 29.321 46,544 48.297 393.044 391,624 1,410 1.415 Bulgaria Bulgarien 108.380 116,747 126 114 298 325 11,374 12.170 128,561 120.973 463 436 Croatia Kroatien 59.643 65,423 3.798 3,716 3.8613,378 4.602 5,942 78,459 71.904 282 259 Belarus Weißrussland 84,684 75.548 0 3,684 3.346 4.809 4,887 93,255 83.703 336 301 Slowenien Slovenia 32.381 30,024 0 278 255 595 626 33.284 30,875 120 111 Republik Republic Serbien of Serbia 43.772 51,613 82 81 1.4521,430 2,896 2.797 56,020 48.102 202 173 Republik Republic Mazedonien of Macedonia 36.778 30,173 2.085 0 0 0 1,976 1.917 40.780 32,148 147 116 A1 Telekom Austria Group 655.355 679,275 22.662 18,216 39,238 38.556 75.218 74,213 810,942 791.790 2.850 2,919 2017 2016 (in MWh) Österreich Austria 298,853 298.986 16.227 16,572 29,321 28.869 48,297 49.532 393,044 393.614 1,415 1.417 Bulgarien Bulgaria 108,380 86.175 128 126 407 298 10.758 12,170 120,973 97.469 436 351 Croatia Kroatien 59,643 57.742 3.694 3,798 3,861 3.671 4,602 4.203 69.309 71,904 250 259 Weißrussland Belarus 75,548 75.715 0 3,346 3.235 4,809 4.280 83.230 83,703 300 301 Slowenien Slovenia 28.403 29,984 0 276 278 530 626 30,887 29.208 105 111 Republik Republic Serbien of Serbia 43,772 37.732 81 0 1.0711,452 2.,797 2.721 48,102 41.524 149 173 Republik Republic Mazedonien of Macedonia 35.939 28,127 2,085 1.484 0 0 2.032 1,917 39.455 32,129 142 116 A1 Telekom Austria Group 644,307 620.692 22,662 21.533 38,556 37.530 74.056 75,218 753.810 780,742 2,811 2.714 Change Veränderung (in %)(in %) Austria Österreich 1 0 –14 2 2 3 –4 –2 0 0 Bulgarien Bulgaria 268 –9 –2 –27 9 13 –7 246 24 6 Kroatien Croatia 103 –2 3 5–13 299 4 9 4 9 Weißrussland Belarus 120 n. o.m. A. 3 10 122 11 1 11 1 Slowenien Slovenia 140 n. o.m. A. 1 –8 18 –5 14 0 14 0 Republik Republic Serbien of Serbia 18 16 o. A.1 36 –2 3 4 16 16 Republik Republic Mazedonien of Macedonia 2 7 –100 40 o. A. n. m. –6 3 3 0 3 0 A1 Telekom Austria Group 6 5 –20 5 3 2 –1 2 5 4 5 4 Tabelle Table may vorbehaltlich include rounding differences. 1 Joule Rundungsdifferenzen. 1 Joule = 2,77777778 = 2,77777778× 10×–1010 MWh –10 1) Purchased 1) Zukauf and MWh Eigenproduktion production und in-house as Diesel sowie well asfür diesel Notstromaggregate for emergency generators 2) Inklusive2) Öl und Includes nicht Gas,oil andklimabereinigt gas, not climatically 3) Inklusive adjusted 3) Includes Diesel, Benzin,diesel, petrol, CNG, LPG undCNG, LPG ohne Erdgas, und natural Diesel gas für Notstromaggregate without diesel for emergency generators Energy and fuel consumption 1) A1 Telekom Austria Group (in MWh) From non-renewable energy From renewable energy 2) 2018 97,013 4,449 2017 100,592 4,492 Change (in %) –4 –1 1) Oil, diesel, petrol, LPG, CNG and natural gas, including diesel for emergency generators 2) Share of biogenic fuels in diesel and petrol Environment – relative indicators Energy efficiency Index 1) Share of e-billing A1 Telekom Austria Group (in MWh) (in MWh(el) per terabyte) (in %) 2018 0.18 74 2017 0.24 72 Change (in %) –24 2 1) Energy Efficiency Index is defined as A1 Telekom Austria Groups total electrical energy consumption, divided by total transported data volume of fixed and mobile telecommunication networks. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 170 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (CO2-equivalents) Direct Indirect Total Total (Scope 1) (Scope 2) (Scope 1+2) (Scope 1+2+Comp.) locationmarketlocationmarketlocationmarketOther 2018 based based based based based based Scope 3 Austria 16,040 101,101 9,023 117,141 25,063 101,856 9,778 48,497 Bulgaria 4,344 66,455 66,455 70,799 70,799 70,799 70,799 37,965 Croatia 2,633 29,688 29,688 32,321 32,321 32,321 32,321 13,705 Belarus 1,753 22,684 22,684 24,437 24,437 24,437 24,437 23,705 Slovenia 1) 158 12,625 18,348 12,783 18,506 12,783 18,506 3,567 Republic of Serbia 1,060 44,944 44,944 46,005 46,005 46,005 46,005 27,015 Republic of Macedonia 1,015 27,898 26,167 28,913 27,182 28,913 27,182 16,690 A1 Telekom Austria Group 27,003 305,395 217,310 332,398 244,313 317,113 229,028 171,136 2017 Austria 17,090 100,311 8,777 117,401 25,867 101,483 9,949 48,989 Bulgaria 4,443 61,705 61,705 66,148 66,148 66,148 66,148 33,112 Croatia 2,319 27,300 27,300 29,619 29,619 29,619 29,619 11,744 Belarus 1,744 20,352 20,352 22,097 22,097 22,097 22,097 21,910 Slovenia 174 12,614 6,789 12,788 6,963 12,788 6,963 2,933 Republic of Serbia 982 38,174 38,174 39,156 39,156 39,156 39,156 22,530 Republic of Macedonia 1,115 26,501 26,501 27,615 27,615 27,615 27,615 14,082 A1 Telekom Austria Group 27,867 286,957 189,599 314,824 217,466 298,906 201,548 155,300 Change (in %) Austria –6 1 3 0 –3 0 –2 –1 Bulgaria –2 8 8 7 7 7 7 15 Croatia 14 9 9 9 9 9 9 17 Belarus 1 11 11 11 11 11 11 8 Slovenia –9 0 170 0 166 0 166 22 Republic of Serbia 8 18 18 17 17 17 17 20 Republic of Macedonia –9 5 –1 5 –2 5 –2 19 A1 Telekom Austria Group –3 6 15 6 12 6 14 10 Direct Scope 1 includes direct emissions from combustion of fossil fuels; emissions from cooling agents are not considered. Indirect Scope 2 includes indirect emissions from electric energy and district heating. Scope 3 takes into account the following emissions, which are not included in Scope 2: The costs associated with the upstream emissions from heating energy, electricity and fuels (fleet) and business travel (taxi, plane, train). These upstream emissions have been calculated according to ecoinvent. Emissions from the downstream use of customers’ mobile phones: For the three best-selling devices per subsidiary, a battery voltage of 3.7 volts (V) was assumed and multiplied by the battery capacity [mAh] according to the manufacturer (mAh*V/1,000) = Wh). This is equivalent to the electricity demand per charge cycle per mobile phone. Assuming that a mobile phone is charged once a day, the electricity demand has then been extrapolated for the whole year and subsequently the average electricity demand for the three best-selling devices per subsidiary was determined. These values were multiplied with the number of SIM cards in circulation for each subsidiary. 1) In Slovenia market based scope 2 emissions rose due to changes in the calculation method – for the first time the calculations were based on energy suppliers’ emissinos. Vehicle fleet Number of Consumption of Consumption of Cons. of alternative Mileage A1 Telekom Austria Group vehicles petrol (in l) diesel (in l) fuels (in l) (in thousand km) 2018 5,129 546,539 6,850,190 201,829 104,692 2017 5,180 556,867 6,911,108 239,929 105,274 Change (in %) –1 –2 –1 –16 –1 Air pollutants generated by the vehicle fleet 1) A1 Telekom Austria Group (in g/km) NOx SO2 PM10 2018 0.641 0.191 0.062 2017 0.643 0.191 0.063 Change (in %) –0,3 –0,4 –0,3 1) The air pollutants were aligned to the published data of ecoinvent for the first time in 2012. They include the emissions of the vehicle fleet. Reported emissions represent relevant pollutants of the A1 Telekom Austria Group. A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 171 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Waste A1 Telekom Austria Group Recyclable Hazardous waste Residual Total (in kg) Paper Metal Other 1) Electronic Batteries Other 2) waste 2018 1,215,000 958.814 443,102 814,460 700,639 299,494 2,041,064 6,472,573 2017 1,187,821 1,915,863 449,765 903,465 656,293 541,338 1,940,906 7,595,450 Change (in %) 2 –50 –1 –10 7 –45 5 –15 Quantities were defined according to invoices of waste management companies or if this was not possible according to volumina of waste containers as well as intervals of waste disposal. 1) Other recyclable waste includes plastic, glas and biological waste. 2) Other hazardous waste includes mainly mobile phones and other hazardours materials. Waste – paper consumption Waste – mobile phone recycling 2018 (in kg) Printing & copy paper Other 1) Total Austria 74,152 494,037 568,189 Collected old Bulgaria 128,507 113,213 241,720 2018 (in pcs.) mobile phones Croatia 11,744 101,289 113,033 Austria 18,006 Belarus 45,740 40,565 86,305 Bulgaria 4,005 Slovenia 5,475 79,256 84,731 Croatia n. a. Republic of Serbia 15,000 85,156 100,156 Belarus 54,231 Republic of Macedonia 37,159 70,502 107,661 Slovenia 309 A1 Telekom Austria Group 317,777 984,019 1,301,796 Republic of Serbia 3,835 Republic of Macedonia n. a. 2017 (in kg) A1 Telekom Austria Group 80,386 Austria 92,160 603,893 696,053 Bulgaria 131,544 136,674 268,218 2017 (in pcs.) Croatia 10,000 158,885 168,885 Austria 16,225 Belarus 51,380 44,767 96,147 Bulgaria 4,364 Slovenia 5,600 91,078 96,678 Croatia 35 Republic of Serbia 15,481 84,526 100,007 Belarus 53,236 Republic of Macedonia 46,790 141,280 188,070 Slovenia n. a. A1 Telekom Austria Group 352,955 1,261,103 1,614,058 Republic of Serbia n. a. Republic of Macedonia n. a. Change (in %) A1 Telekom Austria Group 73,860 Austria –20 –18 –18 Bulgaria –2 –17 –10 Change (in %) Croatia 17 –36 –33 Austria 11 Belarus –11 –9 –10 Bulgaria –8 Slovenia –2 –13 –12 Croatia n. a. Republic of Serbia –3 1 0 Belarus 2 Republic of Macedonia –21 –50 –43 Slovenia n. a. A1 Telekom Austria Group –10 –22 –19 Republic of Serbia n. a. Republic of Macedonia n. a. 1) Other includes mainly paper for customer invoices and paper for packaging. A1 Telekom Austria Group 9 Water consumption A1 Telekom Austria Group (in m3) Absolut 2018 249,866 2017 278,173 Change (in %) –10 Water consumption (in m3) per FTE 13,4 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 172 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Relative indicators Share of renewable energy Recycling quota 2) CO₂-intensity 3) Average paper 2018 in electricity 1) (in %) (in %) (t CO₂e / FTE) (kg/FTE) Austria 99 66 3 9 Bulgaria 19 14 19 35 Croatia 47 78 19 7 Belarus 33 68 9 18 Slovenia 65 83 33 10 Republic of Serbia 29 37 45 15 Republic of Macedonia 28 83 35 47 A1 Telekom Austria Group 62 69 13 17 2017 Austria 99 71 3 11 Bulgaria 19 26 18 35 Croatia 46 53 18 6 Belarus 32 75 9 20 Slovenia 64 76 12 10 Republic of Serbia 24 39 40 16 Republic of Macedonia 22 82 34 57 A1 Telekom Austria Group 63 72 11 19 1) Derived from purchased electricity, values of Austria and Slovenia were calculated,the others measured on basis of the standard national grid factor. 2) Fractions handed over to be recycled (non-hazardous waste, electronic waste and batteries) in relation to total waste. 3) CO₂ intensity includes the CO₂ emissions from Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based (excluding compensation) divided by the number of employees by end of the year. Employees Age structure employees 1) Share of local persons in senior management positions 1) 2) 2018 (in FTE) below 30 30–50 above 50 Austria 674 4,222 3,114 2018 (in %) Bulgaria 1,119 2,399 167 Austria 100 Croatia 310 1,274 97 Bulgaria 89 Belarus 925 1,550 106 Belarus 57 Slovenia 88 441 26 Cluster Croatia / Macedonia 75 Republic of Serbia 151 861 19 Cluster Serbia / Slovenia 100 Republic of Macedonia 64 678 43 A1 Telekom Austria Group 3) 84 A1 Telekom Austria Group 3,393 11,699 3,612 2017 (in %) 2017 (in FTE) Austria 100 Austria 743 4,540 2,963 Bulgaria 78 Bulgaria 1,484 2,118 149 Belarus 100 Croatia 372 1,219 89 Cluster Croatia / Macedonia 89 Belarus 1,104 1,354 117 Cluster Serbia / Slovenia 57 Slovenia 119 424 23 A1 Telekom Austria Group 84 Republic of Serbia 192 769 15 1) Locals includes all those who have citizenship for the country in Republic of Macedonia 112 671 35 which they work. A leadership team consists of Senior Directors A1 Telekom Austria Group 4,137 11,350 3,470 and the respective Chef Executive Officers. 2) Persons in senior management positions correspond to local leadership team. 1) Apprentices not included. 3) Including Holding and A1 Digital A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 173 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Composition of the governance body 1) Share of women in senior (Age structure) management positions 1) A1 Telekom Austria Group 2017 in % 2018 2017 below 30 (in HC) 0 Austria 33 40 30–50 (in HC) 3 Bulgaria 22 22 above 50 (in HC) 7 Belarus 14 0 Total (in HC) 10 Cluster Croatia / Macedonia 13 11 Cluster Serbia / Slovenia 43 38 Share women (in %) 40 A1 Telekom Austria Group 24 21 1) Persons in senior management positions correspond to local leadership team. Gender diversity Share of female employees (in %) Share of female managers 1) (in %) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Austria 26 26 18 19 Bulgaria 49 49 50 50 Croatia 38 41 36 39 Belarus 60 53 42 46 Slovenia 44 44 43 40 Republic of Serbia 59 58 50 49 Republic of Macedonia 44 45 43 45 A1 Telekom Austria Group 40 38 35 36 1) Managers includes all persons with staff responsibility for at least one employee. 2) Including Holding and A1 Digital. Accident statistics 2018 Accidents Fatal accidents Days lost to accidents Austria 147 1 1,816 Bulgaria 10 0 500 Croatia 20 0 399 Belarus 1) 0 0 0 Slovenia 1 0 69 Republic of Serbia 8 0 141 Republic of Macedonia 8 0 299 A1 Telekom Austria Group 194 1 3,224 2017 Austria 142 0 1,469 Bulgaria 5 0 302 Croatia 11 0 138 Belarus 0 0 0 Slovenia 1 0 8 Republic of Serbia 5 0 720 Republic of Macedonia 10 0 183 A1 Telekom Austria Group 174 0 2,820 A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 174 SUSTAINABILIT Y KPIS Society A1 Internet for All Supporting Supporting Recommendation Austria Courses Participations employees (in %) employees 1) rate (in %) 2018 1,892 26,923 97 490 98 2017 1,895 26,615 96 826 98 Change (in %) 0 1 n. m. –41 n. m. 1) Employees supporting for the first time in the respective reporting year Participation in media literacy trainings 2018 2017 Change (in %) Austria 26,923 26,615 1 Bulgaria 2,300 2,087 10 Croatia n. a. 42 n. a. Belarus 20 20 0 Slovenia n. a. 13 n. a. Republic of Serbia 21 40 –48 Republic of Macedonia 820 n. a. n. a. A1 Telekom Austria Group 30,084 28,817 4 Compliance Anti-corruption trainings Anti-corruption trainings Share of trained employees (in %) Austria 1,077 13 Bulgaria 2,786 76 Croatia 89 5 Belarus 584 23 Slovenia 65 12 Republic of Serbia 215 21 Republic of Macedonia 117 15 A1 Telekom Austria Group 1) 89 24 1) Including A1 Digital and Holding A1 TELEKOM AUSTRIA GROUP — COMBINED ANNUAL REPORT 2018 175 Forward-looking Statements Disclaimer for forward-looking statements: This document contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are usually accompanied by words such as “believe”, “intend”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “expect” and similar expressions. Actual events may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Neither A1 Telekom Austria Group nor any other person accepts any liability for any such forward-looking statements. A1 Telekom Austria Group will not update these forward-looking statements, whether due to changed factual circumstances, changes in assumptions or expectations. This report does not constitute a recommendation or invitation to purchase or sell securities of A1 Telekom Austria Group. Company contact details Telekom Austria AG A1 Telekom Austria AG A1 Bulgaria EAD Lassallestrasse 9 Lassallestrasse 9 1, Kukush Street 1020 Vienna 1020 Vienna 1309 Sofia Austria Austria Bulgaria Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +359 88 8088088 www.A1.group www.A1.net www.A1.bg A1 Hrvatska d.o.o. Unitary enterprise velcom A1 Slovenija, d. d. Vrtni put 1 36-2, Internatsionalnaya Šmartinska cesta 134b 10000 Zagreb 220030 Minsk 1000 Ljubljana Croatia Belarus Slovenia Tel. +385 14691 091 Tel. +375 330 33 03 Tel. +386 40 443 000 www.A1.hr www.velcom.by www.A1.si Vip mobile d.o.o one.Vip DOOEL A1 Digital International GmbH Bulevar Milutina Filip Vtori Makedonski 3 Lassallestrasse 9 Milankoviića 1ž 1000 Skopje 1020 Vienna 11070 Novi Beograd Republic of Macedonia Austria Republic of Serbia Tel. +389 2 311000 77 Tel. +43 50 664 0 Tel. +381 6 01234 www.vip.mk www.A1.digital www.vipmobile.rs 176
