Sustainability Report 2019 Table of Contents Statement of our Management 2 Product – Economic Development 13 Highlights 2019 4 Planet – Environmental Responsibility 17 About this Report 6 People – Social Responsibility 25 Our Sites Worldwide 8 Partnering – Shared Responsibility 31 Sustainable Management 9 Appendix 37 Bader Sustainability Report 2019 1 Statement of our Management As a leading manufacturer of premium leather for the automotive industry, we are committed to a global presence, to responding flexibly to market fluctuations and to pursuing visionary innovations for our leather products. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 2 Statement of our Management Dear Readers, Welcome to our third sustainability report, which offers an overview of BADER´s We are convinced that responsibly produced leather that meets stringent quality activities in the field of sustainability in 2019. As a signatory to the United Nations standards will always be a high-quality option for car interiors. Leather has been Global Compact, we continue to support its human rights, labor, environment valued for many years for its unique properties, longevity and durability. By using a and anti-corruption principles as well as the Sustainable Development Goals. It is by-product from the food industry, waste is converted into a renewable material. At important that we demonstrate this commitment through concrete measures and BADER, we are committed to ensuring that leather remains the choice of preference data. when selecting sustainable materials. In addition to economic difficulties in the automotive industry, debates around We hope you will enjoy reading this third progress report for 2019 and that it will animal welfare, meat consumption and deforestation of the Amazon rainforest were reassure you of our commitment to the future. frequently discussed in 2019. BADER is fully aware of its responsibility as a producer of high-quality automotive leather and is constantly working on maintaining a sustainable leather value chain. Our plants worldwide comply with high standards for waste recovery, recycling, emissions, supply chain controls and social standards. Yours sincerely, All these efforts are now bearing fruit, as we were recognized as one of Germany´s Most Valuable Companies in the Focus Money rating and received the Dalian Best Employers Award for our site in China. Thomas Bader Lothar Bauhofer Bent Dreilich Jürgen Erb Marcus Röhling Bader Sustainability Report 2019 3 Highlights 2019 July One 4 Leather initiative April FRISCH AUF! sponsoring in Germany July ( > FRISCH AUF! 2020) August Best Employers Award for BADER China August Recognition of BADER as one of Germany´s Most Valuable Companies in Focus Money rating Installation of solar panels in South Africa Bader Sustainability Report 2019 4 Highlights 2019 National Award for Citizen Excellence for BADER school in Uruguay November Production launch of ecologial bricks in December Uruguay September ECO2L certification for BADER Uruguay December LWG Gold level for BADER Mexico November New BADER Group Policy Bader Sustainability Report 2019 5 About this Report BADER is a signatory to the > United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact The material Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for BADER 2020) and is committed to upholding its Ten Principles concerning human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption practices as well as the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the > 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (UN 2018). The Global Compact Principles act as a “compass“ to help point the way and the SDGs as a “lighthouse“ for orientation. To meet the challenges of sustainable development, companies are asked to contribute their creativity and innovation and to act in a responsible and targeted manner within their own sphere of influence. To this end, we are embedding the Global Compact principles and the SDGs into our strategy, policies and procedures, culture and ultimately our day-to-day business. To determine the specific topics that we can really get behind, BADER has assessed the 17 SDGs for relevance and influence. In so doing, we have taken into account the societal and environmental effects of production processes and end-products as well as our ability to influence change. The 11 goals over which we have particular influence are highlighted in the figure on the right. They are listed numerically and do not correspond to any evaluative ranking. Our sustainability report provides more details on the SDGs that we consider essential. This is our third annual report since 2017 covering the reporting period for the 2019 calendar year (January 1 to December 31). Bader Sustainability Report 2019 6 About this Report This sustainability report links BADER´s activities to the Global Compact Principles that we can achieve the SDGs holistically across the entire value chain. Sustainable and SDGs and assesses our contribution in the relevant areas. We have structured management forms the basis of our commitment in these four areas. The structure the report using the > 3P concept (Elkington 1994), which describes the three underlying the sustainability report and how it links with the SDGs is shown in the dimensions of sustainability: product (economy), planet (environment) and people figure below. The goals and the Global Compact Principles that are addressed by our (society). We have added partnering (cooperation) to these three dimensions as it sustainability activities are also indicated on the title page of each chapter. is only by working together with our customers, suppliers and other interest groups Structure of the sustainability report and link to the UN goals Product Planet People Partnering Economic Environmental Social Shared Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Sustainable Business Resources Social Engagement Supply Chain Management Research and Development Chemicals Occupational Health and Safety Animal Welfare and Product Water and Wastewater Employee Structure and Control Energy Development Emissions Sustainable Management Sustainability Strategy Policies and Compliance Certifications Bader Sustainability Report 2019 7 Our Sites Worldwide 1: Göppingen (headquarters), Germany 5: Dalian, China 2 1 3 5 1: Ichenhausen, Germany 6: Chennai, India 8 6 7 2: Boleslawiec, Poland 7: Rayong, Thailand 4 3: Horodok, Ukraine 8: León and Jalisco, Mexico 9 4: Ga-Rankuwa, South Africa 9: Ciudad Del Plata, Uruguay Bader Sustainability Report 2019 8 Sustainable Management Sustainable management integrates social and environmental concerns into business operations. BADER has embedded sustainable management into its strategy, goals, policies and code of conduct and has put in place structures and management systems to enable continuous assessment and improvement. The activities described in this chapter address the Global Compact Principle shown below. Sustainability Strategy Policies and Compliance Principle 10: Work against corruption Certifications Bader Sustainability Report 2019 9 Sustainable Management Sustainability Strategy Sustainable management serves to secure the long-term survival of our company We are committed to maintaining human rights, fair working conditions, and a culture and requires company commitment at all levels. In 2010, we formed our Competence of diversity, mutual respect and equal opportunities. To promote lifelong learning, Center Sustainability (CCS), comprising a dedicated inter-departmental and crosswe invest in education and continuous professional development throughout an plant team. Since then, it has been responsible for initiating and implementing our employee´s professional career. In order to ensure the best possible health and safety sustainability strategies and goals under the leadership of the executive board. conditions at work, we are in the process of incorporating ISO 45001 into our integrated management system. The first certifications are planned for three sites in 2020. Our CCS team We invest significant resources into researching and developing sustainable products, processes and technologies to meet customer-specific requirements. These are Board of management Executive board assessed on a holistic and life-cycle basis and further minimize resource consumption and emissions. We support this commitment with the environmental and sustainable Site managers certifications ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ECO2L and LWG. Business units Human resources Cooperation with our customers and suppliers is another important component of our strategy. In addition to ensuring product integrity, we pursue important goals such as Purchasing testing suitable methods for traceability back to the animal owner, LWG certification of our raw and semi-finished product suppliers and the definition of minimum animal Integrated management welfare standards. BADERs strategy drivers Our business strategy is based on a holistic assessment of economic, ecological, and We act social risks and opportunities. In this context, our strategy has four drivers: We set We research We address in a long-term minimum standards and develop goals together and We aim to preserve and expand our traditional company in the long term. We therefore for health sustainably with customers forward-thinking plan and invest across all sites and divisions in a sustainable as well as an environmentally and well-being and holistically and suppliers manner and socially responsible manner. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 10 Sustainable Management Policies and Compliance BADER is committed to legal compliance and fair business practice and works Management at each plant monitors compliance with the relevant national and local continuously on strategies to minimize risk. Our recently revised > BADER Group laws and regulations with respect to all company operations and on all operational Policy (BADER 2019a) lays out our fundamental values and principles of conduct which levels. For example, we ensure the enforcement of the EU General Data Protection significantly exceed the minimum legal requirements. It reflects our commitment Regulation concerning the collection, handling and processing of personal data, and to human rights protection, fair labor practices, protecting the environment and train all BADER employees who are involved in digital data exchange annually. There anti-corruption practices. Furthermore, our > Code of Conduct (BADER 2017) for all were and are no legal proceedings pending against BADER. No penalties have been contract and business partners lays down basic principles of conduct for day-to-day imposed, nor are any threatened or expected. practice and business policy. We pursue a zero-tolerance policy and do not tolerate violations of the law or our These rules are to be understood as the framework within which we as a company values and principles of conduct by employees. Employees who identify violations, operate in society. They can only be implemented through the commitment of all as well as risks and weaknesses that could lead to violations, report these to the employees and business partners. We have made our Group Policy available to all complaints office, their supervisors or employee representatives. We investigate the BADER employees through the internet and our intranet and information boards. In concerns raised, take appropriate action and provide feedback. addition, awareness is strengthened in regular training sessions. BADER’s Code of Conduct has also been published on the internet. The documents are available in the specific language of our employees and business partners. Implementation and monitoring of compliance are embedded in our integrated management system. Compliance itself is ensured through management reviews, regular employee training and supplier meetings and audits. We regularly review and revise requirements and clearly define responsibilities in specifications and instructions. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 11 Sustainable Management Certifications At least once a year, BADER uses a range of management reports and internal audits achieved between 84% and 94%, with an average of 90% of the total score. As part to review aspects of sustainable management to produce measures and goals for of their regular supplier management, our customers have commissioned additional continuous improvement. On the operational level, we support our company´s audits at some of our sites, relating to sustainability issues such as human rights and sustainable development through consistent implementation of our integrated environmental considerations. management system. It is based on a range of international standards, which we use to > certify our sites (BADER 2019b) and have them regularly reviewed through New certifications achieved in 2019 external audits. o ISO 14001 at BADER Ukraine All BADER sites have a quality management certification, according to ISO 9001 and/ o ISO 17025 at BADER Göppingen, Germany or IATF 16949 specifically for the automotive industry. Three sites with testing and o ECO2L at BADER Uruguay calibration laboratories are certified according to ISO 17025. All leather-manufacturing sites have the ISO 14001 certification for environmental management. Two sites have an energy management system certified to ISO 50001. We are currently introducing ISO 9001/ the ISO 45001 standard for occupational health and safety management and are IATF 16949 ISO 17025 ISO 14001 rolling out this certification to our sites worldwide. 100% 30% 82% of the sites of the sites of the sites By the end of 2019, six of our seven leather-manufacturing sites had obtained the > Energy Controlled Leather (ECO2L) Certification (VDL 2013). This first international benchmark for tanneries on energy and carbon dioxide (CO2) builds on the experience and energy analyses of approximately 20 leading tanneries worldwide. At the same time, five of our seven leather-manufacturing sites were audited according to the globally valid > Leather Working Group (LWG) audit protocol (LWG 2019) which sets requirements for the assessment of the environmental performance of tanneries ECO2L LWG ( > Chapter Planet). ISO 50001 86% of the 71% of the 18% leatherleatherSince 2015, BADER has regularly completed sustainability questionnaires from of the sites manufacturing manufacturing the established providers Ecovadis and NQC for our customers. With Ecovadis, sites sites we achieved a silver rating on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 2019 and are among the top 18% of the evaluated suppliers. With NQC, our reportable sites Bader Sustainability Report 2019 12 Product – Economic Development Companies can eﬀectively support the Sustainable Development Goals by also taking social and environmental concerns into consideration parallel to their economic development. As a family-owned company already in the fourth and fifth generation we plan for the long term, investing heavily in research and development of sustainable products, processes and technologies, and are committed to legal and fair competitive behavior at our sites. The activities described in this chapter address the Global Compact Principle and SDGs shown below. In Focus: KOLLAMAT Sustainable Business Principle 9: Develop and diﬀuse environmentally friendly technologies Research and Development Bader Sustainability Report 2019 13 Product – Economic Development Product – In Focus: KOLLAMAT BADER continuously implements actions to promote a circular economy. We develop new products from existing resources and residual materials and thereby avoid generating waste. This is the case with KOLLAMAT, a high-quality compound from leather fibers (shavings, finished leather), polymers and additives. It allows us to create products with a unique appearance and a variety of individually adaptable properties for a wide range of applications. KOLLAMAT combines the haptic and moisture-regulating properties of leather with a broad spectrum of strengths and densities. We can substitute 30-65% of the plastics in our compound and can even eliminate plastics completely by using polymers from biological sources. The reduction in the amount of plastic leads to significantly lower energy consumption in production. Our compound can be processed at relatively low temperatures due to the natural fiber leather. KOLLAMAT is already used in a wide range of applications. In injection molding, it is an ideal material for haptic handle applications in single or multi-component processes. The tool handles have a unique surface structure and appearance, a warm and pleasant touch and a moisture-regulating surface. These properties make do-itIn Focus yourself tasks easier and support commercial activities in the building trade, where KOLLAMAT is used in renovation and new construction projects for a wide variety of spatulas and trowels. In the future, these benefits can also be applied to the handles of screwdrivers, garden shears, walking sticks, trekking poles and pens. We want to create a satisfying interaction between the end-user and the manufactured tool. We are constantly endeavoring to reduce the use of oil-based plastics. The pursuit of our vision of producing compounds based on natural and biological materials is therefore an integral part of our everyday work. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 14 Product – Economic Development Sustainable Business Leather is one of the oldest and most versatile materials known to mankind. As > byOptimizing material cycles products of milk and meat production (UNIDO 2017), raw hides are renewable natural materials that can substitute products made from non-renewable raw materials such Raw material input Product output (amongst others) as petroleum-based plastic sheets and textiles. At BADER, we have been working with this sophisticated material for over 145 Cut parts years. Today we manufacture leather specifically for the automotive industry with an estimated global market share of 20-25%. BADER supplies all major automotive Raw hide Finished leather Seat covers markets from decentralized production sites in nine countries and through an international supplier and logistics network. We create automotive solutions for every area of application and every type of vehicle – from surface leather and customized Pelleted leather KOLLAMAT remnants cutting to the finished upholstery. In 2019, we produced worldwide 80,000 m² of leather every day and 50,000 m² of leather cuttings (no change compared to the Split leather previous year) as well as seat covers for 3,000 vehicles (+5% compared to 2018). Input for gelatin For us, a passion for leather also means handling this material responsibly. For almost and collagen 100 years, we have been looking for new possibilities for the most comprehensive Input for leather and high-quality material use of existing products and residual materials possible. fiber material We are now refining numerous by-products such as split leather, KOLLAMAT, gelatin, collagen, leather fiber, fertilizer or > dog chews (Diedrich Pet 2020). Bader Sustainability Report 2019 15 Product – Economic Development Research and Development BADER invests heavily in research and development (R&D) of sustainable products, Sustainable R&D projects in 2019 processes and technologies. In 2019, 53% of our R&D projects were driven by ecological and/or social aspects in addition to technical and economic aspects Finishing (2018: 45%). We work closely with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to o Project on the use of a transfer coating consider their needs in addition to our sustainability considerations. That enables us o Trials on finishings based on renewable raw materials to develop holistic solutions over the entire life cycle of our leather products. After o Trials on the reutilization of colorless finishing mixtures successful testing, we are gradually implementing them at our sites worldwide. Production to crust Sustainable R&D projects o Tests for the extraction of tanning agents from shavings o Tests for the reduced usage of tanning agents and water o Trials on alternative tanning procedures that are suitable for industrial use and 34.7% Finishing do not endanger the health and the environment – e.g. a new chromium-free tanning process 6.7% Production to crust KOLLAMAT 5.3% Kollamat Development of handle applications, floor coverings or surfaces made of a high3.3% Machines quality compound from leather fibers (shavings, finished leather), polymers and 3.3% Raw material additives Machines and process development 46.7% technical-economic R&D projects o Project to reduce dye usage and time required for dye adjustments 53.3% sustainable R&D projects o Project to reduce energy consumption and surface shrinkage through improved drying technologies Ideas from our employees also help us to innovate and become better at what we do. Through our globally established company suggestion scheme, employees Raw material contribute a wide range of suggestions that go beyond financial, technical and o Projects on the processing of split leather qualitative improvements. In 2019, sustainable suggestions included measures for o Projects on the preparation of split by-products for upgrading in a wide variety of areas the reduction of waste or the saving of paper in our office departments. o Projects on full traceability of raw material o Projects for the assurance of animal protection and animal welfare Bader Sustainability Report 2019 16 Planet – Environmental Responsibility The economy and society cannot exist without functioning ecosystems and natural resources. This is why it is more important than ever that we preserve and conserve them for the present and future generations. BADER is aware of this environmental responsibility and is committed to a holistic resource management at all levels of the company and at all sites. We proactively assess the impact of our production processes and products on the environment and include them in our investment and every day decisions, in order to avoid or minimize environmental impacts. The activities described in this chapter address the Global Compact Principles and SDGs shown below. In Focus: Drying Technologies in Ichenhausen Resources Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to Chemicals environmental challenges Water and Wastewater Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Energy Principle 9: Develop and diﬀuse environmentally friendly technologies Emissions Bader Sustainability Report 2019 17 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Planet – In Focus: Drying Technologies in Ichenhausen Due to BADER’s long history, some of our sites used heat technologies that went back to the 1960s. Significant investment and many specific projects were required to bring these manufacturing plants up to a modern, efficient and sustainable level. At our tannery site in Ichenhausen, for example, we have carried out a number of energy-related renovation projects with a total investment of around €1.25 million. Over the past few years, we have implemented various measures: 2017/2018 – switch to natural gas as primary energy source 2018 – replacement of circulating air hang drying with gas-heated clamp conditioner 2018 – spray system circulating air dryer converted to a gas-indirect Infrared Radiation (IR) dryer 2019 – circulating air dryer placed after the application machine replaced with a new Radio Frequency (RF) dryer Gas is burned catalytically with the IR dryer. This generates the infrared radiation which dries the leather surface. With the RF dryer, energy is introduced directly into the coating (excitation of the water molecules) without significantly heating the In Focus leather underneath. Dead times are eliminated in both dryers because the machines do not need to preheat and switch off automatically when there is no leather. Energy conversion losses are reduced due to the direct transformation of the primary energy source. This leads to increased energy efficiency and an immediate reduction in energy consumption of approx. 20-30% for the RF dryer and approx. 30-40% for the IR dryer. We will continue to put actions in place that focus on optimizing energy consumption, while at the same time minimizing environmental impact. For example, we plan to replace the last dryer in the finishing area in 2020. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 18 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Resources BADER is continuously optimizing its product development and production biogas and technical gelatin. A maximum of 10% of solid materials such as coatings processes to ensure environmentally progressive use of resources and the reduction and paint sludge, materials contaminated with oil or used chemicals, cannot be of subsequent emissions into water, soil and air. Innovative technologies are used recycled. These are disposed of in accordance with technical requirements at all to reduce, reuse, recycle and treat waste and dispose of residual materials with our plants. Despite a long-term recovery rate of more than 98% in most cases, we minimum environmental impact. continue to search for ways of improving resource efficiency and to secure existing recovery paths. At our tannery site in Ichenhausen, we use 7-8 kg of raw material per m² leather (finished and split leather) to produce a range of products and by-products. More than 80% of the material input (dry substance of the raw hide) is converted into finished leather, energy and other products. We use hide sections/lime trimmings, necks and Recovery Recovery and disposal balance at the tannery site flanks for collagen or gelatin for the food industry. Shavings can be processed into and in Ichenhausen leather fiber, KOLLAMAT, collagen and fertilizer. The sewage sludge represents a mass disposal percentage of 15-18%. Chromium-free sewage sludge can be materially recycled in 60-70% material use agriculture, and sewage sludge containing Chromium is typically used as a building 30-40% thermal use material in landfill site renovation in Germany. The non-usable waste from the dry 0max. 10% disposal substance of the hide material amounts to less than 2%. Activities in 2019 Investigations regarding the further use of leather shavings in cement bricks in Material input at the tannery site in Ichenhausen South Africa Material (dry substance of the raw hide) Start of production of ecological bricks in Uruguay, using BADER waste such as filter input press sludge and ashes from the boiler (30,000 kg removed from landfill per year) 80% from the skin (fully recovered) Foam and synthetic scrap generated in the cutting and lamination processes 100% 18% sewage sludge (fully materially recovered) reused in mattress production in Uruguay (61,000 kg removed from landfill per year) 02% waste (properly disposed of) Investigations regarding the further use of leather residues in shoes for the local market in India As far as the total amount of waste at the Ichenhausen site is concerned, these material Research on recyclability at the end of the useful life of leather, e.g. in seat covers recovery paths account for 60-70% of the total recovery and disposal balance. Thermal recycling constitutes a further 30-40%, particularly from lime fleshings for Bader Sustainability Report 2019 19 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Chemicals Chemical management, handling and safety are key areas in our product and process We have been able to significantly optimize the use and safety of chemicals over the development. We meet legal requirements such as REACH (EU) and customer past 30 years through various > process conversions (BADER 2015a). At our tannery requirements such as the Global Automotive Declarable Substance List (GADSL). We site in Ichenhausen, for example, we are recovering all trivalent Chromium tanning make further demands on our suppliers through our BADER Black List and security agents contained in the tanning wastewater via a recycling plant. This means we can agreements. ( > Chapter Partnering) reduce tanning agent procurement by 25-30%. At this site, we have a chemical input of 200 to 300 kg per ton of raw material and are well below the > EU standard for the Our integrated management system defines worldwide procedures and work best available techniques (BAT) (EU 2013) of 425 kg per ton of raw material. instructions for the labeling, storage, handling and transport of chemicals and specific hazardous materials. We check and document compliance with the relevant We work worldwide with identical finishing formulations and systems for each article. regulations worldwide through regularly updated legal registers. To minimize risks We have been using only aqueous coating techniques for finishing leather since to health and the environment and to be able to make immediate amendments, we 1987. They are currently based on 70-85% roller application techniques (synchro and continuously monitor our chemicals. reverse process). We have thus been able to reduce the use of the previous chemicalintensive spraying technology (overspray) to 30-45%. To achieve this, we use the Chemical use at the tannery site in Ichenhausen 2010-2019 latest High Volume, Low Pressure (HVLP) spraying technology and volume control, as well as extremely low atomizing compressed air and a two-component dosing technology. kg/t raw material 500 Activities in 2019 400 EU-BAT Constant dialog with our chemical suppliers to promote the development of less sensitive substances 300 Implementation of a global SAP-based, four-stage approval process for new and test chemicals with regard to food suitability, customer requirements, 200 BADER occupational safety and effects on wastewater treatment Ichenhausen Replacement in Germany of hydrazine, the toxic corrosion protection agent for 100 heating systems, with a non-toxic agent 0 Bader Sustainability Report 2019 20 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Water and Wastewater Water is one of the most important auxiliary materials in tanning. It serves as a Water use of our leather-manufacturing sites 2016-2019 transport medium and solvent for chemicals entering the hide and for decomposition products leaving the hide. Economic use of water and careful purification of the l/m² finished leather resulting wastewater are therefore two of our most important and, at the same time, quite complex environmental tasks. 300 EU-BAT We constantly monitor our water usage and take measures to detect and eliminate 250 any groundwater contamination. Wastewater is treated in our own > wastewater treatment plant (BADER 2011) at our tannery site in Ichenhausen so that we can 200 discharge it back into a biologically intact body of water. Our site in Uruguay has a final wastewater purification process. Our sites in China, Mexico, Poland, South 150 LWG Gold Africa and Thailand pre-treat the wastewater before municipal purification. We aim to use easily biodegradable chemicals and maximize their degradation. Our chromium 100 BADER salt recycling process not only reduces the consumption of chemicals but also Ichenhausen significantly reduces the amount of trivalent chromium ions in wastewater. 50 We use technology that, by global standards, reduces water consumption significantly. 0 We also ensure that the most up-to-date technologies, such as water-saving retanning technologies, are regularly transferred to all BADER plants. Through these measures, we have been able to significantly reduce our water consumption worldwide. At our Activities in 2019 leather-manufacturing sites, the aggregated water consumption between 2016 and 2019 was less than 135 l per m² finished leather. We are thus below the strictest > LWG Expansion of water consumption monitoring through the installation of new flow Gold requirements (LWG 2019) of 165 l per m² and well below the > EU-BAT standard meters, performing consumption tests and additional data collection. Reduction (EU 2013) of 285 l per m². of the unmonitored water volume to less than 10% at our site in Ichenhausen Optimization of wastewater treatment in Mexico with the merge of two separate systems to a combined water treatment plant Improvement of water monitoring and leak detection capability through installation of additional water meters in Mexico Bader Sustainability Report 2019 21 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Energy Energy consumption is an important factor in leather manufacturing, especially due We will continue to invest heavily in technological developments and other expedient to the drying processes. We are currently in the process of completing a switch to measures at our sites, for example, in Ichenhausen. Our aim is to achieve LWG Gold generating heating energy directly at the point of use to avoid heat transfer and level at this site, as energy performance is still at Silver level, and to maintain it at our transport losses. We also carry out detailed analyzes of energy consumption and other sites despite ever stricter requirements. consistently derive short-term and medium-term measures to reduce energy use further. We conduct regular internal and external (partly certified) energy efficiency Activities in 2019 audits at our sites worldwide as well as ISO 50001 certification for energy management at our German sites. LWG Gold level for our site in Mexico Replacement of fluorescent lamps with Light Emitting Diode (LED) lamps and energy saving of 56% in Ukraine and of 7% in Mexico with the added benefit of an increased illuminance in the plant areas, from 70 to 500 lux Installation of a new variable speed screw compressor in the finishing area and replacement of the old non-variable speed screw compressor resulting in energy savings of about 30% at our site in Mexico Installation of a coil heat exchanger in the boiler tank to increase thermal capacity BADER Poland – BAD102 BADER Ichenhausen – BAD101 BADER Mexico – 024 and avoid using another gas heater in Mexico BADER China – BAD103 BADER Poland – 027 Continued conversion of our drying plants and the boiler plant to direct gas BADER Mexico – BAD104 BADER China – 033 BADER Ichenhausen – 036 firing at our tannery site in Ichenhausen BADER South Africa – BAD105 BADER South Africa – 037 Installation of BADER SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) system BADER Uruguay – 052 on specific machines in Germany and Poland resulting in increased productivity potentials. Roll-out of this Industry 4.0 sub-project across our largest sites in The > ECO2L (VDL 2013) and > LWG audit systems (LWG 2019) and their benchmarks China and Mexico in 2020 play an important role here in improving our environmental performance, including Energy conservation project in Thailand with the installation of six energy-saving energy efficiency (> Chapter Sustainable Management). Five of our seven leatherinverters on the spraying machine in the finishing building manufacturing sites are LWG audited and certified, four of them to LWG Gold level. Six sites are ECO2L certified. The energy consumption at these sites was well below the > Best Energy Efficiency for Tanning (BEET) energy benchmark (Umweltbundesamt 2003, VDL 2013). This reflects our successful holistic optimization of energy use. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 22 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Emissions Examples of > primary emissions (e.g. theSauerReport 2018) into the atmosphere Greenhouse gases (CO2e) result primarily from the energy required for drying and from a conventional tannery are odor, ammonia (NH3), volatile organic compounds the machines in manufacturing as well as the procurement transportations of the (VOCs) and greenhouse gases (CO2 equivalents). BADER has been consistently input materials. In recent years, we have achieved a reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) implementing chemical and environmental management systems to prevent or emissions by reducing drying processes and temperatures, using state-of-the-art minimize the output of these emissions. For decades, we have supported this objective drying techniques and many other measures. at all our sites throughout the world by investing in technological developments and other measures. The > corporate carbon footprint (BADER 2015b) of all processes at the BADER Group amounts to 2-3 kg CO2e/m2 finished leather. This includes all direct emissions from our The > ECO2L (VDL 2013) and > LWG (LWG 2019) protocols are important, scienceplants and vehicles as well as indirect emissions connected with the consumption of based instruments for improving industry standards worldwide. ECO2L focuses on our purchased energy and thus covers all > scope 1 and scope 2 emissions (GHG Protocol greenhouse gas emissions, while LWG also monitors emissions e.g. from beamhouse, 2004). 2-3 boilers and spraying machines. BADER is actively involved in further developing the ECO2L tool to provide a complete overview of energy use and CO2 emissions CO2-emissions kg CO2e/m2 throughout the entire leather manufacturing process (from raw hide to finished leather). We capture and record the data from all our plants in detail. Reliable data are currently available specifically for production and procurement shipments as well as for wastewater, exhaust air and waste management. A further itemization, such as for chemical manufacturing, is in progress. finished leather of the BADER-group Bader Sustainability Report 2019 23 Planet – Environmental Responsibility VOCs are typically emitted from solvents used in the finishing process. Our measures VOC emissions of our 5 major leather manufacturing sites 2016-2019 described in the section on chemicals to eliminate the use of solvents, have significantly reduced VOC emissions over the past 30 years. Between 2016 and 2019, g/m2 finished leather the annual mean values of VOC emissions at our five major leather-manufacturing sites were between 8 and 21 g of solvent per m2 of finished leather, mostly well below 80 EU-BAT 1 the limits specified in the > Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) 2010/75/EU (EU 2010, 2013). We are working on a further reduction. 70 Activities in 2019 60 Research on VOC-free leather in China 50 Installation of solar cells for own energy generation at our site in South Africa to increase the proportion of renewable energies and reduce CO2 emissions 40 Investigations into energy measurement in the cutting and sewing facilities for 30 the development of an energy and CO2 balance based on a student research project with the Offenburg University of Applied Sciences 20 EU-BAT 2 Development of a comprehensive CO2 reporting with particular focus on indirect emissions that occur in the value chain (scope 3), including both upstream and 10 BADER-Group downstream emissions. Main challenges: Missing data for the CO2 footprint of all required input chemicals and the procurement of data from all upstream 0 suppliers (pre-production for the manufacture of wet blue) 1 non-IED installation with >10-25 t solvent per year 2 IED installation with >10 t solvent per year Bader Sustainability Report 2019 24 People – Social Responsibility Combating poverty, ensuring health, fair opportunities and living conditions and reducing disparities are the major challenges facing sustainable development today. Therefore, we firmly support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the UN – a universal system of values and principles of human coexistence. BADER globally supports charitable activities and initiatives and is committed to the observance of human rights, fair working conditions and life-long education and training, as well as a culture characterized by diversity, mutual respect and equal opportunity. The activities described in this chapter address the Global Compact Principles and SDGs shown below. Principle 1: Support and respect human rights Principle 2: No complicity in human rights abuses Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and recognition of collective bargaining rights In Focus: BADER School in Uruguay Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Social Engagement Principle 5: Abolition of child labor Occupational Health and Safety Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employee Structure and Development Bader Sustainability Report 2019 25 People – Social Responsibility People – In Focus: BADER School in Uruguay In 2016, BADER Uruguay decided to open the BADER special needs school “Centro de Apoyo Pedagógico” in Ciudad del Plata, San José as there are many children with learning difficulties in the area. They often lack appropriate family support and searching for a job later is therefore more difficult. To improve their educational and future prospects, children between the ages of 6 and 12 living in the surrounding area have the opportunity to attend the school where they receive individual support in small learning groups. In addition to regular lessons, the focus is on cultural and social aspects such as the school garden and art lessons using leather as base material. Other projects are tree planting on World Environment Day or painting murals at the BADER factory building (see photo). In September 2019, the BADER school received the Award for Citizen Excellence from the Latin American Development Center (CELADE) for its particular contribution to the economic, social or cultural development of the country. The award is aimed at all those who have made this project possible: The management of the company, the staff, the parents and above all, the teachers and children who come to school every week. In Focus In the future, BADER Uruguay plans to incorporate technology into the classroom, providing teachers with more teaching tools. One of the objectives for 2020 is to introduce English lessons. There are also plans to involve parents in different activities in order to share their learning experiences with their children. This project will thus continue to help improve opportunities for young people. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 26 People – Social Responsibility Social Engagement All BADER’s sites across the globe support the fight against poverty and provide local We are also committed to health, safety and palliative initiatives. In Germany and populations with access to essential resources and services. To this end, we dedicate Mexico, we support, for example, hospitals, nursing facilities and hospices. In Poland, a substantial part of our turnover to social commitment. In 2006 – after the socially we run blood donation campaigns and collect goods for the needy. In South Africa, committed Hans Bader died – the Bader family established the charitable “Hans Bader we offer medical care in our on-site clinic and donate to charitable organizations that Foundation”. Our global commitment covers five main topics, which are shown below. support HIV/AIDS orphans. Our social engagement In the area of sport, we rely on building partnerships with different sports clubs and associations. In Germany, we have sponsored the Bundesliga handball team, FRISCH Education and employment AUF! Göppingen, since the beginning of the 2019/2020 season. BADER employees benefit from this partnership through tickets for games and team-building activities Health, safety and palliative initiatives for our trainees. In South Africa, we sponsor BADER’s Sports Club and local sporting events, and in Poland we support a team of runners who participate in popular running Sports competitions. In Uruguay and Ukraine, we collaborate with local football teams and we also organized a 5 km charity run in Uruguay, which almost 400 people took part in, Youth and elderly care including employees and members of the local community. Art, culture and history We are also involved in the care of young and older people with numerous activities in children‘s and senior citizens’ institutions. In Germany, we promote learning initiatives in kindergartens while in South Africa and Mexico, we sponsor school equipment for BADER promotes global education and employment initiatives to improve employment children with limited resources. In Poland, we support a children‘s home in Bolesławiec, prospects. In Germany, we support the promotion of employment and educational welcome plant visits from preschoolers and students, and organize an annual opportunities for the difficult-to-place and long-term unemployed, as well as persons environmental competition with employees‘ children. In Uruguay, we maintain our threatened by exclusion from the labor market. In South Africa, we have been offering educational support program for children with learning difficulties in our BADER school. a one-year training qualification in leather for unemployed school leavers from the local community since 2007. In 2019, this program had 60 participants. In Ukraine and In addition to the social engagement to support people in need, BADER also promotes Uruguay, we and other companies cooperate with the local chambers of industry and art, culture and history with a range of regional projects. In Uruguay, a leather craft commerce to promote projects in the dual vocational training scheme. workshop was organized for the local community with an exhibition in the gallery of the municipality in 2019. In Thailand, we support the community by joining the Buddhist Kathin ceremony celebrations in the nearby temples and distributing new year gifts. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 27 People – Social Responsibility Occupational Health and Safety BADER respects and protects human dignity and observes human and labor rights, There are emergency plans at all sites as well as mandatory reporting procedures as described in more detail in our > BADER Group Policy (BADER 2019a). BADER’s in the event of serious occupational accidents. External visitors, such as suppliers, company and personnel management work proactively with employee representatives are informed about our safety rules and conduct requirements before they enter our at individual sites. Company agreements typically cover a variety of issues such as premises. the protection of health and occupational safety, employee development, equal treatment, wage and salary increases and other working conditions. We provide a range of health services on individual sites as well as preventive measures such as mandatory regular health checks or measures to reduce stress and We actively integrate aspects of health protection and occupational safety into our noise. We are also introducing the ISO 45001 certification for occupational health and integrated management system and check compliance worldwide through regular safety management across all our sites to improve employee safety further, reduce audits ( > Chapter Sustainable Management). In line with local regulations, we have workplace risks and create better, safer working conditions. a joint labor management/health and safety committee and occupational safety experts at our sites who receive regular training. Activities in 2019 Life-long preservation of health and well-being requires both BADER and every Medical care in our on-site clinic in South Africa with the aim of reducing the employee to take preventive measures. With the aim of raising awareness, we spread of HIV and tuberculosis and enhancing the health and well-being of our regularly conduct training on occupational safety risks and best working practices employees. In 2019, expansion of the clinic’s facilities to allow occupational for all employees, including new and semi-skilled employees, trainees, temporary health assessments to be carried out workers and subcontractors. We provide the relevant protective equipment as well Annual health checkups by the local hospital in Thailand as work, process and operating instructions, safety data sheets and risk assessments Day of vaccination for our employees in Uruguay in the local language. Our workflows, processes and safety equipment are regularly Annual health day with preventive checks and various health and safety assessed to anticipate health and safety risks on all our sites. campaigns in Germany Extended supply of workwear for industrial employees in Germany We have specific procedures for handling chemicals or hazardous substances Introduction of the ‘job bike’ scheme in Germany, for either commuting or ( > Chapter Planet). We have also implemented measures to prevent the formation personal use, actively promoting the health of our employees of H2S, including measuring devices in risk areas, mobile measuring devices and a Organization of informative talks on topics such as safety, fire prevention and the UNIDO H2S online training course for employees who are regularly in tanneries and use of fire extinguishing equipment in Uruguay wastewater treatment plants. Driver safety training sessions in Germany and Poland Bader Sustainability Report 2019 28 People – Social Responsibility Employee Structure and Development BADER creates fair working conditions and promotes training, career development, diversity and equal opportunities. We unconditionally reject discrimination and 2019 employees harassment, whether for cultural, ethnic, religious or other reasons and this is embedded in our > BADER Group Policy (BADER 2019a). The diversity of our 11,500 employees is our fundamental strength. 2018 12,000 worldwide Training rate % About 11,500 employees with different backgrounds and experiences work at our 11 5.5 sites worldwide: 2019 5.2 The average age worldwide is 37 years (2018: 36 years) The proportion of female employees worldwide is 56% (2018: 55%) 2018 in Germany The proportion of foreign employees worldwide is 2% (2018: 2%). This fluctuates due to different regional labor market conditions between 0% in China and Female share % Mexico and 33% (2018: 32%) in Germany where we also employ recognized 56 refugees The proportion of severely disabled employees in our workforce worldwide is 2% 2019 At the end of 2019, 5.5% of the workforce was trainees, specifically 28 trainees in various dual vocational training programs and practice-oriented higher worldwide years education study programs Average age The process for hiring and promoting at BADER is based on clear criteria and 2019 recruitment conditions. We give priority to internal recruitment and the company covers the recruitment costs. For employees with disabilities, we pay particular 37 attention to providing infrastructure. appropriate working environments with the necessary worldwide Bader Sustainability Report 2019 29 People – Social Responsibility In order to secure skilled workers, we offer a broad company training and further Activities in 2019 education portfolio in cooperation with chambers of industry and commerce, research institutes and universities and are constantly expanding it to meet demand. Participation in a program for the retraining and reallocation of staff in cooperation We offer young professionals opportunities for a wide variety of career paths in the with the Federal Employment Agency in Germany areas of technical tradesmanship and commerce as well as in design, research and Promotion of beekeeping training for employees who care for the bee colonies development, production and management. on the roof of the BADER headquarters Dalian Best Employers Award for BADER China by Mercer Consulting and Dalian BADER offers a variety of internal and external training opportunities to improve Human Resources and Social Security Bureau following an evaluation of company employment opportunities for our employees. The internal training programs include culture, value delivery, talent management, employee training and salary and on-the-job training and various training programs for new employees and current benefit strategies employees for regular refresher courses. The sustainability training courses cover the economic, social and environmental dimensions of our operations and our supply chain, e.g. energy and water conservation. We also promote extra-occupational vocational education such as foreign-language and intercultural training as well as technical training courses. Our targeted talent management program ensures individual training requirements are defined at least once a year. These are determined through voluntary employee appraisals or are jointly selected with supervisors. They are regularly monitored and implemented through binding training and development plans. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 30 Partnering – Shared Responsibility A more sustainable, long-term leather value creation is only possible if we work together with our customers, suppliers and various organizations. In this context, issues such as product integrity, traceability, animal welfare, as well as environmental aspects are becoming increasingly important in our daily decisions. The activities described in this chapter address the Global Compact Principle and SDG shown below. In Focus: One 4 Leather Initiative Supply Chain Management Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Animal Welfare and Product Control Bader Sustainability Report 2019 31 Partnering – Shared Responsibility In Focus: One 4 Leather Initiative As the impact of social media as an information source and the flood of information it brings continue to grow, it is becoming more and more difficult for consumers to obtain objective facts. In recent years, many different groups have increasingly attempted to create a false image of the leather industry in the media. To prevent a further spread of misinformation, BADER decided to launch the > One 4 Leather initiative (One 4 Leather 2020) together with other suppliers and manufacturers of the automotive leather supply chain. The One 4 Leather initiative has set itself the task of dispelling myths and rumors and countering incorrect information around the sourcing, production and use of leather in automotive interiors. The initiative aims to publish purely fact-based reports and information rather than being a marketing portal for leather. Key concerns about automotive leather are addressed and include the following core statements: Automotive tanneries adhere to the most stringent requirements in the industry Animal welfare is a core value for the automotive leather industry Automotive leather is a sustainable choice Leather contributes to a circular economy in which nothing goes to waste In Focus A by-product of the food industry is upcycled into car leather Alternatives to leather are not always what they seem Processing from hide to leather is important Automotive leather lasts a lifetime Leather has for generations been the preferred choice for car interiors. And we believe that transparency is key to making a well-informed decision on what to buy and use. We will therefore continue to actively address these issues and offer the consumer appropriate answers. The goal is to provide the full story of automotive leather and its real and positive impact on people, animals and our planet. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 32 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Supply Chain Management We are convinced that we are better able to develop solutions to global challenges We are also committed to raising sustainability and management system standards by cooperating with various interest groups. Through a close and continuous dialog, in our supply chain, with particular regard to quality and environmental management we can identify challenges and develop forward-looking solutions and standards for systems. Thus, we encourage our contract tanneries and semi-finished product a more sustainable leather industry. These include our internal and external interest suppliers to have their production sites audited and certified by the LWG. Between groups such as suppliers, customers, employees, educational institutions and 2012 and 2019, more than 74% of our suppliers already implemented this. associations as well as authorities, associations, federations and certification bodies. Our purchasing and supplier management teams oversee and maintain the complex Our commitment to accountable supply chains and our requirements for sustainable supply relationships that have resulted from the global growth of the BADER group procurement of raw materials is embedded in our > BADER Group Policy (BADER and increasing globalization. They receive regular internal training on sustainable 2019a). We communicate our supply chain strategy and basic principles of conduct procurement to initiate targeted improvements, make logistics and production more to our business partners via our > Code of Conduct (BADER 2017), > Terms and efficient and the entire planning process safer and more stable. Conditions of Purchase (BADER 2012), contracts and security agreements. 91% of our suppliers of raw hides and semi-finished products have signed the Code of Conduct since 2017. In future, we will include other supplier groups as signatories, refer to the Code of Conduct in our purchasing conditions and urge our suppliers to ensure that their subcontractors adhere to the same principles of conduct. Code of Conduct LWG certified signed by 2019 91 % 2019 2018 74% 65% 2018 85% of the contract tanners the suppliers of raw hides and suppliers of and semi-finished products semi-finished products Bader Sustainability Report 2019 33 Partnering – Shared Responsibility We conduct regular supplier risk assessments and evaluations and develop risk Activities in 2019 mitigation strategies through dialog with our senior management. Our annual supplier evaluation includes purchasing and logistics criteria. It also incorporates Launch of the One 4 Leather initiative quality, environmental and performance criteria requirements, amongst others, and Annual training of all raw material purchasers on sustainable procurement as the signing of agreements. Our supplier base has approximately 1,860 suppliers part of our raw material purchasing conference worldwide. We conduct annual evaluations of our TOP suppliers in each category. Global B-Parts SQA meeting to harmonize supplier management Implementation of a purchasing list based on our supplier selection process for Our suppliers worldwide B-Parts Training on sustainable procurement Supplier base 60 for raw hides and semi-finished products for 100% 100 for chemicals of raw hide buyers 130 for purchased parts worldwide 1,570 for non-product materials As a result of the supplier evaluation, we demand improvement measures depending on status and hold feedback talks or conduct audits for further development. All our sites have Supplier Quality Assurance (SQA) specialists who regularly visit and audit our suppliers, such as all our major raw material suppliers, to monitor compliance with our requirements. All these activities mean that we are able to address risks and advance important issues in our industry. Bader Sustainability Report 2019 34 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Animal Welfare and Product Control We maintain regular dialog with our suppliers and customers to ensure our high To evaluate animal welfare and animal protection, our raw material purchasing teams demands on product properties are always met. This ensures we can address regularly visit beef processing plants and agricultural operations. They keep checklists challenges such as product integrity, animal welfare, traceability and environmental and document the animal welfare standards, activities and developments of our considerations throughout the entire supply chain. suppliers. Animal welfare considerations are taken into account when we select our suppliers and play an important role in the evaluation process of raw hide sources. We acknowledge the > “Five Freedoms“ of the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC 2012) and refuse raw materials from countries with insufficient controls and Markings on every semi-finished and finished product ensure we can trace the entire traceability as well as a high risk of non-compliance with animal welfare. By focusing production process chain in our plants back to the raw material. Further traceability on the main procurement markets of Australia, Europe, North America and South of hides is also becoming increasingly important as it influences animal welfare Africa, we ensure that cattle are bred, transported and slaughtered under the best and husbandry, ethically correct and transparent sources and ecology. Complete possible conditions. documentation and marking of the hides mean we are able to trace over 90% of the raw material back to the beef processing plant at any time in the production process. Five Freedoms (FAWC 2012) Freedom Freedom Freedom Freedom Freedom from from to express from from hunger and pain, injury normal fear and discomfort thirst and disease behaviors stress Bader Sustainability Report 2019 35 Partnering – Shared Responsibility We develop alternatives to replace harmful ingredients with alternative substances. Activities in 2019 Our Product Safety & Conformity Representatives (PSCRs) ensure that risks in product development and production are identified, avoided or minimized. We name Participation in the animal welfare sub-group of the Leather Working Group PSCRs and their deputies for our sites worldwide and also request them from our for discussing and promoting activities to improve animal welfare and animal suppliers. protection on a global level Completion of animal welfare training and provision of internal training material We use the automotive industry’s International Material Data System (IMDS) to for raw hide procurement and sales teams provide our customers with information on the materials used in our semi-finished Implementation of animal welfare projects with hide traders, slaughterhouses products and parts. None of our products contains conflict materials such as tin, and farmers tantalum, tungsten or gold. Inclusion of animal welfare in local purchasing specifications Implementation of various traceability projects in order to achieve greater Our list of prohibited and declarable substances – called BADER Black List as well transparency as the chemical, quality and environmental security agreements with our suppliers Expansion of business with meat packers ensure we meet all our customer and legal requirements. We also carry out random Further development of product safety to product integrity by considering of and periodic inspections of incoming goods, leather ingredients and emissions. product conformity Bader Sustainability Report 2019 36 References Appendix Abbreviations Bader Sustainability Report 2019 37 References BADER (2011) Biologische Stickstoff-Elimination – bei gleichzeitiger biologischer GHG Protocol (2004) A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. https:// Sulfidoxidation: ein Bericht nach etwa 13 Jahren Betriebserfahrung. https:// ghgprotocol.org/sites/default/files/standards/ghg-protocol-revised.pdf bader-leather.com/files/2011_10_biologische_stickstoff_elimination.pdf LWG (2019) Main Protocol. Issue 6.6.1. https://www.leatherworkinggroup.com/howBADER (2012) General Terms and Conditions. https://bader-leather.com/en/gtcs we-work/audit-protocols/main-protocol BADER (2015a) CCS Statement – Environment –History-Highlights. https://baderOne 4 Leather (2020) Homepage One 4 Leather. https://www.one4leather.com/ leather.com/files/history_highlights_environment_2015.pdf theSauerReport (2018) Automotive leather a modern and sustainable industry. BADER (2015b) CCS Statement. https://bader-leather.com/files/statementhttps://thesauerreportsubscribe.com/subscribe/automotive-leather-asustainability_2013_2015.pdf modern-and-sustainable-industry BADER (2017) Code of Conduct for BADER Group’s Business Partners. https://baderUmweltbundesamt (2003) Integrierte Vermeidung und Verminderung der leather.com/files/bader_code_of_conduct_for_business_partners_en_1.pdf Umweltverschmutzung (IVU) Referenzdokument über die Besten BADER (2019a) BADER Group Policy – Principles and Code of Business Conduct. Verfügbaren Techniken für die Lederindustrie. https://www.umweltbundesamt. https://bader-leather.com/files/bader_group_policy_gb.pdf de/sites/default/files/medien/2503/dokumente/bvt_lederindustrie_vv.pdf BADER (2019b) Certificates. https://bader-leather.com/zertifikate UN (2018) Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Diedrich Pet (2020) Quality Beef Hide Dog Bones. https://diedrichpet.com/ https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/21252030%20 Elkington J (1994) Towards the Sustainable Corporation: Win–Win–Win Business Agenda%20for%20Sustainable%20Development%20web.pdf Strategies for Sustainable Development. California Management Review 36 UN Global Compact (2020) Homepage UN Global Compact. https://www. (2):90 100. https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.2307/41165746 unglobalcompact.org/ EU (2010) Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 UNIDO (2017) Review of the European Standard EN 16887:20017. Leather – November 2010 on industrial emissions. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/ Environmental footprint – Product Category Rules (PCR). https://leatherpanel. EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32010L0075&from=DE org/sites/default/files/publications-attachments/leather_carbon_footprint_p.pdf EU (2013) Commission Implementing Decision of 11 February 2013 establishing VDL (2013) Handbook. https://www.eco2l-leather.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/ the best available techniques (BAT) conclusions under Directive 2010/75/ ECO2L-Leitfaden.Handbook-complete-1-2013_GBneue-Adresse.pdf EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions for the tanning of hides and skins. 2013/84/EU. https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legalcontent/ EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2013.045.01.0013.01.ENG FAWC (2012) Five Freedoms. https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov. uk/20121010012427/http://www.fawc.org.uk/freedoms.htm FRISCH AUF! (2020) Homepage FRISCH AUF! Göppingen. https://www.frischauf-gp.de/ Bader Sustainability Report 2019 38 Abbreviations BAT Best Available Technique SQA Supplier Quality Assurance BEET Best Energy Efficiency for Tanning UN United Nations CCS Competence Center Sustainability UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization CELADE Latin American Development Center (Spanish: Centro Latinoamericano VDL German Leather Federation (German: Verband der Deutschen de Demografía) Lederindustrie) CO2 Carbon Dioxide VOC Volatile Organic Compound CO2e Greenhouse gases in CO2 equivalents CSR Corporate Social Responsibility ECO2L Energy Controlled Leather EU European Union FAWC Farm Animal Welfare Council GADSL Global Automotive Declarable Substance List GHG Greenhouse Gas H2S Hydrogen Sulfide HIV/AIDS Human ImmunoDeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome HVLP High Volume Low Pressure IED Industrial Emissions Directive IMDS International Material Data System LED Light Emitting Diode LWG Leather Working Group NH3 Ammonia PSCR Product Safety & Conformity Representative R&D Research and Development REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals RF Radio Frequency SAP Systems, Applications & Products SCADA Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SDG Sustainable Development Goal Bader Sustainability Report 2019 39 Legal Notice and Contact Published by: Contact: Additional information on BADER and This Sustainability Report is printed on BADER GmbH & Co. KG (BADER Group) Head of Sustainability Management its commitment to sustainability is recycled paper. Metzgerstrasse 32-34 Lena Detel available here: www.bader-leather.com D-73033 Göppingen lena.detel@bader-leather.com Phone: +49 7161-6728-0 Phone: +49 7161-6728-427
