ConvaTec Group Plc 7th Floor, 3 Forbury Place Forbury Estate 23 Forbury Road Reading RG1 3JH United Kingdom www.convatec.com 17 March 2020 ConvaTec Group Plc United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2019 The following table provides cross-references between the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and our Communication on Progress, which is integrated into our 2019 Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) Report (‘the Report’) https://www.convatecgroup.com/corporate-responsibility/corporateresponsibility-reports/ . Our continuing support of the UNGC Principles in provided in our Chief Executive Officer’s Statement on page 5 of the Report. The relationship between our CR programme and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is indicated on page 10 of the Report. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom United Nations Global Compact Principles Comments and References (to the 2018 Group CR report) Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the We address the topic of human rights directly and indirectly throughout the Report. More protection of internationally proclaimed human specifically, we discuss our approach to human rights in relation to: rights; and… • our own employees in pages 25 to 31 (see page 30 in particular for an independent assessment of our approach); • our customers (in particular in relation to the conduct of clinical trials on page 17, customer safety on page 18, access to healthcare and data privacy on page 20); • our value chain (particularly in relation to labour standards, environmental performance and ethical business practices on pages 32 to 34); • broader society (through, in particular, our approach to bribery and corruption and business ethics, on pages 43 and 44). 2. …make sure that they are not complicit in human See 1. above. rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of See 1. above and, specifically, on page 27 where we disclose our policy and relevant data in association and the effective recognition of the relation to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and page 29 where we discuss right to collective bargaining payment of a living wage. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom 4. …the elimination of all forms of forced and See 1. above and pages 29 and 30 for discussion of our approach to human rights and labour compulsory labour standards. Also, see https://www.convatecgroup.com/media/1325/human-rights-and-labour-standardspolicy-statement_final.pdf for a copy of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy. 5. …the effective abolition of child labour; and See 1. above and pages 29 and 30 for discussion of our approach to human rights and labour standards. Also, see https://www.convatecgroup.com/media/1325/human-rights-and-labour-standardspolicy-statement_final.pdf for a copy of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy. 6. …the elimination of discrimination in respect of See 1. above and pages 29 and 30 for discussion of our approach to human rights and labour employment and occupation. standards, and pages 30 and 31 for discussion of our approach to diversity. Also, see https://www.convatecgroup.com/media/1325/human-rights-and-labour-standardspolicy-statement_final.pdf for a copy of our Human Rights and Labour Standards Policy. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Please see pages 35 to 42 for discussion of our approach and results in relation to environmental approach to environmental challenges,… issues. Page 36 sets out our management approach and this references the precautionary principle. Page 41 discusses our approach to new product development and topics such as ‘substances of concern’. We also confirm achievement of our public commitment to develop green design guidelines for new product development. 8. …undertake initiatives to promote greater See 7. above – also, page 37 sets out our climate change strategy which will drive activities in environmental responsibility; and… relation to both product and packaging, and operations and supply chain engagement. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom 9. encourage the development and diffusion of Our activity in this area will increase as our various environmental initiatives in relation to products environmentally friendly technologies. and packaging mature – see early initiative with packaging suppliers on pages 41 and 42. Also, please note that on pages 30 and 31 we discuss our approach to assessing and engaging with suppliers in relation to environmental performance. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its Please see pages 43 and 44 for a discussion of our approach to combating bribery and corruption. forms, including extortion and bribery. ConvaTec Group Plc Company No 10361298 3 Forbury Place, Floor 7, Forbury Estate, 23 Forbury Road Reading, Berkshire, RG1 3JH, United Kingdom
