Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 001 About This Report Thai Oil Public Company Limited is committed to disclose all material information on corporate sustainability to our stakeholders with the utmost accuracy and transparency. In line with this commitment, we have been publishing annual corporate sustainability reports aligned with international standards since 2011. This report is the 9th of its kind, and covers our economic, social, and environmental performance from 1st January to 31st December 2019. Approach to Reporting Scope of Reporting To download an electronic version of the 2019 Integrated Report, please visit: The 2019 Integrated Report follows the The scope of reporting has been deterhttps://www.thaioilgroup.com/ International <IR> Framework of the mined based on business relevance, home/media_ebook.aspx?id=273 International Integrated Reporting Council readiness of comprehensive and accurate (IIRC), and covers sustainability issues information, and level of impacts towards selected through a materiality assessment Thaioil’s core businesses oil refining, process. This Report has been prepared in petrochemical production, lube base oil accordance with the GRI Standards: Core business, power generation, transportaOption, with additional indicators for the tion, and other businesses. Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures (OGSD) on For information on performance of Thaioil Group pages 126-129. The Report also included The scope of reporting on occupational companies not included in the scope of this Report, the progress of the United Nations Global health and safety (OHS) and environmental please refer to the 2019 Annual Report at Compact 10 Principles on page 129 and performance covers: https://investor-th.thaioilgroup.com/ar.html the progess towards the United Nations Thai Oil Public Company Limited (TOP); Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on Thai Lube Base Public Company pages 130-134. Limited (TLB); Thai Paraxylene Company Limited (TPX); Thaioil Energy Services Company Limited (TES); Thaioil Power Company Limited (TP); For more information, please contact: LABIX Company Limited (LABIX); Sustainability Development Function, Corporate TOP SPP Company Limited (TOPSPP); Governance and Sustainability Department Thai Oil Public Company Limited The performance of TOP Solvent Company 42/1 Moo 1, Sukhumvit Road Km. 124, Limited (TS) has also included in topic Tungsukla, Sriracha, Chonburi 20230 innovition and customer stewardship. sustainability@thaioilgroup.com In total, this determined scope of reporting covers 97% of total Thaioil Group's sales revenues. 002 Message to Our Stakeholders MESSAGE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Thaioil Integrated Report 2019 was prepared to communicate relevant information to stakeholders who are interested in the business activities and performance of Thaioil and its subsidiaries. In developing this Integrated Report, Thaioil has followed the Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), which offers a guidance for companies to communicate the integration of strategy, work processes, and sustainability performance through effective management of the 6 capitals: financial capital, manufactured capital, natural capital, human capital, intellectual capital, and social and relationship capital. Through this reporting, we demonstrate our ability to sustainably create value within the organization and for stakeholders in the long-term. Mr. Wirat Uanarumit President and Chief Executive Officer Thai Oil Public Company Limited Thai TOil h a i Public O i l p u bCompany l i c c o m p aLimited S u s t a i n a b i lReport Integrated ny limited i t y r e p o2019 rt 2018 00303 Over the past year, the oil industry has faced multiple challenges from various external factors. The international oil price fluctuations resulting from the surplus supply and the trade conflict between two global superpowers the United States and China were particularly impactful to the industry. We also faced a changing context in environmental aspects and new, more stringent regulations, such as the new regulations of the International Marine Organization (IMO) regarding marine fuel oil, which will require oil refineries across the world to make major changes in how they conduct their business. Other external factors affecting the industry include changes in consumer behavior, the development of digital technology, the electric vehicle (EV) market, and changes in demography towards an aging society. All of these factors have an impact on sales revenue, and require businesses to adapt, both in managing the overall quantity of production and in search for new products, in order to meet the needs of the market and secure future business growth. Thaioil has realized the impacts of the capacity from 275,000 barrels per day acceptance and fulfil our “Refinery in the City” aforementioned challenges, and is driven to to 400,000 barrels per day by 2023. To vision of being a refinery that sustainably adapt and increase the efficiency of our work successfully accomplish these tasks, Thaioil thrives alongside communities. processes. We have developed a long-term must manage our human capital such that Through transforming our business activities business strategy to determine the path we we can effectively make use of the modern according to our new business strategy want to take, from the present up to 2030, day technology that will facilitate production and continuously improving upon our which will allow us to maintain our position process. We also face with challenges in management system, Thaioil’s oil refinery as the leading oil refinery in the region. managing occupational health and safety risks operations achieved high efficiency in 2019. Along with creating values for society and of workers and contractors in the work area. Despite the annual turnaround, our refinery the environment that aligns with an organizaAll of these factors require Thaioil to have capacity could run 107% of total nameplate tion’s vision to “empower human life through adequate management systems and measures capacity, contributing to a total of 362,179 sustainable energy and chemicals”. to prevent and mitigate the potential impacts milliom THB in sale revenues. Thaioil also Thaioil has adjusted our investment direction that may occur in the present or in the future. reduced energy consumption by 1.4 million according to the new business strategy in Furthermore, Thaioil is committed towards gigajoules and greenhouse gas emissions order to manage investment risks and adapt continuously improving our operational by 84,265 tons carbon dioxide equivalent. to trends of the global energy demand. This system. We achieve this through a Furthermore, we have expanded solvents consists of 3 main strategies: management system that strives for business to other ASEAN countries, including operational excellence. This management Myanmar, Indonesia, and northern Vietnam. system integrates our different business Revenues from this product group amounted Strengthen the core units, including our oil refinery business to 9,102 million THB. We have also started businesses in oil refining and power generation as well as other businesses such as our investing in corporate venture capital (CVC) by focusing on supporting the energy security petrochemicals business and our lube base projects to seek new opportunities in of Thailand and facilitating growth in energy oil business, through specifically ensuring developing hydrocarbon technologies and demand in Southeast Asia. the production plan of each business unit technologies that reduce environmental complements each other. As a step towards impacts. Currently, we have invested in a total digital transformation, we have applied digital of 1 CVC fund in the United States. Value chain enhancement technology to support different processes. to downstream businesses such as our Thanks to the hard work of our employees and Examples include using data management to managers in all levels to drive our organization pet r och em i ca l b u s i n e s s , c h e m i c a l create an integrated platform for oil refining distribution business, specialty products towards sustainability, Thaioil has been activities and using online systems in our member of the Dow Jones Sustainability business, and marine transportation business supply chain practices. Digital transformation in order to maintain competitive advantage Indices (DJSI) for the 7th consecutive year, ultimately helps us to increase the speed and and recognized as the Oil and Gas Refining and expand into new markets. accuracy of our work. We have also invested and Marketing Industry Leader in 2019. This in infrastructure improvements, including our achievement is rewarding for us, and inspires Seed the options product storage and engineering building, us to continue advancing our sustainability the operating room building, the Jetty No. 7-8 performance. through investing in corporate venture capital areas, and the Energy Recovery Unit (ERU), to (CVC) funds and startup businesses in both support our business expansion. Finally, on behalf of Thaioil Group, I would Thailand and abroad, specifically focusing like to thank every party for the support that on investments in business groups outside Additionally, Thaioil has increased channels allows Thaioil to conduct our business and the core business in order to manage risks, of communication with stakeholders. We grow sustainably. I strongly believe that the generate research and development (R&D) have recently set up the Clean Fuel Project determination and genuine dedication of all opportunities, and further develop towards (CFP) Support Center to function as the center parties in the business, with consideration of future alternative businesses. for managing CFP-related activities, including the benefits to the environment, the economy, community complaints, in accordance with and society, will lead Thaioil in continuing In addition to the long-term strategies, Thaioil the expected standards. We believe this is to empower human life through sustainable has been preparing for the challenges arising necessary to ensure that our activities do energy and chemicals. from internal factors – operating the Clean Fuel not create adverse social and environmental Project and expanding our refinery production impacts, and to ultimately secure community 004 Table of Contents Contents 0 0 1 About This Report 0 0 2 Message to our Stakeholders 0 0 5 Financial Highlights 0 0 6 Sustainability Highlights 0 0 8 About Thaioil Group 0 1 4 Strategy in Action 09 Group Overview 14 Stakeholders and Material Matters 12 Business Model 22 Strategy Outlook 24 Corporate Governance and Sustainability 030 Value 058 Value 076 Sustainable Protection Enhancement Value Creation 32 QSHE Management 60 Operational Eco-efiiciency 78 Innovation and 42 Human Rights 68 Sustainable Procurement Customer Stewardship 48 Climate Change Risk 86 Human and Organization 52 Fight Against Corruption Development 96 Corporate Social Responsibility 11 2 Performance 12 0 Awards and 1 2 4 Statement of Summary Recognitions External Assurance 12 6 GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP 13 0 SDGs Progress 13 5 Survey Opinion of Reader's Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 005 Financial Highlights Sales Revenue EBITDA 2562 362,179 Million THB 2562 13,833 20,239 Million THB 2561 389,042 Million THB 2561 Million THB Net Profit/(Loss) Basic Earnings/(Loss) per Share 2562 2561 6,277 10,149 Million THB Million THB 2562 2561 3.08 4.97 THB/Share THB/Share Total Assets Total Equity 2562 283,445 Million THB 2562 123,924 126,472 Million THB 2561 268,613 Million THB 2561 Million THB Dividend Payment Market Capitalization 2562 2561 1.50 2.65 THB/Share THB/Share 2562 2561 139,252 177,238 Million THB Million THB 006 Sustainability Highlights Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 007 Sustainability Highlights Social and Relationship Human Manufactured Capital Financial Capital Capital Capital Infrastructure of Total assets Intellectual Social and Zero case of corruption 0.37 Clean Fuel Project 283,445 Capital Relationship Capital and fines total recordable million THB injury rate per million Approximately 381 93.32 % workhours 300,000 tons Total equity applied knowledge, valued to business community engagement Value per year of carbon 123,924 credits registered at million THB 2,174 million THB Protection the Thailand Greenhouse Sales revenue 96 % Gas Management Organization (TGO) 362,179 96 innovative ideas raised by customer engagement between 2018-2024 million THB Human Capital employees valued at EBITDA 1,025 million THB 13,833 278 Natural million THB average training hours per person per year 3.1 million THB earnings from Sustainable Capital Net profit commercialized Value 84,265 6,277 1,302 employee volunteers innovation Creation tons of carbon dioxide equivalent million THB and a total of reduced as a result of GHG emissions 10,416 volunteer hours reductions from energy efficiency improvement initiatives in 2019 1.16 employee voluntary turnover rate Value Chain Enhancement Natural Capital Natural Capital Manufactured 83.7 Energy Intensity Capital Index of refinery 842,699 tons Financial Capital Manufactured 107% and power plants of carbon dioxide Capital refining capacity equivalent reduced as a result of avoided emission 30 % share of avoided emission Investments in 2.45 % products sold (i.e. gasohol and biodiesel) product sales revenues in portfolio 1in USA CVC fund Social and Relationship Solvents business units that have reduction in freshwater expanded in ASEAN, withdrawal Capital including the Republic of 93 % supplier the Union of Myanmar, Indonesia, and 2.55 % reduction in satisfaction northern Vietnam water dischange 008 About Thaioil Group About Thaioil Group Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 009 Group Overview Thaioil and Subsidiaries Thai Oil Public Company Limited, the largest petroleum refinery business in Thailand, has been operating for 58 years. We have a modern and highly efficient production process that allows THAI OIL PUBLIC us to produce and distribute refined petroleum, and mainly COMPANY LIMITED support the domestic petroleum demands. Furthermore, Thaioil extends our value chain to include upstream and downstream businesses in order to maintain business stability. Vision Corporate Values Empower human life through sustainable energy and chemicals Mission To enrich stakeholders’ well-being and deliver sustainable returns built upon innovation, technology and resilient portfolio with top Professionalism Ownership and Social Integrity class management and Commitment Responsibility accountable corporate governance Teamwork and Initiative Vision Focus Excellence Collaboration Striving Headquarter : Bangkok, Thailand Refinery Production in 2019 Domestic Distribution Approximately : Listed Date in the Stock Exchange of Thailand : October 9, 2004 295,261 BBL per day 30% of total domestic finished oil production Registered Capital : 20,400,278,730 Baht 107% ofat 275,000 nameplate capacity BBL Location of operations : per day Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Percentage of shares owned by PTT PLC. : 47.53% Indonesia, and Myanmar THAIOIL’S VALUE CHAIN In 2019, the petroleum and petrochemicals industry faced challenges from various external factors, especially global oil price volatility that resulted from over supply in the market and the trade conflict between global economic superpowers, as well as the legal environment with increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, the changing context of consumer behavior, developments AND MARKET OUTLOOK 2019 in digital technologies, the growing electric vehicle market, and demographic changes towards an aging society. All of these factors together have called on oil producers across the world to make fundamental changes in how they operate. With our core business activity in oil refining and our value chain extended towards upstream and downstream businesses to secure business stability, Thaioil has to regularly evaluate market conditions and continuing prepares appropriate countermeasures. Jetty Expansion Project for Jetties 7 Clean Fuel Project to increase the total refining and 8 to increase flexibility and capacity to 400,000 barrels per day and adjust efficiency in product distribution the proportion of diesel and jet fuels, while Steam and Power Plant Project in Sriracha Solvent and Chemical Sriracha Buildings Project, (Ongoing) ceasing production of fuel oils, to respond to to replace small power plant (SPP) as the power Distribution Center Expansion including the engineering and market conditions. Along with increasing capacity purchase agreement of Thaioil Power Company Project in Southeast Asia warehouse buildings (completed), Marine Fleet Expansion Project to produce specialty products that meet specific Limited is coming to end (Under feasibility study) (Under feasibility study) product testing laboratories to meet customers’ demand; and standards, such as the EURO 5, to reduce (completed), and office buildings expand the business to new environmental impacts (Ongoing) Specialty Products Project Expanding Distribution Feasibility Study (ongoing) international markets (Under Investment in Petrochemical to add value to existing products Center to Indonesia Project on Environmental-Friendly feasibility study) Crude Oil Tank Construction Business Project and expand to new groups of (Completed) Business (Under feasibility study) (Completed) (Under feasibility study) customers in the downstream industry with demand for specific products (Under feasibility study) 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Transportation Oil Refinery Power and Steam Petrochemicals Lube Base Solvents Ethanol Other Supporting Business activities that support Core business with the refining capacity of Extended business activities Business activities that utilize Business activities that utilize Business activities relating to Business activities that support Businesses marketing, primarily consisting of 275,000 barrels per day. that strengthen business the by-products to add value within the by-products to add value within the distribution of by-products from the production and use of renewable Other supporting businesses international marine transportation stability, primarily consisting of the oil refining value chain, consisting the oil refining value chain, consisting the refinery to joint venture companies energy through three joint venture include: of petroleum and petrochemical Crude Oil Market and Refining natural gas-fired co-generation of the production of aromatics and of the production of lube base oil, to produce solvents and distribute to companies. Recruitment products, with small, medium, Industry power plants, with the linear alkyl benzene (LAB). bitumen/asphalt, and treated distillate markets in Thailand and Asia-Pacific. Financial Management Services and large oil and petrochemical generated electricity and aromatics extract (TDAE). Ethanol Industry Social Enterprise products tankers. The average crude oil price in 2019 was produced steam are used approximately 63.5 USD per barrel, within Thaioil Group and Aromatics Market Solvent Market Domestic demand for ethanol for Digital and Communications a reduction from 69.7 USD per barrel in 2018, other areas of operations, The paraxylene market weakened as Lube Base Oil and In 2019, the Thai economy and gasohol has continued to increase, Engineering Expertise Petroleum due to a decline in oil demand following respectively. a result of additional supply from several Bitumen Market global economy both experienced and is currently at 4.4 million litres Transportation Industry the global economic slowdown. new petrochemical production plants The lube base oil market weakened slowdowns. For the solvent market, per day – an increase of 6.5% from in China and Brunei, which together led 09 The domestic demand for marine due to increased pressure from the economic slowdown translated 2018. This is a result of increasing transport of petroleum and The refining industry is expected to shrink, Power Industry to a historic increase in supply of 6.1 petrochemical products has with the benzene market having supply The total domestic power million tons per year, and an eventual additional supply of Group II and into a reduction in demand for solvent use of gasoline. However, there is New Opportunities stabilization at high levels, and the diesel and Group III lube base oil from new products in various industries. currently an over supply of ethanol in Business decreased as a result of capacity installed in 2019 state of oversupply in the latter half of refineries in the Asian region – At the same time, the solvent market the Thai market due to high levels of jet fuels market seeing increased pressure the year. Meanwhile, demand grew by turnarounds in various refineries, from declining demand growth rates resulting (excluding independent power especially in China, Bangladesh, has been in a state of over supply both ethanol production from molasses, Business activities relating to along with the slowdown in the supply capacity, or IPS) was approximately 2.3 million tons per year, and Singapore – which increased in Thailand and overseas since 2018. combined with increasing proportion investments in corporate venture from economic conditions. At the same time, a reduction from 3.7 million tons per global and regional economies, the price difference between high sulfur fuel 47,260 MW, an increase of 5% production by 2.3 million tons. For Thailand, the economic slowdown of cassava used in ethanol production. capital funds to capture new which together affecting the demand compared to 2018. year growth in 2018. resulted in overall reduction in solvent business opportunities in new oil and crude Dubai oil has decreased by The bitumen market in Asia has for crude oil tankers in the region high margins as a result of the International While, the overall domestic The benzene market weakened as improved as a result of demand consumption and increasingly intense industries (step out) and support and freight rates. Convention for the Prevention of Pollution power consumption for the first a result of cumulative oversupply, with growth following national economic price competition. However, new business expansion At the same time, international trade from the Ships (MARPOL) of the International 9 months of 2019 was 4.3% the global benzene supply having development plans in the region, the market in Vietnam – also (new s-curve). conflicts, sanctions on Chinese Maritime Organization (IMO) coming higher compared to the same increased by 2.1 million tons, while increased price differences a manufacturing base for products tankers and sanctions on Iranian oil into action. period in 2018. This is due to the demand grew by only 1.1 million tons as between bitumen and high sulfur to be sold in the United States – has exports, have resulted in an increase increase in power consumption a result of downstream businesses being fuel oils, as well as reduced fuel oil grown by leaps and bounds, with in the use of very large crude by households and business, affected by the U.S.-China trade war. a notable increase in solvents and carriers (VLCC) for floating storage. Domestic Market and rising global temperatures. prices as a result of preparation for IMO in 2020. chemical products sales in 2019. for Petroleum Products Meanwhile, the industry sector Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB) Meanwhile, demand for crew boats Domestic demand for petroleum products to support crude oil exploration reduced power consumption Market expanded by 1%, and the average as a result of the U.S.-China and drilling operation is expected to production of oil refineries within Thailand LAB prices fell in response to the decline increase marginally. trade war, which in turn reduced in 2019 was at 911,339 barrels per day, export demand. The domestic in catalysts prices, which received a reduction from 1,002,720 barrels per day in peak power consumption in pressure from falling global oil prices. 2018. This is a result of the annual shutdown 2019 was recorded at However, price differences between for maintenance. Nonetheless, compared 32,273 MW. LAB and catalysts have increased due to to other refineries, Thaioil is still the largest demand in the Asian region, which has producer in Thailand, with a share of 30% continued to grow in line with population of total domestic production. growth and increase in quality of life of developing countries. Business Thaioil’s 2019 business strategy outlines our path towards sustainable development, which consists of strengthening our core businesses in energy, enhancing our value chain through expanding our petrochemicals and specialty products businesses, and increasing our business Thaioil’s business activities rely on financial inputs as well as non-financial inputs, such as our assets, natural resources, property, plants and equipment, human capital, support from stakeholders, license to operate, brand value, technology, and information systems. All these inputs and capitals are managed through Thaioil’s business activities to create value for the business and our stakeholders. While outputs such as products, services, and wastes released are Model capabilities through technology and innovation. Integrated within this strategy is our dedication to sustainably create shared value for our stakeholders in three strategic priorities – value protection, value enhancement, and sustainable value creation. These three priorities will lead us towards outputs directly related to our business, our activities also create outputs that reflect shared value for communities, society, and the environment. At the same time, some of the outcomes created in our activities are key factors to driving our business forward and securing the future creation of value. For example, current investments in developing the skills and capabilities of our employees in technology and innovation can lead to future solutions for more production efficiency. good revenues while also creating value for communities, society, and the environment. CAPITALS/INPUTS ACTIVITIES OUTPUTS OUTCOMES TO THAIOIL OUTCOMES TO STAKEHOLDERS Financial Capital Products Financial Capital • EBITDA 13,833 million THB • 53 million THB in cost • Market capitalization • 43% decreased in dividend The financial resources raised, consisting of debt and equity financing which are amounted to 159,521 and 01 Refined oil • 2,174 million THB generated savings from collaborating 139,252 million THB payment to 1.50 THB 123,924 million THB, respectively, is being strategically Thaioil uses an optimum crude 295,261 barrels from applying knowledge to with partners to co-loading • 38% decreased in earnings per per share procurement strategy to source per day improve the business crude oil share to 3.08 THB per share • 1,239 million THB to allocated by Thaioil to ensure organizational growth, and crude oil for production. Crude deliver sustained financial performance and returns. oil is sourced from all over • 309 million THB in cost • 0 incidents and penalty fees • 21% decreased in daily closing government in taxes Aromatics savings resulting from from non-compliance with stock price to 68.26 THB In 2019, Thaioil’s operating expenses were the world to reduce price 589,398 tons laws and regulations, as 355,756 million THB to support our business activities. fluctuations by considering energy efficiency per share improvement projects well as cases of corruptions cost price competitiveness in Lubricants and bribery the open market. In addition to 221,545 tons Manufactured Capital this, Thaioil’s stringent ESG 01 Manufactured Capital criteria on crude procurement Generated power Thaioil’s investment in the purchase, development and practices prevent and mitigate Sourcing 2,568 GWh • Operational availability to • Gross Refining Margin • Long-term benefits towards maintenance of infrastructure enables an increase in crude suppliers’ ESG risk, and enhance 107% of nameplate (GRM) of 3.6 US dollar per investors through investments production capacity to generate sustainable returns, and are consistent with good LAB refining capacity barrel, which decreased by in purchases, construction, enhance refining capacity to maintain our competitiveness governance, for example, (Linear Alkyl 18% from previous year and maintenance of property, and maneuver through tough oil market conditions. prohibiting crude sourcing from Benzene) plants, and other equipment. In 2019, Thaioil’s Property, Plants & Equipment (PPE) and sanctioned countries that may undermine transparency, 02 134,689 tons capital expenditures were 106,559 and 1,410 million THB, stakeholder trust, and the 02 Thaioil invests and utilizes the Ethanol (TET) Natural Capital respectively. company’s business activities. best-in-class technologies in • Reduce dependence on projects to limit greenhouse 191 million liters • 7.32% GHG emission Design & the development of projects, reductions, compared with external freshwater resources gas emissions from production Natural Capital Development such as in energy & process TDEA, TRAE & business-as-usual (BAU) by 30% through desalination processes improvement and Clean Fuel AROS • Reduce dependence on • 842,699 tons of CO2 equivalent Thaioil understands natural resources, such as energy Project (CFP) projects, which 102,811 external natural gas resources reduced through avoided and water, play a critical role that supports our refining and have significantly improved million tons by 1.4 million gigajoules/year emission products consumed business activities. In 2019, Thaioil’s refinery throughput was 14 million tons; and total water and 03 safety for our people, quality Green solvent as a result of energy efficiency by end users improvement projects Thaioil’s operations are 03 and efficiency of resource 3,751 million tons • 2.9% waste to landfill energy consumption were 23 million m3 and 31 million reinforced by the Operational utilization for long-term value • 84,265 tons of CO2 equivalent GJ, respectively. However, 15 implemented energy Excellence principle, which has Operating & creation. reduced through energy efficiency projects have enabled the company to reduce expanded to both upstream Process efficiency improvement our dependence on natural resources. and downstream business activities, that allows the Human Capital organization to contribute to Human Capital long-term value creation. This Waste • Employee turnover rate • 278 average hours of training • 0.37 cases/million work hours is underpinned by decreased from 2.91% and development per employee of Total Recordable Injury People are Thaioil’s most valuable assets, our 1,637 04 Wastes generated to 2.44% per year Rate (TRIR) for employee and employees are the pillar that supports organizational a well-planned and fully integrated production process Oil & Chemical 04 14,916 tons • Employee engagement • 533 training programs for contractor, which was better growth, and Thaioil has invested 474 million THB and that yield optimum efficiency Thaioil’s produced fuels and increased from 85% to 90% employees than the target 124,222 training hours in employee training and during a refining process Distribution chemicals are being distributed Wastes to landfill 433 tons • 4,140 million THB of employee development, which is a critical strategy to optimizing through the conversion of both domestically and welfare the contribution of our people in the value creation process. petroleum by-products to internationally. Thaioil creates higher added-value value in the distribution commercialized products. process through active Social and Relationship Social and Relationship customer engagement to • 93.32% community • 93% supplier satisfaction, • 5,894 people benefited from • 1,302 employees who To create an enabling environment for Thaioil’s operations, 05 ensure our product engagement, decreased decreased from 96% participating in Thaioil’s Dental volunteered a total of 10,416 we believe engaging and maintaining trusted relationships 05 Usage & requirements meet our Other from 97.27% Clinic Project hours to work with with our financial and non-financial stakeholders are the Thaioil understands that the End of Use customers’ expectations as By-Products • 96% customer • 69,324 persons benefited from communities well as market demand for engagement, maintained the use of the Health and foundation for shared value creation, and have become of scope of our products has adverse GHG Emissions as previous year Learning Center utmost importance for maintaining our license to operate. impacts to the environment and shared value creation. (Scopes 1 and 2) In 2019, Thaioil spent 168 million THB through community society. To reduce these impacts, 3.31 million tons development programs and donations. a variety of green products has of CO2 equivalent Intellectual Capital been incorporated in our • 2 registered patents from • 3.1 million THB earned from • To ensure our people are We Share”, “Innovation Talk Water discharge gained knowledge on commercialized innovation equipped with right knowledge from well-known keynote product portfolio, such as Intellectual Capital bio-solvent and low carbon fuel 18.13 million m3 managing oil refinery • 117,420 million THB of and skill set in a fast-moving speakers”, and “Thaioil efficiency revenues from green world, Thaioil has organized a Wisdom and Innovation Thaioil’s intellectual capital lies in our people. We not only products, to ensure the end of number of knowledge sharing Awards”. focus on operational excellence, but we also focus on our product life cycle enables products initiatives to assist with their • 381 knowledge sharing from building innovative culture that promotes and develops our to reduce the environmental and transition. Example of these Knowledge Management people’s innovation awareness. The innovative mindset is social impacts that benefit initiatives include “Together System reflected in the benefits provided through the knowledge the current and future management, digital transformation projects, and research generations. & development expenditures. 014 Stakeholders and Material Matters Strategy in Action Stakeholders and Material Matters Stakeholder Engagement Maintaining a good relationship with stakeholders is vital stakeholder groups, including shareholders/creditors/financial for value creation for businesses. Thaioil regularly conducts institutions, customers, suppliers/contractors, employees, stakeholder engagement in order to understand the viewpoints community/society, and government and related public and expectations of our stakeholders. We have identified agencies. Thaioil has also conducted stakeholder engagement our stakeholders by evaluating relevance in the supply approaches for each stakeholder group, as demonstrated in chain, and assessing impact and influence levels. Through the the table below. stakeholder identification process, Thaioil identified six main Stakeholder Engagement Approach Shareholders/ Government and Frequency Approach Creditors/ Customers Suppliers/ Employees Community/ related public Financial Contractors Society agencies Institutions Annually Meeting • Annual General • Supplier/ • Labour Union Meeting (AGM) Contractor Meeting Meeting • Financial Performance Exhibition Company site visit • Refinery visit • Refinery visit • Refinery visit • Refinery visit Survey • Feedback Survey • Customer • Supplier • Employee • Feedback • Feedback Engagement Engagement Engagement Survey Survey Survey Survey Survey Annual Report • Annual Report • Annual Report • Annual Report • Annual Report • Annual Report • Annual Report • Sustainability • Sustainability • Sustainability • Sustainability • Sustainability • Sustainability Report Report Report Report Report Report Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 015 Shareholders/ Government and Frequency Approach Creditors/ Customers Suppliers/ Employees Community/ related public Financial Contractors Society agencies Institutions Quarterly Meeting • Meeting with • “CEO Update” analysts and Forum rating agencies Survey • Feedback survey • Survey on feedback for activities Press release • Press release • Press release on business on business performance performance Bi-Monthy Pamphlets • Pamphlets Monthly Meeting • Meetings • Management • Meetings • Meetings with with customer meetings with with community representatives representatives employee leaders from government representatives, and relevant such as • Meetings public agencies the welfare between Thaioil, committee, government • Meetings employee agencies, and between Thaioil, committee communities government agencies, and communities Newsletters and • Newsletters or • Newsletters or • Newsletters or online news online news online news online news Weekly Newsletters and • Newsletters or • Newsletters or online news online news online news Always Engagement • Post-event • Customer • Activities • Employee visits • Visiting Accessible Activities engagement engagement promoting conducted communities for feedback during workplace by people with project ceremonies safety, such as management partners • Participation in and festivals providing function to have at least 4 events awards for conversations • Community organized by the • Engagement outstanding development Stock Exchange for feedback supplier • Communicating projects, of Thailand performance through digital such as school (SET) per year platform activities and community • 8-10 Exhibitions, activities seminars, and roadshows for • Communicating investors through social (both domestic media and and foreign digital platform investors) per year Grievance Mecha• Hotline • Hotline • Supplier • Hotline • Hotline • Government nisms Relations Affairs Function • TOP IR • Online customer Function • Labour Union • Community Application complaint Relations Relations • CG Email channel • CG Email Function Function • Investor • Corporate Relations • Customer • Corporate • CG Email • CG Email Grievance Function Relations Grievance Channel function Channel • Corporate • Corporate • CG Email Grievance Grievance • CG Email Channel Channel • Corporate Grievance • Corporate Channel Grievance Channel 016 Stakeholders and Material Matters Thaioil Group’s Materiality Assessment Process Thaioil reports material sustainability matters to our organization and stakeholders in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards as well as value creation concept in materiality matters of International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The process presented in this Report has also been externally verified. Thaioil’s Materiality Assessment Process 01 02 03 Identification Prioritization Validation In 2019, Thaioil assessed material sustainability matters through conducting interviews with representatives from internal functions responded for each stakeholder group. The interview process is conducted to ensure that the identification and prioritization of the materiality of the sustainability matters reflect the business context and the viewpoints of the six stakeholder groups. To collect data with internal stakeholders, Thaioil reviewed results of the materiality assessment from the previous year with our core business groups, and collected additional information through in-depth interviews with representatives from other business groups. This included a total of three managing directors representing TOP Solvent Company Limited, Thaioil Marine Company Limited, and Sakchaisit Company Limited. To collect data from external stakeholders, Thaioil conducted in-depth interviews with the representatives of six company departments that have direct communication with stakeholders. Step 1: Identification of material matters Step 2: Prioritization of material matters In 2019, Thaioil identified material sustainability issues Thaioil prioritizes material sustainability matters for the through analyzing both internal and external drivers. Internal year 2019 through assessing the importance of each issue drivers reflect results of our SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, identified by interviewed stakeholders, other oil and gas Opportunities, and Threats) Analysis, our short-term, peers, and sustainability assessment standards. Scoring medium-term, and long-term business strategic direction, was done on a scale of 1-7. Each material matter was then our corporate risk profile, and materiality assessment prioritized based on two dimensions: results from the previous year. External drivers reflect issues of interest communicated by the Dow Jones Sustainability 1 Impact and importance to Thaioil’s ability to create Indices (DJSI), the United Nations’ Sustainable Development value, and Goals (SDGs), and national and global trends as identified by reputable organizations, such as the World Economic 2 Impact and importance to stakeholder. Forum (WEF). Upon compiling these internal and external drivers, we then integrate identified sustainability matters with results from stakeholder interviews mentioned above. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 017 Step 3: Validation of material matters Sustainable Development function was the first line to review Additionally, an external independent verifier was invited to and validate the results of prioritized material matters. Then, ensure that the materiality assessment process, stakeholder the results were presented to the Sustainable Development engagement process, and the collection and compilation of Committee in a meeting attended by management executives data related to our safety and the environment performance and chaired by the CEO for a final review and endorsement. were all done with accuracy and completeness. The Finally, Thaioil grouped together material matters that were assurance statement is presented on page 124-125. similar, such that the 27 material matters were consolidated to 9 material matters. Results of 2019 Materiality Assessment The 2019 materiality assessment found that both internal business transition risks associated with the oil and gas and external drivers have impacted on the expectations of industry. This increased the relevance of innovation and stakeholders, as well as direct positive and negative impacts product stewardship as material matters that will affect on stakeholders and Thaioil’s ability to create long-term Thaioil’s ability to create long-term value. Most of these value. Thaioil’s internal business changes in developing the expectations have to do with business continuity and Clean Fuel Project (CFP) especially has likewise affected Thaioil’s ability to continuously create value without facing stakeholders’ expectations, specifically focusing on business disruption for our stakeholders despite the context establishing stricter standards to be implemented in the of changes. In order to appropriately understand the material context of business expansion, such as environmental matters and adequately manage them, Thaioil has grouped management, occupational health and safety, and corporate the material matters into three themes, similar to the previous governance. Additionally, stakeholders have increased year, and reported below in detail as follows: expectations concerning Thaioil’s ability to manage Impact and Importance to Stakeholder 7 Material Matters for Value Protection QSHE Material Matters Management for Value Enhancement Fight Against Corruption Climate Change Operational Eco-Efficiency Material Matters Human and Organization for Sustainable Value Creation Corporate Social Responsibility Development Innovation and Customer Stewardship Sustainable Procurement 1 Human Rights Remarks: * In 2019, there was no restatement of previous year performance (102-48). ** In 2019, Thaioil changed the method used to assess impact and importance, from a scale of 1-5 used 1 7 in 2018 to a scale of 1-7. Impact and Important to Business’s Ability to Create Value 018 Stakeholders and Material Matters Materiality Assessment Results Business Strategies Related Additional Related to the Management of Material Information Operating Risks, Opportunities, Stakeholder Viewpoints Material Sustainability Matters Regarding Context and Impacts and Expectations Sustainability Strengthen Value Chain Seed the Management Matters the Core Enhancement Options Approach Climate • Natural disasters and • Shareholders/creditors/ change temperature fluctuations that financial institutions expect may lead to business Thaioil to report the approach disruption for adapting business and • Impacts of physical risks using innovation to confront from climate change on water the challenges in the next Climate ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 48-51 resources 10-15 years, especially the Change Risk risks from changes in the oil • Greenhouse gas reduction and gas industry. policies, including controls on GHG emissions and • PTT, the majority shareholder, environmental management expects that Thaioil will operate policies, that will lead to a according to strategies relating more stringent regulatory to PTT Group's environmental environment and potential strategy business costs in the case of • The government and related noncompliance with new laws public agencies expect Quality, and regulations that Thaioil will invest in Safety, Health, ๏ pp. 32-41 and Environ• Technological changes environmental projects, such as ment (QSHE) driving towards the use of environmentally friendly fuels Management alternative energy as and renewable energy, to replacement for oil, which is support the achievement of likely to occur rapidly and will Thailand’s national GHG impact the energy industry, emission reduction targets. as well as the enforcement of • Communities expect that various regulations that would Thaioil’s corporate social promote alternative energy responsibility strategy will usage instead of oil, which include renewable energy may impact long term revenue projects. Innovation ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 78-85 and business growth and Customer Stewardship • Investment opportunities in new businesses that reduce the impacts of climate change Operational • The movement towards • Shareholders/creditors/ Ecothe circular economy, financial institutions expect Efficiency as seen in the agenda Thaioil to continuously from the Thai government and improve energy efficiency. Operational ๏ ๏ pp. 60-67 foreign governments, Eco-Efficiency in initiatives such as • PTT, the majority shareholder, increased recycling and expects that Thaioil will operate the ban on single-use according to strategies relating plastics, may increase costs to PTT Group's environmental for businesses if they do not strategy Climate ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 48-51 operate in compliance with Change Risk new laws and regulations Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 019 Business Strategies Related Additional Related to the Management of Material Information Operating Risks, Opportunities, Stakeholder Viewpoints Material Sustainability Matters Regarding Context and Impacts and Expectations Sustainability Strengthen Value Chain Seed the Management Matters the Core Enhancement Options Approach Operational • Social and consumer trends • Suppliers/contractors expect Ecothat move towards the circular Thaioil to promote supplier Efficiency economy create expectations environmental, social, and (Continued) on businesses to reduce governance performance, in environmental impacts line with Thaioil's policies. Innovation ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 78-85 and Customer throughout the product life cycle, • The government and related Stewardship which may create impacts on public agencies expect Thaioil reputation, revenues, and to manage energy efficiency long-term business growth to support the country in • Movements in the private sector achieving GHG reduction towards becoming the leader in targets. They also expect that the circular economy Thaioil will reduce impacts on movement may impact air quality, which could lead to Sustainable ๏ ๏ pp. 68-75 the ability to compete other business opportunities, Procurement such as the Euro 5 fuel products. • Thaioil’s business expansion, which will result in more resource • Communities expect that consumption and waste Thaioil will promote the generation, and will create knowledge of energy in more challenges to address order to support sustainable and manage these issues standard of living. • The opportunity to change Corporate ๏ pp. 96-111 Social business operations to be in Responsibility line with the circular economy and to reduce costs Human • National and global • Shareholders/creditors/financial rights and developments related institutions and the government business to business and human rights, and related public agencies ๏ pp. 42-47 expectations and the approval of the who expect that Thaioil Human Rights National Action Plan on will respect human rights Business and Human Rights and maintain community in Thailand on October 2019, engagement, especially during which may affect Thaioil in the business expansion, to preserve event of noncompliance with the social license to operate. Quality, Safety, new policies and expectations Health, and ๏ pp. 32-41 for the business sector • Employees expect Thaioil to Environment manage labour issues (QSHE) • Thaioil’s business expansion, appropriately and equitably. Management which will require additional labour and may affect on • Suppliers/contractors expect nearby communities, and the Thaioil to support capacity social license to operate building relating to their environmental, social, and Corporate ๏ pp. 96-111 Social governance performance. Responsibility • Communities expect Thaioil to conduct community engagement with a process that is more easily accessible, and to continue seeking for ๏ ๏ pp. 68-75 opportunities to improve and Sustainable Procurement develop corporate social responsibility activities. 020 Stakeholders and Material Matters Business Strategies Related Additional Related to the Management of Material Information Operating Risks, Opportunities, Stakeholder Viewpoints Material Sustainability Matters Regarding Context and Impacts and Expectations Sustainability Strengthen Value Chain Seed the Management Matters the Core Enhancement Options Approach Demographic • Global aging population • Shareholders/creditors/ changes trends, especially in Thailand, financial institutions, customers, with one of the most rapidly suppliers/contractors, and aging populations in the world, communities expect that and associated potential Thaioil employees will have impacts on businesses are the capacity to adequately unable to manage retirement, respond to stakeholders’ especially for businesses such expectations. as Thaioil that are seeking to expand • Employees expect that Thaioil will be able to attract and • The new generation’s recruit enough employees to (Millennials and Gen Z) meet business expansion Human and ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 86-95 Organization behavior and expectations needs and upcoming retirement, Development of the workplace, and the as well as take the necessary differences of such behavior actions to improve employee and expectations from existing retention. workplace practices, which may lead to challenges in recruitment and eventual labour shortage without adaptation to attract this demographic, especially in the context of business expansion Digitalization • Risks in transitioning to the • Shareholders/creditors/financial digital age in the oil refinery institutions expect Thaioil to industry, especially in the report our approach in adapting preparation and organization our business and using of workers’ potential to innovation to confront the respond to digital transformation, challenges in the next 10-15 which may affect ability to years, especially the risks from compete changes in the oil and gas • Opportunities to increase industry. operational efficiency through • Customers expect Thaioil to the use of technology maintain product quality, • Opportunities to invest in new especially in the context of technologies that create long business expansion with the CFP Project, and use Human and ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 86-95 term revenue growth Organization innovation to meet customer Development demands and secure customer satisfaction. • Employees expect Thaioil to be an agile organization that is able to improve operations to respond to customer and consumer needs in a timely manner, adapt to the changing business context in a timely manner, and improve human resource management. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 021 Business Strategies Related Additional Related to the Management of Material Information Operating Risks, Opportunities, Stakeholder Viewpoints Material Sustainability Matters Regarding Context and Impacts and Expectations Sustainability Strengthen Value Chain Seed the Management Matters the Core Enhancement Options Approach Digitalization • Suppliers/contractors see (Continued) innovation as an important means to improve the work process of Thaioil. Innovation ๏ ๏ ๏ pp. 78-85 • The government and related and Customer public agencies expect Thaioil Stewardship to maintain the quality of oil refining processes. ESG • Increased awareness of • PTT, the majority shareholder, Reporting responsible investment, expects that Thaioil will operate including environmental, according to strategies relating social and good governance to PTT Group's environmental aspects, amongst investors strategy. of various institutions in both the global and national levels, • Suppliers/contractors expect such as the development of Thaioil to take the lead in the Thailand Sustainability helping partners build capacity Investment (THSI) and the with regards to management ๏ pp. 52-57 of environmental, social and Fight Against Negative List Guideline of Corruption the Government Pension governance matters. Fund, which may create impacts on business in terms • The government and related of reputation and revenue public agencies expect Thaioil that can be lost if to continue to improve upon management of such issues measures to fight against is inadequate corruption. 022 Strategy Outlook Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 023 Based on the material matters identified from the previous table, Thaioil Group has formulated business strategies, and short and long-term investment strategies during the period 2018-2030. The Strategic Direction 2030 will help to strengthen our organization and creates shared value for our stakeholders. The strategy consists of three main strategic directions: Strengthen Strategy Outlook the Core, Value Chain Enhancement, and Seed the Options; which Thaioil will regularly monitor and review the strategy on an annual basis to ensure that we are progressing towards our business and sustainability target. Strategic Direction VISION Strengthen the Core Value Chain Enhancement Seed the Options “Empower human life Strengthen core businesses in oil refinery Extend the value chain to downstream Seek new business alternatives through through sustainable energy and power generation, by focusing on businesses, such as the olefins and investing in research to create green and chemicals” the cost competitiveness and profit aromatics business, chemical distribution businesses, and increase the share of generating capacity, to secure business, specialty products business, new businesses through investing in a sustainable income stream for and marine transport business, in order startups and venture capitals, both in Thaioil Group. to enhance product value and business Thailand and overseas, to capitalize diversity, as well as expanding business on innovation in the research and growth to neighboring countries. development in various fields. • Develop a high efficiency refinery and refining capacity. In 2019, • Expand the petrochemicals business to other countries • Invest in corporate venture capital (CVC) projects to 2019 Thaioil achieved refining capacity 107% of nameplate capacity, in ASEAN, including Myanmar, Indonesia, and northern develop technologies in various fields, including (Short-term plan) which translated into 362,179 million THB in sales revenues. Vietnam. In 2019, revenues from this product group technologies to advance capabilities in production and • Invest in the Clean Fuel Project. amounted to 9,102 million THB. management, technologies that preserve the environment • Establish the CFP Support Center as a center to manage activities and improve the quality of life, and technologies that related to the Clean fuel Project, including community complaints. impact the long-term use of petroleum. At present, Thaioil • Reduce direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from has invested in 1 CVC fund in the United States. the production process through increasing energy efficiency. In 2019, Thaioil reduced GHG emissions by 84,265 tons carbon dioxide equivalent. • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 4% from • Conduct feasibility studies on petrochemical market expansion. • Conduct feasibility studies on investments in the renewable 2023 business-as-usual (BAU) by 2022. and electric value chain business, bio-based business, (Medium-term plan) • Accomplish the zero waste to landfill target by 2020. and circular economy business. • Advance upon CVC investments. • Enhance the quality of life of communities and society through • Conduct feasibility studies on petrochemical market expansion. • Innovate new technologies to develop products that are 2030 the Sustainable Energy for Health Care framework. environmentally-friendly, and consider investments (Long-term plan) • Apply circular economy principles to operations, especially in in green businesses. the production processes. • Increase the share of green revenues in portfolio to no less • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 6% from than 25% of total revenues. business-as-usual (BAU). 024 Corporate Governance and Sustainability Corporate Governance and Sustainability Thaioil Group’s material matters are governed by the Board of Directors and subcommittees in order to accomplish business strategy and targets. Details are provided as follows: Board Structure Section 5 of the Corporate Governance Guidelines of Thai Oil Public Company As of December 2019, there are (Limited) states that the Board must have at least five and up to 15 directors, and 15 members in Thaioil’s Board at least half must be permanent residents of Thailand. Directors may be or not be of Directors: Company’s Shareholders. Directors are appointed to the Board either through being elected by shareholders during the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting, or through appointment by the Board in the event that a vacancy has resulted from termination 1 Executive director that is not based on service years. Directors must all have qualifications that meet regulatory requirements, and should not possess any characteristics prohibited by the Public Limited Company Act, B.E. 2535 (1992). As stated in Section 6, Chapter 68 of the Public Limited Company Act, B.E. 2535 (1992), they must be sui juris (full age); not be bankrupt, incompetent, or quasi-incompetent; not have been sentenced by a final judgement to imprisonment for dishonesty; and not have been dismissed from a government service or state organization or agency for dishonesty on duty. 14 Non-executive Furthermore, the Board must have at least one-third of its members be independent directors directors, and must have at least three independent directors at all times In order to ensure that directors can adequately dedicate their time to fulfill their 8 Dependent directors roles and deliver the best interest for Thaioil, all members of the Board must have no more than three directorships in companies listed in the Stock Exchange of Thailand. This number includes the directorship for Thaioil. Additionally, the Company has established guidelines for directors and executives, their partners in marriage and/or cohabitation, and children who are not of age, specifically that if they desire to sell Company securities, they should report to the Company Secretary at least one day in advance, and should report change in information related to holding securities to the Securities Exchange Commission within three days of the date of purchase, sale, 6 Independent directors or transfer. This is to control use of insider information that has not been disclosed to the public, and to promote fairness for other shareholders, in alignment with good corporate governance principles. In 2019, Thaioil employed an independent/ external consultant to conduct an independent assessment of the performance of the Board, committees, and individual directors. The hired consultant helped to support Thaioil in identifying the assessment approach and recommending issues of concern from the assessment. Thaioil’s independent assessment of board performance will be conducted every three years, and results are to be publicly disclosed in the Company’s annual reports (Form 56-2). Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 025 The board skill matrix is used in the Board nomination process to ensure that appointed directors have the required Thaioil has developed a board skill matrix that follows Thaioil qualifications – including personal qualifications such as with thehas developed policy a board for Board’s skill matrix diversity that follows in skills, educational background, knowledge, expertise, skills, with the policy for Board’s diversity in professions, and specializations, namely : skills, professions, and specializations, namely : experiences, and specialized experiences that are beneficial or relevant for the Company’s business that will create a Board that has the qualifications that is fitting for the size, type, and characteristics of the Company’s business activities. Energy/ Energy/ Political Science/ Candidates’ gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, or place of birth Petroleum/ Political Science/ Social Science do not affect the appointment process. Petroleum/ Petrochemicals Social Science Petrochemicals In 2019, Thaioil added information and digital technology and Engineering Security innovation to the board skill matrix. This is to ensure that the Engineering Security matrix remains relevant to the Company’s business, strategy, and global trends. The updated matrix is also more aligning with Accounting Information and the Company’s strategic directions Value Chain Enhancement Accounting and Finance Information Digital and Technology and Seed the Options. Furthermore, the Board must maintain and Finance Digital Technology independence in accordance with the Company’s guidelines, Business Management/ Business Management/ and adequately allocate time to fulfill roles and responsibilities. Law Organizational To ensure continuous development of directors’ ability to Law Organizational Management/Corporate Management/Corporate Governance perform tasks effectively, the Board must follow with the Governance Company’s policy to promote development and training for Economics Science/Innovation/ Science/Innovation/ directors, such as training courses provided by the Institute of Economics Environment Thai Directors (IOD), or other courses and/or conferences that Environment are related to the Company’s business that are beneficial to governing according to the Company’s strategy. Roles and Responsibilities Thaioil’s Board of Directors and executives prioritize good corporate governance, with a vision to empower human life through sustainable energy and chemicals. The Board has appointed four committees to oversee specific responsibilities as assigned, and are to regularly report performance and progress to the Board. These include Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, and Risk Management Committee. All committees are required to have the qualifications as required by laws and regulations. Thaioil has identified the qualifications, term of office, roles and responsibilities, reporting, and assessment in the charter of each committee. Currently, the four committees have roles and responsibilities as follows: 026 Corporate Governance and Sustainability The Audit Committee reviews the efficiency and effectiveness of good corporate governance, risk management, and internal control processes; reviews the Company’s financial reporting process to ensure accuracy, credibility, and sufficient information and in compliance with Thai Financial Reporting Standards; reviews the connected transactions or transactions that may lead to conflict of interest and information disclosure as required by law, rules, and regulations of the Stock Exchange of Thailand; considers to select, nominate, re-elect, and terminate the Company’s external auditors and to propose the auditors Audit fee; reviews and provides opinions on internal audit plan and system to meet Committee internationally accepted standard; considers the independence of the Corporate Internal Audit Department including the adequacy of the budget and workforce of this Department; and approves the appointment, rotation, and evaluates the annual performance of Vice PresidentCorporate Internal Audit Department. Nomination Role The Committee considers the Board’s composition and qualifications of individual Director for the Board focusing on education, knowledge, expertise, skills, experience, and specialization that associates with the Company’s business as well as their independency in accordance with the Company’s criteria; selects qualified Directors to take position in the Board-Committees and table their names to the Board for consideration and approval in case of vacancy; considers the qualifications of the CEO/ President to suit the Company’s business management in order to achieve its objectives, covering education, experience, knowledge and expertise, as well as taking essential business trends into consideration; develops and reviews the succession plan of CEO/President as continuous preparation plan for readiness Nomination and and successor to ensure business continuity of management and operations. Remuneration Remuneration Role The Committee reviews and proposes remuneration form Committee and criteria to suit the responsibilities of the Board by taking the Company’s overall performance into consideration to motivate and retain Directors with competency, quality, and potentiality prior to table them to the annual general meeting for shareholders’ approval; and conducts the performance evaluation and considers an appropriate remuneration for the CEO/President before proposing to the Board for approval. The Risk Management Committee defines and reviews risk management framework, the Risk Management Charter, risk management policies and process; as well as suitably and effectively suggests guidelines to risk management relating to the Company’s business to correspond with business strategies, business plans, and volatile circumstances; continuously promotes and develops risk management and tools in all levels across the organization; to encourage risk management culture in organization; supervises, monitors, Risk Management and reviews key risk management plans and report to ensure effective risk Committee management at an acceptable level and corresponding with risk management policy. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 027 The Corporate Governance Committee defines corporate governance policies, practices, and related operations including sustainability management and corporate social responsibility aspects to conform to principles, standards, and requirements stipulated by the Stock Exchange of Thailand, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other recognized institutions domestically and internationally; supervises and monitors the Company’s operations to ensure compliance with established policies and practices, in order for continuous Corporate CG development; promotes CG culture; provides advice in the participation Governance of CG-related assessment and rating; and considers the Board’s performance Committee evaluation form and approves the overall evaluation before proposing to the Board. Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual Thaioil has developed a Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual to guide our Board of Directors, executives, and employees in applying our principles in their daily responsibilities. The Manual is centered on our belief in equitable treatment of all stakeholders and respect of all stakeholders’ rights, and encourages our people to For the name list and other details perform all their duties and responsibilities with honesty, dedication, perseverance, on the Board of Directors, please see further in the responsibility, and a desire to contribute to goodness in society. It assigns responsibility 2019 Annual Report, or to our Board of Directors and executives to lead employees in applying Thaioil values https://investor-th.thaioilgroup.com/ar.html in integrity, fairness, transparency, and accountability in all that we do. Performance Indicators for Sustainability In 2019, Thaioil established sustainability performance indicators that are tied to the compensation of the President and CEO and the Sustainability Development Committee. Additionally, Thaioil has corporate key performance indicators that are related to sustainability, and are cascaded to all relevant employees. Incorporating sustainability into performance measurement drives us towards achieving our targets in managing environmental, social, and governance issues. Indicators to a sustainability performance assessment are measured through the four dimensions of the Balanced Scorecard and the leadership competency criteria as follows: Part 1 Corporate Key Performance Indicator Achievements (70%) 30% make up 70% of the performance metric. The corporate KPIs are defined Leadership according to a balanced scorecard that includes four main areas finance and Competency sustainability (20%), stakeholders (15%), internal process (45%), and learning and Learning and Development development (20%). Stakeholders Part2 Leadership Competency (30%) Internal Process makes up 30% of the performance metric, and assesses the leadership Finance and Sustainability competency of the President and CEO in six areas, including fostering a group vision, management that follows strategic plans, risk management, team 70% management to achieve highest productivity, teaching and development, and personal excellence. 028 Corporate Governance and Sustainability Sustainable Development Structure The management of each material matter is responded by a specific function driven by subjective sub-committee. Sustainable development function will coordinate between sub-committees and regularly reporting progress to the Sustainable Development Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee. Progress is reported to the Board of Directors annually. However, if there should be a pressing material issue that requires immediate attention, the Corporate Governance Committee will report to the Board of Directors immediately. Sustainable Development Risk Management Research and Development Committee Steering Committee Steering Committee 1. Establish risk management frameworks, 1. Determine the direction of the research consists of the Chief Executive Officer policies, structure, and strategy, including and master plan, with relevant targets and all Executive Vice Presidents, and is internal controls and business continuity and key performance indicators, to management, to respond to changing guide and support the strategic plan tasked with the following responsibilities: contexts 2. Support commercialization of research 1 Strategize and develop policies, 2. Drive analysis and assessment of the and development results targets, and key performance risk levels, and the development of risk 3. Monitor progress and evaluate success indicators that will lead to long-term mitigation measures sustainable development 3. Review, monitor, and oversee risk 4. Provide research budget, manpower, management performance, and equipment, facilities, and promote 2 Drive integration of sustainability regularly reports results and progress to collaborations with other research strategy into the business strategy the Risk Management Committee (RMC) institutes with short-term and long-term plans 4. Provide feedback on plans, processes, 3 Review and validate completeness and guidelines, and allocate necessary of material sustainability matters of resources the company 4 Support relevant functions in the Energy Management and Loss Energy Management and Loss identification and assessment of Improvement-Working Team Improvement-Internal Energy risks related to the environment, Audit Team society, and governance (ESG), as well as the development of action 1. Implement tasks related to energy 1. Coordinate with the Energy plans management and loss improvement to Management & Loss Improvement follow with Thaioil’s energy conservation Working Team to operate in 5 Provide consultation and support of policy and targets compliance with regulatory appropriate resources and human 2. Collect past data, monitor present requirements resources, and to consider the energy performance, and evaluate 2. Audit supporting documents, material matters performance in comparison to the evidence, and performance results target to ensure that energy of the Energy Management & Loss 6 Promote employee awareness management and loss improvement Improvement Working Team in and organizational culture that is conducted effectively accordance with regulatory embodies sustainability 3. Organize training sessions and requirements activities that promote awareness and 3. Develop conclusive reports on understanding of energy conservation the internal audit and submit it to and loss improvement the Energy Management & Loss 4. Report and present results to lead the Improvement Working Team revision and improvement of policies and processes. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 029 Waste Management Taskforce Environmental and Community Relations Committee 1. Provide the direction on managing environmental impacts, community relations, 1. Determine waste management and other impacts from Thaioil, such that the Code of Conduct principles on approach and develop waste corporate social responsibility are satisfied and stakeholders’ expectations and needs are adequately responded to management plans 2. Manage Thaioil’s activities and initiatives related to the environment and community 2. Drive appropriate waste management relations such that they are in line with international standards, and communicate systems and tools these initiatives 3. Monitor and reports progress such 3. Analyze and review the effectiveness of activities and initiatives related to the that they are in line with corporate environment and community relations, provide recommendations for improvements, targets and report performance in line with Thaioil’s principles on corporate social responsibility or international standards 4. Review processes and shares lessons learned Safety, Occupational Health Human Rights Working Team and Work Environment Committee Ethical Cultivation and Communication Working Team 1. Manage and support the 1. Review policies and action plans implementation of the Human Rights related to occupational health Policy, and promote the integration and safety of human rights principles with 2. Report and provide recommendations 1. Plan and strategize communications company culture to improve performance and maintain and ethical cultivation in the 2. Review the accuracy and relevance compliance with occupational health organization of assessment results and the and safety regulations and standards 2. Coordinate with relevant functions, Company’s interpretation in order to ensure the safety of all both internal and external, to ensure of human rights employees, subcontractors, and the implementation of activities 3. Monitor performance and progress, any other individual visiting onsite to proceed as planned assess likelihood of human rights 3. Promote and support the organization 3. Share and communicate information on impacts, as well as potential of of occupational health and ethical cultivation to different functions human rights risks relevant to the safety-related activities, and within Thaioil Group to ensure organization and regulatory context, monitors, reports, and evaluate awareness, understanding and and develop mitigation measures performance participation in activities 4. Report results of improvement 4. Conduct audits of occupational 4. Implement tasks and activities as actions taken, conflicts, issues, health and safety at operation agreed in committee meetings or risks related to human rights areas and inspect statistics related to executives of corporate human to incidents in the area of operations resource management at least once every month Thaioil Group Corporate Governance System and Process Development and Design Taskforce 1. Study and evaluate the best practices in system designs and 4. In the event that there is a new law or major change, the Taskforce processes of good corporate governance to obtain the highest Lead may appoint a sub-working group as needed to ensure efficiency and to ensure standardization across Thaioil Group understanding of the new law or changes and all related details 2. Design corporate governance systems and processes that cover 5. Develop action plans for the Taskforce, coordinate, direct, and legal monitoring, identification of legal characteristics and important communicate to relevant individuals to ensure completion of information, monitoring and inspection, as well as reporting and the action plan. ensuring clear allocation of roles and responsibilities 3. Design commercial needs to develop corporate governance systems, including compliance reporting and dashboard Value Protection Value protection in a context of constantly changing internal and external factors is a challenge for petroleum and petrochemical businesses. Thaioil and Subsidiaries therefore strive for operational excellence through maintaining a robust risk and crisis management system that covers Quality, Safety, Health and Environment (QSHE) risks, as well as risks from external factors such as the impacts of climate change on business and the risks of violating human rights of stakeholders in business activities. And, most importantly, we have established a foundation within the organization for SAFETY the business’ operating principles, laws and regulations, and codes of conduct in order to support our business strategy to Strengthen the Core business, QSHE and to achieve Value Chain Enhancement for the petrochemical, and Management chemical products businesses. This section of the report consists of material Fight Against matters related to our management of risks that may compromise Thaioil’s Corruption ability to create value in the long term. Important Strategies Human Rights Manufactured Human Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital Capital Maintaining human Maintaining rules Maintaining the Maintaining capital in order to and regulations, and equilibrium of manufactured capital prevent injury and strictly comply it to the ecosystem in order to avoid loss of life, as well as maintain the labor in order to reduce business disruption ensuring respect for permit and the environmental and creating the the fundamental opportunity for impacts from utmost efficiency in rights of all business expansion. business activities. order to deliver stakeholder groups. products to the market Work-related injuries 0 7.32% continuously. 0.37 cases/million work incidents and penalty fees from noncompliance with laws and GHG emission reductions, compared with business-as-usual Process Safety Event 0.09 events per million hours for all workers, which is better than the target regulations, as well as cases of corruptions and bribery (BAU) work hours Social and Relationship Maintaining acceptance from the government and society in order to continue conducting 100% All expansion projects conducted public participation in Capital our business alongside them. compliance with laws. Climate Change Risk 032 QSHE Management Quality, Safety, Health, and Environment (QSHE) Management Commitment Thaioil Group is committed to operate Challenges, Risks, and Impacts business with carefully managing quality, safety, health, and the environment to Thaioil has commenced various capital projects, to support our business ensure that all operations comply with expansion plan, such as the Clean Fuel Project (CFP); the Jetty 7 and 8 regulations, laws, and measures to Expansion Project; the construction of new office building, the laboratory prevent environmental impacts. building, the engineering and warehouse building; and the crude oil tank To achieve this,Thaioil focuses on construction project. This requires numerous important activities to be strengthening our management system prepared and implemented, such as the implementation of Operational that covers occupational health and Excellence Management System, the demolition work of existing equipment safety management, emergency and to prepare for the upcoming expansion projects while still running current crisis management, quality management, operation units etc. To achieve these, Thaioil needs to review and improve environment and complaint management, safety control measures in order to ensure that normal operations can and the compliance assessment. This continue sustainably without any critical incidents or leakage of flammable management system is enforced by or chemical substances, or loss of primary containment that may cause policies in relations to quality, safety, severe impacts, resulting in an unplanned shutdown or impacts on the health, environment, energy management, business continuity. and corporate social responsibility, which all guide Thaioil towards preventing, There are also other challenging factors e.g. changes in environment, managing, and mitigating any impacts changes in the more stringent requirements and the standards of that may occur from normal operating occupational health and safety practices, and other external factors. conditions, abnormal operating All of which can pose significant challenges to Thaioil and may prevent conditions, and emergency operating us from achieving our goal of being “an organization that is free from conditions in both the present context accidents (No Harm No Leak Goal Zero) to employees, contractors, and and future business expansion. related stakeholders,” as well as prevent us from meeting the societal expectations regarding environmental impacts to health & well-being of Furthermore, Thaioil remains committed the surrounding communities. to protecting our business partners from regulatory risks, especially in relation Furthermore, to enhance the quality of life of our employees, community to environmental regulations, that may members, and other stakeholders by Thaioil’s new mission “empower result in business disruption, as indicated human life through sustainable energy and chemicals” and mission “to in the Thaioil Group Supplier Code of enrich stakeholders’ well-being and deliver sustainable returns built upon Conduct (read more in the “Sustainable innovation, technology and resilient portfolio with top class management Procurement” chapter). and accountable corporate governance”. With higher stakeholder’s expectations, stringent regulations, and global sustainability management Targets trends have all posed significant challenges for Thaioil’s management of • Maintain safety maturity level to level quality, safety, health, and environment, and corporate social responsibility 4 by 2022 in all business activities and future business expansion throughout the • Maintain safety performance (total value chain. recordable work-related injury rate: TRIR) that is comparable to the top 10% performers in the oil and gas industry by 2022 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 033 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management System with requirements specified in the work permit. There is also a systematic analysis of results and recommendations for Thaioil has adopted the international ‘Enhanced Safety further improvements. Management System’ standard to manage our safety performance since 1961, which integrating with the BS Additionally, Thaioil encourages submission of Potential OHSAS 18011 system and the Operational Excellence Incident Reports (PIR) that focus on Unsafe Acts and Management System (OEMS) that focuses on using the Unsafe Conditions as a preventive safety measure. Alongside “PDCA cycle” in every work process. There are in place the efforts to promote PIR submission, Thaioil has initiated a safety policy, the safety manual, and the safety procedures campaign to encourage workers to speak up when unsafe covering all activities with potential risks to employees and acts are being found. Those who observe an unsafe act contractors, and covering all areas of operations under should stop that action or activity, and suggest corrective Thaioil Group’s controls. In 2019, we have formulated our action in accordance with Thaioil’s safety procedures. new strategy, called the ‘House of Business Excellence,’ The individual who was performing the unsafe act should intending to pave our way towards becoming a world-class thank the individual who gave the reminder, and follow refinery within the next four years. Safety is certainly one recommendations such that Thaioil safety guidelines are of the core pillars of this strategy to be implemented and followed. This initiative demonstrates our efforts in developing improved. Moreover, with our aspiration to enhance our safety and advancing safety leadership in the workplace to performance towards the world-class standard, we have set ultimately cultivate a safety culture in Thaioil Group. the new “No Harm No Leak Goal Zero” targets, and have reviewed the Five-Year Occupational Health & Safety and In the event that workers (employees and contractors) Emergency & Crisis Management Plan to reflect the internal notice or experience working conditions that pose risks to and external changing contexts, risks, and new corporate their health and/or life, they can stop the work and report strategy and targets. to the supervisor and the officer in charge of the operation area. The supervisor needs to investigate and determine a Hazard identification in the workplace, risk assessment, and solution to ensure safe working conditions for the worker to investigation of incidents with risks proceed and continue with the operation. As this is a part of the campaign for workers to report on unsafe working Thaioil Group has developed a methodology to identify conditions through PIR reporting, workers will not be hazards, risks, and opportunities for improvement by using disciplined for the stop-work incident. On the contrary, workers What If, Bow Tie, and HAZOP strategies that cover activities who use their stop work authority will be commended through performed by employees, contractors, and external factors the PIR of the Month project. that could affect the Company. Thaioil has also prepared occupational health and safety plans to reduce and maintain Thaioil pays significant attention to and implements projects risks within the acceptable levels at all times. There is also a to develop a safety mindset and enhance safety maturity plan to monitor and review risks every six months, and find level. We have adjusted our functional strategy from Safe opportunities to improve at least once a year or when there White Green to All SAFE White Green in order to develop are changes. and elevate safety mindset and leadership in the workplace for all employees and contractors. This strategy is executed For tasks that do not occur regularly, there are hazard through the organization of QSHE Roll Out activities in various identification and risk assessment procedures, such as 3 areas of operations, especially during the annual turnaround What and JSA, that cover work activities and work areas, and in areas of operations undergoing construction. In and procedures to assign control and prevention measures addition to raising awareness and strengthening safety that are aligned with identified risks. The Electronic Permit, culture of workers in operations, these activities also enhance or the SAP Permit, requires communication through Toolbox worker participation of workers in real working conditions. meeting before starting work, and safety checks consistent 034 QSHE Management Work-related incident investigation procedure Furthermore, Thaioil has arranged a specific function, occupational health experts, and specialists in occupational The reporting and investigation of accidents are the heart health medicine to provide consultation and guidance on of the safety management system. The objective is to find issues related to occupational health to employees and the true root cause and define preventative measures to contractors at any time. avoid recurrence. Thaioil requires accident cases, abnormal event cases, near-miss cases, and potential incidents to be reported and recorded systematically as Opportunity Participation, consultation, and communication with workers on for Improvement (OFI). When such cases or incidents occupational health and safety occur, people in the event or witnesses must write a report to the supervisor of the area and others involved within 24 Thaioil has appointed a safety, occupational health, and hours. After that, there will be an appointment of a group to work environment committee consisting of representatives investigate to find the root cause in order to systematically from employees involved in operations that make up at least set measures to prevent such events from reoccurance. 50% of the committee (excluding the Chairman) which will Therefore, the TRIPOD incident investigation was introduced meet at least once a month for news update, and progress as a guideline in conducting investigations. Periodic follow-up monitoring of future operations plans. investigations are done to monitor implementation of corrective actions and improvement measures. Finally, to ensure that In 2019, Thaioil has adjusted a strategic plan to focus on preventative measures are most efficient and effective, a House of Business Excellence that will drive our status to summary of the lessons learnt from the accident or abnormal a world-class refinery in the next four years. As safety is incident (lesson learned sharing) is communicated to one of the core pillars to be developed and upgraded to employees and contractors through various communication achieve a world class safety standard. Thaioil has revisited channels of Thaioil. corporate safety targets in line with the new strategy, which is “No Harm No Leak Goal Zero”, and have reviewed the Five-Year “Occupational Health and Safety and Occupational Health Services Emergency and Crisis Management” Plan to reflect the internal and external contexts, risks, and new corporate Maintaining and protecting the health of employees and strategy and targets. In addition, the Company has reviewed contractors are the ultimate goal in the operations of Thaioil the Permit to Work System, especially with regards to work and Subsidiaries, especially when operating in the refinery permits for work with ignition sources near flammable area, where could expose to harm to the worker’s health materials, or “hot work”, in line with international best at anytime, If safety control measures are defective, or practice. These adjustments and improvement shall be workers are not following the rules or procedures. The communicated to relevant staff for effective and efficient Heath Risk Assessment is one of the guidelines that is used implementation. There is a systematic performance analysis internally to identify hazards and determine the impacts and learning from serious safety incidents. Additionally, to worker’s health in order to define appropriate safety there are consistent checks and identification of indicators measures and reduce risks. to monitor compliance of recommended practices, including Monitoring the work environment and comparing results continuous reviewing of safety in operations by executive against the standard value are one of the measures that management. the company has adopted to evaluate safety measures that may affect a worker’s health in normal operations, project work, or maintenance work. In the case that the results are higher than the standard value, Thaioil will implement a plan to improve and monitor systematically. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 035 Occupational health and safety training Promoting worker health Thaioil sets the criteria in identifying Thaioil provides services and supports workers in accessing medical services for training on occupational health and non-work related incidents. safety and fire prevention that is needed for employees and contractors. The Scope • Employees in TOP, TLB, SPP, TPX, and LABIX refineries, and criteria covers the position of the employees at Bangkok office and operation units of pipeline worker as well as the risk level (i.e. distribution. high-risk activities) and type of work. • Contractors in the refinery We have prepared a training plan, implementation plan, evaluation plan, Medical services • Provide basic treatments and emergency treatments in the and documentation in order to develop company medical unit by having a nurse available 24-hours employees’ knowledge, ability, and every working day and doctor available on working days during understanding of hazards and risks 13.0016.00 hours that may lead to accidents, as well as • Provide advice relating to health through the company’s public methods to protect themselves and relations channels and arrange for a question-and-answer contain hazards. session or a way to contact nurses available 24 hours a day • Provide annual health check-up and vaccination against influenza for employees at work points such as process control rooms, office buildings, and engineering buildings. Thaioil has voluntarily arranged • The “Good Health by Company Doctors for Employees with initiatives to promote worker Non-Communicable Diseases” Project; health, which can reduce non-work • Weight Loss Project; related health risks, including: • Workplace and Resting Area Exercise Project; • Biannual activities organized to promote health and raise “healthy awareness”; and • Reminder services provided for employees to receive physical examination prescribed by the doctor; and • Providing exercise equipment and facilities in places such as fitness rooms at the office building of Thai Lube Base Public Company Limited, Phubai Office Building, and Thaioil Club. Prevention and reduction of occupational health and safety impacts from business partners Thaioil included occupational health and safety questions Health and Safety and Emergency and Crisis Management” as part of the annual supplier survey, which is a general Plan. In 2019, we adjusted the strategy to achieve House survey of supplier needs and satisfaction conducted by a of Business Excellence in order to prepare to become a third party. We have also established corporate indicators world-class oil refinery in the next four years. In realizing regarding supplier safety performance, determined functions this goal, safety counts as one of the main pillars that Thaioil responsible for taking care of suppliers, evaluated and must develop and elevate. Thus, in order to move our safety summarized survey results, provided recommendations and performance towards world class standards, Thaioil has corrective actions for suppliers (if any), and systematically adjusted corporate safety targets to align with this new monitored implementation of corrective actions. strategy. These safety targets are called the “No Harm No Leak Goal Zero”. In addition, we have reviewed our Most importantly, Thaioil Group’s executives give importance Five-Year “Occupational Health and Safety and Emergency to risk management and loss prevention in conducting and Crisis Management” Plan to ensure that it is fitting with business activities. There is an established policy that drives the internal and external contexts, risks, and new strategic incident prevention, and provides the necessary resources plan and corporate targets. to implement this policy through the Five-Year Occupational 036 QSHE Management Safety maturity Total recordable Total recordable Performance level in 2019 work-related injury rate of work-related injury rate of 4.08 (Resulting from 0.7 case per million hours 0.32 per million hours case performance in 2018) worked for employees worked for contractors In 2019, Thaioil was able to manage occupational health and safety according to our plans for safety operations. The combined TRIR of contractors and employees was equal to 0.37 cases per million hours worked, which was better than our target of 0.50 or below case per million hours worked, with no accidents that would cause occupational illnesses or fatality. Our performance remains in the top 10% within the oil and gas industry. Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) for employees for employees Target 0 Target 0 2016 0 2016 0 2017 0 2017 0 2018 0 2018 0 2019 0.35 2019 0 Lost-time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR) for contractors for contractors Target 0 Target 0 2016 0.19 2016 0 2017 0.27 2017 0 2018 0 2018 0 2019 0.11 2019 0 Unit: Cases per million hours worked Process Safety and Integrity Mechanical Integrity and Process Safety Management System The primary objective in operations is to maintain business Zero target in order to achieve excellence in our production continuity without critical incidents, loss of primary process. To that end, Thaioil has established a Technical containment (LOPC), or abnormal incidents related to the Safety team since 2018 to develop and elevate our process production process that could lead to loss of life, assets, safety management towards international standards. We environment, and reputation of Thaioil Group. Thus, process have integrated a process safety management system in safety management (PSM) is crucial to our success, and our production process according to OSHA requirements, a key factor in driving and strengthening Thaioil Group’s and have applied international best practices in our process capability in accomplishing the No Harm No Leak Goal safety management, as illustrated in Figure 1. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 037 OpOepraetriant gi PrPocroedceudreu ng EmEpmlopyloeyeee r&e & a tion OpOepraetriant g&& PaPrtaicrtiipcipation gin DisDciispclipnl g HoHt o in i n i ng TraTraminpleptelete eine PerPe wtowrkork C o C om mritm it Stak Thaioil prioritize proactive risk OSutat keehhold NO L EA rt U p Out reacold er HARAMRM NO LEKAKOPOEPREAR Start Up iew management to prevent critical re a h e r ch O N-ONO H TAINTI PreSta Review PreSafettyyRev incidents. This means we consider ERERO GNG Sa f e Inc ide AC E risks right from the start in designing InvIensctiigdenntt ACHHIIEEVEIN EX C ess rocess ENCE ELL NCE I n v e s t i g a t i on VEI G Management ent new projects, construction, during a t i on NG Z P Peeoople rk Proc XCELLE MaonfaCgheamnge Work P Z ple P.S. P.S. oPf rCohcaendguere) operations, and all the way to Leadership Leadership Wo ( ( P r o c ed u re ) improving the production process OUU Culture Culture to increase safety. This integration T H RO Commitment Commitment THR R Mana has strengthened Thaioil Group’s ReevvieMwa&naggeement nt M Imiew Conment management system and safety culture me t M ComImppro&veCmonttiinnuuoous ag e e n e P P MM W Managemange o Equipment Equipment W NN T M om pliarovem ent / us C in the production process, and has Manofcchhangizatioionn o G HG I I T Meeaasupreliannccee Aeundtit/ & E mergen cy ofOrgannizatrt) PHEP E Q UQ U sure and MAudit & made us an organization with a safe rgen cy ( a a O POLP S SS,SE, E an d M a t r i c e s PErmepearedness EL,EW, W E a trice s (Org CChhart) O ROKR KP RPORCO C E production chain. Prep&arePdlanness ec e TraTrac c de I hacha r de reett & Plan f E f EnteIngtreg nicnailcal && Se Se quiqu ityrity pmipm DeD PHPAHAI enten CoCno siegsnig&n & MaMnangaegmeemnet nt PSPSI t sntrsutcrut icotnion of oCfhCahnagnege (P(laPnlat nCthCahnagneg) e) Figure Figure1:1:Thaioil ThaioilGroup GroupProcess Process Safety SafetyManagement ManagementModel. Model. Performance Performance In 2019, Thaioil Group implemented the following safety initiatives: Reviewed the Five-Year Process Safety Plan to develop and upgrade our process safety Applied tools used in causal learning a management system for more alignment with international best practices, and advanced method for in-depth root cause analysis process safety performance towards world class standards through the No Harm No Leak that covers multiple levels of cause-andGoal Zero targets; and effect analysis until the real underlying root causes, including the actions or Developed and enhanced critical safety procedures in the production process, including decisions that led to the accident or the hazard effect management process (HEMP) – where the bow tie risk analysis method incident, are identified – to investigate is applied to analyze and identify severe hazards and hazard causes, and determine serious accidents or accidents with high control and preventative measures – as well as process isolation, mechanical integrity, and complex consequences, identify and the development of practice guidelines, checklists, and record-keeping related to the root cause, and establish effective the production process. preventative measures; Risk Riskmanagement managementapproach approach Inspected process safety with determined CONTROLS, CONTROLS,BARRIERS BARRIERS RECOVERY RECOVERYMEASURES MEASURES inspection plans, inspection checklists, THREATS THREATS TOP TOP CONSEQUENCE CONSEQUENCE Figure2: 2: Figure reporting, monitoring corrective actions, EVENT EVENT Risk RiskManagement Management and systematic performance evaluation; Approach ApproachDiagram Diagram Determined process safety performance Improved management measures related to incident investigation and reporting of indicators (Leading and Lagging), such as accidents, incidents, and safety in the production process (incident management), including indicators regarding Tier 1 and Tier 2 loss learning from occurred incidents; of primary containment (LOPC), following API RP 754 (American Petroleum Institute Promoted a safety mindset in the production process with the 10 Process Safety Fundamental Recommended Practice 754) guidelines, Rules, and led a campaign for employees and contractors to learn from incidents and best and conduct weekly performance review practices, where they can then reflect upon lessons learnt and apply knowledge gained to improve by executives. process safety and emergency management in Thaioil to ultimately prevent severe accidents and further develop our crisis and emergency management towards international standards; 038 QSHE Management In 2019, there were two incidents of leakage of flammable or chemical substance, or loss of primary containment, that caused severe impacts as defined by the API 754 (LOPC Tier 1 and 2). This places our process safety incident rate at 0.09 case per million hours worked, which satisfies our 2019 target of 0.5 or below case per million hours worked. Thaioil has investigated the incidents to identify the cause of the incident Performance and determine mitigation and preventative measures in the future. Based on the investigation, we found that the implemented detection system and authority in charge were able to detect and therefore contain the situation promptly, ensuring that there no consequences that led to process disruption. Case per million Indicator hours worked Process safety incident from 2016 0.13 leakage of flammable or chemical substances, or loss of primary 2017 0.67 containment, that caused severe impacts as defined by API 754 2018 0.38 (LOPC Tier 1 and 2) 2019 0.09 Target less than 0.5 Environmental Management System Thaioil Group is committed to developing our environmental Through our participation in the Corporate Sustainability management system to achieve business growth in tandem Assessment (CSA) of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices with caring for the surrounding environment and communities’ (DJSI) – an important corporate key performance indicator of quality of life. This is reflected in the “Thaioil Group Quality, economic, social, and environmental management – Thaioil Security, Occupational Health and Safety, Environment, has identified improvement opportunities and accordingly Energy Management, and Corporate Social Responsibility Poldeveloped a Five-Year Environmental Master Plan to drive icy”. Thaioil has also applied other environmental management sustainable management of environmental factors within guidelines – namely, ISO 14001:2015, the Global Reporting Thaioil Group. This covers different operating conditions, Initiative (GRI) Standards, improvement practices towards including: excellence as defined in DJSI assessment, Environment Cooperate Governance guidelines, and CSR Standards Normal Operating Conditions: (ISO 26000) under the CSR-DIW Project – in continuously governing and developing our management system. This Thaioil and Subsidiaries have established measures to covers risk assessment, development of measures to control control environmental impacts of the production process and mitigate environmental impacts, performance monitoring at source. In addition to this, the existing and ongoing and inspection, reporting, and improvements through the expansion projects – such as Clean Fuel Project (CFP), Terentire supply chain from process to product. minal Expansion Projects 7 and 8, the construction of the Thai Oil Siracha Building (TSB) and other existing projects in In 2019, Thaioil Group focused our efforts in managing three more than 1,547 rai have likewise required additional control aspects – environmental, social, and governance, or ESG, measures, and this leads to the establishment of standards aspects – to drive the organization forward under the “Partner to guide efficient production; reduction of water pollution, for Life” strategy, which ensures transparent business growth, waste generated, air pollution, and greenhouse gas equitable benefits for all stakeholders, while simultaneously emissions; and efficient resource use with circular economy and sustainably maintaining environmental stewardship and initiatives and the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) strategy. community satisfaction. Thaioil has also made additional improvements and Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 039 developments to the environmental standard specification, Abnormal Operating Conditions: in order to use it as a framework to guide our construction activities. The framework covers regulations, laws, best Thaioil Group has established the Environmental and practices, and stakeholder views and is governed by Community Relation Committee (ECRC), where we can criteria related to the environment. This is to ensure that collaborate with public agencies, academic institutions, Thaioil would respond to the regulations and expectations and communities surrounding the operational areas to think, of all stakeholder groups. act, correct, learn, and develop together. This may range from proactively planning initiatives to resolving issues as a team Furthermore, we manage our business partners through during abnormal operating conditions. Additionally, the team the Supplier and Contractor Program, which stipulates monitors conditions along 24 hours and 7 days. The ECRC environmental and social guidelines for suppliers and also plans activities and communication platforms to track contractors that promote compliance with Thaioil Group and monitor environmental performance for compliance with requirements. Our procurement function has developed a rules, regulations, and targets. This ensures that surrounding framework and guidelines for business partners to ensure communities will receive minimum impacts. To that end, environmental management in the supply chain. In 2019, Thaioil the ECRC convenes monthly to evaluate concerns and Group has also collected and reported environmental costs, suggestions submitted by communities in order to improve revenues, and investments (Environmental Management performance, and conduct annual community perception Accounting: EMA), and has continuously participated in the surveys. CSR-DIW program, to demonstrate clear environmental and social commitments. Additionally, we have the Energy and Environmental Emergency Conditions: Loss Committee that is tasked with planning, controlling and Thaioil Group manages significant aspects namely, oil monitoring production performance, to ultimately control and and chemical spills through determining preventative reduce energy consumption, which affects our performance measures to minimize environmental impacts, and establishing regarding greenhouse gas emissions, pollution, and resource emergency and restoration plans. We also annually conduct use efficiency. oil spill and chemical spill cleanup exercises. This allows Additionally, Thaioil Group has environmental quality Thaioil to manage emergencies efficiently and minimize loss monitoring procedures and assessment processes that of assets and impacts to communities and the environment. comply with the ISO 14001:2015 standards for environmental Our management approach is efficient and consists of three management system frameworks. We take this responsibility main factors as follows: very seriously and continuously look for improvement 1. Prevention of Environmental Impact opportunities through seeking an external verifier – the Thai Industrial Standards Institute (TISI) – to conduct monitoring 1.1 We are committed to only using ships that pass the safety and assessment. Information related to our environmental standard assessment of the PTT Group Ship Vetting System. To management reported in our annual sustainability reports, that end, the captains of Thaioil Group and PTT Group assess including environmental management and performance the safety documents of every ship. Documents assessed highlights, is also audited and assured in accordance with include documents from the Ship Inspection Report Program the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. Furthermore, we (SIRE), information shared from international organizations, and have continuously developed our internal data collection and information of ships serving PTT Group. We review information verification system to reduce errors in information sharing and gathered and assess ship quality to ensure that Thaioil Group increase convenience in data verification. Our Compliance operates marine transportation of petroleum in accordance with Unit is tasked with driving compliance assessment and international safety standards. developing tools or systems to be applied in increasing work efficiency. As a result, Thaioil Group‘s environment 1.2 Regular maintenance of ports, buoys, and equipment used management of the current production processes and for oil transfer such as oil pipelines, safety joints, and ship ropes various expansion projects have been complied with all is conducted by Thaioil engineers. related laws and regulations. 040 QSHE Management 1.3 Conduct random Tanker Safety Audits, where the port 3. Personnel Development manager sends responsible persons to both domestic and foreign ships at Thaioil ports to conduct the audit. Any Thaioil and Subsidiaries heavily prioritize on personnel detected defects will be notified to the respective ship development programs to ensure that our employees are ready captain and manager for further correction actions to prevent to execute our oil spill and chemical spill response plans. In the issues from repeating again. 2019, we delegated our employees to the following training sessions and seminars, located both in Thailand and overseas: 1.4 Study of resource map and coastal land use in the Eastern Gulf of Thailand, where the study have been carried out to 3.1 Chemical Spill Management Training: We invited experts understand of the level of potential impacts on the resource’s from the CEDRE Institute in France to train different employees vulnerability against oil pollution around this sensitive area. involved in the Company emergency plan to ensure that employees are aware of and understand action measures and 1.5 We have developed a database system and dashboard have increased capability in responding to marine chemical of spatial impact assessment results to manage the coastal spills. environment. The system can forecast oil movement in the event of an oil spill, display the direction of water currents, 3.2 Loading Master Course Training: The course was organized and among other aspects. during the Quarter 4 of 2019 for Company employees and contractors in the oil loading department. It served to develop 1.6 Port Division employees shall regularly attend meetings the knowledge and capabilities of new employees who will and participate in activities with the IESG-Marine Safety become loading masters, as well as review and update current to exchange knowledge on marine safety, and align their employees’ knowledge. practices with international standards. 3.3 Marine Oil Pollution Prevention and Control Exercise: Thaioil 2. Mitigation partnered with the Center for Coordinating Efforts to Secure National Marine Interests in Area 1 (SR.CN 1) to organize this Thaioil’s highest aspiration is to conduct our operations and exercise on 13-14 February 2019. The exercise was participated maintenance of equipment, including equipment in the ocean by the First Naval Area Command, the Marine Department, such as oil pipelines, buoys, safety equipment, marine break Thaioil Public Company Limited, PTT Public Company Limited, away coupling (MBC) system, without causing oil or chemical and Esso (Thailand) Public Company Limited, with resulting spills. However, if an unforeseen incident occurs, Thaioil has good performance. the following management measures: 1. The emergency response plan outlines measures for oil or chemical spill containment and cleanup of all residue. The plan For 2020, Thaioil Group has the following activities planned is regularly reviewed and updated according to the changing as follows: environment and newly developed technologies. We also organize annual oil spill and chemical spill exercises for 1. Conduct an Internal audit of marine oil and chemical spill operators on duty (TOP Group Duty), as outlined in the corporate management with engagement of relevant functions such emergency plan. The exercises ensure that all operators on as the Occupational Health and Safety function, Environment duty understand their roles and can act in accordance with the function, Quality function, and Government Relations emergency plan with accuracy, speed, and efficiency. function under the “Oil and Chemical Spill Health Check” Project to identify key findings to improve and strengthen the 2. Ensure readiness of all oil removal equipment, both within company’s plans and activities, and coordinate with other Thaioil’s equipment warehouse and on vessels, must be readily relevant functions further; available at all times in cases of unforeseen incidents. We also regularly organize equipment maintenance, such as starting 2. Oil spill cleanup exercise organized with the Oil Industry the engines and inspecting the spinning systems and hydraulic Environmental Safety Group Association in Sriracha (IESGoil, on a monthly basis. The Occupational Health & Safety and SASC), which includes Thaioil Public Company Limited, Quality teams also conduct random audits to ensure that the PTT Public Company Limited, and Esso (Thailand) Public equipment is always ready to use at all the time. Company Limited. In 2020, Esso will be the appointed host, with the exercise simulating an incident wherein a marine oil spill happens in Esso, but spill containment will not successful Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 041 and Esso has to request additional support from Thaioil and PTT. The objective of this exercise is to test communication plans, coordination between companies, and the first line support promptness and ability to control the situation as fast Performance as possible and prevent it from escalating. Additionally, we also practiced oil spill equipment mobilization to work areas and collaboration in marine oil spill cleanup; and 3. Plans to send employees to the Regional Industry Social and Technical Advisory Group (RITAG) meeting in Vietnam to Relationship Capital build employee capabilities in oil spill cleanup. The meeting will be held during October 2020. Member countries include Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Vietnam, China, Performance No major non-compliance with South Korea, and Japan. The objective of this training is to ISO 14001:2015 standard since strengthen the network in knowledge sharing on managing 100% the introduction of the ISO 14001 oil spill, build employee capabilities, and sharing ofnew standard in 2005 technologies in oil spill cleanup. The Company will benefit from bringing this knowledge to improve upon the company’s Social and plan to be more robust and efficient. Relationship Capital compliance with environmental laws 100% and regulations confirmed through environmental quality monitoring No major non-compliance with ISO 14001:2015 standard since Targets: 100% the introduction of the ISO 14001 compliance standard in 2005with all related 100% laws and regulations Zero case of significant oil and chemical spills compliance with environmental laws Zero non-compliance with laws 100% and regulationswith compliance environmental confirmed governance excellence through environmental quality monitoring of petroleum and regulations 100% and petrochemical oil refineries Remarks: TOP, TLB, TPX, LABIX Compliance with environmental governance excellence of petroleum compliance with all related and petrochemical refineries 100% laws and regulations Natural capital compliance with environmental governance excellence of petroleum 100% 0 case and of petrochemical significant oil and Remarks: TOP, chemical spills since 2005 TLB, oil refineries TPX, LABIX Remark: Significant Natural spills are defined as oil capital and chemical spills that leak more than 1 barrel into the ocean or more than 100 barrels on land. 0 case of significant oil and chemical spills since 2005 042 Human Rights Commitment Human Rights To ensure that CFP construction could be commissioned on time for further enhancing national energy security, Thaioil and Subsidiaries remain committed to promoting good human Challenges, Risks and Impacts rights practices throughout our value chain. We continue to operate as Since the Universal Declaration on Human Rights established internationally mandated by our Human Rights Policy agreed ideals on expected treatment of all individuals, the global community has and Supplier Code of Conduct. All been witnessing various developments in the area of human rights over the past our human rights-related policies and procedures have been aligned with 70 years. Mechanisms and tools, including those that allow proper assessment the UN Guiding Principles on Business of human rights risks as well as those that promote monitoring to shed light on and Human Rights, or the UNGP, which any violation that may occur, have been created and standardized to advance guide us towards the protection of human rights. Nonetheless, despite unceasing efforts on the part of human rights the human rights of our employees, advocates, we continue to see cases of serious human rights violations, such as business partners (i.e. business partners, the violations of the rights to privacy, family, food and shelter, equality before the subcontractors, customers), and local law, and freedom of expression. To respond to this issue, both the private and communities, as well as the human the public sectors have had to step up their mode of operation to rise up to the rights related to resource use (i.e. soil, challenge. It is also undeniable that the successful protection of human rights land, forest, forestry products, fishery will not be realized without strong international partnerships and unwavering resources, and unpolluted environments). commitments from the UN member states, including, of course, Thailand as well. We uphold our commitment to ensure To that end, the Thai government has declared the 4th National Action Plans on that our treatment of all stakeholders throughout our value chain meet and go Business and Human rights as a national agenda in 2017. above and beyond of expected human This underlying context places a demand on Thaioil and Subsidiaries to take rights standards, such that Thaioil may responsibility with regards to our human rights performance. Furthermore, with be looked to as a leading international our upcoming Clean Fuel Project (CFP), we are confronted with the challenge practice on sustainability management. of managing a large-scale investment project that will rely on many workers to carry on labour intensive tasks and transportation of instrument and machine for See more information construction for a period of approximately 4-5 years. Thus, our duty to protect related to Thaioil Group’s human rights policy and promote human rights increases in scope and severity. on website. Management Approach Thaioil’s Human Rights Impact Assessment and Management Thaioil and Subsidiaries have developed a process to assess human rights risks throughout our value chain based on human rights impact assessment and management guidelines of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the UN Guiding Principles, and our internal risk management standards. The Human Rights Impact Assessment and Management (HRIAM) counts as one of our 7 steps in conducting the human rights due diligence, namely: Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 043 01 02 03 Integrating human Engaging with Training employees on rights into new stakeholders on wide human rights and developing and existing range of human rights issues their capacity on human rights Human Rights Impact policies Human Rights Due Diligence Process Assessments (HRIAs) methodology and process 01 02 03 07 06 05 04 Integrating human Engaging with Training employees on Monitoring andnew rights into Coordinating human rightson wide Assessing stakeholders human human rights and developing Evaluating risk reporting on and existing rangeThaioil of humanGroup activities throughout rights issues rights impactoninhuman rights assessments their capacity Human Rights Impact policies its performance Human Rights Working Group high risk operations across its activities Assessments (HRIAs) (HRIAM process) methodology and process 07 06 05 04 Monitoring and Coordinating human rights Assessing human Evaluating risk reporting on activities throughout Thaioil Group rights impact in assessments its performance Human Rights Working Group high risk operations across its activities (HRIAM process) Human Rights Risk Assessment In 2019, Thaioil conducted human rights risks assessment, risks from business partners that may lead to non-compliance which covered 100% of all business activities in our value chain, issues, occupational health and safety, business disruption including both the activities that are part of our core business, risks and reputational damage. This approach is in-line with as well as the activities related to our other businesses, and joint the Thaioil Group Supplier Code of Conduct: SCoC. ventures; including, Thai Oil Public Company Limited, Thaioil Energy Service Company Limited, Thai Paraxylene Company Thaioil utilize the 7 step Human Rights Impact Assessment Limited, Thai Lube Base Public Company Limited, Thaioil and Management (HRIAM) in the assessment of human right Solvent Company Limited, TOP Solvent Company Limited, risks as follows: Thaioil Power Company Limited, TOP SPP Company Limited, LABIX Company Limited and Thaioil Treasury Center Company Huma n Limited. The assessment was conducted by applying our Right Due e Di l i gence Hu enterprise risk management framework to assess and nc g Huma n As I determine the level of human rights risks. We also refer to Pe r Right Due i s n R c t t ight iligmeintce CoDm Traform e Hu the human rights risk assessment criteria on likelihood and nc g mamap smmaennaRpct ent As I ght severity. These salient human right issues have been reviewed cki a s Pe r n C ommi t comprehensively in terms of impacts towards both internal Traform AN D e s m s m Cont r ol cki n a s e nicate PL O mm u m u n i c a t e and external stakeholders, such as our employees, business AN D & Tra ication Cont rol C o C om PL O partners, customers, and communities, including women, S olutio n Rem edy ce Com children, migrant workers, disabled people, elderly, patients Rem edy ce & G r i e v aonn s AC T C KC K E C HH E ining C&ommu n i c a ti o n S oluti & Grievan s T r am AC and transgender with a view to assessing and considering the T C i nui nng materiality of these salient issues. C oCmo mp lpyl y s Furthermore, Thaioil conducted risk assessments on 100% I hht st tn t A nm pAanI mac pt a c t n RRiiggssmme ne of our Tier 1 suppliers, as one of our stakeholder groups. The a ly s lysis is HRHuiusmkmAaAss sseess a Ris k assessment evaluates risks associated with environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, with the aim of avoiding 044 Human Rights In 2019, Thaioil’s Human Rights Risk Assessment results Performance show that there are 4 main human rights issues as follows: 01 02 03 04 Waste, Water, Health and Labour Practices and Normal traffic and Safety, Security, Safety Management Working conditions construction Traffic Environment, Society (business partners, (business partners, (Safety, Security, and Community subcontractors, and subcontractors, and Environment, Society (Migrant Workers) contract workers) contract workers) and community) From the human rights risk assessment conducted in 2019, there were salient human rights issues with high level of residual risks in some activities of core business units. Yet, we found that all business units with high human rights risks have mitigation measures in place to control 100% of all risks. The assessment results have been approved by the Thaioil value chain superior and have been discussed by the working group overseeing the implementation of the human rights policy. Salient human rights issues in 2019 100% of business units covered in the human rights risk assessments Labour Practices and working conditions Business partners and subcontractors 100% of supplier companies covered in the human rights risk assessments Safety, Security, Environment, Society and community 100% of new suppliers completed an electronic Migrant workers self-assessment of environmental, social, and governance issues. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 045 Good Labour Practices (Labour Rights) Thaioil and Subsidiaries respect the human rights of our practices of the destination where they intend to visit, do not employees and other stakeholders through refraining from violate regulations, cultures, and traditions of that country. discrimination on the basis of personal opinions, nationality, race, colour, religion, sex, gender, age, disability, or any As one of the management approaches to achieve one of our other status that is their human right to hold. We apply material sustainability issues employee retention we annually human rights principles that guarantee fair treatment to all review the compensation and remuneration schemes for stakeholders in all our business activities, and are committed employees to ensure that they are competitive with peers and to eliminate unfair practices, discrimination, threats, and any leading Thai companies. We also continue to ensure that we form of human rights violation. support our employees in enjoying their freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 2019, Thaioil and the Thai Oil Refin1. All Thaioil employees from every level and function must ery Workers’ Union participated in collective bargaining based have a comprehensive understanding of the regulations on a bilateral system that builds on good labour relations. We related to their line of work and responsibilities. They did not need a third party mediator to mediate any dispute, and must strictly comply with these regulations, and seek the were able to reach an agreement regarding working conditions. consultation of the Legal Department if they have any questions or concerns. Employees should comply with regulations based on accurate understanding rather than 25.35% 38.32% personal interpretations. 25.35% Total female employees Total female 38.32% Total female employees in Management positions Total female employees in 2. Thaioil and Subsidiaries have compiled and categorized employees Management positions regulations and regulatory requirements of public agencies for employees to study and understand, and also have 42.18% 36.36% organized training sessions on related regulations for employees. 42.18% Total female employees in Junior Management positions Total female employees in 36.36% Total female employees in Top Management positions Total female employees in Junior Management positions Top Management positions 3. Thaioil and Subsidiaries must strictly operate according to international human rights principles, increase employee 31.37% 73.83% awareness and understanding towards human rights principles such that they may apply these principles in 31.37% Female management in revenue-generating Female management in 73.83% Thaioil employees who are members of the Thaioil Thaioil functions Refiningemployees Union who are their daily routine duties and responsibilities, and must revenue-generating members of the Thaioil not support any activity that may violate human rights. functions Refining Union 100% Executives and employees who received human 4. If employees have to work in foreign countries, they should study the regulations, cultures, and traditions of the country of destination before traveling to ensure that the products, 100% rights training in order to understand the policy Executives and the company’s rights and employees training prevent human rights violations in thethe in order to who rules and received human regulations, understand to policy workplace and the and company’s prevent rules and involvement regulations, in violations to of business product samples, equipment, and documents that they may partnershuman prevent rightschain in the value violations in the workplace and prevent involvement in violations of business bring with them, as well as the objective of the trip and the partners in the value chain Good Community Practice (Community rights) Thaioil gives importance to working with communities around the operation sites, by using the Principle of Operation (3 Synchronizations), consists of Thaioil Group representatives, representatives of all 10 community leaders around the refinery, and government agencies such as Laem Chabang district, Laem Chabang Hospital, and educational institutions. According to the 5-together conceptual framework, namely think-together, act-together, correct-together, learn-together, and develop-together for the community to participate in their own community development to become a strong self-reliant community. It is also a channel to communicate progress of construction project expansion, and listen to opinions from the community, as one of our salient stakeholder groups, to make appropriate adjustments. In addition, Thaioil gives importance to conducting an environmental impact assessment in every key project, and ensures that mitigation plans are available, as well as considers opinions of communities as key stakeholders. In 2019, all key projects have been subjected to public hearing, as required by the law. 046 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ grievance mechanisms have been For communities, Thaioil has a center to directly receive designed to receive and manage grievances from all notifications and complaints, with integration of relevant stakeholders throughout our value chain, including any internal business functions under the operating procedure, concern our business partners may have. It is our hope that when the complaint arises regarding to occupational health & through transparently accepting and responding to submitted safety and environment. This enables the implementation of risk grievances and concerns, we may appropriately handle conflicts prevention and mitigation measures to resolve the issues at the and secure our social license to operate, as well as strengthen relations with our business partners. root causes as a consequence of the changing contexts. Through the utilization of Voice of Stakeholder (VOS) management Stakeholders may access grievance mechanisms and submit system to manage complaints from stakeholders, as a primary grievances or concerns by explicitly noting the confidentiality of tool of engagement, allows for responsive and efficient compliant the document(s) and addressing the document(s) to the Chairman handling arising from normal operating conditions and of the Board, Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee, expansion projects. Progress of the resolution will be regularly Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chief Executive Officer and communicated to the community. Ultimately, understanding President, Secretary, or to cgcoordinate@thaioilgroup.com. and reducing community concerns are of utmost importance Additionally Thaioil has direct complaint channels classified for Thaioil to manage, maintain, and protect the rights of all for different groups of stakeholders. These channels enable stakeholders. Thaioil to monitor and collect feedback. For suppliers, another channel is available to receive complaints, and questions from website or email at srm@thaioilgroup.com. Performance 0 case Complaints about human rights violation from employees in 2019 1 Complaints regarding impact on community in 2019 However the complaint was thoroughly reviewed and investigated in accordance 0 with the company’s complaint-making process. The correction action was made, additional protective measures were Complaints about human introduced, and the complainant was notified rights violation from case business partners in 2019 case Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 047 048 Climate Change Risk Climate Commitment Change Risk Thaioil Group is committed to managing climate change in alignment with the company’s Environmental Master Plan and have taken actions ranging from establishing policies on quality, security, occupational health and safety, and environment (QSHE) and corporate social Challenges, Risks, and Impacts responsibility (CSR), to assessing climate With the ratification of the Paris Agreement in 2016, Thailand confirmed its risks through enterprise risk management commitment to maintain global temperature increase under two degrees Celsius. processes. The short-term and long-term strategic plans were developed to support Since then, the Thai government has set a target of 20-25% greenhouse gas our business excellence. emissions reduction from baseline year 2015 by the year 2030, and is currently in the process of drafting the National Climate Change Act, or the Global Warming Furthermore, we have prepared for Act, which will come into effect in the future. The new legislation will cover business transformation driven by economic mechanisms to incentivize greenhouse gas reduction in the private climate change impacts. For example, sector, as well as measures to promote change in citizens’ behavior and we continue to monitor government lifestyles and to include citizens in the climate change solutions. These measures policies and regulations, manage water will range from developing and promoting public transportation to advance the consumption to prevent potential impacts Thailand Integrated Energy Blueprint in the long-term. from water scarcity, support research and development initiatives, and implement Climate change has become a priority issue of increasing interest to our projects that efficiently increase energy stakeholders. We have witnessed this trend from movements in the civil society efficiency and reduce oil loss. We have sector, investors, and other agencies that have pushed for climate action, also joined the Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER). In illustrated by initiatives such as the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBT) and the near future, we will operate the Clean the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These initiatives Fuel Project with best-in-class technologies are evidence of expectations of the oil and gas sector in managing business and support research initiatives to activities to confront developments in technology that drive society towards a reduce impacts to the environment and low carbon society, such as energy conservation technology and alternative communities. For long-term growth, Thaioil energy technology. Group has determined a strategic direction towards investing to find new business All of the aforementioned risks, with the implicated regulatory risks from new alternatives. The Seed the Option strategy policies, rules, regulations, and requirements, and the physical risks in managing will lead us in increasing investments in water consumption for production processes and other expansion projects, along innovation and green businesses in the with changes in technology, will affect Thaioil’s business transition. future. Management Approach and Performance Target Governance and Oversight (Developed based on business extended plan 2018, covering core business and investment Thaioil Group regularly reviews organizational strategy in the context of climate in Clean Fuel Project) change every year under the leadership of the Board of Directors, and assesses • Reduce 4% of greenhouse gas from business potential impacts to our business through a risk management process. We also as usual scenario in baseline year 2017 by 2022 track corporate key performance indicators related to climate change. The energy • Reduce 6% of greenhouse gas from business intensity index (EII) in particular is used to evaluate performance of executives as usual scenario in baseline year 2023 by 2030 and employees, and performance is reported to the Board. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 049 Risk Identification and Assessment Thaioil Group uses a risk-based approach to assess climate change impacts on business operations. The assessment covers regulatory risks, physical risks, and transition risks. Risk Management 01 Regulatory risks that may impose impacts on current operations Furthermore, in 2019, Thaioil group closely monitors development and future investments include the drafting of the National Climate in greenhouse gas reporting policies and government economic Change Act, or Global Warming Act, which will come into effect incentives through studying and participating in different in the future, greenhouse gas reporting requirements, private government projects that will meet societal expectations. The sector responsibilities in supporting the achievement of national example of these projects include as follows: greenhouse gas reduction targets (nationally determined contributions: NDCs), future use of economic mechanisms such Using information gathered from the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) as carbon taxes and emissions trading, and improvements in as basis for registering all products produced in the Thaioil refinery public transportation. in the Product Carbon Footprint in order to ensure that information regarding product greenhouse gas emissions is readily available Thaioil Group has established a strategy to control and mitigate for consumers to support their decision-making process; our greenhouse gas emissions to achieve shortand long-term targets, in efforts to preserve the environment and support the TOP SPP Company Limited had participated in the Thailand government’s actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER) organized by In 2012, we established the Energy and Loss Committee, a the Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public committee comprised of representatives from operations and Organization); management, to assess risks and develop action plans to Continuously participating in the Low Emission Supporting control production and operations, and systematically monitor Scheme (LESS) to support organizational and national efforts to performance. reduce greenhouse gas emissions through initiatives that increase For the short-term strategy for 2019-2022, Thaioil Group has energy efficiency; and benchmarked our energy efficiency performance with other Implementing a renewable energy project which will be installed international companies as a gap analysis exercise to identify and ready to be used in 2020 at the Engineering Building opportunities to improve and appropriately plan for operating Center to support renewable energy consumption as a means of energy efficiency improvement projects (see more details on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating risks from 2019 projects in the “Operational Eco-Efficiency” chapter). new regulations in the future. We have also controlled fuel consumption in the production process, with the aim to increase the share of consumption from Implementing TOP CE project which is initiated by Thaioil Group fuels with lower greenhouse gas emissions compared to fuels to drive Circular Economy to support the efficiency of resource with higher greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, Thaioil is utilization and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. currently in the process of considering use of carbon pricing in our investment decision. 02 Physical risks that may have effects on water sourcing for current production process and for investing in Clean Fuel Project For the long-term strategy, Thaioil Group is preparing for the Clean in the future. Fuel Project (CFP) by selecting highly efficient technologies and ceasing production in old production units. This will allow Thaioil Group has established a holistic water management system us to achieve significant increases in energy efficiency in our oil to minimize potential risks that may affect our production process refinery plants. Additionally, the CFP contributes to greenhouse and our stakeholders, including the identification of methods to gas emission reductions, as it does not depend on fuel oils, source water during periods with water shortage risks. Our area which has high greenhouse gas emissions in the production of production is located in eastern Thailand, where data from the processes, and can process fuel oil into products with higher Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas developed by the Water Resource values, in effect directly reducing greenhouse gas emissions Institute suggests that drought risk is moderate. Nonetheless, from end consumption. Thaioil Group has continued our proactive management approach with the PTT Group Water Committee of the eastern 050 Climate Change Risk region, and the Water War Room of the East, to assess the alternative energy in replacement of oil, leading to several water scarcity, forecast rainfall and water demand, or water car-manufacturing companies in Europe setting targets to availability, and develop preventive measures and responsive reduce or cease manufacturing internal combustion engines measures in case of a drought crisis. We also have business vehicles. In the past year, under the national plan to develop continuity plans management for crisis management. infrastructure to support electric vehicles in Thailand (EV Plan), the government has supported pilot plants in producing Furthermore, our water management system has been lithium-ion and lithium-sulfur batteries (500 packs per day strengthened with priority given to communities. During capacity). This collaboration with the private sector will produce droughts, the authorities will first supply water to surrounding batteries that can be tested in both land and water vehicles. communities. Then, only aftertheir needs for daily consumption The government promises benefits in the form of corporate and agriculture activities are satisfied, the authorities will supply income tax cut to private sector parties who invest in this water to Thaioil Group. To mitigate such a situation, Thaioil Group initiative. has installed a total of six desalination units that are readily available to operate to reduce our freshwater consumption Meanwhile, a number of public transportation groups have and support our water demand. In 2019, Thaioil Group has commenced pilot projects to shift towards the electric system. implemented a “Saving Water through Water Crisis 2020” With these factors in action, the oil industry may not be initiativeto build an awareness that will encourage for water able to adapt accordingly and may face decline in income conservation in the upcoming drought crisis. In addition, and growth rates in the long term. Thus, Thaioil Group has we have conducted additional research projects regarding determined a plan to make the necessary adjustments in initiatives to reduce water scarcity risks (see further information gasoline production to ensure that future production will in the water management section in the “Operational appropriately respond to forecasted demand reduction. We Eco-Efficiency” chapter), have also made improvement plans regarding production efficiency through an investment strategy that prioritizes Moreover, we have implemented initiatives to support the Clean diesel and aviation fuels, which will be realized through the CFP. Fuel Project (CFP) in the future, and prepared readiness for potential water shortage. Examples include construction of Additionally, we have increased the share of investments the new reservoir now completed and water pipeline from in businesses that are not dependent on oil prices, and NongKor Reservoir at Chonburi Province and the NongPla Lai embarked on portfolio restructuring to strengthen our Reservoir at Rayong Province. The pipeline construction has competitive ability. To accomplish this portfolio restructuring, been undertaken in collaboration with the water distribution we are currently seeking new investment opportunities, company, and is currently in process. especially for specialty products, implementing the New S-Curve Project, as well as studying investment opportunities 03 Transition risks stemming from fast advancements in in startup businesses, which we will may pursue through technology that will facilitate replacement of oil consumption venture capital investment. We aim to invest in developing with alternative energy may affect business operations. It can technology that increase operational efficiency, businesses be seen that presently, the development and improvement of and technologies that are environmentally-friendly and alternative energy technology has speedily driven oil substitutes human-oriented, and businesses and technology that will in various types and forms, such as electronic vehicles and replace hydrocarbons, to ultimately secure revenue growth hydrogen fuels. Governments in several countries have passed rates and meet Thaioil Group targets. different rules and regulations that together promote use of Direct Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction (Scope 1) In 2019,Thaioil Group reduced greenhouse gas emissions through investing 28 million THB in 15 projects to increase energy efficiency. Our initiatives resulted in a total reduction of 84,265 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. We have also continued studying the environmental impacts of refinery’s key products, including conducting life cycle assessment (LCA) of them. In this study, we have now reached the last stage of data verification. The information gathered will then serve as a carbon footprint database for our products. In the future, we aim to expand the scope of study to cover all companies within Thaioil Group, and apply this information in coming up with plan for effective greenhouse gas reduction. Additionally, we have studied carbon pricing to complement our investment decisions and ensure our readiness to participate in carbon credit trading in the future. Thaioil Group has also implemented renewable energy projects and participated in greenhouse gas reduction activities, as briefly noted above, to support greenhouse gas reduction within Thaioil Group and for national greenhouse gas reduction targets, such as: Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 051 The Solar Rooftop for Sustainability Project at the Engineering Building Center to promote renewable energy consumption and greenhouse gas reduction, which expect to be operated by 2020; Performance The Low Emission Supporting Scheme (LESS) Project, where we invested in energy conservation activities that improve energy Direct greenhouse gas emissions efficiency in Thaioil Group through a total of 7 energy efficiency projects that together reduced 33,121 tons of carbon dioxide 3.65 3.40 3.49 3.31 equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions; and Target The Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER) < 3.59 organized by the Thailand Greenhouse Management Organization (Public Organization), where we took part with the 239-MW Combined Cycle Co-Generation Power Plant at Sriracha District, Chonburi Province of TOP SPP Company 0.25 0.23 0.23 Limited, which passed the assessment process and obtained 0.22 certified carbon credits for the reduction of over 327,884 tons of carbon dioxide equivalents of greenhouse gas reduction, and supports the transition to a low carbon society in the future. 2559 2560 2561 2562 TOP CE project which is initiated by Thaioil Group to drive Circular Million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent Economy to support the efficiency of resource utilization and Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all life cycle of products. per ton throughput Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction (Scopes 2 and 3) Thaioil Group does not have any indirect greenhouse gas Moreover, Thaioil Group has enforced projects to reduce indirect emissions (Scope 2) resulting from generation of electricity or greenhouse gas emissions through Digital Transformation steam purchased externally, as none of the production units programs, such as our Digital Workplace, Finance Transform, in Sriracha District, Chonburi Province depend on external and Predictive Maintenance programs, to increase machinery energy sources. efficiency and reduce electricity and paper consumption. We have also studied Green Procurement measures. In 2019, we As for other forms of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope completed our study of the Pollution Control Department’s 3), the Energy and Loss Committee (E&L Committee) assesses criteria for determining environmentally-friendly products and risks, establishes action plans, and manages and monitors services. production and operations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from indirect sources. Examples of initiatives led by the E&L In the long term, the CFP, which uses advanced technologies, Committee include an initiative to reduce crude oil loss during will also increase the share of diesel and aviation fuels produced, transportation of crude vessel to refinery (ocean loss), and an in effect replacing the production of fuel oil, which is lower in initiative to develop a network of oil pipelines. Both initiatives value and higher in greenhouse gas emissions. We then expect reduce greenhouse gas emissions generated from production to see reduction in our indirect greenhouse gas emissions from and transportation through vehicles and vessels, respectively. end-use consumption in the near future. Additionally, there are controls in place for greenhouse gas Last but not least, we have implemented projects for communiemissions from landfill disposal. We have set a target to achieve ties and the environment to promote sustainable management zero waste to landfills by 2020. The Company also supports of environmental resources and to drive towards a low carbon employees in using company vehicles in getting to work and society way of living. An example is our Renewable Energy other locations within Thaioil Group. Thaioil has standards to Project, a project under the “Sustainable Energy for Health Care” maintain efficiency in business travel, as implemented through theme where we installed 40-50 MW solar PV rooftop systems our car rental contracts, our carpool program, and employee for Thanyarak Hosptial and Koh Si Chang Hospital. service vans. We also encourage employees to use bicycles for travelling into the production plant and to conduct meetings through video calls instead of commuting to the meeting. 052 Fight Against Corruption Fight Against Corruption Challenges, Risks, and Impacts Thai Oil Public Company Limited is the largest petroleum refinery operator in Thailand. We have been operating for over 58 years with a commitment to conduct business with due consideration towards and in alignment with environmental, social, and governance (ESG) principles; which underpin by a concrete foundation of honesty, integrity, transparency, clarity, and a strong spirit of anti-corruption. To secure the confidence, trust, and acceptance from all of our stakeholder groups, we believe that this concrete foundation is vital to fulfilling our sustainable development strategies of Strengthen the Core, Value Chain Enhancement, and Seed the Options, and creating long-term returns for all stakeholder groups. Thaioil recognizes that corruption is a major obstacle for all types of organizations in implementing sustainable development and managing business, economic, and social aspects. Corruption can occur anywhere and at any time, and can take different forms and create varying levels of impact. To manage this challenge, our Board of Directors and executives have placed heavy emphasis on anti-corruption management, and are committed to managing an Anti-Corruption Policy to address the issue. We strictly enforce this Anti-Corruption Policy, and continuously review and evaluate the adequacy of our working processes and practices in order to create an organizational culture of transparency, fairness, code of conduct compliance, and anti-corruption. We take these actions to build stakeholder confidence, strengthen our capacity to respond with short-term and long-term challenges and changing contexts, and to ensure that Thaioil can grow sustainably. Commitment Thaioil is committed to operating our business activities with fairness, integrity, transparency, and accountability. We aim to secure and maintain the confidence of our investors and all other stakeholders while increasing business competitiveness and pursuing sustainable development through grounding The Board, the management, and our activities under the principles of good corporate governance and ethical employees must not corrupt nor business conduct. Thaioil has referred to the internationally accepted OECD (Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development) Principles of accept corruption of all forms Corporate Governance and SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) in any circumstances, covering and SET (Stock Exchange of Thailand) guidelines to guide our practices. the business of the Company in Thaioil’s Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual was published every country and in every relevant and distributed to Directors, executives, and all employees for their ease of accessing, understanding, and implementing all principles in their daily duagency. The Company defines ties and responsibilities. Additionally, Thaioil has also publically disclosed guidelines, operating measures, and the Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual on our website in roles and duties of responsible order to allow any interested person to study and understand our practices. persons, as well as regularly Thaioil’s Board of Directors and executives recognize the importance of monitoring and reviewing the securing good corporate governance and fighting against corruption, which implementation of the anti-corruption may obstruct the company’s ability to achieve its corporate objectives. To meet this imperative, they have established and disclosed Thaioil’s Anti-Corruption policy in compliance with changes Policy, alongside roles, responsibilities, guidelines action plans, and measures in businesses, rules, regulations, to fight against corruption, with a clearly declared requirement that and relevant laws. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 053 The Board of Directors and executives have also established guidelines to support anti-corruption measures and ethical business conduct, such as the Code of Conduct regarding conflicts of interest and the giving and acceptance of presents, assets, or other benefits listed in the Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual. This Manual also includes the Anti-Corruption Policy. With a strong commitment to operate our business activities with good corporate governance practices grounded in fairness, integrity, transparency, and accountability, Thaioil has developed a list of corporate values named POSITIVE for all our employees to apply in their daily duties and responsibilities. The “I” in POSITIVE stands for integrity, and represents our commitment to operate with honesty and fairness. We have also consulted best practices in Thailand and abroad to develop frameworks and mechanisms that can support good corporate governance practices in our operations and reflect the “REACT+E” principles of Thaioil governance. Details are shown below: R E A C T + E Responsibility Equitable Accountability Creation of Transparency Ethics Treatment Long Term Value Responsibility for Fair treatment of Accountability for one’s Corporate vision for Transparency in Ethically performing duties all stakeholders own decision-making long-term value conducting business, undertaking with due competence and acts, as well as creation openness to scrutiny, business and adequate those of others under and transparent operation, marked efficiency one’s auspices disclosure of corporate by a code of information to related conduct parties Thaioil is aware that neglecting or failing to fulfill our duties in internal magazines and emails, as well as participating in complying with laws, regulations, corporate values, corporate the production of a short drama (Integrity the Series) governance principles, and code of conduct will undermine our that communicates and develops the knowledge and stakeholders’ confidence in us, and may feed misunderstanding understanding of all employees. Ultimately, we aspire to about Thaioil’s corporate governance processes in the short foster a sense anti-corruption consciousness. Furthermore, and long term. For this reason, Thaioil values awareness Thaioil externally communicates important policies and raising both internally and externally to ensure that the Board, practices through organizing annual supplier conferences executives, and all employees will not neglect nor fail to comply and analyst meetings, both of which are channels to with policies and practices. This includes reporting conflicts transparently disclose information and create mutual of interest, completing e-learning courses on corporate understanding between Thaioil and all stakeholder groups. governance and business ethics, staying informed through Management Approach Assessing corruption risks Thaioil has set processes to assess corporate governance and meetings between the SEC (the agency that has established corruption risks, including risks of non-compliance with rules, the new corporate governance code ‘CG Code’) and other listed regulations, and corporate governance principles, and risks companies to keep track of their opinions. We then compare of complaint response that deviates from our whistleblower the information we gather with our existing practices to confirm procedures. The Company has assessed these risks, and their accuracy and completeness. We also hold planning developed a manual that is in accordance with corporate meetings with relevant functions to develop and improve our governance principles. The manual has been continuously management measures, and regularly present the performance updated and followed by our people. We also communicate from such actions to the Board for their consideration, relevant policies and practices, continuously monitor news feedback, and/or determination of risk prevention measures updates from regulatory agencies, and participate in joint needed to manage such issues. 054 Fight Against Corruption Promoting REACT+E Thaioil has prepared itself to respond to future regulatory changes, especially with regards principles and corporate to the fight against corruption. We recognize that to accomplish our goals, we must start POSITIVE values with ensuring internal readiness. The most important factor, we believe, is our people. We have thus organized various events to emphasize the REACT+E principles and the POSITIVE values, campaigning for Thaioil employees to work honestly in order to raise awareness and integrate business ethics into day-to-day operations through creating a corporate culture. Furthermore, Thaioil communicates to all new employees to adhere to and comply with the principles of corporate governance, business ethics, and anti-corruption from the first day of work. This is accomplished primarily through employee orientation, as well as communication and information on corporate governance and business ethics through articles in the Akanee journal (Internal communication journal) and email within the organization on a regular basis throughout the year. Collaborating with To demonstrate our determination to fight against corruption, Thaioil has joined the United anti-corruption network Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We have applied the 10 UNGC Principles that promote partners good governance regarding human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption in our working processes, and have used the principles to share anti-corruption knowledge, experiences, and practices. The Company has also become a member of the Partnership Against Corruption for Thailand (PACT Networking), an initiative led by the Thaipat Institute. Thaioil’s membership as a Certified Company of Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Active Coalition Against Corruption, or the CAC, has also been renewed this year. The CAC was established, and continues to be supported, by the government and the Office of the National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC). Our participation in this program has contributed to significant advancements in developing and improving our practices towards greater transparency and uplifting corporate governance standards, as well as reducing the regulatory risks of being prosecuted under the Anti-Corruption Act 2018. Furthermore, our membership and active participation in the CAC demonstrates our commitment to fight against corruption in various ways. Promoting an internal corporate In 2019, Thaioil joined other PTT Group companies in organizing the PTT Group CG Day governance culture and 2019 event under the theme “Digitalization: Challenge for the Governance”. The event enhancing an external served to promote and emphasize application of good corporate governance principles good corporate governance and within employees of all levels. It also reiterated the creation of a transparent corporate anti-corruption image culture, and fostered solidarity that will bring the organization towards sustainable growth. Activities organized during the past year reflected the Company’s determination in driving the organization in line with corporate governance principles that are changing with the times. We have introduced modern technology and information systems to enhance the work process for excellent management, and prepared for stable growth with our stakeholders sustainably. The event consisted of three main parts an exhibition of corporate governance of PTT Group, followed by a panel discussion of senior executives on the topic of “Corporate Governance in the Digital Age”, and then concluding with the game show “Mysterious Numbers to Overcome CG”. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 055 In addition, Thaioil organized activities to promote corporate governance principles for our stakeholders. These are shown below: 01 06 Thaioil produced and developed “Integrity Thaioil conducted sharing and exhibitions on the Series”, a series of short skits that corporate governance and anti-corruption at promote and create awareness and underthe annual Thaioil Group supplier seminar standing of ethics within the organization, event, the SRM Seminar 2019. resulting in continuous practices that become the corporate culture i.e. honesty, fairness, compliance, professionalism, motivation, and respect. 04 07 Thaioil developed the Supplier Code of Thaioil held exhibitions in seminars of Conduct to establish mutual understanding various departments to publicize our actions between Thaioil and Subsidiaries and in corporate governance and anti-corruption. our suppliers with regards to sustainably Some examples of events we attended are operating business activities. We used the 8th Integrity Award 2019, the Annual various means and activities, such as General Meeting 2019 of the Thai Institute of the PTT Group CG Day, to communicate Directors, and the CAC National Conference our corporate Governance Policy, Anti2019: Innovations in the Fight Against Corruption Policy, and other practices to our Corruption. 02 suppliers. Our aim is to ensure that all of our suppliers are able to refer to the principles Thaioil reviewed and included the Corporate and practices that we use to achieve good 08 Governance Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy, corporate governance that complies with and Whistle-Blowing Policy and Procedure our standards, and are ultimately able to Thaioil communicated all policies, including as part of the TOP Way of Conduct to drive apply the principles to improve their own the whistle-blowing procedure, whistlestandardization of performance in corporate performance. blower protection mechanisms, and governance throughout our businesses. mechanisms to monitor and investigate complaints that are in line with Thaioil’s Code 05 of Conduct, to all business stakeholders 03 through our website and various activities such as the quarterly analyst meetings Thaioil invited target suppliers to attend Thaioil communicated the No Gift Policy the CAC Executive Briefing for Small and to report performance and the quarterly to employees of all levels through internal Medium Enterprises (CAC SME Executive investor meeting in the “Opportunity Day” channels such as our website, the corporate Briefing: CAC SME) organized by the Thai event of the Stock Exchange of Thailand. e-newspaper, the internal magazine, and Institute of Directors (IOD) to strengthen other signs in our offices in Bangkok and the coalition against bribes in the private Sri Racha. We also organized and sent sector. The initiative shared experiences in out copies of “Request letter to avoid implementing certification projects for large giving gifts to executives and employees companies, and is also supported by the of Thaioil and Subsidiaries” to all our Center for International Private Enterprise suppliers, customers, financial institutions, (CIPE) and the Thai CG Fund. and other business partners. We believe that these efforts should help reduce behavior that is not in line with our anticorruption policy, and will promote the equitable treatment of all stakeholders. 056 Fight Against Corruption Whistleblower Procedure To increase the clarity and effectiveness of our whistle-blowing procedure, as well as follow the Stock Exchange of Thailand’s guidelines, Thaioil has developed a whistle-blowing process that outlines whistle-blower protection mechanism and mechanisms to monitor and investigate complaints that are in line with Thaioil’s Code of Conduct. The process is outlined below: Responsible Start Person File complain through Whistle-Blowing Channels (mail / e-mail / telephone / fax) Complainant Consider appropriate actions / forward to relevant party Recipient(1) Inform the complaint to corporate governance People Management Audit Committee / Corporate Company CEO function for registration Manager Internal Systems Audit Manager Secretary Investigate for validity Investigator Investigation Outcome violation or corruption? Yes No Consider disciplinary measures and/or punishment by law Report summary of complaint to the recipient and corporate governance function Report summary of complaint to the complainant Recipient(1) End Remark: (1) Chairman, Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Corporate Governance Committee, Chief Executive Officer and President, or Company Secretary Cases that count as non-compliance or illegal conduct and cases that pose risk of corruption are handed to the Corporate Internal Systems Audit Department for investigation. The Department is an independent body that reports directly to the Audit Committee, and is tasked with investigating and reporting all findings to ensure that stakeholders can remain confident in Thaioil’s ability to appropriately respond to all complaints. Investing, Responding, and Monitoring Complaints Thaioil closely monitors performance related to complaints in operations and the last case was related to the company’s order to improve the efficiency of our working processes and internal processes, all of which had been investigated in our complaint response. We have plans to increase employee accordance with our whistle-blowing process. It was found awareness of the whistleblowing procedure. that the complaints did not count as non-compliance or illegal conduct. There were no fines, non-monetary liability, nor In 2019, Thaioil received complaints through the company’s case of corruption. However, the observation noted from the whistle-blowing channels in a total of three cases, and divided investigation would be further integrated into the company’s into two separate complaints. The first two case were related to whistle-blowing process in order to strengthen the process the complaints from the impacts due to the company’s owned further. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 057 Preventing conflicts of interest Thaioil requires that all employees report conflicts of interest employees responded to the conflict of interest disclosure through the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Electronic System Performance forms. There were two reported cases of potential conflicts of every year. This platform serves as a channel for potential interest. However, after these cases were thoroughly reviewed conflicts of interest in the organization. In 2019, 100% of our and investigated, it was found that none of them posed conflicts of interest with Thaioil’s business activities. 0 0 of non-compliance with corporate governance principles, business ethics, and anti-corruption by Thaioil Group case employees case Human Capital Social and Operated without corruption cases Performance 100% Relationship Capital Operated without cases of of Thaioil Group employees complied with corporate governance principles, non-compliance with business ethics business ethics, and anti-corruption as specified in the TOP Way of Conduct Operated without acts that violate legal 0100% 0 of non-compliance with corporate requirements and regulations, and acts governance principles, business ethics, that may lead to corruption and anti-corruption by Thaioil Group case employees of strategic suppliers (critical suppliers) case 3 complied with our policies on corporate Human Capital governance, business ethics, Social and Operated without corruption cases from organizations with performance 100% anti-corruption, and other policies as Relationship Capital Operated without cases ofin 2019 of Thaioil inGroup specified employees the Supplier Codecomplied of Conduct on corporate governance with corporate governance principles, awards non-compliance with business ethics business ethics, and anti-corruption as specified in the TOP Way of Conduct Operated without acts that violate legal requirements and regulations, and acts that may lead to corruption 100% of strategic suppliers (critical suppliers) 3 complied with our policies on corporate governance, business ethics, anti-corruption, and other policies as from organizations with performance specified in the Supplier Code of Conduct on corporate governance in 2019 awards In 2019, Thaioil operated under the principles of good governance by creating awareness and understanding for Thaioil Group employees and business partners of different groups through various channels, including internal communication, Thaioil’s website, analyst meetings, and exhibitions in various events. Thaioil also has plans to continuously develop and promote awareness and understanding of various practices, as well as researching for new approaches and technologies to reach the largest group thoroughly and effectively. We have been recognized for our efforts, as reflected in the national and international awards we have received, including: International Recognitions National Recognitions Awarded by the Alpha Southeast Asia magazine: Awarded the Transparent Organization Award Scored 98 points, the highest score The Strongest Adherence to Corporate at the 8th NACC Integrity Awards 2019 of all listed companies, in the Corporate Governance (Country) Award organized by the Office of the National Governance Report of Thai Listed Company Anti-Corruption Commission 2019 (CGR) of the IOD, and maintained the “Excellent” level (Excellent: 90-100 points), the highest level, for the 11th consecutive year Value Enhancement To achieve long-term value chain enhancement amidst fluctuations in the petroleum and petrochemical businesses, Thaioil must be able to improve Operational Eco-efficiency production efficiency and increase capabilities in refining a variety of crude oil types, conserving energy to ensure operational eco-efficiency, and refining oil and produce chemical products that are up to standards in response to the changing demands of the customers and end consumers. Value Chain Enhancement also encapsulates the management of supply chain efficiency, Sustainable Procurement including capacity building, environmentally-friendly or green procurement, and extending towards new markets. This section of the report, therefore, includes material matters that are becoming increasingly significant to Thaioil’s ability to build competitive advantage in our core business and Strengthen the Core, and support Value Chain Enhancement to various chemical businesses in the future. Important strategies Manufactured Natural Capital Financial Capital Intellectual Capital Capital Enhancing operational Enhancing efficiency Enhancing Enhancing operational eco-efficiency in of the supply chain knowledge in the efficiency and order to create management in order area of energy and flexibility in oil a competitive to reduce production engineering in order refining in order to advantage. costs. to generate revenue prepare for potential and reduce regulatory changes. 1,396,728 309 million THB production costs. 107% refinery capacity gigajoules/year of energy consumption reductions resulting in cost savings resulting from energy conservation projects 15 energy efficiency from energy efficiency projects 53 million THB in cost savings from projects that increased energy efficiency in collaborating with the production process partners to source crude oil Social and Relationship Enhancing quality of the supply chain management in order to increase operational 100% of new suppliers that have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and responded the ESG Capital capabilities in the energy self-assessment questionnaire 060 Operational Eco-Efficiency Operational Eco-Efficiency Commitment In line with Thaioil Group’s commitment Challenges, Risks, and Impacts to control and mitigate environmental impacts, we have adopted the circular Thaioil Group recognizes the various external factors and environmental changes economy concept for our production facing the world, including the limitation of natural resources, increasingly severe process – ranging from refinery unit design, selection of suitable technology, increase air pollution in several areas, increasing demands for freshwater for consumption, efficiency of water and energy consumption, as well as significantly larger amounts of waste generated, that have resulted to management of industrial wastes and air from socio-economic growth. These factors, alongside increased expectations pollution. These efforts are done to mitigate from stakeholders regarding environmental management, have resulted in several risks and impacts that may occur both in countries around the world announcing measures to respond to these challenges. the short and long run. One example is the European Commission establishing new directives to oblige In 2019, Thaioil Group has studied, member states to take initiatives such as increasing waste recycling and banning developed plans, and implemented single-use plastics to move towards a circular economy. Researchers from Gartner, various projects the examples of these a renowned consultancy and research company from the United States, predicts projects aim to collectively reduce energy that as consumer and shareholder preferences move towards sustainability, circular consumption, increase of renewable energy (i.e. solar energy) consumption, increase economy will replace linear economy by 2029. water consumption, and control pollution Furthermore, incidents of marine animals dying from plastic waste, such as the at source (i.e. emission, effluent and waste). Furthermore, a proportion of waste deaths of Mariam the dugong and the whale in Songkhla Province in Thailand, to landfill has been controlled as well as have gathered public attention on waste management in Thailand. The circular creating added value for waste in order to economy model has emerged as a holistic solution to these issues. In August 2019, increase efficiency in resource utilization the Ministry of Commerce of Thailand announced its commitment to drive the Thai and minimize environmental and social economy towards the circular economy. impacts. As a result, the company has set the following targets regarding sustainable environmental management as follows: Energy efficiency benchmarking Total freshwaste withdrawal in oil refining industry Target 2019 Solomon Benchmarking result for Less than oil refining business in Asia-Pacific Target 2019 7.10 million cubic meter 2 Quartile nd Waste to landfill Long-Term Targets by 2023 Target 2019 Target by 2020 1 Quartile st Less than 5% 0% Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 061 Management Approach and Performance Thaioil has adopted Circular Economy concept as a management approach that covers the entire product life cycle, and implemented through engineering analysis and design that encapsulates the entire production process, from transporting the crude oil into refining processes and then managing waste from operation. Integration management across various production units are conducted comprehensively to ensure the maximization of resource utilization (i.e. energy and water utilization) and the minimization of environmental impacts from pollutants. Thaioil also promotes the use of renewable energy, such as solar energy. We have also designed the Energy Recovery Unit (ERU), which can use oil sludge from the refinery units as raw material for electricity generation in the future. Natural Resource Management in Production Process Energy Management Thaioil Group’s energy consumption for 2019 was 30.7 million • Changed catalysts at Hydrocracking Unit 1/2 during the gigajouls, which improved by 2.85% from the previous major turnaround period, resulting in higher capacity to year, thanks to the major turnaround and implementations of produce jet fuel and diesel, while reducing energy energy efficiency improvement projects. A total of 15 energy consumption; efficiency improvement projects were implemented, worth a total • Installed a new set of ejector, which is smaller in size, of 28 million THB of investments, which collectively reduced at vacumm distillers, to reduce the moderate-pressure water energy consumption by 1,396,728 gigajoules, equivalent to vapor consumption by 1 ton per hour; 84,265 ton carbon dioxide per year. • Installed a new set of burner for oil burning furnace to save In 2019, Thaioil Group have implemented key energy efficiency expense on energy; improvement projects as follows: • Changed the adsorbents at Parex unit and changed the • Improved cleaning of heat exchangers at Crude Distillation catalysts at Isomar unit to increase the production capactiy Units 1, 2, and 3 to reduce energy usage and ensure fully of Thai Paraxylene Company Limited by reducing the loss of refinery capacity; xylene in production process and increase energy efficiency • Injected Anti-foulant in heat exchangers at Crude Distillation by reducing the volume of extracor required at Parex unit; Unit 3 to reduce fuel consumption; • Implemented initiatives to improve energy efficiency in • Reduced volume of hydrogen used in reactors to reduce production process, such as reducing pressure at distillery energy consumed at Hydrocracking Unit 1; columns for Kerosene separation, reducing pressure of stripper, and reducing energy consumption of the finishing • Changed catalysts in the Continuous Catalyst Regeneration columns in LAB production units; Platformer Unit 1/2 and improved production units to increase the maximum production capacity by 5%, resulting • Utilized heat recovery from gas turbine generator for steam in higher capacity to produce gasoline and aromatics, while generator at TOP SPP Limited Company. This recovered reducing energy consumption; heat can produce high pressure steam instead of direct fuel combustion. 062 Operational Eco-Efficiency The project that contributed most to Furthermore, there are other energy energy conservation was changing conservation initiatives in place within catalysts at Continuous Catalyst the office. This consists of promoting Regeneration Platformer Unit 1/2, and raising employees’ awareness and which enabled reduction in energy understanding regarding the importance consumption by 595,576 gigajoules, of energy conservation through different equivalent to 38,527 tons carbon dioxide projects, such as Energy Saving & per year, or 45% of the total energy Relaxing for You, 'Energy and Loss' saving. Column in internal magazine, and communiction through bulletin boards Figure1: Continuous Catalyst in offices. Regeneration Platformer Unit 1 Performance Manufactured Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital Energy consumption reduced Operational cost saving at Reduced greenhouse gas from last year around 2.85% and maintained energy efficiency 309 million THB from investment in energy efficiency improvement projects 84,265 tons carbon dioxide equivalent per year from energy efficiency performance at 2nd Quartile group improvement projects comparing with companies in Asia-Pacific Energy Intensity Index (TOP, TP, TOP SPP) Energy Intensity Index (TLB) 82.9 83.2 82.5 83.7 93.5 85.5 86.7 86.4 Target Target Not exceed Not exceed 83.7 85.3 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy Intensity Index (TPX) Energy Efficiency (LABIX) 70.0 71.0 70.0 68.7 21.03 21.44 21.33 20.32 Target Not exceed Target 20.34 Not exceed 67.7 Gigajoule / ton LAB 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 063 In 2019, Thaioil Group received a shield of honor for the Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER), organized by the Thailand Greenhouse Management Organization (Public Organization), for the 239-MW Combined-Cycle Co-Generation Power Plant project of TOP SPP Company Limited. And, a certificate of honor of Low Emission Support Scheme: LESS for energy efficiency improvement activities of Thai Oil Public Company Limited, which aims to contribute to reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Based on results of the Solomon Benchmarking on energy efficiency in 2018, Thai Oil Public Company Limited was able to maintain 2nd Quartile in comparison to other oil refining companies in Asia Pacific. With the completion of Clean Fuel Project, Thaioil Group will be able to increase its competitiveness that will enable the company to compete for the 1st Quartile. As for Thai Lube Based Public Company Limited, the company was able to maintain its position within the 1st Quartile group compared with other lubricant manufacturers globally. And, after Thai Paraxylene Company Limited has completed its upcoming project to increase energy efficiency by changing the adsorption at the Parex unit and catalysts in the Xylene isomerization process unit during a major turnaround, the company is expected to result in the energy efficiency level of the 2nd Quartile group in accordance to a benchmarking report by Phillip Townsend Benchmarking. Water Management Thaioil Group has an integrated water management framework • Recovery of blowdown water from cooling tower units for based on the 3Rs (Reduce Reuse Recycle) strategy to ensure TOP SSP Company Limited; water efficiency in the production chain through projects such as continuously increasing cooling water circulation. • Conversion of seawater to freshwater through reverse Furthermore, in 2019, Thaioil Group has implemented a osmosis (RO) or Sea Water RO; “Saving Water through Water Crisis 2020” initiative to build an • Conversion of blowdown water from cooling tower units awareness that will encourage for water conservation in the to fresh water through reverse osmosis (RO) or Blowdown upcoming drought crisis, and conducted studies for additional RO; and water conservation efforts, as detailed below: • Conversion of wastewater from Effluent Treatment Plant to • Process changing for the unit of hydrogen sulfide and fresh water through reverse osmosis (RO) or ETP Water RO. carbon dioxide removing from wastewater from sour water stripper unit 2 to unit 1, which allows for condensate Additionally, Thaioil has conducted projects to increase stability recovery; in raw water management, such as construction of new raw water pipelines, construction of water storage with new wa• Recovery of condensate from generator G-5001/2/3/4; ter pump system, as well as the implementation of a project • Installing a new filtrated water pipeline for Thai Paraxylene to improve drainage for flood management at the refinery Company Limited in replacement of the old pipeline, which and the surrounding area. This includes implementation of had damaged; and Desalination Unit to help increase Thaioil’s usage for renewable water resource, or seawater, as opposed to raw water from • Reducing backwash cycle of cooling tower filters (Qnatural resources. This helps reduce risks from water scarcity. 4707/08). Wastewater Management Thaioil strictly controls the quality of discharged water to result, reducing wastewater discharge volume. The design be better than that required by laws and regulations before considers most effective use of resource and energy, as each discharging outside our refinery. To reduce impacts to type of wastewater requires different levels of treatment. Then surrounding environment and community, the 3Rs strategy wastewater is separated into three types to reduce resource has been conduct to reduce water consumption, and as a and energy consumption as follows: 064 Operational Eco-Efficiency • Process effluents; cooling tower units to fresh water through reverse osmosis (RO) or Blowdown RO; and conversion of wastewater from Effluent • Continuously Oil Contaminated (COC) water: water used to Treatment Plant to fresh water through reverse osmosis (RO) wash or rainwater runoff at production site; and or ETP Water RO. • Accidentally Oil Contaminated (AOC) water: rainwater runoff Moreover, Thaioil Group continues to regulate and monitor at Thaioil Group’s production site, or water used to wash treated wastewater throughout the day, with real-time reporting with no oil leakage, water from fire drills, water from cooling of the Chemical Oxygen Demand Online (COD Online) to the tower, and water from steam generators. Department of Industrial Works. We also monitor wastewater In addition, Thaioil Group has conducted additional feasibility quality by Thaioil Group laboratory, with inspection conducted studies on the water recovery in order to reduce the consumption by independent third parties. These processes are to ensure of fresh water, and increase the proportion of waste utilization that the treated wastewater we discharge is of higher quality that will enhance the value of waste under the principle of than required by regulatory standards. Furthermore, Thaioil Circular Economy. The example of these studies include: continues to prioritize human capital development, such as conversion of seawater to freshwater through reverse osmosis providing trainings for operators in wastewater treatment (RO) or Sea Water RO; conversion of blowdown water from system, to enhance the capacity to manage wastewater efficiently. Total water consumption 3.81 4.13 4.34 4.69 for industrial use Performance Million Cubic Meters Cubic meters per ton Natural Capital refinery throughput 0.26 0.27 0.29 0.32 2016 2017 2018 2019 30% of freshwater consumption replaced by distilled water from desalination Total freshwater withdrawal 4.09 4.64 4.98 4.86 Target Not exceed 7.10 Million Cubic Meters Cubic meters per ton 0.33 0.33 0.28 0.31 2.45% refinery throughput 2016 2017 2018 2019 reduction in total freshwater withdrawal Total wastewater 19.45 18.73 18.60 18.13 discharge 2.55% reduction in total wastewater discharge Million Cubic Meters Cubic meters per ton refinery throughput 1.32 1.24 1.23 1.24 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 065 Downstream Natural Resource Management Air Quality Thaioil Group prioritizes regulating air pollution impacts. We design and implement technologies that are efficient in international standards, maintain excellent process control, and monitor air quality at source as well as surrounding areas. The monitoring itself is conducted by an external air quality auditor, with data measured in real-time through the Continuous Emission Monitoring System. Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) and Oxides of Sulphur (SOx) Management Thaioil Group assesses environmental impacts from NO x Unit (TGTU) – remove hydrogen sulfide through utilization of and SOx, and has set up preventative measures to minimize catalysts, absorbents and incineration; Sulphur Recovery Unit impacts by designing and implementing highly effective (SRU) – converts hydrogen sulfide to liquid sulfur; and Sulfur and internationally accepted technologies. For example, we Solidification Unit (SSU) – converts hydrogen sulfide to solid have opted to use the Ultra-Low NOx burner in replacing old sulfur. Ultimately, these hydrogen sulfide removal units enable technology for 100% of changeable burners. This enables Thaioil to effectively control air pollution that arises from sulfur. effective combustion and reduce NOx emissions. Furthermore, there is also air quality monitoring at source and For SOx management, Thaioil faces challenges following the in the surrounding community areas. Thaioil uses air quality International Maritime Organization (IMO) announcing that ships monitoring technology and external air quality auditors. Results must use fuel with sulfur component lower than 0.5%, from the are regularly reported through the Environmental Daily previous 3.5%, by 2020. This is a challenge for SOx controlling. Dashboard. In 2019, Thaioil Group continues to prioritize Thaioil Group has therefore studied the possibility of re-using the combustible fuels that have low emissions and are more fuel oil as an alternative fuel within our production process, as environmentally friendly over fuels with higher emissions. The opposed to distributing it commercially. The shift helps control Monitoring IMO RFO Firing Guideline has been followed as a pollution released from other sources. This is made possible guideline in controlling and monitoring SOx volume and smoke because Thaioil Group has a process technology that is of from combustion to ensure that the operation do not generate international standard, such as installation and operation of impacts on communities. Sulphur Recovery Unit (SRU), which is the modern technology and has high effectiveness in shifting sulfur from emission to Thanks to the above mentioned activities in 2019, Thaioil was liquid sulfur products. In addition, the current expansion project, able to regulate NOx and SOx at levels better than what is Clean Fuel Project that is currently under construction, will required by the standards of the law and control level as install additional hydrogen sulfide removal units, which covers specified in the environmental impact assessment (EIA). Shell Claus Off-gas Treating Unit (SCOT) and Tail Gas Treating VOCs Emission Management Thaioil is fully cognizant of VOCs, which may affect the to detect leak points through the use of VOC leak detection health of local communities. We have therefore conducted camera. This is in compliance with the laws, and international an environmental impact assessment, and determined standards; which are consistent with the United States’ preventative mitigation measures, as well as monitor the Environmental Production Agency since 2012. This has been release of VOCs from the production process. We are able Thaioil’s efforts to stop the mentioned leakage. We also run a 066 Operational Eco-Efficiency Vapor Recovery Unit (VRU), whose effectiveness is at 99%, to area. This helps us to identify the key sources and set control improve treatment of product logistics-induced VOCs. measures. This resulted in the closed-system wastewater system project, which is currently in progress, to reduce odor In 2019, Thaioil conducted a study on volumes of benzene and volume of VOCs. The system is expected to be ready to released at source, such as through Effluent Treatment Plant operate by 2022. (ETP), flare, combustion, fugitives, tank and product loading Particulate Matter (PM) Management In recognition of the prevalence of PM 2.5 in several areas • Green Road project, the project aims to control dust across Thailand, Thaioil Group has organized the Breathe The from transportation, in which road controls have been Better Project (Fight Against PM 2.5 Crisis) using the concept implemented within Thaioil Group and public roads, through of 4Cs, comprising of Control, Contain, Clean, and Check. The activities as follows: vacuuming Thaioil’s lorry loading area concept is used to manage environmental impacts at source, and main roads with heavy traffic congestion from the as well as conducting measures to reduce particulate matter company’s expansion project with a vacuum truck cleaning in the surrounding community for the health and well-being of of Sukhumvit Road in collaboration with Laem Chabang the community and employees, through the following projects Municipal, and cleaning of community streets under the as described below: “Kwad sathan thung” project. • Water mist project, in which the project installed water • Integrated the circular economy concept under the TOP CE spray system in order to control small dust particles from project which is initiated by Thaioil Group to drive Circular the construction sites, lorry loading area, and around the Economy to apply to the community around the refinery community areas. to manage wood chips and leaves, and combining them to produce fertilizer for household use, instead of open burning. NOx emissions 4,419 4,444 4,497 4,360 Performance Metric tons Tons per million tons Target 299 294 297 299 Not exceed refinery throughput 5,160 Natural Capital 2016 2017 2018 2019 SOx emissions 7,205 3,491 4,140 4,272 3.04% reduction in NOx emissions Metric tons Tons per million tons 487 Target Not exceed 6,600 compared with the previous year refinery throughput 231 274 293 2016 2017 2018 2019 5.54% reduction in VOCs emissions VOCs emissions 1,460 1,417 1,427 1,348 compared with the previous year Metric tons Target Not exceed Tons per million tons 1,792 refinery throughput 99 94 94 92 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 067 Industrial Waste Management Thaioil Group has systematically managed industrial waste • Study of producing oil from plastic waste by pyrolysis per our Waste Management Procedure. Related tasks are process; and implemented through the Waste Management Committee, which drives management and monitoring of waste at • Created value-added for Spent Catalyst using Metal source through the disposal process. Thaioil is committed Reclamation instead of sending it for disposal, which to achieve our industrial waste management target of less generated 10 million THB in benefits to the Company. than 5% of wastes disposed to landfill in 2019. The Company In 2019, Thaioil Group has conducted a major turnaround for has implemented the 3Rs strategy, which focuses on reduce, Thai Oil Public Company Limited and Thai Paraxylene Company reuse, and recycle, to help reduce the amount of waste Limited. However, we still achieved our goal of having less disposed and landfilled in the most effective and efficient way than 5% landfilled waste of total industrial waste. In addition, possible. Thaioil also conducts site visits for every company the Company is also studying how we can shift from industrial subcontracted for industrial waste management services.The waste disposal to re-utilizing it via 3Rs concept, in order to objective is to assess environmental, social, and governance achieve zero landfilled waste target in 2020. performance, ensuring that our contractors are operating in alignment with Thaioil’s Supplier Code of Conduct, and that their Moreover, Thaioil Group in collaboration with representatives of waste management meets international standards and poses all 10 community leaders around the refinery and government zero risks on community and environmental impacts. agencies such as Laem Chabang district, under the Principle of Operation (3 Synchronizations), together engaged in CSR In 2019, Thaioil Group conducted a number of projects aligning activities – the examples of these activities were collected with circular economy principles, as follows: garbage around the area of ban Ao-Udom, released 999,999 • Fertilizer from canteen waste for green area; crabs to the wild, and planted sea grass – for the environment and well-being of the surrounding communities. Performance Natural Capital 0.96% reduction in total hazardous waste generated Non-hazardous waste disposed to landfills, Hazardous waste disposed to landfills, incinerated, or managed in external wastewater incinerated, or managed in external wastewater management system management system tons tons 2016 211 2016 353 2017 120 2017 111 2018 182 2018 190 2019 195 2019 798 Target : not exceed 200 Target : not exceed 900 Total waste generated Total waste disposed to landfill tons % of total waste generated tons 2016 6,276 2017 4,517 2016 2.96 186 2018 13,013 2017 2.63 119 2019 14,916 2018 1.76 229 2019 2.90 433 Remark Data in 2018-2019 include waste generated outside the production process, such as waste generated from demolition to prepare for expansion project construction. Target : not exceed 5% 068 Sustainable Procurement Sustainable Procurement Challenges, Risks, Commitment and Impacts Conducting business with partners in a way Thaioil is committed to conducting business with our suppliers that does not create adverse environmental, according to our procurement principles – Clear, Fair, and social, and governance (ESG) impacts is Professional – and in line with Thaioil Group Supplier Code of vital to ensuring a strong core business Conduct (SCOC). This envelopes environmental, social, and (Strengthen the Core) and to fulfilling our governance aspects. Since 2015, all newly registered suppliers vision to enrich stakeholders’ well-being are required to sign their acknowledgement of the SCOC. and deliver sustainable returns. To that We have set the following targets to ensure our procurement end, Thaioil has a supplier management processes become an integral part in supporting the realization process that includes sustainability risk of corporate business strategy. Moreover, Thaioil encourage our management in the supply chain. In 2019, Thaioil further developed the supplier critical suppliers and key suppliers in participating in becoming management system through assessing certified members of the Thai Private Sector Collective Action ESG risks throughout vendor registration, Coalition against Corruption (CAC). qualification, and performance evaluation processes. Our supplier risk management includes the consideration, identification, Targets: and monitoring of regulatory and legal, environmental and social, financial, Zero non-compliance in procurement process for important and operational risks, such as risks of projects which are governed by an internal audit process non-compliance with regulations, use of to demonstrate transparent and fair business conduct child labour, and adverse environmental impacts in the supply chain, through the Acknowledgement of the SCOC by 100% of critical use of external information sources. suppliers and 80% of key suppliers by 2019, and acknowledgement of the SCOC by 100% of newly registered suppliers, to manage suppliers in accordance with the SCOC, reduce risks of supplier non-compliance with Thaioil’s principles of environment, social, and good governance, and avoid negative impacts on the company’s reputation resulting from supplier non-compliance and/ or unethical conduct Ocean Loss Index, a measurement of crude oil loss during marine transportation, at 0.20 or below by volume in 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 069 Spending Analysis 2019 1,075 active suppliers Management Approach in 2019 Critical Thaioil manages procurement processes with a focus suppliers towards effective cost management, management of Critical suppliers environmental, social, and governance risks in the supply 48.5 51.5 cover high-volume chain, and promotion of green procurement. Moreover, suppliers, high spending % % suppliers, and critical Thaioil prioritizes supplier participation and satisfaction. component suppliers. In 2019, Thaioil conducted business with a total of 1,075 Coverage: crude and active suppliers, with the share of spending from critical Non-Critical non-crude suppliers. suppliers suppliers is shown on the right-hand side. Effective Cost Management • Procurement in collaboration with PTT Group: Thaioil’s collaboration with PTT Group to be contractual partners Thaioil has determined targets to reduce costs in the for material procurement, providing the company with procurement processes. In 2019, these targets were the higher bargaining of power to negotiate for prices, successfully achieved, which enabled efficient cost and ability to generate high value procurement. And, management, competitive cost prices in the open market, creates good relationship with PTT Group and its efficiency of the procurement process, and all while upholding subsidiaries, and suppliers. our commitment to reduce impacts on the environment. Our main actions are listed below: • E-Auctions: Holding e-auctions have increased the efficacy of the procurement process and reduced the • Arrangement of framework agreements: Thaioil uses time required and resources needed, leading to cost framework agreements, or long-term contracts of 5-6 reduction by approximately 7%. years for suppliers of product groups of high value and essential to Thaioil, which help the company to gain • PC Functional Competency: To increase employee access to standard prices and maintain continuous competency in procurement, the PC Functional trading. Framework agreements have also helped to Competency training program bring-ins experienced establish good relationships with our business partners, procurement employees to share their experience and are considered mutually beneficial, which resulted and knowledge. In 2019, Thaioil has continued this in cost reduction by approximately 30-50%. training program, with a total of seven training courses organized covering topics such as supplier selec• Demand management based on historical data: tion and assessment, writing and drafting business In planning the procurement process,Thaioil has contracts, supply chain management and logistics, established and developed an annual contract and inventory and warehouse management. arrangement with partners. For goods and services with continuous purchase volumes, through the • Co-Loading collaboration: For crude oil sourcing, analysis of historical data, providing Thaioil with a Thaioil has a co-loading collaboration program with bargaining power to negotiate, and reducing the time oil refineries across Thailand, especially refineries in required for procurement activities, which equivalent the PTT Group, and suppliers, to reduce transportation to cost reduction by approximately 14%. costs. In addition, we have also reduced procurement costs through using the company's crude oil buoys • Budget analysis: Budget analysis for various projects to distribute crude oil to other refineries in Thailand. is used to develop a sourcing plan for procurement In 2019, through collaboration with refineries and services in order to plan for the delivery of supplies and suppliers in co-loading, and through distributing services in accordance with the project plan. crude oil through the crude oil buoys, we were able to reduce expenses by a total of 53 million THB. 070 Sustainable Procurement Cost reduction by Cost reduction of Procurement training Cost reduction by approximately 30-50% 53 30-50 approximately % 53 Cost reduction of million THB Procurement for for training 30 employees 30 employees a total of a total of for for 28 Financial Capital as a result ofmillion THB with collaboration Human Capital Financial Capital of important product of important groups groups for through contractual product for Thaioil Group Thaioil Group long-term through long-term agreements oil oil result of and as arefineries refineriesand co-loading co-loading crude collaboration suppliers in suppliers inof anddistribution and distribution oil through buoys the company’s crude oil through with of the company’s Human Capital 28 hours hours contractual agreements) (framework agreements crude oil buoys (framework agreements) Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Risk Management in the Supply Chain In terms of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risk management in the supply chain, Thaioil has developed a supplier management system that continuously manages supplier risks based on external information sources, and communicates the company’s expectations to the suppliers. The system includes risk assessment, performance monitoring and evaluation, and additional support needs to suppliers to conduct their business sustainably. 1. Thaioil’s Expectations Regarding Suppliers’ ESG Performance Moreover, in 2019, Thaioil has communicated the SCOC to crude oil suppliers, and has obtained SCOC acknowledgement from Thaioil has specified expectations regarding suppliers’ ESG 64% of all crude oil suppliers. Our target is to increase supplier performance in the Thaioil Group Supplier Code of Conduct SCOC acknowledgement to 100% by the year 2020. (SCOC). We expect full compliance with the SCOC by every supplier. In order to ensure that suppliers fully understand the For non-crude suppliers, Thaioil has proceeded to communicate SCOC, Thaioil communicates to suppliers through the Thaioil’s and increase the number of SCOC acknowledgement from our website and the annual supplier conference. In 2019, the theme suppliers. We achieved our target of SCOC acknowledgement of the conference was “Partner for Life”. by 100% for newly registered suppliers and critical suppliers, and 80% of key suppliers, as shown below: Supplier acknowledgment Total supplier Supplier of SCOC acknowledgment Total supplier of SCOC acknowledgment 100 Critical suppliers of SCOC acknowledgment of SCOC 1,116 100 % Critical 2019 suppliers Target : 100% 701 1,116 % 2019 Target : 100% New suppliers 701 Key suppliers 100%% New suppliers acknowledge 81.69 acknowledge 520 Key suppliers 400 520 81.69 % 2019 Target : 80% 2019 Target : 80% 400 % Number of Target achieved suppliers Number of 64.81 Other suppliers Target achieved suppliers 64.81 % Other suppliers Year 2559 2560 2561 2562 % Year 2559 2560 2561 2562 Remark: Data has been collected since 2015, and does not include crude oil suppliers. Remark: Data has been collected since 2015, and does not include crude oil suppliers. 2. Supplier ESG Risk Assessment Thaioil has a preliminary risk assessment process in the in the SCOC for 100% of newly registered suppliers through supply chain that covers all suppliers in order to identify the continuous process, as well as 100% of all suppliers suppliers with high ESG risks. The risk assessment is through the triennial risk assessment. The risk assessment conducted on an ongoing basis for all newly registered is conducted based on product and service group, with the suppliers, and once every three years for all suppliers. In 2019, relevant function for the respective product or service group is we assessed supplier risks regarding ESG issues as listed respondsible for assessing supplier risk level. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 071 Environmental Aspect Social Aspect Governance Aspect Environmental Aspect Social Aspect Governance Aspect THAIOIL Environmental Aspect Social Aspect THAIOIL 1. Environmental Management 1. Occupational Health and 1.Governance Compliance with Aspect GROUP’S THAIOIL 1. Energy Environmental Management 1. Occupational Health and 1. Compliance Regulations with GROUP’S SCOC 2. 2. Energy Climate Efficiency Efficiency Change and and 1. Environmental Management 2. Safety Safety Emergency Prevention, 1. Occupational Health and 2. Regulationsand Corruption 1. Compliance withBribery GROUP’S SCOC 2. ClimateEfficiency Waste 3. Energy Change and 2. Emergency PreparationPrevention, Safety and 3. Corruption 2. Rewards and Regulations Bribery andGifts SCOC 4. Waste 3. Chemical and Hazardous Climate Change Preparation and Responsiveness 2. Emergency Prevention, 3. Rewards 4. Corruption 2. and Gifts Conflict of Interests and Bribery 3. Chemical 4. Items and Hazardous Waste Responsiveness 3. Fair Treatment Preparation and 4. 5. Conflict RewardsofandInterests 3. ConfidentialityGifts Items and Hazardous 4. Chemical 3. Labor 4. Fair Treatment and Child Labor Responsiveness 5. 6. Confidentiality 4. Disclosure of Information Conflict of Interests Items 4. 5. Labor 3. Freedom Fair andtoChild Establish Treatment Labor 5. Disclosure 6. of Information Confidentiality 5. Freedom 4. Labor to Association, Establish Union and Child and Labor 6. Disclosure of Information Association, Frederation 5. Freedom Union and to Establish Frederation 6. Working Conditions Association, Union and 6. 7. Working CommunityConditions Frederation Contribution 7. 8. Community 6. Contribution Impact Working Conditions 7. Community Impact 8. Community Contribution 8. Community Impact Based on the results of the risk assessment, Thaioil has selected suppliers with high ESG risk levels and critical tier1 suppliers to join the ESG Plus Verification Program. The Program consists of three phases: 01 Verification by Thaioil Group consists of assessing suppliers on a criteria based on “alignment” of supplier conduct with our Procurement Policy; Business and Human Rights Policy for Suppliers; Anti-Corruption Policy; Quality, Security, Safety, Health, Environment, Energy Management, and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy; and Thaioil Supplier Code of Conduct. The main steps of verification include verification through email and onsite verification to ensure that supplier complies with the company's criteria and guidelines. 02 Third party assessment is undertaken for suppliers whose verification results point to high ESG risk levels. Selected suppliers who have been chosen, and are important to Thaioil will be assessed by an external party in order to achieve sustainable development in accordance with Thaioil’s code of conduct, and in order to build trust in business partnerships. 03 Capacity building, or capability development, for suppliers. The process began in 2017, and Thaioil has continued to lead this process on an ongoing basis. We present additional recommendations to increase the capacity and enhance the capability of suppliers for each individual supplier. The selected supplier under this development and improvement plan is then considered in accordance to the needs and readiness of the supplier. In 2019, there were 14 suppliers who have passed the first phase of ESG Plus Verification. The Program will proceed to Phases 2 and 3 as planned. Number of suppliers participating in the project Number of suppliers participating in the project Number 18 +12 Number Number 18 of suppliers participating +12 in the +14 project +14 44 44 Year 2017 2018 2019 Year Number 2017 18 2018 +12 2019 +14 44 Year 2017 2018 2019 072 Sustainable Procurement Process Indicator Unit Performance High-level Risk Assessment Suppliers covered by the preliminary risk Number of suppliers 1,093 assessment Percentage of all suppliers 100% Critical non-tier 1 suppliers covered by the Number of suppliers 15 preliminary risk assessment Percentage of all critical non-tier 100% 1 suppliers Assessed suppliers identified with high risks Number of suppliers 17 Percentage of all suppliers 1.56% Assessed critical non-tier 1 suppliers with high Number of suppliers 0 risks Percentage of all critical non-tier 0 1 suppliers Verification by Thaioil Group High-risk suppliers that have been subject to Number of suppliers 8 onsite or through the third party assessment Percentage of all high-risk sup47.05% pliers Suppliers identified with non-compliance with Percentage of suppliers covered 0% SCOC through the third party assessment through the third party assessment Capacity Building Suppliers with non-compliance with SCOC that Percentage of suppliers with non0% have been assigned corrective action plans compliance with SCOC Suppliers with corrective action plans that have Percentage of suppliers assigned 0% improved performance within 12 months with corrective action plans Other than directly providing recommendations to suppliers who have high risk levels and/or non-compliance with the SCOC, Thaioil also gives opportunities for suppliers to join other activities to promote capability and capacity in managing ESG performance, such as: Inviting 32 key suppliers that have expressed interest through the annual supplier survey to listen to the SME Executive Briefing in the CAC SME Certification Project; Communicating CSR in Supply Chain Inviting five key suppliers to join the Communicating Thaioil's corpothrough our website, which includes PTT Group CG Day with PTT Group; rate vision, procurement principles, our rules, policies and requirements construction plans, supplier evaluation related to the 7 main topic of corporate and awards giving, Supplier Code of social respondsibility i.e. corporate Conduct relating to ESG aspects, governance, human rights, labour commitment to human rights from practices, environment, ethical conduct, suppliers, and corporate governance, consumer, and community engagement through the annual supplier conference, and development; in which the theme for this year is “Partner for Life”; Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 073 3. Overall Monitoring and Performance Evaluation Thaioil monitors the ESG performance of all suppliers, which is guided by indicators measuring our ability to assess the ESG risks of procured product and service groups. In 2019, we have analyzed and assessed the ESG risks of each product and service group, and have also developed our supplier risk management system, which came into effect at the end of 2019. Furthermore, we have continued to develop systems to assess supplier risks in the Organizing meetings between contractors procurement process on an on-going basis. and Thaioil Group's executives to emphasize on the importance of In addition, Thaioil has indicators measuring supplier social and environmental safety in the workplace and prepare performance. For social performance, we monitortotal recordable work-related for the readiness of major turnaround injury rate (TRIR) for contractors, while for environmental performance, we to ensure that tasks can be allocated monitor the ocean loss index – an indicator that measures crude oil loss during as planned; marine transportation and reflects efficiency in marine transportation. In 2019, our targets were fulfilled. Thaioil has also established a working group to monitor and analyze the causes of oil loss during marine transportation for each trip, and is continuously making improvements to maintain oil loss index below target levels. Human Capital Total recordable work-related Reviewing supplier evaluation results, injury rate for contractors which reflected supplier performance Case per million work hours in meeting Thaioil’s expectations with work quality, occupational health and 2016 0.53 safety, and timeliness of product/service 2017 0.27 delivery and handed certificates and plaques of honour to contractor 2018 0.35 companies who successfully fulfilled their duties during the 2019’s major 2019 0.32 turnaround; and Target less than 0.50 Natural Capital Ocean Loss Index Percent by volume 2016 0.18 Communicating through supplier 2017 0.21 relationship building activities to ensure that suppliers are aware of, understand, 2018 0.20 and follow Thaioil’s commitment regarding transparency in procurement processes, 2019 0.18 such as the No Gift Policy. Target less than 0.20 074 Sustainable Procurement Promoting Green Procurement Thaioil conducts procurement with consideration towards environmental impacts. For our purchase of catalysts to replace expired catalysts in the past year – a transaction equivalent to 1,000 billion THB in value – we ensured that catalyst attributes relating to the environment were accounted for throughout the process, including aspects such as energy and resource consumption. We also considered catalyst life cycle management, as evidenced through sending the expired metal catalysts for metal reclamation, in effect generating 300 million THB in value, and reusing metals or useful metals to add value to the business and reduce dependence on natural resources. We also have plans to continue exporting in 2020. Furthermore, we have completed a 2 million THB purchase of non-asbestos gaskets to use as a substitute to reduce impacts on the environment and on the health of our employees and communities surrounding the refinery. For procurement of materials, equipment, and office supplies, we consider purchases of green products to drive suppliers to develop production processes that create environmentally friendly products and avoid adverse environmental impacts in the supply chain. The share of spending in this product group have increased to 25% since 2018. Spending on materials, equipment, and office supplies product group as a share of total green procurement spending have increased to Financial Capital 25% since 2018 Environmental impacts, with GHG reductions equivalent to Natural Capital 2,800 KgCO2 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 075 Supplier Engagement and Satisfaction Thaioil takes the necessary actions to ensure that Moreover, in order to ensure that Thaioil is aware of the procurement processes are transparent and clear to needs of our suppliers, Thaioil has continued to engage, suppliers. In the tendering process, suppliers submitting communicate, and listen to supplier opinions on different tenders can use the proposal tracking system to check issues. We collect such information through surveying progress. This supports clarity and transparency within supplier perspectives towards Thaioil Group regarding the procurement process for suppliers. Additionally, we procurement management, service quality, and transparency have developed the Thai Oil Group Tendering System (TOP and fairness. Feedback and opinions collected are TEN) to support the procurement team in ensuring that the then integrated to the company's decision-making and tendering process is aligned with corporate rules and pracmanagement process. In 2019, Thaioil conducted a survey tices. Furthermore, we use e-Auction, an online auction on the perspectives and opinions of suppliers through system, to give suppliers the opportunity to compete and bid the support of a company with expertise in research. The more than once, resulting in Thaioil being able to procure Findings from the survey on suppliers’ views towards working goods and services at an appropriate price and securing with Thaioil are presented as follows: fairness to all involved parties. We have also developed price submission through the PO online system, and applied the E-Catalog system in order to reduce the number of steps in procurement processes, and resource and energy consumption. Social and Relationship Capital Overall satisfaction with Thaioil Overall image with Thaioil 2559 93 2559 92 2560 90 2560 88 2561 96 2561 97 2562 93 2562 93 Target more than 85% Satisfaction with transparency and fairness Satisfaction with pricing and procurement policy 2559 89 2559 88 2560 83 2560 81 2561 96 2561 83 2562 90 2562 70 Sustainable Value Creation Human and Sustainable Value Creation in the long term is a way to establish a strong Organization Development foundation for the business, and is an important step for Thaioil to evolve into our new business model in the future. This entails human capital development and organizational knowledge management that fosters a culture of knowledge exchange, development of innovation, research and development efforts that are diverse and support business growth by leaps Corporate Social and bounds, including the creation of strong collaborations and partnerships. Responsibility This section of the report, therefore, includes material matters that allow Thaioil to increase the capacity for sustainable value creation. Important strategies Financial Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Creating income from Creating excellence Creating Relationship Capital the efficient resource through the management an organizational Creating business management of the of human resources knowledge partnerships for organization’s 6 and work productivity management system long-term mutual capitals. in order to be a high and utilizing technology growth. performance within the organization 2,174 million THB organization. in order to generate revenues and lower 90% generated from applying knowledge to 278 hours production costs. employee engagement Innovation and improve the business of training and development per 381 96% customer engagement Customer Stewardship employee per year organizational knowledge exchanged and applied 93.32% community engagement E-Ordering Natural Capital Creating new business opportunities to respond to changes in consumer 842,699 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent reduced through avoided emission products behavior and markets. (i.e. gasohol and biodiesel) consumed by end users. 078 Innovation and Customer Stewardship Innovation and Customer Stewardship Challenges, Risks Commitment and Impacts It is evident that global changes in the In 2019, Thaioil took concrete steps to cultivate a culture modern era are occurring at a higher of innovation within Thaioil Group. We have organized an speed than in the past, and businesses innovation contest to promote creative and innovative thinking must adapt to respond to a variety in all employees. The contest attracted more contestants this of changing factors. One of these year than the previous year, and demonstrated that our people deals with the changing pattern of placed more emphasis on innovation than ever before. Upon consumer behavior. Business success the conclusion of the competition, the innovation function is thus dependent upon companies’ provided the necessary resources and support to help capability and speed in responding to consumer demand. employees in developing their thoughts and ideas into tangible actions – e.g. prototyping, product development, etc. The “Innovation” is one of the key factors innovation function also takes actions to instill a spirit of that enables corporate sustainability. innovation in employees through inviting nationally Mastering innovation to better meet recognized keynote speakers or experts to share their customer demand in a more convenient knowledge and experience, and ultimately stimulating and timely manner, along with increasing creative thinking that leads to more innovations. the efficiency and achieving cost savings in the production process, has always Furthermore, Thaioil has begun sharing our innovative products been a challenge to the business. To with other companies and showcasing them at various that end, Thaioil not only seeks for exhibitions. This allows Thaioil to engage with customers innovation and technology to use in the outside of the organization, understand their problems, develop organization for the utmost benefits, but products that can successfully respond to their needs, and gain also encourages employees to discover increased customer satisfaction with our service. new innovations and apply in the workplace. For 2020, Thaioil has plans to continue cultivating a spirit of innovation within our people, and to develop in partnership with other innovators. We will provide the necessary resources to realize our plans – be that knowledge from external experts, researchers, or funding. Our ambition is to drive innovation for the new product development that will respond to the needs of people both in and out of our organization, and potentially bring-in new businesses in the future. Additionally, Thaioil is conducting a feasibility study in establishing a venture building team to reinforce and promote more concrete innovation within the organization. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 079 Management Approach and Performance Performance Innovative Culture 328 employees participated 195 employees participated in Thaioil encourages employees to Human Capital in activities related to the innovation contest, innovation an increase of 62.5% from participate in driving organizational 120 employees who readiness for business transformation, participated in 2018 including improving and developing production processes, creating new products, and maintaining good customer relationships through innovation 96 innovation projects an increase of 152% management. To that end, Thaioil Group Intellectual Capital showcased from 38 projects showcased in 2018 remains driven to continuously cultivate and promote an innovative culture to Commercial benefits gained from innovations in 2019 include: develop our people, create an ecosystem that supports innovation development, as well as establish the process of developing various innovations. Most importantly, Financial Capital 3.1 million THB worth of benefits from 1,025 million THB worth of benefits from the 96 projects the commercialization submitted in the Wisdom and we prioritize the commercialization and of innovation Innovation Award 2019 competition practical application of innovations, (Benefits comprise of 843 million THB worth of benefits from reducing and have identified revenues from the commercial loss and production costs, commercialization of innovation as one of and 182 million THB worth of benefits from reducing safety risks) our key performance indicators. 2 industrial design patents Control valve tool An equipment that assists in the opening and closing of for K-2 valves large gate valves with planetary gearboxes, henceforth (Type 1) improving productivity through reducing the number of workers needed and time required to open and close the valves. IQ3 Motor The IQ3 motor operated valve (MOV) cover is a tool that Operated Valve helps to extend the durability of the equipment by (MOV) Cover protecting the LCD display screen and the circuit board of the valve from sun exposure. In comparison to the IQ1 and IQ2 MOV cover models, the IQ3 model has an additional special feature – a light indicator that indicates open or closed status on the exterior of the valve. 080 Innovation and Customer Stewardship In 2019, Thaioil Group provided the opportunities for employees to attend various activities that supported the 3E + E strategy as follows Tools to promote innovative culture according to 3E+E EEducate EExecute EExhibit + EEvaluate Educate We educate employees by regularly sharing interesting information on technology and innovation through various communication platforms and activities, and creating new experiences and fostering an environment that stimulates thoughts and ideas for innovation for employees within the organization. Innovation Talk: “How does one prepare Innovation Talk: “How can we survive in Innovation Talk: “How does big data help for the AI?” by Dr. Warodom Khamphanchai the age of disruption?” by Rawit Hanutsaha, us work?” by Dr. Asama Kulvanitchaiyanunt, (Bangkok AI Ambassador) CEO of Srichand United Dispensary a leading data science expert in Thailand Company Limited 26 March 2019, Thaioil Refinery 14 November 2019, Thaioil Refinery 28 November 2019, Thaioil Refinery Execute We transform creative ideas into tangible business initiatives through the Idea to Commercialization (I2C) process, through provided funding to support a prototype development into innovation for the company. Cyclopentane 80 (CP80) K2-Device MOV Cover (IQ2 and IQ3 models) CP80 is a collaborative project within The K-2 Device is an equipment that helps open The MOV Cover is the cover for the motor Thaioil Group to produce CP80, which acts and close large gate valves that have planetary operated valve, and helps to extend as a blowing agent in the production of rigid gearboxes. It increases the efficiency of the work the durability of the LCD display screen and polyurethane (PU). The CP80 is comparable process through reducing the number of workers the circuit board of the valve, as its fiber glass to the CP95, but with a lower price point and needed to operate the valve by 2-10 times, and composition helps protect the LCD display substitute imports from foreign countries. reducing the amount of time required to open screen and circuit board from sun damage. Additionally, CP80 may be used as and close the valves. In 2019, we have distributed the IQ2 and IQ3 a replacement of CFCs (chlorofluorocarbons) The K-2 device is a product that was developed models of the MOV cover to PTT LNG and HCFCs (Hydrochlorofluorocarbons), specifically to respond to customer needs. We Company Limited. which are both main contributors to have distributed the product to PTT Tank the greenhouse effect. Terminal Company Limited in 2018 and PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited Branch 3: Olefin 2 Plant in 2019. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 081 Exhibit We showcase innovative products in various exhibitions in Thailand and abroad for publicity and commercial benefits. National Science and Technology Pump and Valves Asia 2019 The 8th PTT Group Process Design Development Agency (NSTDA) and Simulation 2019 Annual Conference 2019 (NAC 2019) 25-28 March 2019, 5-8 June 2019, 5 July 2019, Thailand Science Park, Pathum Thani BITEC Bang Na Grand Centre Point Pattaya, Chonburi PTT 40th Anniversary 2019 20 Years Energy for Industry Towards 4th Process Safety 4.0 A Sustainable Future Management Conference 12-13 July 2019, 9 August 2019, 21-23 November 2019, BITEC Bang Na Centara Grand at Central Plaza Ladprao Classic Kameo Hotel, Rayong PTT WE CAN Youth Greenovation Awards 2019 Shell & PTTES Innovation Conference 29 October – 29 November 2019, 23 November 2019, 2-3 December 2019, PTT Head Office, Bangkok Chaloem Rajakumari 60 Building at Amari Hotel Pattaya, Chonburi Chulalongkorn University Evaluate We evaluate outcomes of innovation development in two aspects – the cost savings resulting from the benefits of applying the innovation in the work process, and the revenues generated from the commercialization of the innovation. 082 Innovation and Customer Stewardship In line with our business strategy to Strengthen the Core, Thaioil is committed to use Process Innovation research and development to improve the efficiency of production processes in the oil refinery. The main projects organized in 2019 include: Precise Loading Arm Connection Enterprise Letter of Guarantee Thaioil Smart Biz Enhancement (PLACE) on Blockchain Thaioil Smart Biz is an online web The Precise Loading Arm Connection The use of enterprise letter of guarapplication designed to solve problems Enhancement (PLACE) initiative was antee with blockchain technology and develop the current working designed to reduce incidents of oil tank was started from a collaboration with process. It acts as a central platform car drivers connecting loading arms to the Thailand Blockchain Community that connects the database (SAP), the wrong hole. Such errors lead to oil Initiative, wherein participating banks the banking system, customers, and leakage, and loss of time and workforce are connected on the same platform Thaioil officers. The system is accurate, required to solve the problem. Furtherthrough cloud technology. The system precise, comprehensive, and in more, they may lead to safety impacts covers requesting, renewing, and real-time. Beyond being a payment in receiving products from oil trucks, submission of the enterprise letter channel for customers of Thaioil Group, of guarantee, and delivers the letter the system holds information related to such as tank overflow leading to fires invoice tracking and transaction history, at the oil distribution center. Thus, the of guarantee directly and immediately to the recipient (Thaioil). This initiative and sends alerts at each step of the team has moved towards using artificial process. It allows for post-audits intelligence (AI) and machine learning markedly increases the convenience of sending and receiving letter of and creates various summary reports to inspect for the accuracy of loading covering statistics and credit limits arms during the product dispensation guarantee, reduces use of paper documents, protects against document in which customers can request and process. The initiative has helped to check by themselves. Most importantly, increase safety in product distribucounterfeiting, and is updated in real the application uses a single sign on tion with oil trucks, and contributed to time. It is convenient and fast, it helps system that supports double approval increased confidence of our workers reduce cost, limit repetitive work, while maintaining the working rights of and customers involved in the product and increase business opportunities. the approver and the maker. Additionally, distribution process. Overall, PLACE Overall, this initiative generated 118 the application can be used on mobile created 182 million THB worth of million THB worth of benefits from phones. This is fitting for the modern age benefits from reducing safety risks. reducing loss and costs. of working and supports convenience, speed, and efficiency in working. Overall, this initiative generated 252 million THB worth of benefits from reducing loss and costs. Odyssey Project (Digital Transformation) Thaioil’s Digital Master Plan for 2019-2021 consists of three main strategies, including: Digital Initiatives Execution : Apply Technology Enablement: Support Digital Mindset & Culture: Organize digital technologies to increase product new digital projects and establish an supporting activities to drive organivalue, reduce production costs, and boost office system that is responsive to the zational change, including stimulating work efficiency for employees. In selecting future of work. ideas, initiatives, and new innovations. digital initiatives to execute, the projects are categorized and selected based on the length of execution time. The selected projects then become a prototype model for other projects for further implementation, before scaling up in order to ensure sustainable outcomes. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 083 Based on our 2019 strategy, Thaioil has focused on digital As for projects relating to digital infrastructure, Thaioil has projects that can be executed immediately and observed for initiated a project on our cybersecurity system and preparation results. Examples of such projects include the development to ensure regulatory readiness for the Cybersecurity Act and of a dashboard to monitor and support the management of the Personal Data Protection Act. the Clean Fuel Project (CFP Support Center), the application of blockchain technology to manage bank guarantees, the In regard to cultivating mindsets and changing the nature modifications made to vendor invoice management, as well of work, Thaioil has initiated a project to develop a system as the feasibility studies conducted for complex projects that allows for increased usage on mobile phones. This to identify findings for application in business – e.g. price will in turn change the nature of employee behavior in the forecasting. workplace, and allowing them to apply it as a concept that can be extended and applied to different aspects of work. Product Innovation Thaioil Group gives importance to product research and development that meets the demands of our customers, including customers from both the energy and chemical groups. We especially value environmentally friendly products and low carbon products. Our target is to maintain the share of sales revenues from green products at no less than 25% of Thaioil Group’s total sales revenues. In 2019, Thaioil Group had 11 green product groups, including: Green Product Type Thaioil Group Product Name Sales Value (Million THB) Sales Volume Products that use plants or agricultural Ethanol from cassava 4,198 191 Million Liters outputs in replacement of petroleum (Bio-based Product) Products that reduce emissions released Rubber oils (TDAE, TRAE, AROS) with PCA 2,627 102,811 Million Tons to the environment (Emission Reduction) content lower than international standards – thus non-carcinogenic and does not cause gene mutation in humans Biodegradable Products Linear Alkyl Benzene (LAB) 5,086 136,267 Tons Heavy Alkyl Benzene (HAB) 62 2,404 Tons Compostable Products Cleaning products (KEEEN) 0.5 2.5 Million Tons Products that reduce emissions released Benzene-free solvents 84.77 2,650 Million Tons to the environment (Emission Reduction) Solvents with low polycyclic aromatic 48.4 1,040 Million Tons hydrocarbon chemical compounds Products with lower greenhouse gas emissions Cyclopentane CP80, which can replace 2.5 59 Million Tons than products of the same group in the market use of CFCs and HCFCs (Avoided GHG emission product) Gasohol 31,956 1,429 Million litres Biodiesel 77,541 3,954 Million litres 084 Innovation and Customer Stewardship Financial Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital Financial Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital Revenue share of green products Revenue share of avoided emission products Avoided emission products out of total Revenue salesofrevenues share green products salesofrevenues out of totalshare Revenue avoided emission products sales volume Avoided emission products out of totalbysales Percentage THB revenues out of totalbysales Percentage THB revenues sales litres volume Million Percentage by THB Percentage by THB Million litres 29 30 30 32 26 27 28 30 3,778 4,275 4,576 5,383 29 30 30 32 26 27 28 30 3,778 4,275 4,576 5,383 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thaioil started distributing B20 diesel Moreover, Thaioil is in the process of fuels for use by delivery trucks and Clean Fuel Project (CFP) construction. public buses since 2018. Our product With the CFP, we will be able to produce helped reduce air pollution and served Euro 5 diesel fuels with lower sulfur as a solution to environmental problems content at 10 ppm, and convert fuel Performance resulting from incomplete combustion. oils from our production process to the Performance At the end of 2019, Thaioil also started kind of fuels that are higher in value distributing B10 diesel, in line with and more environmentally friendly. This Natural Capital the government policy to increase the will lead to different refined oil blends Natural Capital content of crude palm oil in biodiesel to for Thaioil, which will also respond to support palm oil farmers. The objective the future needs of the market. Adis to create a balance of palm oil, in ditionally, our companies in the petroReduction of greenhouse gas which the government has determined chemicals group, such as TOP Solvent emissions, Reduction ofequivalent to gas greenhouse that the B10 diesel will be the standard diesel grade for general diesel cars in Thailand. Meanwhile, the B7 diesel will Company Limited, have expanded business to new markets, including Vietnam, Myanmar, and Indonesia. We 842,699 emissions, equivalent to 842,699 tons carbon dioxide through be the alternative fuel for old cars and have continued to plan to increase the avoided tons carbon emission products dioxide through (i.e. gasohol avoided and biodiesel) emission products European cars, while the B20 diesel will share of specialty products that are (i.e. gasoholbyand consumed endbiodiesel) users be the alternative fuel for large trucks. environmentally friendly, and promote consumed by end users research and development to support product development in the future. CUSTOMER SERVICE Thaioil and Subsidiaries give importance to working closely with customers, both in terms of cooperating to deliver products according to customer needs and, most importantly, delivering excellent customer service. For our oil refinery business, Thaioil is aware of the increase in domestic demand of fuel. In 2019, Thaioil supported government policy through starting to distribute B10 diesel fuel for trucks and public buses in December 2019. This has contributed to the reduction of air pollution and environmental problems resulting from incomplete combustion. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 085 To facilitate convenience for our and impacts to the environment, as customers promptly and effectively, and customers and build customer well as ensure that our customers are increasing convenience for customers satisfaction, and to help build provided with the necessary information in reporting issues and suggestions. competitive ability and our capacity and knowledge to support their decisionCustomers are able to report issues to respond to increasing customer making and to guide them in using and share suggestions to us through demands, Thaioil has improved our and maintaining our products safely. Thaioil’s website, telephone, and product loading management system We disclose relevant information to email. Thaioil will notify the progress in and process by separating loading our customers without withholding or resolving the issue to customers within docks into docks for trucks receiving the changing facts. Furthermore, we are 24 hours. Our Voice of Customer system same type of products, and docks for also open to thoughts and suggestions collects information in a database trucks receiving a variety of products. in order to use to develop improvement which can show historical files and This will increase the speed of the plans and operation plans, as well as request status, and summarize request product receiving process.The to develop products and services that type. The database is then used to Precise Loading Arm Connection appropriately match the needs of each inform the accurate improvement and Enhancement: PLACE) has been customer group. development of other services. developed by applying digitalization to detect and prevent error of product In 2019, Thaioil: Thaioil also values meeting clients loading arm. • Remained cautious, and monitored regularly to listen to comments and and evaluated heavy metals that exchange perspectives so as to improve Moreover, Thaioil had improved have been identified as hazardand develop future operations, including: financial transaction efficiency through ous by international standards development of the Enterprise Letters • Meeting customers to build good such as ROHS and SVHC; relations and report on current of Bank Guarantee on Blockchain. This initiative can satisfy customer as it • Prepared product safety market situation, both in Thailand is convenient and fast, limits repetitive documents in accordance with and internationally, on a monthly work, high security, and increases the Globally Harmonized System; and quarterly basis; business opportunities. • Managed transport of dangerous • Organizing customer visits to our goods in accordance with the refinery, as well as providing inforFor Thaioil Group’s petrochemicals mation to enhance understanding business, Thaioil is driven to run our UN Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods of the production process and oil production process, product delivery, distribution by vehicle, ship, and and services that are safe for our (UNRTDG); and pipeline; customers and that are environmentally • Promoted customers’ awareness friendly. We will accomplish this and understanding of safe • Organizing activities to develop through developing products and product usage, maintenance, customer relationships by holdservices, advancing new innovations, and storage. ing Sports Day, such as a football and increasing product and service match; and value to continuously respond to Thaioil prioritizes customer satisfaction • Participating in the Bangkok Maracustomer demands. We have also at the forefront of our business through thon Run activity with customers. managed all processes to reduce risks serving, listening, and responding to Social and Relationship Capital The customer engagement survey showed engagement from various Performance operations, resulting in the evaluation of Percentage customer engagement with Thaioil Group 2016 91 of 96%, which was better than the set target. We believe this is a result of our 2017 96 customer relations team’s ability to 2018 96 respond to customer product demands 2019 96 and deliver timely service as required by customers. Target more than 92 086 Human and Organization Development Human and Commitment Thaioil Group continues to strive to care Organization Development for and manage our people with the belief in the value of human resources and the ideology that “stability comes with determined people and refined energy Challenges, Risks, and Impacts creates value (Our Motto: Refining A key internal challenge facing Thaioil Group is the challenge of Values)”. We have defined long-term transforming our business to match our new vision, which aspires goals to be achieved by 2025, including: towards a business model that extends beyond oil refining to cover become a leading organization in energy, chemicals, and other innovations. To confront this challenge, employee productivity management; we must determine an appropriate strategy in managing human and maintain the ability to retain talents organization management to ensure readiness to accomplish the new within the organization, with a voluntary business strategy. Our people and organization management approach resignation rate of no more than 2.6%; must have the capability and readiness to drive our business towards the and keep the workforce productivity level determined vision. This especially applies to accelerate human capital at 75th percentile in comparison to development to increase capacity in completing tasks with excellence, competitors in the same industry. and creating readiness for new businesses. Furthermore, we are currently facing external challenges that require Thaioil has set the Human Capital Index us to change our human and organization management, including: (HCI) as a corporate key performance indicator in measuring human and Business competition and changes in the global business market organization management. The index resulting in the need to accelerate employee development through covers competence development, upskilling to strengthen existing skills and reskilling to increase availability of opportunities to perform, new skills, to ensure readiness for changes and new business and engagement. In 2019, our HCI was models in the future; 73 points, which is better than the set target Changes in the labour market, wherein the proportion of working of 70. Our aim is to raise the HCI score to age population has decreased while the proportion of gig workers 80 points by 2025. has increased, require the organization to change strategy in attracting talents to the organization; With the aforementioned commitment towards human capital management, Diversity in age and behavior of millennials and Generation Z Thaioil Group has determined a human employees, the next generation of leaders in the organization, and organization management strategy means that Thaioil needs to adjust our human resource management that covers human resource planning, strategy in every dimension to ensure that it is appropriate and organizational structure design, elevate employee engagement within our organization; and recruitment, fostering employee Efficient and fast connections allow personnel to work from engagement, human capital development, anywhere at any time, creating innovation in shorter development as well as improvement of processes and periods (Learn Fast, Fail Fast), as well as creating a work application of technologies in creating a environment by using 4Cs experience concepts that help digital ecosystem. These actions support personnel Connect, Collaborate, Communicate and Co-operate us in developing our people and with each other more easily. organization towards efficiency, and strengthening their capabilities in delivering work to meet organizational goals. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 087 Management Approach and Performance Thaioil Group has revised the long term human and organisation management plan, which covers strategic human resource planning, recruitment of quality personnel, capacity development, and fostering employee engagement and retaining talent in the long term, with a focus on instilling corporate culture and the six TOP Core Competencies leadership, business excellence, commercial excellence, innovation, digitalization, and agility to support the vision and corporate strategic plans, and develop Thaioil Group towards becoming a high performance and a healthy organization that can grow sustainably. We have implemented the following key plan as follows: Human Capital and Organization Development Strategy 2020-2030 Thaioil Group has executed workforce productivity improvement through implementation of employee capacity building initiatives for employees of all departments, including technology integration in the work process and consideration of appropriate employment terms, to strengthen competitiveness in overall organizational productivity. Furthermore, we have studied effective organization structure design and strategic human resource planning to support business expansion in accordance with our strategic plan to move beyond oil refining through the Value Chain Enhancement strategy, and prepared human resource and organization management systems in different dimensions to ensure readiness for new businesses to support our Seed the Options strategy. Other than that, we have elevated our proactive Attraction recruitment strategy in order to obtain high-quality personnel to support our business direction and future expansion, through initiatives such as applying digital technology in the recruitment process to streamline the process and collaborating with educational institutions to share various technical knowledge in order to prepare students to enter the workforce, as well as creating an organizational image that can attract our target group to join the organization. Adjust human capital development strategy through creating integrated learning experiences for employees throughout the duration of their employment period (Hire to Retire) with the AGILE Learning Experience program, which focuses on instilling corporate culture, values, and core competencies to support Thaioil’s vision and business expansion. We use a variety of development programs that are modern, diverse, and responsive to the learning needs of each age group (Gen Z, Gen Y, Gen X, Baby Boom), such as digital learning platform and dynamic career management. Additionally, we drive Development human capital development to foster positive attitudes and mindsets, resilience, and confidence in one’s capacity through the Growth Mindset Project. The Project will develop our employees to achieve readiness in supporting organizational transformation and achieving organizational targets with stability. Promote the continuous collection of knowledge and expertise important to business operation, and collect knowledge from the implementation of the Clean Fuel Project (CFP Knowledge Capture), a large-scale project, to create employee knowledge development and to identify and resolve problems by using stored knowledge to improve future operations. In addition, Thaioil promotes expansion of scope of knowledge management, and is developing a human capital Knowledge management system that will standardize management in all Thaioil Group companies, to expand our knowledge base Management and promote learning within Thaioil Group. Enhance the quality of life of our people in all four dimensions (financial, health, social, and mental) through the Well-being @ TOP initiative to create work-life balance and strengthen the relationship between employees and the organization through flexible benefits. We also enhance the level of communications and relationships within the organization through using digital technology to manage data and build relationships to create a sense of belonging in the Thaioil family. Furthermore, we promote physical and mental healthcare for employees through preventive healthcare measures. We Retention use technology to forecast risks of disease and provide recommendations in proper healthcare, as well as organize a mental care project to create awareness and self-care of mental health for our employees through a variety of activities to reduce stress. We also encourage supervisors of all departments to continuously carry out activities to strengthen relationships within the department. Focus on creating an organizational culture and working behavior through employees of all levels. All employees must have a strong foundation of corporate iTOP+ values. We also focus on instilling digitalization and innovation values in our employees to facilitate the application of technology in increasing work efficiency and increase business opportunities through innovation. Culture 088 Human and Organization Development Management Approach ATTRACTION: Strategic Workforce Planning and Talent Attraction Management Approach Thaioil Group operates under a framework of strategic workforce planning A Automation Thaioil developed the E-Smart interview program to use in the recruitment process on the Digital Platform to accelerate the recruitment and selection process, which is considered as the starting Process point for development of the recruitment and selection process to be which aligns with our business direction Recruitment and strategy to be used efficiently in the modern and efficient. recruitment planning process, with a continued emphasis on recruiting high potential personnel with good characG Global Thaioil expanded the capacity of recruiting and selecting, and hired highly professionals from abroad and Thais with overseas experience to support the increased number of employees in accordance to Recruitment teristics to fit the organization, through business needs. the four recruitment process types (4B), as follows: Build: Accept and develop new I Inspiring& Thaioil formed alliances with educational institutions in order to expand the base of applicant to diverse career target groups, according to business needs and collaborate with educational institutions to develop graduates Creating Candidates courses, create experiences through work observation, and internships Buy: Recruit experienced employees Experience to nurture the quality of target personnel in various educational with high potential institutions and prepare them to work in the organization. Borrow: Borrow employees with fixed-term contracts from affiliate groups Bring-in: Employ with defined duration LLean RC Thaioil improved the recruitment and selection process to be more streamlined for faster and more efficient recruitment and selection Process process, which is able to respond to business needs in a timely manner. In 2019, Thaioil used the AGILE recruitment strategy to attract interest in our target groups and to increase their confidence in Thaioil Group’s ability to secure stable and sustainable growth alongside E Thaioil organized activities to publicize the organization image to be stable and modern to meet the new generation of personnel through the Brand Employer Ambassador and Career Day initiatives, in addition to demonstrating employees who are talented and happy Branding the working environment through VRT and AR technology to attract with their work. Initiatives include: target applicants whose values are consistent with the organization. Various activities in accordance with our strategy have supported Thaioil Group in attracting employees and upholding our short-term and medium-term business plans and targets. Performance Ability to recruit Percentage of total number Application rate (potential candidates) of vacant positions increased by 40% 85% 85% 92% 100%* Human Capital Reduced lead time of recruitment Target from to 75 60 80% days days Students benefited from Social and 212 scholarships 2016 2017 2018 2019 Remark: * In 2019, the Company was able to recruit employees to support current business, meeting 100% of the target set, and was able to recruit 48% more employees than in 2018 to support Relationship Capital business need for future business expansion. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 089 DEVELOPMENT: Human Capital Development Management Approach Based on an evaluation of impacts from external and before they join Thaioil Group to retirement. We have internal contexts – namely, digitalization, demographic applied this framework in developing our employees changes, our strategic focus on extending the value for two consecutive years now, using the 70-20-10 chain beyond oil refining, expanding petrochemicals development principle. The 70-20-10 development business, and investing in new businesses, and diffirent principle does not only emphasize training, but also gives types of learning by different age group – Thaioil Group value to learning from others and applying knowledge to has determined a proactive strategy and a framework real work. Additionally, we have applied technology to for learning called AGILE to ensure employee readiness help employees learn more efficiently. In 2019, we have in driving organizational strategy. The AGILE framework continued to focus our efforts on learning programs that is a framework for employee development, starting from cover employees of various groups. VISION : Empower Human Life through Sustainable Energy and Chemicals MISSION : To enrich stakeholders’ well-being and deliver sustainable returns build upon innovation, technology and resilient portfolio with top class management and accountable corporate governance Strengthen the Core Value Chain Enhancement Seed the Options AGILE Learning Framework to Drive Strategic Objectives Attract Adapt Groom Inspire Lifelong Learning Exit Attract and develop Create readiness Develop competency Enhance Support learning Maintain and applicants’ for new personnel by focusing on management and dynamics and transfer knowledge capabilities in to be adaptable to increasing leadership create a system of from generation to accordance with the organization. capabilities capabilities to methods that generation, adding organizational necessary to enable employees enable employees value to work standards and perform according to advance with to participate in and create increase educational to current duties. their career in future knowledge sustainability for opportunities. the future. development. the organization. Gen Z Gen Y Gen X Baby Boom Employment Create quality of life through digital experiences Retirement 090 Human and Organization Development Generation Z Thaioil uses the Attract & Adapt strategy to support younger generations in attaining readiness before entering into the workforce. The strategy touches on not only our new employees, but also others who may benefit from this resource. In this period, the emphasis is on providing sufficient knowledge, skills, and capabilities for work, including adaptation skills to work with confidence and stability (Strong Start). Our main initiatives in 2019 include: Scholarship grants given to students in order to expand educational opportunities, with over 200 scholarships granted to undergraduate and graduate students across Thailand in 2019; Collaboration with educational institutions through the Thaioil Academy program to develop courses and provide needed resources and support, such as equipment, speakers, and experts, to develop students with the knowledge and skills needed by industry; and The “Check in Our Future” program, an orientation program for new employees that provides them with basic knowledge about Thaioil, including management systems and corporate values, through activity based learnings to provide new employees with diverse learning experiences. Generation Y&X Employees from this generation possess some work experience and may have already progressed towards senior positions. Employee development for members of this demographic includes three main components: Groom them through focusing on strengthening their capabilities to ensure that they can achieve their full potential while completing tasks; Inspire employees through developing talented employees, leaders, and successors towards career growth paths that empower them to become good leaders; and Lifelong Learning, where we encourage employees to learn on their own through online channels, appreciate the connections between different dimensions of their work, and apply these connections to create in their work. In 2019, our main initiatives resulted in 2,634 million THB worth of business benefits, including: Course Target Group Development Approach Benefits Generated Idea Challenge (Project that All employees Training, instructor-led training, A prototype of the application that solved the provides digital knowledge) and on the job training specified challenge Production Planning Course Employees in the economics Training, studying practices Improvements in the LP model that more and production planning abroad, work experience with accurately reflected the actual production team experts, and on the job training process, which allowed Thaioil to plan crude oil purchase and production more efficiently. Oil and Chemical Spill Employees in the Training, work experience with Improvements in the database and forecasts of Course environment team experts, and on the job training oil movement or chemical spills Increasing Production Employees in the oil refinery Training combined with on the job Improvements in equipment used within the Efficiency Course operating team training refinery Improvements in process efficiency Reduction in energy consumption and emission released into the environment Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 091 Furthermore, Thaioil Group has developed the Dynamic Career Project, a project that develops employees with talent through focusing on developing experiences along the career path and encouraging employees to develop knowledge, skills, and Performance abilities through on the job learning whether that be special project assignments or assignments to work with other companies to support business development. At the same time, Thaioil develops leadership skills in our employees to allow them Number of employee development hours to progress towards becoming leaders of the future. The Dynamic categorized by development types Career Project also serves as a strategy to retain this group of per person per year employees in the long-term. In 2019, a total of 15 employees Training (10) participated in the Project. Hours 2016 60 In 2019, Thaioil Group encouraged employees to continuously 2017 50 pursue learning by themselves through purchasing and developing 2018 71 online learning channels. In the past year, 224 employees studied 2019 75 a total of 247 online learning courses through SkillLane, equivalent to approximately 4 hours of learning per person per year. As for our own courses, Thaioil has developed a total of 55 courses, which Coaching and On-the-job (OTJ) learning (20-70) have been accessed and used by approximately 300 employees. Hours 2016 176 2017 214 2018 198 2019 203 Gen X & Baby Boom Average training and development hours Employees in this demographic group have accumulated valuable per person per year experiences within the company for a long period of time. Thaioil Hours 2016 236 Group uses the Exit development strategy, which focuses on 2017 264 knowledge management through knowledge exchange and 2018 269 retention, and transfers of skills and experiences between 2019 278 generations. This is to ensure that our competitive advantage is maintained and sustainability is achieved. To support this strategy, we had the following initiatives in 2019: Proportion of employees who have completed Knowledge management for working groups that are SME employee development according to individual development plans (IDP Progress) Percent (Subject Matter Experts) and COE (Center of Excellence), which include positions that have in-depth knowledge or knowledge and 2016 82 2017 85 experience that is accumulated only after a long period of time, 2018 99 and are positions that are highly significant to the organization. 2019 90 For the first phase, we have commenced this initiative for groups Target 90 working in the refinery, by identifying which positions are COE and SME, and establishing development roadmaps and managing information gathered from the knowledge sharing from the Employee development expenses Million THB expert of that position. 2016 405 2017 417 With employee development following the AGILE framework, 2018 447 encouraging employees to pursue learning on their own through 2019 474 online channels, and increased application of knowledge, the number of employee development hours of Thaioil Group increased from 269 hours to 278 hours, with a total of 474 million THB of learning and development costs. 092 Human and Organization Development KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT Management Approach In 2019, Thaioil has continuously driven management following our Knowledge the collection, sharing, and application Management plan. The committees Performance of knowledge from the day-to-day are also responsible for enhancing work experiences of specialized knowledge management through employees and employees who are integrating knowledge management nearing retirement. We have also into day-to-day activities, in order to undertaken additional initiatives to ensure that knowledge management collect important knowledge on operatis convenient for employees and is ing the Clean Fuel Project, which is a implemented in the same direction with large-scale refinery expansion project, business direction. Intellectual Capital and expand our database towards all Thaioil Group companies. We have used Additionally, Thaioil has promoted a variety of approaches in collecting data, such as online documents, videos, interviews, and summaries, to the organization of KM Workshops for the knowledge management committee, the committee consisting 381 knowledge created ensure that accessing, learning, and of function representatives charged that increased business benefits, applying this knowledge is convenient with promoting knowledge manageequivalent to and appropriate for all age groups. Additionally, we have allocated time to share knowledge related to project ment in each function. Through these workshops, the function representatives in the knowledge 2,174 million THB operations to create a space for management committee will be efficient collaborative learning and trained on knowledge, approaches, problem solving. and methods in managing knowledge and promoting knowledge manageThaioil has also supported and ment. They will be able to support promoted sustainable knowledge employees in managing knowledge, management through establishing a efficiently transferring knowledge committee and a working committee from one generation to the other, on knowledge management. The and organize knowledge managecommittees are tasked with enhancing ment plans for each function to be our employees’ capabilities and responsive towards the needs and to continuously drive knowledge learning approach of each function. Based on the aforementioned initiatives, Thaioil has expanded our knowledge database to three companies within Thaioil Group; namely, TOP Solvent Company Limited, Thaioil Marine Company Limited, and Sakchaisit Company Limited, to support expansion in our chemicals business in the future. There are also 31 representatives from other functions that have joined the committee for knowledge management, and they have helped support and drive employees in their functions in competing with their knowledge, a total of 381, through Thaioil Wisdom and Innovation Award event in 2019. Benefits created were valued at 2,174 million THB. That said, the Thaioil Wisdom and Innovation Award in 2019 has expanded type of knowledge accepted for the contest to include knowledge related to prototypes and ideas, to promote innovation and application of knowledge in the future. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 093 RETENTION & CULTURE: Employee Retention Management Approach 01 Thaioil Group gives importance to the KPI Setting: Thaioil Group will determine indicators and targets at the corporate level opinions of employees through various and cascade these metrics in a waterfall or top down method to the division, function, channels CEO Connect, a quarterly department, and individual employee levels. Employees can also suggest indicators event where our CEO meets and chats and targets that align with corporate indicators and targets through the bottom up with employees and supervisors; regular method. Supervisors and employees can agree on goals to work towards together conversations between supervisors and in order to create participation and togetherness in accomplishing the same targets. employees; and the annual employee engagement survey, where results are used 02 to complete an in-depth analysis to guide Mid-Year Review: Thaioil Group provides employees with the opportunity to review us in implementing both individual and goals and indicators in the middle of the year, and supports by supervisors through collective initiatives projects to care for coaching and providing feedback on their performance. If there are any factors that our people. We undertake these initiatives would prevent employees from meeting their goals, their supervisors may suggest a as a way to continuously improve upon review of the plan, including indicators and goals. our human and organization management, 03 and promote employee satisfaction and Year-End Review : Thaioil Group gives importance to reviewing employee engagement from the first day of employment performance by providing advice and feedback in order to ensure employees’ to retirement. Initiatives are developed to progress towards a better performance. This includes reviewing achieved goals to suit the diversity in each generation. act as a basis in setting the following year’s goals. Additionally, employees are given Based on evaluating survey results and the opportunity to evaluate their own performance with their supervisors according recommendations given by employees in to the goals that both parties have discussed and agreed upon. the 2018 annual employee engagement 04 survey, Thaioil conducted the following Staff Discussion & Ranking: Thaioil Group requires a transparent performance activities in 2019 to increase employee evaluation process that is fair towards their employees by allowing employees satisfaction and engagement: to evaluate their own performance and supervisors presenting the content at the With regards to our performance management department meeting. The CEO will be the president and the Executive Vice President system, we review and develop tools in (EVP) will be a judge in the department meeting where performance will be based evaluating employee performance to ensure on tangible results, and is evidence-based. that there is clarity and transparency. We also 05 promote communication to create mutual Staff Report Reading: The supervisors will discuss employees’ performance understanding between supervisors and with them in regards to achievements and suggestions for creative improvement, employees. We use the following six steps: as well as provide encouragement and guidelines on how to continue developing (Dec Mar) themselves in the following year. KPI Sett ing 06 an ) 1 Rewarding: According to the performance of the organization, and with the approval -J l) g rdin PerSfoerttminagnce (Ju r of the human resources committee, Thaioil Group will raise wages for employees. ( De c Yeaw Rewa 6 2MidRevie This acts as an incentive for better performance and to propel employees towards AN D Perfeormanc PL career advancement. R ward e O AC CK n T CHE atio ort a lu Ye a Rep g v 5 3 R e vr E n (No Staff adin ) Perfo r m a n ce E iew d R e (O ec ctv-D Nov 4 ) Staff Discussion & R ankin g (O ct-Nov) 094 Human and Organization Development Career Development Subject matter expert career track that will support and retain specialized experts within the organization was developed. And, create career growth opportunities that are appropriate as well as designing organizational structure that will accommodate growth for the subject matter experts in the future. Rewards and Recognition Thaioil Group promotes the retention of quality employees within the organization in the long term. Beyond providing welfare and benefits that are competitive with other leading companies in the industry, we have initiatives to motivate and demonstrate appreciation for employees who have completed a particular number of service years through the long service emblem ceremony for employees who have reached 10, 15, 20, and 40 years of service. During the ceremony, these employees will be awarded with souvenirs and thanked by Thaioil’s executive team. Enhancing collaboration between employees in the organization through the Employee Well-being Idea Challenge initiative Thaioil promotes employee well-being through caring for employees in every dimension of life, including health, financial, social, and mental, to respond The Company encourages employees to employee needs during this changing era. Our initiatives are listed below. to participate in submitting ideas. This program promotes collaboration between employees of different ages in the current Promoting Health includes Promoting financial stability Promoting social and working environment. The idea that wins development of a Wellthrough providing knowledge mental well-being the competition is then developed and Being Application to in financial management for Social and Mental Wellapplied in the organization through the motivate employees employees in different age Being is supported #PLAY project. We use the digital platform in better caring for their groups (Wealth Managethrough the application to promote employee creativity, and health through different ment Program), including the that promotes collaboraorganize different activities outside work activities for health. The wealth program for new staff, tion within the organization for employees to participate in. Through application is also a platlife planning aged 41-45, through activities that organizing activities that bring employees form where employees how to lead a wealth above connect employees with with similar interests together, we build can access information 50, and wealth program for different interests, such employee engagement and good related to health, including pre-retirement. as the mindful leader employee relations while also fostering results of the annual health program and a retiring a sense of belonging within the Thaioil survey. We also organize e m p l o y e e s c l u b . We family. annual health check-ups also study employee and activities promoting engagement within the Upgrading employee communication well-being, such as walking organization and organize efficiency and running. other engagement activities. The appropriate communication channels have been developed for changed Continuously creating a corporate culture The values on iTOP+is identified as one employee behavior in the digital age of the human and organization management strategies that must be consistently through applying digital technologies in strengthened and driven. Especially in 2019, Thaioil has focused on creating creating new channels of communication values of innovation and digitalization to ensure that our organization can drive our that can serve employees with different vision, mission, and growth strategy. We also promote supervisors in all functions information at all times, Rhino-Bot, and a to organize activities that are appropriate for the employees of each function in two-way communication channel through order to foster good relationships and connections of employees towards the LINE Official Account: PM4U. function, and therefore the organization. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 095 Employees received regular Employee engagement performance reviews Performance 100 100 100 100 84 89 85 90 Target 100 Target more than Human Capital 83 of employees received 100% regular performance reviews 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employee satisfaction Voluntary turnover rate 90% employee engagement 83 92 96 89 2.37 1.60 1.76 1.16 Target Target Not exceed more than 2.60 89% employee satisfaction 83 employee voluntary 2016 2017 2018 2019 1.16% turnover rate 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit: Percentage Initiatives undertaken in the past year to manage employee engagement have been extremely successful, as reflected by our performance in employee engagement, satisfaction, and turnover rates, which all achieved set targets. Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment Challenges, Risks, and Impacts Thaioil aspires to continue the reThaioil operates business in ways that maintain harmony with communities fining petroleum and petrochemical in all dimensions, including environmental, natural resources, social, and business despite the backdrop of economic aspects. We mitigate any potential impacts that may occur competitive markets and constant to society and communities in order to maintain good relationships with changes. The Company strives communities during business expansion. to succeed under the framework of operational excellence and Management Approach and Performance principles of good governance. Management System Both serve as a foundation for good and transparent business The Board has designated a policy and management approach for corporate operationcoupled with our social responsibility, as well as continuous performance monitoring. The unwavering commitment to Company has established a management and dedicated working function stakeholders, the environment, to oversee corporate social responsibility activities, including planning communities, and societies strategies, drafting long-term development plans, conducting onsite will facilitate Thaioil towards visits to engage with surrounding communities and remote communities, sustainable development. and reporting performance. Performance will be reported to Corporate Governance Committee quarterly, and communicated to employees to In 2019, our community engagement follow systematically. score was 93.32%. The initial target set is for community Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy engagement to reach or exceed 85% by 2020. As an addition to 01 Strive to develop business’s sustainable growth coupled with environmental the Thaioil Job Training Community stewardship and care with due regards to the impact on the community and society as a whole. Center program, Thaioil has organized the Course Training 02 Bring upon knowledge, experience, and expertise in engineering and energy Project to train communities business to support social development with focus on the use of natural resources for utmost benefits under the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy with fundamental job skills, for self-reliance sustainably. including knowledge in conducting business in small and 03 Implement corporate social responsibility projects by focusing on medium-sized enterprises (SME) community’s participation in collaboration with local organizations in the public sectors. and establishing a market for com04 Promote Thaioil Group employees’ participation while instill corporate social munity projects. responsibility values and corporate culture. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 097 In 2019, Thaioil developed a social enterprise strategic plan that supports and Corporate Social Responsibility develops the country’s public health. The plan is under the framework of Strategy 01 Sustainable Energy Conduct social activities by focusing on projects that affect the operation of the network of Thaioil. for Health Care 02 Cover the four areas: education, Thaioil has executed a project to install solar-based electricity generation energy and natural resources, conservation of the environment, system for hospitals. This will enhance the hospitals’ energy security, elevate their and quality of life. The strategy capacity to provide medical treatments for the public, and reduce their financial is to achieve self-reliance and burden for the aforementioned fees. The installation also decreases greenhouse sustainability. gas emissions through reducing fossil fuel consumption, and promoting development of Low Carbon Community pilots. Thaioil has made use of our expertise 03 Manage networking and collaboration in engineering and energy to innovate for the public health’s greater good – with PTT institutions, and agencies relieving them form the financial burden and reducing energy consumption. In with expertise and are highly respected by society. 2020, the Company continues to lay out plans with partners to develop innovation in energy for hospitals or public medical centers. With objective of the project to 04 Promote the participation of increase the efficiency of electricity system through replacing medical equipment stakeholders, such as government that are more energy efficient, as well as promotes the shift away from fossil agencies, customers, suppliers, and fuel dependence through solar cell system installation. These efforts facilitate employees in the CSR. environmental responsibility and cost reduction. Community Needs Assessment and Engagement in Communities Surrounding Operations Community Needs Assessment Approach Thaioil Group conducts community relation activities with communities surrounding the refinery according to the 3-synchronization model. This comprises of Thaioil Group, the 10 surrounding communities, and public agencies – namely, Laem Chabang district, Laem Chabang Hospital, and academic institutions. Activities are conducted according to our “5 Together” conceptual framework, which is think together, act together, correct together, learn together, and develop together. This ensures communities are engaged in their own development, and are self-sufficient and able to become a strong community. Activities are categorized into four themes, comprising of social, religion, traditions, and culture; health; education; and environment. Thaioil adheres to the principle of holistic development, and has the following mechanisms to acknowledge community’s needs. 3 Synchronization Model: Aside from Small Group Public Hearing: Through Community Engagement Survey: Conensuring that accurate and reliable the platforms with smaller mobile units or ducting by an independent, third-party Company communication to communities, public discussions, communities eager to agency. The survey covers community’s there is also a ‘speaking locally’ session. request for information or clarification on satisfaction with community relations This session gives space for each any projects can do so through the head of activities organized by the Company. community’s representative to present community’s committee. The head will then Survey results are then analyzed and issues or feedback regarding Thaioil’s inform on-site officers to acknowledge, utilized to make further plans for the operation, enabling the Company to take actions, and share performance to future. In 2019, community engagement look into and resolve the issue, and the community. surveys was at 93.32%, which was ultimately develop long-term solutions better than the target of 85%. and prevention measures. 098 Corporate Social Responsibility Progress of 2019 Project Implementation and 2020 Plan Project Type Priority Status Objectives CSR Nearby Refinery Construction of Thaioil Building for Laem Quality of Life Commenced operations on To promote public health and quality of life for Chabang Hospital in Sriracha, Chonburi 1st October 2019 Sriracha residents. CONNEXT ED Project to develop Education In 2019, the “Light for To develop leaders and quality teachers who can leadership skills (in collaboration with the Better Life” Project was manage STEM education and enhance their PTT Group) completed for 10 schools. developments in English skills, and apply electrical Development initiatives in engineering expertise in developing school English and STEM are infrastructure. ongoing and will be continued in 2020. (New) Community Job Training Center near Quality of Life In 2019, a project to increase To strengthen community’s capacity through Health and Learning Center community incomes was job training for local residents in Sriracha area, implemented to explore and the project has already been implemented community needs. In 2020, via Thaioil's Health and Learning Center. the project will be developed as part of the Community Job Training Center Project. (New) Crab Bank, Community Fishery Environmental Conducting feasibility study To create a balanced coastal resource management Center and Local Marketplace Conservation with communities in the area system, serving as crab hatchery and conservation, prior to them being released to the sea. This builds sustainability for fishery industry. Solar Cell Installation for Koh Sichang Energy and Installed a 53.46-KW solar To promote the use of alternative energy in Hospital Natural panel system on the hospital replacement of electricity generated from the diesel Resources rooftop generator, which is unstable. Baan Khao Yhai Community Forest at Bo Environmental Planted 30 trees and built To develop green spaces within the 1,283-Rai, reduce Thong with the Royal Forest Department Conservation a fire lookout in Baan Khao greenhouse gas emissions, and create a forest fire and the Thailand Greenhouse Gas Yhai Community Forest of lookout that will develop knowledge towards forest Management Organization (TGO) 1,238 Rai conservation and awareness for local communities. (New) Community Forest Project in Chonburi, Environmental Conducting onsite To promote sustainable community forest in collaboration with the Royal Forest Conservation feasibility study and MOU management, strengthenthe capacity of community Department and the Thailand Greenhouse forests to act as greenhouse gas (carbon) sinks, Gas Management Organization (TGO) and enhance communities’ quality of life. (New) Green Space and Communal Space Environment and Conducting feasibility study To increase green spaces to be used as greenhouse Project for communities around the refinery Quality of Life gas (carbon) sinks, provide spaces for community use to exercise and improve their health and well-being, and a center for exchanging local cultures. (New) Swimming, football, and futsal skill Quality of Life In planning phase To promote youth health and well-being and developments for youths around the refinery to encourage productive use of spare time. Country Development Alternative Energy and Philosophy of Energy and Installed a 10-KW hybrid To address issues in the electricity system at the end Sufficiency Economy (PSE) Education Natural solar system with a 9.6-KW of transmission lines, which have resulted in frequent Center at the Baan Huay Tong Border Resources energy storage system blackouts and associated issues in storing fresh Patrol Police School at Nopphitam District, ingredients for students’ lunch meals, and Nakohn Si Thammarat Province, per to expand the electricity transmission to Health Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn’s initiative Promotion Hospital in Baan Huay Tong, a hospital located nearby. This enables more efficient vaccine and serum storage for the public. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 099 Project Type Priority Status Objectives Rooftop solar power electricity generation Energy and Installed a 40-KW solar To enhance energy security for medical services, project at Thanyarak Hospital, Mueng Natural panel system on the reduce the hospital’s electricity expenses, and to District, Mae Hong Sorn Province Resources hospital’s rooftop. promote development of Low Carbon Community (Hospital for Recovering Addicts in the Smart City Project in remote areas. Northern Region) PTT Group CSR & Social Enterprise Development Café Amazon for Chance at Laem Quality of Life Commenced commercial To create jobs for those underprivileged, ensuring Chabang Hospital in Sriracha District, operations on 9th July 2019 they have full-time employment, hence elevating their Chonburi Province and hired 3 baristas with quality of life. The target group is underprivileged hearing disabilities. All individuals in Chonburi areas, such as people with baristas were students disabilities, elderly, teenage mothers, underserved from Sotachon Suksa students, and workforce in the area. School, Bangsaen, Chonburi Province. “OUR Khung Bang Kachao” Green Space Environmental Participated in the working To develop water baseline data and community water Development and Conservation Project Conservation team on water resource management mechanism. The plan comprises of 3 development and erosion components, which are human capital development management, and through science and technology, detailed mapping supported the installation of Khung Bang Kachao, and installation of automatic of Automatic Telemeter to water telemeter. Monitor Water Situation and Quality Project. Employee Voluntary Culture “Run For the World” in His Majesty’s Honor; Quality of Life and Ongoing and to be To foster environmental volunteerism, and promote run, walk and collect the distance which Environmental continued in 2020 good health and well-being. can be traded for tree plantation Conservation TOP Way of Conduct CSR for subsidiaries Quality of Life Ongoing and to be To foster volunteerism and elevate the CSR work in the Group (TS/SAKC/TM) continued in 2020 system. Charity Bowling to support Thaioil Group’s Quality of Life Ongoing and to be To raise funds for Thaioil Group’s volunteering fund, volunteering fund continued in 2020 which serves to promote employees in proposing CSR activities or projects and to support employees affected by natural disasters. (New) Promote employees to do Environmental In planning phase To raise employee awareness of social and environcommunity service Conservation and mental responsibility. Quality of Life CSR Networking & Branding 2019 Thaioil’s 1st Fine Arts Contest Quality of Life Ongoing and to be To promote students’ artistic capacity in creating their continued in 2020 own arts, and share their works of art to the general public; and allow for exchange of artistic knowledge. PTT Group Disaster Management Environmental Ongoing and to be To create a network, and develop system and human Conservation and continued in 2020 capital in assisting those affected by natural disasters Quality of Life in a broader scale. 100 Corporate Social Responsibility How we contribute Input (% of cost incurred) Cash donations Management overheads Performance Charitable donations of approximately of approximately Commercial initiatives Community 32.26% 19.31% 65 million THB 24 million THB investment 48.44% In-kind giving of Value of volunteering time of approximately What we support (% of cost incurred) 2 million THB 7 million THB Promotion of Education 17% 3% Output Community Quality of Life Energy & Natural Resource Development Environmental 71% 9% 15 CSR activities/projects Conservation Value Creation Framework for Society and Community Development Priorities Education Environmental Energy and Quality of Life (SDG target 4.3) Conservation Natural Resource (SDG target 3.8) (SDG target 13.1) (SDG target 7a) (SDG target 8.3) (SDG target 13.3) Approach Support initiatives, Manage operational • Develop alternative • Support access to collaborate with academic process and reduce energy source employment and institutions, and grant greenhouse gas emissions • Promote efficient promote public health scholarships energy consumption for local communities 2022 Goals • Develop and support • Plant over 200,000 • Install solar systems in • Organize over 100 teachers and youths trees over 50 hospitals and additional job training alike in various • Help reduce medical centers. programs. aspects, from general greenhouse gas • Generate over 3,000 • Over 500 local education, English, emissions, equivalent kilowatts of solar beneficiaries science, sports, arts, to 2,000 ton carbon cell-based energy. participate in job and many more, and dioxide training programs. generate benefits • Reduce at least 5 for more than 5,000 million THB of electricity • Create work beneficiaries. costs for hospital per opportunities for those month (applicable to with disabilities and all hospitals with the underprivileged, and installation). generate benefits for more than 200 beneficiaries. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 101 Priorities Education Environmental Energy and Quality of Life (SDG target 4.3) Conservation Natural Resource (SDG target 3.8) (SDG target 13.1) (SDG target 7a) (SDG target 8.3) (SDG target 13.3) Value • A total of 89 teachers • Reduced • Installation of solar • Organized 4 job Created and 1,846 students approximately 100 system at Ko Sihang trainings with over 150 for Society were trained in theton carbon dioxide Hospital, at Sichang participants from 10 CONNEXT ED Project. equivalent by 10,000 District, Chonburi communities in 2019 plantation, from Province. The capacity • A total of 60 youths The 1st time from 10 communities “Forests against was approximately Global Warming 50 kilowatt A training on traditional received futsal training Thai desserts, making from Thaioil Group’s Project” in honour • Installation of rooftop of His Majesty’s and Ja-Mongkut and youth futsal training. solar system for Jeep Nok Run for the World. Thanyarak hospital in • A total of 100 youths The 2nd time from 10 communities Mae Hong Son. The capacity was A training participated in Thaioil on traditional Thai Group’s youth football approximately 40 kilowatt. desserts, making training. of Tako and modern • Undergraduate art • Installation of a hybrid twist of Sai-sai students, from first solar system at Baan Huay Tong Border The 3rd time year to senior year, A training on traditional participated in a Patrol Police School at Nopphitam District, Thai desserts, making contest whose theme Kulab-Chan Fa and was “The happiness Nakohn Si Thammarat Province. The capacity Tua Pab of Thais”. A total of 18 awards were given. was approximately The 4th time 10 kilowatt, equipped Making dumplings and with a 9.6 KW-energy steamed buns storage system. • 5,894 beneficiaries from Dental Health Project Value • Generated a total of 30 million THB of corporate public relation value (PR value) from social development activities. Created to • Created corporate volunteering culture in contributing back to society. In 2019, a total of 1,302 Thaioil Group employees Business in volunteered in 15 projects, which was equivalent to a total of 10,416 volunteering hours. 2019 • Community engagement was at 93.32% • The ability to recruit new staff reached up to 100% of total required vacant positions, achieved the plan. 102 Corporate Social Responsibility Surrounding Community Development Project Highlights Thaioil Building for Laem Chabang Hospital Background Thaioil prioritizes supporting and developing communities around the Company’s refinery. Aspects cover education, public health, religion, cultures and traditions, as well as environmental conservation. Thaioil’s building construction is another project demonstrating its commitment in uplifting the public’s quality of life regarding public health. Performance Objectives Thaioil building was constructed to serve as a 5-floor accident and emergency treatment building, with over 5,000 square meters of space for usage. The building is designed according to the Ministry Elevate the level of of Public Health’s standard. The construction was supervised by a knowledgeable and expert team medical care for Laem of Thaioil engineers. Design of the working space was done in collaboration with doctors and nurses Chabang residents, of Laem Chabang Hospital. The Thaioil building was designed to serve as a pilot surgery treatment ensuring accessibility building, aiming to be one of the most modern and hygienic buildings in Chonburi. Thaioil provided and effectiveness 100 million THB of financial support for building construction, and collaborated with the Laem Chabang District and Laem Chabang Hospital in setting up the “Laem Chabang Hospital Accident Prepare emergency and Emergency Treatment Building Support Fund”.We supported fundraising efforts that raised response capacity and over 80 million THB from companies, stores, and the general public. The fund was used to support ensure readiness to construction of different operational systems, such as the air conditioning system and the medical gas provide medical treatment supply system. The coordinated efforts resulted in the Thaioil building being completed and opened in the event of accidents to the public on 1st October 2019. This building increases the hospital’s effectiveness for important Mitigate risks of deaths and time-sensitive services, such as emergency room, surgery room, delivery room, neonatal and disabilities intensive care unit, chemical washrooms, and a separated room for those with respiratory diseases. The project reduces overcrowded conditions, leading to lower risks of deaths and disabilities for locals. Mitigate issues of The hospital is also able to treat more patients, with increased capacity from 165 beds to 250 beds. overcrowding in patients Furthermore, the project serves as a symbol illustrating collaboration between the public, private, awaiting treatment and local governmental agenciesto provide treatments for those suffering from illness or accidents. Corporate public relations value (PR Value) 3.87 million THB Total volunteering hours 136 hours Video for the opening ceremony of Laem Chabang Building Thaioil Group’s Dental Clinic for Schools Background Activity Cavities and other oral conditions affect people “Dental Health Campaign”for primary school of all ages, particularly between children of 6-12 students from Years 1 to 6 in eight schools around years old. This age range is important as they face the refinery various changes, physically and socially. Notably, those in this age range would finally have their Objectives real set of 28 adult teeth. To promote students’ oral health. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 103 Performance 1. Arrange for dental health check-up, from cavity filling, removal, coating over teeth gaps, fluoride treatment, plague scraping, and other support to prevent cavities. The support has been provided to schools free of charge since 2010. The operation has been consistent up until present. Students’ oral health has been improving. 2. The rate of gingivitis was at 15.92 among Year 6 students, 12 years old, across eight schools. 3. The rate of DMFT among students across eight schools is at 1.88 Key Statistics for “Dental Clinic for Schools Project” Total numbers of individuals serviced Total expenses on dental care support Average expense/person Overall expenses 5,382 4,831 6,154 5,894 2016 660 3,174,620 2017 530 2,563,178 2018 513 3,153,510 2019 552 3,252,404 Statistics on dental health of students serviced DMFT Rate Percentage of non-gingivitis 2016 1.58 18.78 2017 1.57 11.91 2018 0.92 17.11 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 1.88 15.92 Note DMFT and percentage of non-gingivitis are statistic specific to Year 6 students Laem Chabang Youths to Champion Robe Jumpers Project Background The project commenced in 2012 and has been ongoing. It is organized by the Thailand’s Heart Foundation under the Royal Patronage of H.M. the King. The project creates new sportsmen every year, and continues to enhance their skills. And, trainers in each school has received skill training development. The project covers eight schools in Laem Chabang district, comprising of Wat Mai Nern Payom School, Wat Manorom School, Wat Laem Chabang School, Wat Chak Yai Jeen School, and Laem Chabang 1 and 2 schools, Wat Baan Na School, and Boon Jittawittaya School. Activity Objective Joint-meeting with directors and health education teachers from eight schools to brainstorm and To provide opportunities for youths resolve issues of cavity among students. The issue arises when students have their desserts, but to exercise and have good health; would not brush their teeth afterwards. This also causes obesity among children who do not like increase bone mass density and to exercises. This results in the response plan to encourage youths’ exercise via rope jumping muscle strength for youth; and resupport. It is a budget sport and requires minimal space. It can be played as individuals or as team, duce possibility of heart diseases and is a productive way to spend their leisure time. in the future. Performance In 2019, rules were changed per international standards. Players are separated into two levels, which are professional and novice. It was the first year for multiple foreign participants. There were participants from South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Pakistan, and Malaysia. Within Thailand, there were 1,000 participants coming from 40 schools across the country. Youths in Laem Chabang areas were able to win a total of 7 Princess Sirindhorn’s Cups, out of a total 24 cups. There are now 2-3 more teachers being in charge per school in the past year, along with training seminars for knowledge-sharing sessions on jumping ropes from science and sports experts. 104 Corporate Social Responsibility Participants Project Date Total Players Trainers New Sportsmen to Rope Jumping Champion Project 24 Jul19 190 16 206 “Thaioil Group’s capacity building for rope jumping teachers 15 Aug19 10 10 across 8 schools” Thaioil Jump Rope Test Camp 2019 6-7 Sep19 193 18 211 Competition to Select of Regional Representative 15 Sep19 263 15 278 The 12th Nation-wide His Majesty’s cup 30 Nov19 198 20 218 Graph Demonstrating 10 9 Numbers of His Majesty's 8 7 Cups won between 2015 2019 6 4 2 2 1 Note No competitions were organized in 2017 0 2015 2016 2018 2019 Light for a Better Life Project Background CONNEXT ED in Pracharath Project Objective To bring Thaioil’s engineering knowledge, experience, and expertise to help develop schools’ capacity to prevent electricity-induced fire. This helps reduce risks from electrocution for students and personnel alike. The equipment was changed to be more energy-efficient, and fundamental advice was given on electrical system and tools’ maintenance. Performance Volunteering employees from electrical engineering departments from Thaioil Group to monitor, improve, and fix malfunction and unsafe electrical system. They also installed equipment to protect electrical system, anti-electrocution equipment. Similarly, they improved the lighting system within corridors and classrooms, as well as promoting energy-saving practice by installing LED light bulbs. The project covers 10 schools. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 105 Beneficiaries Investment Year School Teacher/ Students Instructor (THB) 2017 Baan Nong Song Hong School Chonburi 173 14 38,282 2017 Wat Don Sai School, Chacheongsao 135 11 61,756 2018 Wat Prasatsopon School, Chacheongsao 101 7 23,217 2018 Baan Nong Kha School, Chonburi 174 15 162,870 2018 Baan Nong Kayad School, Chonburi 272 16 149,915 2018 Wat Sanamchan School Chacheongsao 217 9 163,960 2018 Wat Laem Chabang School, Chonburi 313 21 172,804 2018 Wat Mai Nern Payom School, Chonburi 612 38 294,815 2019 Wat Manorom School, Chonburi 1,232 63 499,732 2019 Baan Chak Yai Jeen School, Chonburi 614 26 176,578 Corporate public relation values (PR value) 3.04 million THB Number of volunteering hours 2,000 hours Corporate public relation values (PR value) 3.04 million THB Number of volunteering hours 2,000 hours Annex for Projects/ Activities Solar system installation for Koh Sichang Hospital, Koh Sichang District, Chonburi Province Objective To increase electricity stability for Koh Sichang Hospital; help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from reduced fossil fuel consumption; and increase effectiveness of medical treatments for local residents. Electricity generated Performance Thaioil, in collaboration with Global Power Energy 12,110 Electricity generated kilowatt-hours Background Synergy (Plc) “GPSC”, installed a 53.46-KW solar system on Koh Sichang Hospital’s rooftop. The 12,110 Equivalent to kilowatt-hours 9,010 budget was approximately 1,750,000 THB. Each Koh Sichang Hospital company’s electrical engineers participated in onsite is facing issues with Equivalent to 9,010 surveys, work monitoring, both during and after the electricity stability. This is installation. The project launched and starts generating kilograms carbon dioxide reduction because underwater wires electricity in November 2019, and has a social return are torn from ships’ on investment (SROI) value of 113.8% or 1.138 units. kilograms carbon dioxide reduction Cost saving 38,111 anchoring.The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) has solved this issue by Cost saving Baht installing five diesel electricity generators to provide electricity for 38,111 Baht residents and Koh Sichang Hospital. Corporate public relation values (PR value) 1.56 million THB Number of volunteering hours 272 hours Corporate public relation values (PR value) 1.56 million THB Number of volunteering hours 272 hours 106 Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Nation-wide Community Development Project Highlights Solar system installation at Baan Huay Tong Border Patrol Police School at Nopphitam District, Nakohn Si Thammarat Province Background Objective Thaioil implemented an alternative energy To resolve frequent blackouts at border police’s development project as per Princess Sirindhorn’s learning center, which is at the end of the line. The initiative. The project aims to address electricity project achieves this by installing a solar system, instability at border patrol police learning centers which increases the effectiveness of distance in remote areas across Thailand. learning, of preserving food ingredients for students’ lunch, and to increase effectiveness in medicine, vaccine and serum storage for communities. Thaioil’s knowledge in engineering and energy was utilized to help develop alternative energy in remote areas. Performance Installed a 10-KW hybrid solar system, in addition to a 9.6-KW energy storage system. The budget was approximately 1,000,000 THB. The electricity cable has been connected to hospital in Baan Huay Tong Sub-district, locating nearby. This means the hospital is now able to store vaccine and serum, in turn able to benefit the public more effectively. There is also a knowledge-sharing session on alternative energy and solar system for border police officers at Baan Huay Tong, ensuring they can use and maintain the system self-sufficiently. Corporate public relation values (PR value) 1.97 million THB Rooftop solar system installation for Tanyarak Hospital in Mae Hong Sorn Background Thaioil and Global Power Energy Public Company Limited collaborated to support installation of a 40-KW rooftop solar system at Thanyarak Hospital. The cost was approximately 1,800,000 THB. Both companies divided their support in half. As for additional miscellaneous costs incurred, the hospital can seek support from the funds. The project aims to promote energy conservation, part of Mae Hong Sorn Development Program. The program also aims to build Mae Hong Sorn as a pilot energy smart city, through collaboration with the Energy for Environment Foundation. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 107 Objective To enhance electricity stability for medical services and drug rehab treatment; reduce the financial burden of electricity fees for a hospital; and promote the concept development towards energy smart city, “Low Carbon Community”. Hospital’s Development Plan and Management The hospital will utilize the money saved from avoided costs to fund rehabilitation of addicts, job training for recovered patients, and publicizing the project to serve as a model for promoting and expanding solar rooftop installation in Mae Hong Sorn province and other regions. Performance Installed a 40-KW rooftop solar system. The project is completed and is in-between testing. The launch will be in the 1st quarter of 2020. Corporate public relation values (PR value) 0.83 million THB 2019 Social Enterprise and Community Projects with PTT Group Highlights Thaioil Haven for Community at Laem Chabang Hospital, Sriracha District, Chonburi Province Background Objective Thaioil has organized a rental space for Social To create jobs for underprivileged individuals, Enterprise (SE) business. For phase 1, Thaioil has allowing them to have full-time jobs, income co-invested in a Cafe Amazon for Chance branch and elevated quality of life. The focus group is at Laem Chabang Hospital. The Company has those underserved in Chonburi, such as disabled also built more green spaces for Laem Chabang people, elders, teenage mothers, underprivileged Hospital’s usage. students, and local workforce in the area. Performance Cafe'Amazon for Chance commenced commercial operations on 9th July 2019. The cafe hired 3 baristas with hearing disabilities. All baristas were students from Sotachon Suksa School, Bangsaen, Chonburi. It is now conducting a new approach for social enterprises, and will hold an official opening ceremony in the 2nd quarter of 2020. 108 Corporate Social Responsibility OUR Khung Bang Kachao Objective To promote balance between conservation and development; reduce likelihood of disasters; create stability and sustainability for water resource; build a prototype for water resource and improve water storage system and water distribution system, ensuring it is suitable to the area; create a more efficient water management system and conservation; and ensure public engagement in Bang Kachao’s water management. Performance Thaioil collaborated and supported by providing the Company’s volunteering engineers to Background work with the Utokapat Foundation Under Royal Patronage of H.M. the King and the Hydroinformatics Institute. The two have been partners in sustainable water management structure Thaioil joins in as a workand in researching technologies for water management and erosion prevention innovation. ing committee on ‘Water The aim is to achieve maximum efficiency in management. Thaioil also provided financial Resource Development support in installation of automatic water telemeter to monitor water level and water quality. and Erosion Management’ 2019 Volunteer Culture Development Project Highlights “Community Forests Against Global Warming” in His Majesty’s Honor Background Thaioil supports the government sector and the public, collaborating with the Royal Forest Department, Thailand Greenhouse Gas Organization, and Baan Khao Yhai Community, to launch the project “Community Forests Against Global Warming.” The project is at Baan Khao Yhai, Moo 4, Pluang Thong Sub-district, Bo Thong District, Chonburi Province. Objective To support communities in managing community forests sustainably and increase the forest’s capacity in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Performance Planted over 6,000 trees, and recycled raw materials from refinery (iron) to build a forest fire lookout. There is also an assessment to determine greenhouse gas storage capacity of community forests, which span across 1,283 Rai. Amount of greenhouse gas emission reduction is equaivalent to 76,629.153 ton carbon dioxide. Corporate public relation values (PR value) 3.25 million THB Number of volunteering hours 1,008 hours Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 109 “Run for the World” In His Majesty’s Honor Background Thaioil group prioritizes employees’ health and volunteerism. The Company has therefore organized a project for employees to walk and run, and collect the mileage to exchange and contribute for the number of trees planted (5 Kilometers: 1 Tree) Performance There were 258 employees who walked and ran, and collected a total of 11,788 kilometers. Objective Employees were then invited to join in tree planting with Baan Khao Yhai community, Pluang Thong Sub-district, Bo Thong District, Chonburi Province. The plantation area was 20 Rai (or 4,000 trees). To promote employees to have Furthermore, there were also other environmental conservation activities, which include building greater health and even better mineral dirt puddle and weir. community mindset, by engaging them to restore and revitalize the forests. Number of volunteering Number of hours volunteering hours 1,736 1,736 hours hours TOP Way of Conduct Objective To create a community service culture and elevate community works; to create CSR policy, annual community development activities; and to build a community development network with stakeholders. Performance Corporate public relation Background values (PR value) Corporate public relation The TOP Way of Conduct serves as the key policy for corporate management as 1.00 values (PR value) 1.00 million THB a conglomerate. The CSR million THB policy is one of the policies that drives subsidiaries to Number of volunteering hours perform in alignment. 3,280 Number of volunteering hours 3,280 hours hours Activities: TOP Ways of Conduct 2019 110 Corporate Social Responsibility Charity Bowling Supporting Thaioil Group’s Funds for Volunteering Background The fund for Thaioil Group’ volunteering activities supports employees’ implementation of community projects. It also aids employees suffering from natural disasters. Through the period of 8 years (2012-2019), there were 100 employee-led CSR projects. This resulted in the fund becoming insufficient for further community development projects. Objective Organize “Charity Bowling” to collect donation for the funding; it also enhanced relationships between the Company’s stakeholders. Performance Number of volunteering hours Received donation from competing teams, which are stakeholders of the Company, such as 1,984 Number of volunteering hours 1,984 hours hours subsidiaries in PTT Group, customers, suppliers, financial analysts and institutions, as well as governmental agencies and employees. The charity raised the target amount of 554,000 THB. In 2019, Thaioil Group’s employees volunteered a total number of 4 CSR projects, 3 with underserved schools, and 1 conservation efforts for seagrass. CSR Networking & Branding The 1st Annual Thaioil Art Contest of 2019 Background Thaioil recognizes the importance in artistic capacity building for national recognition, and in stepping up to the professional platform. The Company therefore supports Fine Arts, Sculptures and Prints Faculty of Silpakorn University for the 1st Thaioil Art Contest 2019. The theme was “Happiness of Thais.” It provides opportunities for fine arts undergraduate students from Years 1 to 5 to participate. Objective 1. To promote students in fine arts faculty to build and develop their creative capacity, and enhance their own unique style. 2. To distribute arts by students from fine arts, sculpture and prints faculty and others to those interested, allowing exchange of arts with the public in general. 3. To raise awareness of the students from fine arts faculty in their capacity as artists in creating valuable art pieces. This reflects the importance of fine arts faculty and Silpakorn University as leading art institute of Thailand. 4. To promote collaboration between fine arts faculty and external private sector, enhancing creative works and enhance Thailand’s art studies. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 111 Performance A total of 18 pieces were granted awards, all from students of fine arts, sculpture, and prints faculty, Silpakorn University. The students are undergraduate from years 1-5. The awards granted comprises of one outstanding award, two excellent awards, and three complementary awards for supporting Thaioil. Corporate public relation 5.14 5.14 values (PR value) million THB Corporate public relation values (PR value) Corporate public relation values (PR value) 5.14 million THB million THB PTT Group Disaster Management Objective PTT Group’s disaster support focuses on 5 issues as follows: 1. Donation of non-financial and financial clothing, such as survival bags, food and medicine; 2. Provision of support through employees’ expertise and engagement; 3. Service and aid management, such as mobile medical units, disaster recovery unit; 4. Develop and support culture; and 5. Conservation of soil, land, forest, such as reforestation, forest conservation and marine Background conservation. PTT Group has set disaster Performance management as the primary mission in supporting Thailand In 2019, Thaioil collaborated with the Nation Foundation and the Civil Alliance Network in its disaster management, Dusit Thailand Volunteers to survey damaged areas and fix damaged houses of victims through collaboration with 6 of the Pabuktropical storm in the south. This comprises of financial donations and primary companies – TOP,GC, survival kits. Thaioil also aided victims of the Podul tropical storm, in collaboration with PTTEP,IRPC,GPSC,and PTTOR PTT Group. In 2020, Thaioil plans to develop PTT Group Disaster Management to increase – to establish the PTT Group efficiency in timely disaster management. Disaster Management Plan. Corporate public relation values (PR value) 3.42 3.42 million THB Corporate public relation 3.42 values (PR value) million THB Corporate public relation values (PR value) million THB Performance 93.32 24 93.32 community engagement score as 93.32 24 organizations that benefited through 24 Performance a result of engagement activities, Thaioil’s activities, with over Social and 20,000 site visits, and community engagement engagement withas score organizations that benefited through Performance Relationship Capital acommunities throughoutactivities, 2019 result of engagement Thaioil’s activities, with over Social and community engagement score withas organizations that benefited through 20,000 site visits, and engagement Relationship Capital acommunities result of engagement throughoutactivities, 2019 Thaioil’s individualactivities, with over beneficiaries Social and 20,000 site visits, and engagement with Relationship Capital communities throughout 2019 individual beneficiaries individual beneficiaries 112 Performance Summary Performance Summary Economic Performance (1) Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Economic Value Generated Sales revenue Million THB 274,739 337,905(4) 389,042(4) 362,179 Economic Value Distributed Operating costs(2) Million THB 247,261 305,386 373,128 355,756 Economic Value Retained EBITDA Million THB 32,675 36,925 20,239 13,833 Net profit/ [Loss] Million THB 21,222 24,856 10,149 6,277 Financial Position Total assets Million THB 217,731 228,108 268,613 283,445 Total liabilities Million THB 106,134 100,960 142,141 159,521 Total equity Million THB 111,597 127,148 126,472 123,924 Financial Ratios Interest Coverage Ratio Times 9.4 11.2 5.1 4.2 Current Ratio Times 3.4 3.8 4.3 3.5 Net Debt to Equity Ratio Times 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.3 Return on Equity Percent 21.3 21.7 8.3 5.2 Return on Assets Percent 10.5 11.4 4.2 2.4 Stock Data Basic Earnings / [Loss] per share THB/Share 10.40 12.18 4.97 3.08 Annual Average Daily Closing Stock Price THB/Share 66.70 84.23 86.88 68.26 Market Capitalization Million THB 136,070 171,832 177,238 139,252 Dividend Payment THB/Share 4.50 5.25 2.65 1.50 Dividend Yield(3) Percent 6.7 6.2 3.1 2.2 Book Value THB/Share 52.38 59.91 59.66 58.81 Remarks 1. Scope of reporting Economic Performance is in alignment with information disclosed in the Thaioil Annual Report 2019. 2. Operating costs are the expenses related to the operation of a business, or to the operation of a device, component, and piece of equipment or facility or location. 3. Calculated from the annual average of the daily closing stock price. 4. Adjusted figures 2017 and 2018 due to regrouping. Contributions to Organizations and External Associations(1)(2) Type of Organization Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Borad of Trade of Thailand Trade Association THB 10,700 10,700 10,700 0 Global Compact Network Thailand Tax-exempt group THB 35,000 35,000 Oil Industry Environmental Safety Group Association Trade Association THB 1,477,000 1,740,000 1,799,000 1,832,000 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 113 Contributions to Organizations and External Associations(1)(2) Type of Organization Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) Trade Association THB 2,370,574 1,973,293 2,187,097 1,779,211 Petroleum Institute of Thailand Trade Association THB 684,201 710,993 758,660 786,430 The Association of Private Power Producers Trade Association THB 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 Thailand Business Council for Sustainable Development Trade Association THB 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 (TBCSD) The Federation of Thai Industries Trade Association THB 121,980 121,980 121,980 121,980 Thai National Shippers’ Council Trade Association THB 26,750 26,750 26,750 26,750 The Thai Chamber of commerce Trade Association THB 24,610 24,610 24,610 24,610 Water and Environment Institute for Sustainability Trade Association THB 53,000 53,000 Remarks 1. The scope of reporting is 97% of total sales revenue of Thaioil Group. 2. Thaioil Group must not contribute and spend to political campaigns, political organizations, lobbyists or lobbying organizations. Occupational Health and Safety 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit Performance (1), (2) Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Total hours worked Hour 1,945,471 2,214,031 2,072,882 2,861,233 • employees 1,684,378 261,093 1,822,245 391,786 1,844,465 228,417 2,632,203 229,030 Total hours worked Hour 5,629,968 3,772,751 5,753,718 18,870,649 • contractors 4,677,579 952,389 3,043,649 729,102 4,707,147 1,052,571 16,409,274 2,461,376 Work-Related Injuries (3) Fatality as a result of 0 0 0 0 work-related injury Case 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • employees Case / 0 0 0 0 Million work hours 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatality as a result of 0 0 0 0 work-related injury Case 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • contractors Case / 0 0 0 0 Million work hours 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total recordable work-related 1 0 0 2 injury rate) TRIR Case 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 • employees Case / 0.51 0 0 0.7 Million work hours 0.59 0 0 0 0 0 0.12 0.00 Total recordable work-related 3 1 2 6 injury rate) TRIR Case 3 0 1 0 2 0 6 0 • contractors Case / 0.53 0.27 0.35 0.32 Million work hours 0.64 0 0.33 0 0.43 0 0.37 0 Lost-time injury frequency 0 0 0 1 rate LTIFR Case 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 • employees Case / 0 0 0 0.35 Million work hours 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.38 0 Lost-time injury frequency 1 1 0 2 rate LTIFR Case 1 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 • contractors Case / 0.18 0.27 0 0.11 Million work hours 0.21 0 0.33 0 0 0 0.12 0 Near miss (4) • employees and contractors Case 3,697 3,138 3,393 3,418 114 Performance Summary Occupational Health and Safety 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit Performance (1), (2) Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Work-Related Illness Fatality due to work-related illness Case 0 0 0 0 • employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatality due to work-related illness Case 0 0 0 0 • contractors 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational illness frequency Case / 0 0 0 0 rate OIFR Million work hours • employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational illness frequency Case / 0 0 0 0 rate OIFR Million work hours • contractors 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Process Safety (5) Process safety events tier 1 Event 0 3 2 2 Event / Million work hours 0 0.5 0.26 0.09 Process safety events tier 2 Event 1 1 1 0 Event / Million 0.13 0.17 0.13 0 work hours Remarks 1. Thaioil and Subsidiariesfollow standard statistical reporting of PTT Group in accordance with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). 2. Occupational safety and health reports are broken down to employees and contractors in order to illustrate social responsibility of Thaioil and Subsidiariesto operational contractors. 3. Small injuries that only require first aid is not included in the accidents record. 4. Thaioil and Subsidiaries report ‘Potential Incident Report (PIR)’ in combination with Near Misses (see further in Occupational Health and Safety chapter) 5. Thaioil and Subsidiaries reported process safety in accordance with API RP 754 standard. 2016 2017 2018 2019 People Unit Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female GRI 405-1 Employees (1) Total number of employees Person 1,437 1,447 1,482 1,637 1,056 381 1,059 388 1,089 393 1,222 415 Percent 73 27 73 27 73 27 75 25 Number of employees by level All Employees • Executives(3) Person 12 3 10 2 9 1 9 1 Percent 80 20 80 20 90 10 90 10 • Management(4) Person 94 52 91 51 97 58 94 63 Percent 64 36 64 36 63 37 60 40 • Non-Management Person 950 326 958 335 983 334 1,119 351 Percent 74 26 74 26 75 25 76 24 Permanent Contract • Executives(3) Person 12 2 8 1 8 0 8 0 • Management(4) Person 94 51 91 50 96 55 90 60 • Non-Management Person 950 325 958 334 983 334 1,118 351 Temporary Contract(7) • Executives(3) Person 0 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 • Management(4) Person 0 1 0 1 1 3 4 3 • Non-Management Person 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 115 2016 2017 2018 2019 People Unit Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of employees by age group (1) • Below 30 years old Person 252 100 246 93 261 80 374 70 • 3050 years old Person 529 222 522 238 548 259 554 284 • Over 50 years old Person 275 56 291 57 280 54 294 61 Number of employees by area of work Permanent Contract • Depot Person 2 1 2 1 2 0 2 0 • Bangkok Person 46 128 49 131 48 135 52 145 • Sriracha (Refinery) Person 1,008 249 1,006 253 1,037 254 1,162 266 Temporary Contract(7) • Depot Person 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • Bangkok Person 0 3 0 3 1 4 4 4 • Sriracha (Refinery) Person 0 0 2 0 1 0 2 0 ATTRACTION GRI 401-1 New employees hired (1) Total number of new employees hired Person 66 55 70 197 40 26 32 23 53 17 166 31 • Below 30 years old Person 34 17 27 17 50 10 157 18 • 3050 years old Person 6 9 5 6 3 7 8 13 • Over 50 years old Person 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Total new hire rate % of total number of 4.60 3.80 4.72 12.03 employees 3.79 6.88 3.02 5.93 4.87 4.33 13.58 7.47 Ability to recruit employees % of the total number 85 85 92 80 of position available for recruitment RETENTION GRI 401-1 Employee turnover (1), (5) Total turnover Person 45 47 43 40 26 19 33 14 27 16 32 8 • Below 30 years old Person 11 7 9 4 8 7 8 3 • 3050 years old Person 5 12 3 5 7 5 6 4 • Over 50 years old Person 10 0 21 5 12 4 18 1 Turnover rate Percent of total 3.14 3.25 2.91 2.44 number of employees 2.46 4.99 3.12 3.61 2.48 4.08 2.62 1.93 Voluntary resignation Percent of total 2.37 1.60 1.75 1.16 number of employees 1.42 4.99 1.32 2.32 1.29 3.05 1.06 1.45 DJSI 3.5.4 Employee Engagement Employee engagement score Percent 84 89 85 90 Percent na na na na 85.5 84.5 90 92 Employee satisfaction score Percent 83 92 96 89 Percent na na na na 96 96 88 92 GRI 401-3 Parental Leave • Employee taken parental leave Person 16 40 35 36 12 4 24 16 20 15 17 19 116 Performance Summary 2016 2017 2018 2019 People Unit Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female • Employee returned to work after parental Person 16 40 35 36 leave 12 4 24 16 20 15 17 19 • Rate of employee return to work and stay Percent of employees 100% 100% 100% 100% after using the parental leave taken parental leave 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% DEVELOPMENT GRI 404-1 Average training hours (1), (2) Total training hours Hours 85,893 71,644 105,032 124,222 60,019 25,874 52,340 19,304 81,804 23,228 100,030 24,192 Average training hours for all employees Hour/Person/Year 57 68 49 50 75 60 81 58 • Average hours of training for executives(3) Hour/Person/Year 102 145 42 269 110 27 94 687 • Average hours of training for management(4) Hour/Person/Year 68 84 46 71 74 84 71 69 • Average hours of training for Hour/Person/Year 55 66 50 45 75 56 82 54 non-management employees Individual Development Plan Employees who developed Individual % 89 97 100 100 Development Plan (IDP) IDP Progress % 82 85 99 90 Employees who have a Career Path % 87 95 98 98 Rate of promotion(8) % 19.28 20.18 15.36 17.15 Expenses for employee development Million THB 405 417 447 474 Per Person 282,427 288,182 302,640 289,795 HUMAN RIGHTS Employee Grievances Number of grievances about corruption Case 0 0 0 0 • Resolved grievances Case 0 0 0 0 • Grievances under investigation Case 0 0 0 0 Number of grievances about labour practices Case 3 0 1 0 • Resolved grievances Case 2 1 1 0 • Grievances under investigation Case 1 0 0 0 GRI 102-41 Labour Union Number of employees represented by % 76 74 72 73.83 a trade union(6) Remarks NA: Not Available 1. Consolidated data of employees assigned from external organizations, both permanent contract and temporary contract. 2. The data excluded paid education leave funded by Thaioil-supported scholarships. 3. Executives include CEO, president, executive vice president, and assistant executive vice president. 4. Management includes vice president, division manager, and section manager. 5. Turnover rate includes employees with voluntary resignation, retired employees, employees who were asked to resign, employees laid off, and fatalities. 6. Scope of reporting includes only Thaioil Public Company Limited. 7. Employees on temporary contracts are full-time employees since Thaioil does not hire any part-time employees. 8. Due to the past 5 years (2013-2017), as Thaioil has been operating according to the strategy to expand the business, numerous employees have been hired in preparation, whereby majority of the employees do not have experience. Nonetheless, employees who have been working with Thaioil for a certain period of time and have experience illustrated an improvement in performance. Thus, in 2016 and 2017, the number of employees promoted was higher than any other years as employees from both categories were seen to be qualified for a promotion and further growing in the organization. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 117 Social and Community Development Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of operations with implemented local Percent 100% 100% 100% 100% community engagement, impact assessments, and/ or development programs Number of beneficiaries who used Thaioil’s Health Person 56,967 51,649 55,304 69,324 and Education Center in Sriracha Community Engagement Score Percent 97.98 93.50(1) 97.25 93.32 Number of employee volunteer hours Hour 7,168 17,672(2) 8.376 10,416 Cash contributions Million THB 2.7 2.9 44.3 65 Value of employee volunteering during paid Million THB 4.8 4.7 3.3 6.5 working hours In-kind giving Million THB 0.1 0 1.9 2 Management overheads Million THB 32.5 27.6 28.3 24 Remarks 1. From 2017 onwards, the Community satisfaction score has been changed to Community relationship score to the organization. 2. Employee volunteer hours were higher in 2016 as it was during the royal funeral ceremony of His Majesty King BhumibolAdulyadej. Value Chain Management Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI 308-1 and GRI 414-1 Suppliers Suppliers(3) that have acknowledged the Supplier Supplier 400 520 701 1,116 Code of Conduct Percent 24.98 32.48 43.79 69.64 New suppliers that were screened using Percent 100 100 100 100 environmental and social criteria(1) Suppliers covered under a high-level environmental, Percent 100 100 social, and governance risk assessment Number of grievances received regarding supCase 0 0 0 0 pliers’ and contractors’ social and environmental management Ocean Loss Index Percent by Volume 0.18 0.21 0.20 0.18 Supplier Satisfaction Percent 93 93 96 93 GRI 414-8Customers Number of grievance about customer data Case 0 0 0 0 leakages/loss Customer Engagement (2) Percent 91 96(3) 96 96 Remarks 1. Scope of reporting for performance on customers covered Thaioil, Thai Lube Base, Thai Paraxylene, and Thaioil Marine. 2. From 2017 onwards, the Customer satisfaction score has been changed to Customer engagement score. 3. Suppliers cover all tier 1 suppliers in the database but not include crude suppliers. Environmental Performance Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Refinery throughput (1) Metric ton 13,905,501 15,121,269 15,132,708 14,600,280 Investment on energy projects Million THB 43 26 0 28 Energy Management and Greenhouse Gases (2), (4) Total energy consumption(2) Million GJ 27.39 29.41 31.60 30.7 Refinery energy intensity GJ/ton throughput 1.85 1.95 2.09 2.10 Total fuel consumption(2) Million GJ 59.95 57.33 58.89 56.01 Refinery fuel consumption intensity GJ/ ton throughput 4.06 3.79 3.89 3.84 • Natural gas Million GJ 31.60 35.11 37.28 36.39 • Fuel oil Million GJ 6.33 2.53 3.19 2.91 118 Performance Summary Environmental Performance Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Fuel gas Million GJ 21.19 18.72 17.48 15.39 • Coke Million GJ 0.82 0.97 0.92 1.28 • LPG Million GJ Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 • Diesel Million GJ 0.01 Less than 0.01 0.015 0.029 • Gasoline Million GJ Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 • Ethanol Million GJ Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Less than 0.01 Electricity consumption Megawatt Hour 987,728 1,026,841 1,053,508 987,424 Electricity purchased from external supplier Megawatt Hour 0 0 0 0 Electricity sold(4) Megawatt Hour 1,171,414 1,583,839 1,580,035 1,580,492 Reductions in energy consumption GJ 470,699 383,009 562,075 1,396,728 Investments in renewable energy Million THB 1,298 1,212 1,381 1,374 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissgions (Scope 1)(3) Million ton CO2 3.65 3.40 3.49 3.31 equivalents Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2)(3) Million ton CO2 0 0 0 0 equivalents Greenhouse gas intensity (Scopes 1 and 2) Ton/throughput 0.25 0.22 0.23 0.23 Greenhouse gas emissions reductions (Scope1) Ton 26,406 21,487 32,151 84,265 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3)(3) • Business partner:Landfilling industrial waste Million ton CO2 411 254 542 1,014 equivalents • Business partners:Crude oil losses during marine Million ton CO2 1,867 1,924 2,121 1,268 transportation equivalents • Customers:Fuel Million ton CO2 20.4 19.9 24.8 27.2 equivalents Air Emissions (5), (6) • Nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions Thousand Tons 4.42 4.44 4.50 4.36 • Sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions Thousand Tons 7.21 3.49 4.14 4.27 • Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions Thousand Tons 1.46 1.42 1.43 1.35 Waste Disposal by Type Total hazardous waste disposal Ton 5,922 4,276 12,707 12,585 • Landfills Ton 24 18 47 237 • Recycle Ton 884 1,031 1,425 4,615 • Recovery Ton 4,685 3,134 11,092 7,173 • Others(7) Ton 329 92 143 560 Total non-hazardous waste disposal Ton 354 241 306 2,331 • Landfills Ton 161 100 182 195 • Recycle Ton 95 82 57 2,086 • Recovery Ton 47 39 67 49 • Others(7) Ton 51 20 0 0 Total waste generated Ton 6,276 4,517 13,013 14,916 Total waste disposed to landfill Ton 186 119 229 433 % ton of total waste 2.96 2.63 1.76 2.90 generated Oil and Chemical Spills (8) • Significant oil and chemical spills on land Incident 0 0 0 0 • Significant oil and chemical spills at sea Incident 0 0 0 0 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 119 Environmental Performance Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations • Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and Million THB 0 0 0 0 regulations • Number of incidents of non-compliance with Incident 0 0 0 0 environmental laws and regulations Areas with Water Environmental Performance Unit water stress 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 (9) Water Water withdrawal by Total Seawater(10) Million m3 19.17 18.23 17.96 17.96 0 source • Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 0 0 0 0 0 Solids) • Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 19.17 18.23 17.96 17.96 0 Solids) Total water withdrawal from other sources Million m3 4.09 4.63 4.98 4.86 0 • Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m 3 4.09 4.63 4.98 4.86 0 Solids) • Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 0 0 0 0 0 Solids) Total third-party water Surface water Million m3 0 withdrawal by withdrawal source Ground water Million m 3 0 Seawater Million m3 0 Produced water Million m3 0 Total Water Consumption From all water sources Million m3 23.26 22.86 22.94 22.82 0 Water discharge by Discharged into the sea Million m 3 19.45 18.73 18.60 18.13 destination Total water discharge(10) All discharge destinations Million m3 19.45 18.73 18.60 18.13 0 Water discharge by level Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) Million m 3 0 0 0 0 0 of treatment Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 19.45 18.73 18.60 18.13 0 Solids) Water consumption Total water consumption Million m3 3.81 4.13 4.34 4.69 0 Remarks NA: Not Available 1. Refinery Throughput includes crude oil and other feedstock. 2. Total energy consumption covers TOP, TPX, TLB LABIX, TP and TOPSPP. The amount of fuel, steam, and electricity was accounted as per GRI G4 Manual of EN3. All energy conversion factors were specific value from Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ laboratory. 3. Thaioil and Subsidiaries follow standard statistical reporting of PTT Group in accordance with WBCSD GHG Protocol. The greenhouse gases include CO2, CH4, and N2O. 4. There was no steam sold to outside the organization. 5. Thaioil and Subsidiaries follow the Shell International Practice Standard in monitoring occupational health and safety and environmental performance. 6. Thaioil and Subsidiaries do not purchased ozone depleting substances including CFCs, HCFCs, halons, and methyl bromide. 7. Other waste disposal covers incineration and external wastewater treatment services. 8. Oil and chemical spill greater than 1 Barrel on sea and greater than 100 Barrel on land are considered significant. 9. Data excludes potable water consumption, which has very small volume compared to water consumption in production process. 10. Seawater withdrawal and discharge include excess seawater that has been desalinated from the desalination unit and discharged as freshwater. 120 Awards and Recognitions Awards and Recognitions 01 02 03 Thaioil was named as a DJSI Thaioil received the 2019 Thaioil received the 2018 member for the seventh Sustainability Award of Honor NACC Integrity Award. consecutive year, and recognized for the third consecutive year as the industry leader in the oil and at the 2019 SET Awards. gas refining and marketing industry. 14 September 2019 26 November 2019 29 March 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited was named Thai Oil Public Company Limited Thai Oil Public Company Limited received as a member of the 2019 Dow Jones received the Sustainability Excellence – the 2018 NACC Integrity Award at the Sustainability Indices for the seventh 2019 Sustainability Awards of Honor at 8th NACC Integrity Awards event consecutive year, and was recognized as the 2019 SET Awards event organized organized by the National Anti-Corruption the industry leader in the oil and gas refining by the Stock Exchange of Thailand and Commission. The awards are given to & marketing industry through sustainable Money & Banking Magazine. Thaioil organizations that operate with management of economic, social, and also received the Outstanding Investor transparency, follow good governance governance aspects in alignment with Relations Awards and the Thailand principles, and uphold corporate international standards. Sustainability Investment Awards governance, business code of conduct, for being included in the Thailand and corporate social responsibility. Sustainability Investment (THSI) list. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 121 04 05 06 Thaioil was recognized as a Thaioil received the 2019 Thaioil received the CSR-DIW regional leader and received the Thailand Corporate Excellence Continuous Award for the 11th Strongest Commitment to Award for Human Resource consecutive year. Sustainable Energy in Southeast Management Excellence. Asia award from Alpha Southeast Asia magazine. 17 September 2019 28 November 2019 23 September 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited was Thai Oil Public Company Limited received Thai Oil Public Company Limited recognized as a regional leader in ASEAN the 2019 Thailand Corporate Excellence received the 2019 CSR-DIW Continuous and received the Strongest Commitment to Award for Human Resource Management Award at the award ceremony organized Sustainable Energy in Southeast Asia award Excellence at the award ceremony by the Department of Industrial Works. from Alpha Southeast Asia magazine for the organized under Her Royal Highness eighth consecutive year. Thaioil also Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn’s received three national awards, including Personal Affairs Division. The 2019 Best Strategic Corporate Social Thailand Corporate Excellence Awards Responsibility, Best Senior Management was organized by the Thailand IR Support, and Strongest Adherence Management Association and the Sasin to Corporate Governance. School of Management at Chulalongkorn University. 122 Awards and Recognitions 07 08 09 Thaioil received the 2019 Thailand Thaioil received the 2019 Drive Thaioil received the 2019 Top Company Award. Award of Excellence in Sustainability Disclosure Award. Resources. 19 March 2019 27 August 2019 11 December 2019 Thai Oil Public Company Limited received Thai Oil Public Company Limited received Thai Oil Public Company Limited received the 2019 Thailand Top Company Award in the 2019 Drive Award of Excellence in the Sustainability Disclosure Award from the energy industry from His Excellency Resources at the annual 2019 Drive the Securities and Exchange Commission. Professor Dr. Kasem Watanachai, Privy Award event held for organizations that Councilor. The award was organized by have had good operating results in the Business+ magazine, a leading business past financial year and have management magazine in Thailand, and the University of systems that cover every dimension. The the Thai Chamber of Commerce, to ceremony was organized by the Faculty of recognize the most successful companies in Commerce and Accountancy at 2019 that have had excellent performance Chulalongkorn University. within their respective industry. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 123 10 11 12 Thaioil Group received a plaque LABIX received an Honorary Sakchaisit accepted the Global of honor and an honorable Award for having operations Charter Responsibly Care®. mention at the “100 Hearts that pass the environmental Together to Reduce Global governance criteria. Warming” event. 19 September 2019 4 December 2019 9 July 2019 Thaioil Group received a plaque of honor LABIX Company Limited received Sakchaisit Company Limited accepted and an honorable mention at the 2019 an Honorary Award for having operations the Global Charter Responsibly Care® “100 Hearts Together to Reduce Global that pass the environmental governance from the Federation of Thai Industries as Warming” event organized by Thailand criteria at the honorary awards ceremony part of a group of companies in the Greenhouse Gas Management hosted by the Ministry of Industry for chemical industry that are committed to Organization, or TGO, for the Thailand members of the Industry Volunteer ensuring safety and social responsibility. Voluntary Emission Reduction (T-VER) Network for Environmental Protection Project organized by TOP SPP Company and for companies with operations that Limited, a subsidiary of Thaioil Group, pass the environmental governance and seven other Low Emission Support criteria. Scheme (LESS) initiatives that increased energy efficiency within Thaioil Group. LRQA Independent Assurance Statement Relating to Thai Oil Public Company Limited’s Environmental and Social Disclosures within the Integrated Report for the calendar year 2019 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Thai Oil Public Company Limited in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Thai Oil Public Company Limited (TOP) to provide independent assurance on the environmental and social disclosures within its Integrated Report 2019 (“the Report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement using LRQA’s verification procedure. LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practise and uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data and processes defined in ISAE3000. Our assurance engagement covered TOP’s operations and activities in Chonburi, Thailand, including six subsidiary companies and specifically the following requirements: • Reviewing whether the selected environmental and social disclosures within the Report have taken account of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards • Evaluating the reliability of data and information for the selected environmental and social disclosures listed below: 1: Environmental: GRI disclosure 302-1, 303-3 , 303-4 , 305-1, 305-2, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3 Social: GRI disclosure 403-9 a and 403-9b , 403-10a and 403-10b Note: For safety performance data (disclosure 403-9, 403-10), it also covered TOP’s operations and activities in Bangkok, and 3 expansion projects e.g. New Crude Oil Tanks (C-COT), Thai Oil Sriracha Building (TSB) and new Jetty 7/8 within TOP’s Operation Our assurance engagement excluded TOP’s operations and activities outside Chonburi, Thailand, any project expansion within Chonburi, Thailand and the data and information of its suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to TOP. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. TOP’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of TOP. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that TOP has not: • Met the requirements above • Disclosed reliable performance data and information for the selected environmental and social disclosures as no errors or omissions were detected • Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: • Assessing TOP’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and associated records. • Reviewing TOP’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their Report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by TOP and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether TOP makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development. • Auditing TOP’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misstatements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and 1 GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty. This document is subject to the provision on page 2. systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. • Interviewing TOP‘s management representative to understand and obtain data and information associated with high level strategic management approach. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are: • Stakeholder inclusivity: We are not aware of any stakeholders excluded from the stakeholder engagement process. However, we believe that the next stakeholder engagement process should pay more attention to the needs and expections of those stakeholders significantly impacted by the mega-project. This will better determine TOP’s sustainability strategy. • Materiality: TOP has continued conducting material assessments as part of its business process and we are not aware of any material issues excluded. However, we believe that TOP should expand its information and data on the issues of biodiversity and inequality in its next reporting period. • Responsiveness: TOP has robust systems, including clearly defined objectives and targets, in place to response to significant issues affecting sustainability performance at both local and global levels. Examples include: GHG emission reduction plans, water management plan, zero waste to landfill and new technology within the CFP project. • Reliability: TOP has an established and robust internal system to determine the reliability of reported data, especially for energy consumption. However, we believe TOP should strengthen the level of QA/QC in its data management system to further improve data accuracy. LRQA’s standards, competence and independence LRQA implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021-1 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International Standard on Quality Control and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. The verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for TOP and as such does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed Dated: 17 February 2020 Nit Tanasuthiseri, LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Lloyd’s Register International (Thailand) Limited 22nd Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LRQA reference: BGK3323170646537 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2020. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. . 126 GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP GRI CONTENT INDEX (CORE) GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI External GRI External Page or Website Page or Website Standard Assurance Standard Assurance Organizational Profile 102-26 24-27 102-1 1, 9 102-29 14-17 102-2 10-11 102-30 26-27 102-3 9 102-31 28 102-4 9 102-32 28 102-5 9 102-33 28 102-6 9-11 102-34 114 102-7 9, 12-13 102-35 Annual report (Remuneration) 102-8 114-115 102-36 Annual report (Remuneration) 102-9 9-12 102-37 Annual report (Remuneration) 102-10 9-10 Stakeholder Engagement 102-11 32-41 102-40 14-15 102-12 1, 42, 129-130 102-41 45, 116 102-13 112-113 102-42 16 Strategy 102-43 16 102-14 2-3 102-44 17-21 102-15 2-3, 10-11 Reporting Practice Ethics and integrity 102-45 1 102-16 7, 24-27, 54-57 102-46 1, 16-17 yes 102-17 24-25, 56 102-47 17 Governance 102-48 17 102-18 24-29 102-49 1, 17 102-19 24-29 102-50 1 102-20 24-29 102-51 1 102-21 14-15 102-52 1 102-22 24-28 102-53 1 102-23 24-28 102-54 1 102-24 Annual report (Nomination) 102-55 126-129 102-25 56-57 102-56 124-125 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 127 TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Thaioil Material Page or External GRI Topics Disclosures Comments/ Omissions Matters Website Assurance QSHE Management GRI 103: 103-1 32 Management 103-2 33-41 Approach 2016 103-3 33-41 GRI 403: 403-1 33-41 Occupational Health and 403-2 34-37 Management System 2018 403-4 35 403-5 34 403-6 35 403-7 35-36 403-8 34-35 403-9 36, 38, 113-114 yes 403-10 36, 113-114 yes G4 Sector Disclosures for G4-OG13 36-38, 114 Oil and Gas GRI 307: 307-1 41, 119 Environmental Compliance 2016 Human Rights GRI 103: 103-1 42 Management Approach 103-2 43-46 2016 103-3 43-46 GRI 405: 405-1 45, 114-116 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 412: 412-1 43-44 Human Rights Assessment 2016 Climate Change Risk GRI 103: 103-1 48 Management Approach 103-2 49-51 2016 103-3 49-51 GRI 201: 201-2 49-51 Economic Performance 2016 GRI 303: 303-1 48-50 Water and Effluents 2018 303-2 48-50 303-3 48-50, 119 The standard, methodologies and consumptions yes used to calculate water withdrawal are not reported. 303-4 48-50, 119 yes 128 GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Thaioil Material Page or External GRI Topics Disclosures Comments/ Omissions Matters Website Assurance Climate Change Risk GRI 305: 305-1 48-51, 118 yes Emissions 2016 305-2 48-51, 118 yes 305-3 48-51, 118 305-4 48-51, 118 305-5 48-51, 118 Fight Against GRI 103: 103-1 52 Corruption Management Approach 103-2 52-57 2016 103-3 52-57 GRI 205: 205-2 53-55, 57 Anti-Corruption 2016 205-3 56-57, 116 Operational GRI 103: 103-1 60 Eco-efficiency Management Approach 103-2 60-66 2016 103-3 60-66 GRI 302: 302-1 61-63, 117-118 To avoid double counting, Thaioil does not report yes Energy 2016 energy consumption / sold of electricity, heating, cooling, and steam, since all were self-generated from primary fuel. Only electricity was sold out to external. 302-3OGSD 62 302-4 61-63, 117-118 302-5 61-63 GRI 305: 305-7 65-66, 118 yes Emissions 2016 GRI 303: 303-3 63-64, 119 The standard, methodologies and consumptions yes Water and Effluents 2018 used to calculate water withdrawal are not reported. 303-4 63-64, 119 yes 303-5 63-64, 119 GRI 306: 306-2 67, 118 yes Effluents and Waste 2016 Sustainable GRI 103: 103-1 68 Procurement Management Approach 2016 103-2 69-75 103-3 69-75 GRI 308: 308-1 70-73 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 414: 414-1 70-73 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 68 Management Approach 2016 103-2 69-75 103-3 69-75 GRI 416: 416-1 70-74 Customer Health 416-2 70-74 and Safety 2016 G4 Sector Disclosures for G4-EN27 74, 83-84 Oil and Gas G4-OG14 61-63, 118 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 129 TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Thaioil Material Page or External GRI Topics Disclosures Comments/ Omissions Matters Website Assurance Human and GRI 103: 103-1 86 Organization Management Approach 2016 103-2 87-95 Development 103-3 87-95 GRI 401: 401-1 88, 95, 115-116 Employment 2016 401-2 93-94 401-3 115-116 GRI 404: 404-1 91, 116 Training and Education 2016 404-2 89-92 404-3 91, 116 Corporate Social GRI 103: 103-1 96 Responsibility Management Approach 2016 103-2 97-111 103-3 97-111 GRI 413: 413-1 97-111 Local Communities 2016 413-2 97-111 Business GRI 201: 201-1 12-13, 112 Performance Economic Performance UNGC PRINCIPLES COP United Nations Global Compact Principles Principles Page Human Rights Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 42-46 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 : Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 42-46 Labor Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 42-46 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 42-46 Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour 42-46 Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 42-46 Environment Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 32-41, 48-51 challenges Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 60-67 Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 60-67 technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 52-57 extortion and bribery 130 SDGs Progress Thaioil assesses the significance of environmental and social impacts in our business activities through our sustainability assessment of material SDGs matters. We prioritize the material matters based on both negative and positive impacts, and define targets that are in alignment with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Thaioil’s assessment, PROGRESS monitoring, and reporting processes have been developed with reference to the GRI’s and UNGC’s “Integrating the SDGs into Corporate Reporting: A Practical Guide”. Thaioil’s Commitment (3.8) The Company prioritizes community health and safety by supporting quality healthcare service accessibility. (4.3) The Company prioritizes supporting equality of educational opportunity for communities. (12.7) The Company (7.3) The Company prioritizes energy (7a) The Company prioritizes supporting prioritizes sustainable efficiency improvements with our access to clean energy for communities procurement by long-term goal of achieving the top quartile and society. adopting green performance in energy efficiency within the procurement oil and gas industry by 2023. practices and (8.3) The Company prioritizes supporting enhancing suppliers’ job creation for communities and society. (9.5) The Company prioritizes enhancing ESG performance. national scientific R&D, and will increase the share of profits generated from Creating innovation and technology business (11.1) The Company prioritizes supporting value to 5% by 2030. basic service accessibility in remote areas by providing infrastructure and building local capabilities for sustainable living. Raw Materials Company Operations Society and End-Product Use (8.8) The Company prioritizes human rights (11.6) The Company prioritizes preventing and occupational health and safety by environmental impacts to society by Mitigating implementing human rights due diligence conducting public hearings and EIAs adverse and reducing accident rate for all workers. for all significant projects. impacts (12.2) The Company prioritizes efficient use of natural resources by achieving operational eco-efficiency targets; and (12.4) minimizing environmental impacts released to the air, water, and soil. (13.1) The Company prioritizes climate resilience and adaptive capacity with our target of 4% direct GHG emission reductions from BAU by 2022. (16.5) The Company prioritizes preventing risk on non-compliance and ABC by maintaining zero fraud and corruption incidents. Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 131 2019 Progress In 2019, Thaioil established additional targets that are aligned with SDG targets 4.3, 7a, and 8.3. We have continued our work towards achieving the targets as reported in 2018, which are aligned with 11 UN SDG targets. Details on our progress are presented in the following table. UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Development Goal Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2019 More Information Development Goals Targets Targets SDG 3: 3.8 Achieve universal health To support public Thaioil Group’s Health and Corporate Good Health coverage, including financial health service Learning Center for Community Social and Well-being risk protection, access to quality accessibility of comResponsibility, essential health-care services munities in Laem • 69,324 beneficiaries from page 96-111 and access to safe, effective, Chabang district, the use of the Health and quality, and affordable essential Chonburi Province, Learning Center medicines and vaccines for all. and other remote • 5,849 beneficiaries communities. participating in Thaioil’s Dental Clinic Project The construction of Thaioil emergency building for Laem Chabang Hospital was completed and commenced operations in October 2019. SDG 4: 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal To support educational A total of 1,935 beneficiaries, Corporate Social Quality access for all women and men opportunity for i.e. 89 teachers and 1,846 Responsibility, education and to affordable and quality community members of students, participated in the page 96-111 lifelong learning technical, vocational and tertiary every gender and age, leadership project for opportunities education, including university. and promote the sustainable educational for all. development of the development program quality of basic (CONNEXT ED) education. 160 youth beneficiaries participated in futsal and football development program SDG 7: 7.3 Double the global rate To be ranked as the Refinery Energy Intensity Operational Affordable and of improvement in energy top quartile of Energy Index at 83.7 and ranked Eco-Efficiency, Clean Energy efficiency. Intensity Index (EII) among a leader group in the page 60-67 among the global oil oil and gas industry. and gas industry by 2023. 132 SDGs Progress UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Development Goal Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2019 More Information Development Goals Targets Targets SDG 7: 7a By 2030, enhance To support accessibility Installation of solar panels on Corporate Affordable and international cooperation to to clean energy for 3 hospital buildings, with a Social Clean Energy facilitate access to clean local communities and combined capacity of 100 MW Responsibility, (Continued) energy research and technology, other remote page 96-111 including renewable energy, communities. energy efficiency and advanced and cleaner fossil-fuel technology, and promote investment in energy infrastructure and clean energy technology. SDG 8: 8.3 Promote development-oriented To support job The Amazon for Chance Corporate Decent Work policies that support productive creation and sustainable Project support careers Social and Economic activities, decent job self-reliance in local for the underprivileged, Responsibility, Growth creation, entrepreneurship, communities and other the eldery and the young page 96-111 creativity and innovation, and remote communities mothers. In 2019, the project encourage the formalization through social supported and generated and growth of micro-, smallenterprise projects. jobs for 3 individuals with and medium-sized enterprises, hearing disabilities. including through access to financial services. 8.8. Protect labour rights and To achieve a total TRIR at 0.37 cases per million QSHE promote safe and secure working recordable injury workhours for all workers, better Management, environments for all workers, frequency rate (TRIR) than the 2019 target of less page 32-41 including migrant workers, among the first 10% of than or equal to 0.50 cases in particular women migrants, and the oil and gas industry per million workhours those in precarious employment. by 2022. To maintain zero incident Two events of LOPC Tier 1, of Process Safety: Loss at 0.09 cases per million of Primary Containment workhours. (LOPC) Tier 1 To implement the 100% of Thaioil operations Human Rights, human rights due have been subjected to page 42-47 diligence process human rights risk assessment for 100% of Thaioil operations and to 100% of new suppliers assess human rights responded to ESG risks for all critical self-assessment suppliers. 100% of Tier1 Suppliers have been subjected to human rights risk assessment Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Report 2019 133 UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Development Goal Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2019 More Information Development Goals Targets Targets SDG 9: 9.5 Enhance scientific research, To promote an innovative 2 patents granted Innovation and Build resilient upgrade the technological culture and enhance Customer infrastructure, 3.1 million THB earned from Stewardship, capabilities of industrial sectors business opportunities commecialized innovation promote in all countries, including in the area of innovation page 78-85 inclusive and encouraging innovation and Thaioil Group's 11 Green sustainable substantially increasing the Products contributed to 32% industrialization of the total revenues and foster number of research and innovation. development workers per 1 Innovative knowledge and ideas, million people and public and initiated by Thaioil Wisdom & private research and development Innovation Award, have been spending applied to 96 improvement projects, valuing at around 1,025 million THB 195 employees participated in Wisdom & Innovation Award, an increase of 63% from 120 employees who participated in 2018 SDG 11: 11.1 Ensure access for all to To enhance More than 20,000 beneficiaries Corporate Sustainable adequate, safe, and affordable communities’ quality of and 24 organizations benefitSocial Cities and housing and basic services life through promoting ed from community developResponsibility, Communities and upgrade slums. basic infrastructure ment projects. page 96-111 and knowledge on energy and engineering Project Light for a Better Life to ultimately create under the “CONNEXT ED” self-resilience. project to provide knowledge on electricity system and energy conservation for 2 schools in Chonburi and Chachoengsao provinces 11.6 Reduce the adverse per To minimize 100% of significant capital Human Rights, capita environmental impact environmental impact projects passed public page 42-47 of cities, including by paying to communities and participation hearings from special attention to air quality conduct proper public concerned stakeholder groups and municipal and other waste participation for all management. significant capital projects. SDG 12: 12.2 Achieve the sustainable To achieve target 4.69 million cubic meter total Operational Responsible management and efficient use of environmental water consumption Eco-Efficiency, consumption of natural resources parameters and page 60-67 and production to maintain zero environmental Ocean loss index at 0.18% by Sustainable incidents. volume, better that the target Procurement, of less than 0.20% by volume page 68-75 134 SDGs Progress UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Development Goal Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2019 More Information Development Goals Targets Targets SDG 12: 12.4 Achieve the environmentally To achieve target 4,360 tons of NOx emission Operational Responsible sound management of chemicals of environmental Eco-Efficiency, consumption and all wastes throughout their parameters and page 60-67 and production life cycle, in accordance with to maintain zero (Continued) agreed international frameworks, 4,272 tons of SOx emission environmental and significantly reduce their release to air, water, and soil in incidents. order to minimize their adverse 1,348 tons of VOCs emission impacts on human health and the environment 433 tons of waste to landfill Zero significant spill of oil QSHE and chemical Management, page 32-41 12.7 Promote public procurement To promote green 100% of new suppliers Sustainable practices that are sustainable, procurement in the acknowledged SCOC and Procurement in accordance with national organization and responded to ESG self-survey page 68-75 policies and priorities. enhance environmental, social and governance No crude suppliers in approved (ESG) practices with list with present environmental suppliers. and social impacts Spending on Materials, equipment and office supplies product group as a share of total green procurement spending has increased to 25% since 2018, equivalent to 2,800 kg of carbon dioxide reduction. SDG 13: 13.1 Strengthen resilience To reduce GHG GHG emission intensity Climate Climate Action and adaptive capacity to emissions by 4% from reduced to 0.23 carbon dioxide Change Risk, climate-related hazards business as usual in equivalent per ton through page 48-51 and natural disasters in all baseline year 2017 by put, equivalent to 7.32% GHG countries. 2022 emission reduction from BAU SDG 16: 16.5 Substantially reduce To have a clear, Maintained zero corruption Fight Against Peace, Justice, corruption and bribery in all transparent, and fair and fraud incidents. Corruption, and Strong their forms. compliance system in page 52-57 Institutions place and to maintain 100% of new employees zero corruption and received training on code of fraud incidents as well conduct and anti-corruption as to take position of no 100% of employees reported corruption acceptance conflict of interest. in any cases. Survey of Responses collected from the 2019 Integrated Report Reader’s Survey of Reader’s Opinion will be used to improve and develop the next annual integrated report. Opinion Thank you for your cooperation. Please mark an X in the box and provide your feedback and opinion in the blank space. Please mark the option that describes you best. Shareholder/Investor Customer Employee Community member living around Thaioil’s operation Supplier Government Academic Student Media Other (Please specify……………………………………………………………………………………………………………) How did you receive or access the 2019 Integrated Report? Shareholders’ Annual General Meeting Seminar/Exhibition/Lecture Thaioil employees Thaioil Website Other (Please specify…………………………………………………………………..) What is your objective for reading the 2019 Integrated Report? To gain information about Thaioil. To support an investment decision. To prepare your own Sustainability and/or Integrated Report. For research and education purposes. Other (Please specify………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………) Please rate your satisfaction with the format and presentation of the 2019 Integrated Report. • Language that is clear and easy to understand High Medium Low Improvement • Presentation of images, graphs, and tables High Medium Low Improvement • Book design High Medium Low Improvement • Overall satisfaction with the report High Medium Low Improvement Please rate your interest in each chapter of the 2019 Integrated Report. • Group Overview High Medium Low Uninterested • Business Model High Medium Low Uninterested • Stakeholders and Material Matters High Medium Low Uninterested • Strategy Outlook High Medium Low Uninterested • Corporate Governance and Sustainability High Medium Low Uninterested • Value Protection High Medium Low Uninterested • Value Enhancement High Medium Low Uninterested • Sustainable Value Creation High Medium Low Uninterested • Performance Summary High Medium Low Uninterested • Awards and Recognitions High Medium Low Uninterested • SDGs Progress High Medium Low Uninterested Please rate the 2019 Integrated Report on its reliability and completeness. • Your understanding of Thaioil’s material issues High Medium Low Improvement • The relevance of the reported sustainability High Medium Low Improvement performance with Thaioil’s sustainability strategy • The appropriateness and reliability of High Medium Low Improvement the reported contents • The ability of the report to respond to your High Medium Low Improvement questions and concern Do you think that the 2019 Integrated Report covers all of Thaioil’s material sustainability issues? Yes No If not, please specify the issues you think are missing and need to be addressed. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. Please provide other comments and suggestions for the improvement of the integrated report. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. < Cut here Please address this survey to: Governance and Sustainability Department Thai Oil Public Company Limited 42/1 Moo 1 Sukhumvit Road Km.124, Tungsakla, Sriracha, Chonburi 20230 Thailand Tel : +66 (0) 3840-8500, +66 (0) 3835-9000 Fax : +66 (0) 3835-1554 E-mail : sustainability@thaioilgroup.com Website : http://www.thaioilgroup.com
