2020 N&K SPEDITION Corporate Social Responsibility CONTENT Words from our CEO 4 N&K Spedition Outline 7 CSR at N&K Spedition 8 Employees/Working environment 10 Suppliers 12 Case: N&Ks ongoing endeavour 14 Environment and Climate 16 Business Ethics 18 Quality and Food Safety 20 KPI Overview 22 2 3 WORDS FROM OUR CEO N&K spedition operates in the constant challenging We have worked extensively with the tools, provided industry, of transporting food products all over Eufrom our SEDEX membership, to increase our perrope. As this industry is constantly changing, we formance from earlier results. This has been hard are always trying to evolve, in order to provide top work and has used a lot of our resources. What we quality service to all our clients. We have recently achieved internally, and the respect seen from both faced many challenges both from the political side, partners and customers has been very satisfying and and from customers with regards to environmental reassuring in that our ambitious ways of working with and labour standards, and being one of the leading our compliance, is the correct path chosen by N&K transporters of food products in Europe, we take our Spedition. responsibility in this matter very seriously. The year of 2019 has been a learning curve for years In 2019, we have seen the increasing awareness toto come, and 2020 will continue on the same path, wards the conditions that drivers in Europe are workand we keep improving on our successful work on ing under. N&K spedition has taken this opportunity, compliance, quality and IFS in order to be a respected and devoted many ressources, towards strengthpartner for customers and subcontractors. We hope ening and applying our rules on this subject, to any everyone will be able to see our ambitious way of partner that works with us. With the help of extenworking for the future, taking the responsibility we sive psysical audits, we have ensured that all partners have in the industry. live up to these standards, and we have been very impressed with the work that they have done in this area and ensuring that the partners we have, fulfil the contractual terms set, together with our Code of Conduct, we have been impressed by the work that our partners have done. We will keep working hard on ensuring that the labour and accommodation standards that we have set, are always met, and have devoted even more ressources to this internally in 2020. Having also integrated the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, is something that N&K is very proud of, as are we of the response we have received on this, both inand externally. Martin Gade Gregersen CEO, N&K Spedition 4 5 N&K SPEDITION OUTLINE OVERVIEW our service to every customers’ needs. To be able to N&K Spedition was founded by Per B. Jensen in 1988 offer a unique service product in the area of refrigerat a small office in Esbjerg. With just a few trailers ated transports is an affair of the heart. For offering N&K began to transport fish from the North to the Food Safety and traceability to the highest standards, Netherlands and returned fruits and vegetables to all we are certified regarding the International Food Scandinavian Countries. N&K since then has experiSafety (IFS) to a Higher Level yet again this year. That enced a strong and steady growth; the headquarter ensures our customers having the highest quality remains in Esbjerg but has increased in size to have standards while transporting their chilled and frozen space for well over hundred employees. Through the goods – and we keep it under control this way. years, we have expanded our activities to many countries and installed branches in Sweden, Norway, Lithuania Spain, and China (Shanghai). CONTROLLED DISTRIBUTION We are glad to provide a wide-ranging stock control for our customers as every food sector has its EUROPE’S LARGEST TEMPERATURE-­ “QUALITY IN TRANSPORT highs and lows regarding supply and demand. We CONTROLLED LOGISTICS OPERATOR offer stepless reliable and flexible solutions at HSF When N&K spedition merged with HSF Logistics in Logistics facilities in Nijmegen, Winterswijk and Neu2017, we became the largest temperature-controlled enkirchen-Vörden. All these locations could not only logistics operator in Europe. With more than 1.000 preserve food products but also offers ready-for-conIS NOT ONLY A SAYING employees, 1.000 lorries and 1.500 trailers we cover signment services through order-picking, repacking, the European Continent including Great Britain to wrapping, labelling and blast-freezing. a full extend. Offices spread all over Europe offer a complementary network to all our customers. FOR US BUT BEING INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS ON A GLOBAL STAGE Being on the global stage with N&K Air Solutions, we QUALITY AND UNIQUE SERVICES have closed the gap between trucking and air freight Quality in transport is not only a saying for us but beand therewith can provide all-from-one solutions. As PRACTISED DAY BY DAY ing practised day by day by our employees. Our trailair freight is different in all markets, N&K Air Solution ers are custom-built for transporting almost all kinds adapts to the customers’ needs in order to be able to of chilled and frozen goods. Furthermore, we handle offer more steps in the transport chain. Our aim is to all paperwork regarding the transports on behalf of be a long-term full-range service supplier with a wide BY OUR EMPLOYEES.” our customers and offer the opportunity to monitor range of cargo from Scandinavia and Europe to all both the location and the temperature of the transover the world – being our customers’ single source ported goods. Our forwarding departments are availfor intercontinental transport solutions of unequalled able 24/7 so are our drivers. We are proud to tailor quality. 6 7 CSR AT N&K SPEDITION Every employee plays an active role in N&Ks CSR policy together with our managerial staff, HR and Quality & Compliance Departments which must however take over the lead. The partnership with Green Network, which includes training and consultancy, keep us on track and help the leading departments to fulfil their roles as supporting guides for all employees. As an outcome, N&K offers internal trainings on different CSR aspects to their staff. Furthermore, our Quality & Compliance staff is available for any concerns regarding N&Ks CSR policy whenever on duty and represents their work internally at all our branches, but also externally at customers and partners. N&KS CODE OF CONDUCT N&KS CSR POLICY Based on the frameworks of the UN Global ComN&K has for many years worked on CSR topics in close dialogue pacts 10 principles and the UK Anti Bribery Act, with customers and partners. Having seen the necessity to set a N&K has developed two Code of Conducts: One is concrete framework on CSR, N&K intensified its CSR policy in retailored to the needs of the daily operation handled cent years using large-scaled internal and external resources. N&Ks and one is made to take our Suppliers and subCSR policy today consists of 5 pillars on which this report is also contractors on board. We structured. By joining UN Global Compact in 2019, N&K have taken ensure in that specific way the opportunity to use the 10 principles and all four areas Human that our efforts for Human and Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption as guidelines and Labour Rights are confor future initiatives and thereby supporting common global goals. centrated efforts. A full version of our Code of Conduct could be found at our website­ www.nkspedition.dk Employees/Working Environment Quality & Food Safety N&K Suppliers CSR-focus Business Ethics Environment/ Climate 8 9 EMPLOYEES/WORKING ­ENVIROMENT N&Ks employees are the key factor in N&Ks employee development talk, which overbusiness. Their personalities make the difall aim is to give a feedback and motivate ference: Each of them with their individual for the upcoming working year and we will skills and knowledge has its part in N&Ks use these to identify possible actions to insuccess in business. Therefore, N&K is crease satisfaction. highly aware of the importance of attracting qualified staff and supporting them becoming members of the N&K family. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT As a family-owned company, we always focus on a great working environment for EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION our employees. Paired with a high level of Every third year, N&K is conducting a surpersonal freedom and self-stewardship, our N&K SPEDITION EMPLOYEES IN 2019 37 ⁄2 vey regarding mental and physical health employees should be able grow and evolve issues for all employees. The outcome of the survey will help our HR team to improve at their work. Decisions on relevant issues for all employees are made in close colIn 2019, N&K has employed 143 people, 48 were of female, 95 of male and 0 of neutral sex 1 their efforts for a safe and healthy worklaboration with our staff. Regular trainings ing environment. The current outcome of the survey was that among all N&K headshould extend the already profound knowledge of N&Ks staff. YEARS quarter employees 52% are content with Therefore we plan to place two training The average age their workplace. 48% are neutral, no one is for all of the employees: One in respect of of all employees discontent. Employeer satisfaction is imCSR in general (performed until the end of portant for N&K Specidition. Consequently Q3/2020) and one in respect of Anti-Corrupevery year each employee is invited to an tion (to be finished by the end of Q2/2020). 10 11 SUPPLIERS N&K suppliers and subcontractors play a vital made more detailed physical audits at our most risk of modern slavery; also verifying compliance Before starting collaboration with a new suprole in the frame of the daily operations. In recent strategical direct suppliers within six weeks of within compensation and working hours. plier, they are in demand of signing our Supplier years, several cases of serious violations of Hu2018, extended it to all suppliers in 2019 and conCode of Conduct, what was specially designed man and Labour Rights principles has come up tinue to do so in the future. Motivated from the general positive outcomes for N&Ks requirements in respect of their Code of in the European transportation industry. N&K has of our first visit, we continue our audit program Conduct towards suppliers. As all suppliers have therefore decided to act on its own behalf: HavWhereas the first goal was to check-up the drivsteadily. Up to now, N&K has created its own auagreed to our new and improved Code of Coning seen the necessity of taking action especially ers’ accommodation facilities, we also were interdit scheme and is consistently improving it. In the duct, it is our aim to audit and do random checks on Human and Labour Rights principles due to ested in creating transparency within the recruitlatest version in 2020 an environmental part was ensuring that all sub-contractors are committed the risk related to these areas, we intensified and ment and employment process to minimise any implemented. to enforce our Supplier Code of Conduct. 12 13 ICELAND CASE: N&KS ONGOING ENDEAVOUR: ONGOING SUPPLIER AUDITS TO ENSURE FAIR WORKING FINLAND AND ACCOMMODATION CONDITIONS FOR CHAUFFEURS. NORWAY Beginning with the joint commitment in November 2018 together SWEDEN with Danish Crown in order to ensure fair working and accommodation conditions in the Danish Transport Industry, N&K Spedition ESTONIA RUSSIA expedited its own CSR initiatives. LATVIA After having visited N&Ks strategically important direct supDENMARK pliers within six weeks in the end of 2018/beginning of 2019, LITHUANIA IRELAND we continued our visits throughout the year 2019. RUSSIA UNITED Our suppliers were very open and willing to cooperate and as KINGDOM BELARUS an outcome, we could thankfully confirm that N&K’s suppliers NETHERLANDS are doing good work in the area of labour rights. We found no serious issues which needed urgent measuresand where we saw the POLAND need for changes, these have been made with the agreed deadlines. BELGIUM GERMANY LUXEMBOURG We will continue to visit selected suppliers in 2020 CZECH. REPUBLIC UKRAINE with an updated program, which is based upon SLOVAKIA our Code of Conduct. Beside having a focus on FRANCE fair working and accommodation conditions SWITZERLAND AUSTRIA for chauffeurs, we also invite our suppliers to HUNGARIA MOLDOVA take action in order to reduce their CarSLOVENIA ROMANIA bon Footprints. This is newly implemented for the audits planned in ITALY CROATIA 2020. BOSNIA ANDORRA AND We aim to have visited all reguPORTUGAL HERZEGOVINA SERBIA lar used suppliers by the end of SPAIN BULGARIA MONTENEGRO Countries we have visited to focus Q4/2020 at least one time. We MACEDONIA on the inspection of accommodation are looking forward verifying the ALBANIA facilities at suppliers and engaged standards of our suppliers among in other dialogue, related to the reour Code of Conduct; and we plan GREECE quirements of our Code of Conduct. to have no critical findings within this year. STEP 1 STEP 2 14 15 EDI – ELECTRONIC DATA ­INTERCHANGE EDI helps us to reduce the paper consumption. Many documents are provided digital instead of paper based. This is done wherever no hard copy is needed due to statutory regulations. FREIGHTMATE Freightmate is an in-house developed app which allows digital transfer of documents around any transport procedures. It will go on its test run in 2020 in order to get introduced for all N&K transports in 2021. It is one of N&Ks instruments to reduce paper consumption. ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE GLOSSARY Focus on environmental issues has increased over the beginning of 2020 we have more than 20% of our trailers TRAILERS WITH SOLAR PANELS last few years and we all need to make a reasonable efequipped with solar panels and for 2020, we expected at GLOSSARY fort in order to achieve sufficient planet protection. N&K least 40% of trailers with solar panels in the fleet. Spedition want to contribute by implementing ways to make our company and transport greener and thereby 25% 40% reduce our environmental impact, while still keeping our OUR SUPPLIERS GLOSSARY N&K suppliers are an important factor when it comes to customer’s products cool and on the move. We have reduction of noxious substances. Currently, already 88% made environmental focus a part of our working day as of all by N&K used tractor units are classified in Euro well as inform our employees, customers, partners and TRAILERMATE 6, which has a lower pollutant emission than the Euro subcontractors about our environmental performance Trailermate is a kind of app which GLOSSARY 5-units. For 2020, N&K strengthen its efforts to use 91% Goal for 2019 and continuous focus. N&Ks see its most impact on the Goals for 2020 allows digital transfer of documents off all units with Euro 6 engines until Q4/2020 (see KPIs Achieved in 2019 environment by using lorries for the distribution of its and information regarding each p. 22). customers goods. Therefore we will set our goals here: of N&Ks trailers. It is one of N&Ks Focus on the use of latest technology (see KPIs p. 22) instruments to reduce paper conGLOSSARY and measuring the current estimated CO2-emissions of OUR SERVICES REDUCING POLLUTION sumption. the towing units for this year as a basis year for future One core value is to offer an unrevealed high level of Units with Euro 6 engines KPIs (see KPIs p. 22). service for every customers’ needs. With using an GLOSSARY 88% EDI (Electronic Data Interchange) and Trailermate, we managed improving service quality and environmental ON THE ROAD WITH …OUR TRAILERS friendliness the same time. With EDI, we could in close N&K focus on new and sustainable technologies when collaboration with our customers manage all relevant choosing the right provider for our fleet. 2019 GLOSSARY documents digitally. With Trailermate (and from 2020 We set out the goal for 2019 that at least 20% of our together with its brother Freightmate), we are able to trailer fleet will be equipped with solar panels by the end 91% make vehiclesand materialreports electronically and of Q4. New trailers with cooling units that are equipped without the use of traditional paper. Beside reducing with solar panels on the roof will decrease the total GLOSSARY numbers of printed pages through our EDI and Trailercosts of ownership as well as offer significant reducmate, Freightmate is intended to close one of the last tions of the CO2 emitted. We can now state that to the Goals for 2020 analogue documentation gaps in the transport chain. 16 17 BUSINESS ETHICS N&KS APPROACH TOWARDS ANTI-CORRUPTION As a sustainability-oriented company, it is of great WHISTLEBLOWER importance that N&K Spedition works with business One of N&Ks overall goals is to act responsibly and ethics and morality and are never compromised to any circumspectly. Having a channel open for any possilegislation, whether locally or internationally. At N&K bly violation regarding law or ethical behaviour within Spedition, its Employees, Suppliers and partners must N&K, the Whistleblower System is available on the be committed to the highest standards of integrity, N&K homepage in seven different languages and is honesty and fairness in all internal and external relaalready covering the requirements of the new EU draft tionships as specified in our Code of Conduct. law. If wished, all inquiries could be done anonymously both from internal and external positions. EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITY N&K will handle all incoming reports about possible In this, it is stated that no Employee shall directly or violations within one month. The confidential inforindirectly accept, solicit, or offer to pay bribes or other mation will exclusively be handled by our Quality and prerequisites even under unlawful pressure. This proCompliance Department. Depending on the reported hibition also applies to areas where such activity may information, Quality & Compliance will in agreement not violate local law. None of N&K Speditions’ Employwith the Executive Board advise measures and suees is allowed giving or receive unjustified advantages pervise the enforcement, if necessary. Furthermore, from any public officials or employees in private comwe are steadily proving our procedures and improve panies. N&K Spedition operates using specific rules to where possible. address anti-corruption, competition and conflict of interest issues that is described in the before mentioned Code of Conduct. The principles do not prohibit norCOMPLIANCE CHECKS ON SUPPLIERS mal and appropriate hospitality given or received. In Before we begin collaboration with a new supplier, we case of doubt, N&K Spedition Employees are responsido in general compliance checks on them to ensure, ble to make sound judgement and report any such imthat the suppliers’ behaviour is according to the curmediately. In case any of N&K Speditions’ Employees rent applicable regulations. The compliance checks are asked to pay a bribe, the incident, including who covers the areas Legal, Labour and Human Rights, enasked for the bribe, must be recorded and reported to vironmental issues and anti-corruption as mentioned the management or the Whistleblower System. in the supplier section of this report. TRAINING SEDEX Within N&Ks daily operations, a potential risk regardN&Ks membership in the world’s largest global plating attempts of corruption and bribery could be seen. form for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply Taking control of the risk and fulfilling N&Ks demands chains shows us our current status in the four areas on the prevention of corruption and bribery, we plan to Labour, Health and Safety, Business Ethics and Enset a specific training for all N&Ks employees. All emvironment. As we get status “orange” in the area of ployees shall at least past the training until the end of Business Ethics, N&K will strengthen its efforts to be Q2/2020 (see KPIs, p. 22) to minimise any risk within able to receive status “green” by the end of 2020, this this sector. includes amoung other efforts the before metioned training of all employees on anti-corruption. 18 19 QUALITY AND FOOD SAFETY IFS permarkets, production, warehouses and cold stores. with Food Safety and Quality, and therefore we are tion, as we then know where to work more sufficiently Quality and Food Safety are in close relation to each All we deliver is related to consumer goods in any certified IFS logistics, and have for several years in and minimize any risk for the safety of any product in other for N&K due to our core competence of transfeasible way. We transport both chilled products and a row received, the Higher Level certificate. We are our possession. porting chilled and frozen food stuff. N&K has imfrozen food, where we know, that the quality of food, very proud of this, and will continue to aim for Higher proved the efforts even to be ahead in these areas. A must be the highest, as it will be in store for consumLevel, as we cannot allow any compromise for the strongly followed complex quality program protects ers to buy. We have built very strict procedures, as safety of food. We are well aware that different prodour customers as well as their end-customers in rewhen it comes to Food Safety and Quality, there is no ucts can contaminate and risk the health of others, spect of Food Safety. compromise. and therefore the training for our entire system within Food Safety, Food fraud and Food Quality is being held once a year to the operations and management. OUR APPROACH HIGH LEVEL GOAL We always look into the newest regulations by auIn means of quality, Food Safety is one of our most Therefore we also acknowledge that there are standthorities, and by changes we will amend, and ensure ambitious ways of working. We deliver several tonards in the transport industry to ensure that partthat operations and procedure will be maintained acnages per day to various destinations in Europe, suners and customers can track our way of working cordingly. Our measurements are vital for N&K Spedi20 21 KPI OVERVIEW CATEGORY FOCUS AREA KPI GOAL 2019 RESULT 2019 GOAL 2020 Solar panels Percentage of trailers Environment 20% Approx. 25% 40% on trailers with solar panels Assessing an estimate of All suppliers to Carbon the CO2 emissions from the trucks be ready sending Baseline for Environment Ready to go Footprint hauling the N&K Spedition trailers data beginning future KPIs for a full year Q1/2020 Define ­compliance level Creating transparency of the various 88 % EUR 6-units 91% EUR 6-units Environment Technology of our requiretractor units used by our suppliers 12 % EUR 5-units 9 % EUR 5-units ment of EUR 5 and EUR 6 Achieving status ”green” instead Find goal Business Ethics SEDEX Improve our ethical performance Achieved of “orange” in “WE LIVE UP TO THE for 2020 the area ­“Business Ethics” Based upon the learnings from the HIGHEST QUALITY supplier audits conducted Q4 2018/ Audit all regular Audit all high-risk Q1 2019 and Q4 2019 combine used suppliers Suppliers Supplier Audits suppliers by the Achieved with the due diligence risk evaluation by the end of end of Q4/2019 process (as per Code of Conduct and Q4/2020 Food Safety/Quality) Suppliers Code of ­Conduct Ensure suppliers have signed off the N&K Spedition Supplier Code of Conduct Direct suppliers Achieved One-way-supliers by the end of Q4/2020 STANDARDS WHILE Business Ethics Training Ensure that all employees have participated and signed off an anti-corruption training Set goal for 2020 Ensure training by the end of Q2/2020 TRANSPORTING OUR Employees Training All N&K Spedition teams has participated in the CSR-training Set goal for 2020 Ensure training by the end of Q3/2020 CUSTOMERS’ CHILLED AND FROZEN GOODS” Hold as a minimum IFS Higher Level Achieved IFS Higher Level Food Safety Quality the IFS Higher Level Certification Certification 97,14 % Certification 22 23 DEPARTMENTS DENMARK SWEDEN SPAIN N&K Spedition AS N&K Spedition AB N&K Spedition Spain Malervej 12 Knut Påls Veg 2A Plaza Adolfo Ventas 7 DK-6710 Esbjerg V S-256 69 Helsingborg 43870 Amposta (Tarragona), Spain Tlf. + 45 76 11 76 76 Tlf: +46 42 405 98 90 +34 977 425 240 office@nkspedition.es NORWAY LITHUANIA CHINA N&K Spedition AS N&K Spedition UAB N&K Spedition China Karihaugveien 89 Silutes pl. 83B 210 Century Link, Tower 2, R.1008 N-1086 Oslo LT-94101 Klaidepa 1192 Century Avenue, Pudong Tlf. +47 22 90 67 50 Tlf. + 46 4240 59895 CN-200120 Shanghai, China Grandeveien 21 Tlf. +47 578 72 760 +86 131 2243 5699 N-6783 Stryn office@nkspedition.cn Tlf. +47 578 72 760 www.nkspedition.dk N&K Spedition Group of Companies HSF Logistics · N&K Air Solutions · N&K WF Transport Thadaeus Shipping & Transport · Skive Køletransport www.grafiskadlibitum.dk
