UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2020 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP BDO IDEAS | PEOPLE | TRUST Antonio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York NY 10017 USA Dear Secretary General, We are pleased to be supporting the United Nations Global Compact and to be a part of the network of organisations adhering to the UN’s aims and their guiding principle across human rights and responsible corporate citizenship. At BDO our vision is to remain “an independent, sustainably profitable and globally focussed business, known for helping people and businesses succeed”. Achieving this is based on our core purpose “Helping you succeed” and underpinned by our Values, which have been critical pillars for our decision-making, behaviours and employee support during the COVID-19 pandemic. I believe this vision is wholly aligned with the goals of the UN Global Compact. In our annual Communication on Progress, we describe how our actions reflect our commitment to The Ten Principles through our business strategy, culture and daily operations and how we look to continually improve our adoption in future years. Yours sincerely, PAUL ENGLAND Managing Partner On behalf of BDO UK LLP 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP 1. HUMAN RIGHTS At BDO we are committed to ensuring all our staff, and those working in our supply chain, have their human rights respected and that we uphold the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights throughout our values, practices, polices, and culture. OUR VALUES IN ACTION 01 PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Our Values underpin everything we do at BDO. Our Values had internationally proclaimed human rights. been in place for 18 years so – over the last 12 months – we have conducted firmwide focus groups and surveys to define BDO’s 02 PRINCIPLE 2 refreshed Values. In relation to human rights, our new Values state Make sure that they are not complicit in human that we are committed to “being responsible and acting with rights abuses. integrity” and “being genuine” regardless of background and status. Examples of our Values in action include: X Through our supplier Code of Conduct, we ensure that our OUR VALUES suppliers respect human rights to our exacting standards. Our support of human rights resonates with the aims of the UN and our continuing focus on preventing modern slavery in our supply chain X We refreshed our Code of Conduct for our BDO partners and staff last year, which our Institute used as an example of best practice X We established and promote an independently-run whistleblowing helpline, through which staff can confidentially raise any concerns X Our BLEND network supports our LBGT community and helps the firm as a whole to be an attractive place to work for all X Our Leadership Team at BDO champions a ‘Be Yourself’ agenda, leading from the front and encouraging everyone to be authentic in bringing their whole self to work X We have launched our BDO Race Action Plan, through which we can ensure all our staff have their human rights respected X We have created Inclusive Leadership training, which all our business leaders are completing. Similar D&I training workshops will be rolled out to all our employees in 2021. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP UNIFYING CULTURE Our new Values: BEING BOLD BEING RESPONSIBLE AND ACTING WITH INTEGRITY Being bold means we are ambitious, innovative and passionate about Being responsible and acting with integrity starts with a recognition the things we do. We’re curious, initiate ideas and make change that we have a choice in how we act, respond to and influence happen – even if it sometimes feels uncomfortable. the world around us, conscious of our impact on others, our We are willing to try something new and prepared to firm, our clients and the environment. It is about taking take appropriate risks but never to the detriment responsibility for our actions and learning from our of quality or our code of conduct. Today’s fast mistakes. It extends to our commitment to acting changing world demands us to be forward ethically with integrity, professional competence thinking, pragmatic and willing to positively and scepticism, objectivity, due care, challenge the way things have always been confidentiality and, when appropriate, with done – to come up with new and innovative independence. Always delivering high quality ways to help us succeed. work with the public interest in mind. BEING COLLABORATIVE BEING GENUINE Being collaborative means that we recognise Being genuine means we are true to who we the power of supporting and working with are. We’re honest about what we think, believe each other, our firm and our clients. It is a way and feel – as well as our own vulnerabilities. of working where everyone has an important role We embrace individuality and difference, which to play, and we believe in empowering and helping means we don’t judge the beliefs and opinions of one another. To enable this, we build meaningful others, but listen and, where appropriate, learn from relationships based on trust, understanding and respect for them. Being true to ourselves means we speak up when we the unique perspectives, skills and qualities that we each bring. don’t agree with something, but also acknowledge when we’re Above all, we are committed to supporting each other and sharing unsure or have got something wrong. Trust has to be earned and we our knowledge, experience and expertise to help others to succeed. nurture it by being authentic, generous and respectful of others. We meet regularly with our various network groups, individually and collectively such as BLEND (our LGBTQ+network), BDO Inspire (our women’s network), Islamic Network, Jewish Network, BAME Society and Christian Network to help us better understand barriers and opportunities. This approach helped us to identify three initial priorities – which will naturally evolve as we develop as a business and respond to the changing world and workforce: WELLBEING BE YOURSELF CITIZENSHIP We believe that, by driving success in these three culturally important areas, we will achieve our vision to be an independent, sustainably profitable and globally-focused firm, known for helping businesses and people succeed. We encourage everyone to be themselves. At the end of the day, it is about knowing you can be authentic and will be valued and respected for who you are. And that’s important for people wanting to join BDO and stay with BDO. 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY NETWORKS A NETWORK OF NETWORKS In 2020, BDO moved to remote working as a result of UK government measures to stem the spread of Coronavirus. During this time, we launched a new quarterly Networks In the last 12 months, our Networks have: Newsletter to promote and celebrate our networks. X Worked together on cross-network projects to share their stories, aims and challenges together More than a third of the world’s population has been in ‘lockdown’ in X Hosted a series of skills-based, practical networking events 2020. Researchers have been considering the impact for individuals, to support female career development – held in London but groups, communities and workforces when faced with periods of streamed regionally physical distancing, isolation and even social breakdown. But despite the concerns, behavioural experts are seeing some positive and X Held ‘Bantz with BAME’ informal networking events unexpected results, including widespread outpourings of charity, in our London office togetherness and empathy for complete strangers. As many of X Hosted dedicated Mindfulness sessions for our us reflect on what ‘belonging’ and ‘community’ mean to us in a Islamic Network COVID-19 world, we thank our Network groups for creating a place X Attended the InterTech LGBT+ Diversity Forum for our local communities, in which we can provide support, promote X Celebrated Passover, Ramadan, Eid, Easter, PRIDE inclusivity and encourage us to be ourselves. and Trans Visibility Day during lockdown We aim for our Networks to be well-represented groups, with access X Encouraged our colleagues to complete our Inclusion Survey. to strong and prominent role models. We embrace individuality along with collaborative working; collaboration is critical between our Networks. We believe that ‘difference’ is what makes us great and what strengthens our team, which is why we foster an inclusive culture at BDO that encourages people to be themselves. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP 2. LABOUR STANDARDS At BDO we are committed to implementing the highest standard of labour practices and to complying with UK labour law in all cases. OUR CORE PURPOSE IN ACTION 03 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the In relation to labour standards, our Core Purpose means we are effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. committed to “helping you succeed” – both our clients and our people. Examples of our core purpose in action include: 04 PRINCIPLE 4 X Our employment policies are in line with and/or exceed UK The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Labour standards and are consistently reviewed X BDO complies with the Modern Slavery Act 05 PRINCIPLE 5 X We publish Gender Pay Gap reports annually and have The effective abolition of child labour. committed to the “Women in Finance” Charter as part of our Gender Balance strategy 06 PRINCIPLE 6 X As part of the leadership strategy we are committed to a The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment ‘Unifying Culture’ and we have established a ‘U Board’ which and occupation. coordinates all of our activity related to our firm’s culture. Our 2020 Culture Report is available here. This specifically includes a chapter on how we have helped society succeed in the last OUR CORE PURPOSE 12 months X We set rigorous standards for our suppliers through our Supplier Code of Conduct. Helping you succeed 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP UNIFYING CULTURE THE U BOARD STRATEGY WILL SHAPE, STRENGTHEN AND EMBED OUR INCLUSIVE CULTURE – FOR TODAY BUT ALSO TOMORROW FOSTERING A UNIFYING CULTURE WHERE WE ARE ENCOURAGED TO BE OURSELVES, ARE INSPIRED AND CHALLENGED, COLLABORATIVE AND SUCCESSFUL WELLBEING BE YOURSELF CITIZENSHIP ‘Successful and Collaborative’ ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ ‘Challenged and Inspired’ 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP BE YOURSELF Our ‘Be Yourself’ strategy incorporates a number of GENDER BALANCE different inclusion agendas. We have set in place a BE INSPIRED action plan, which summarises a detailed programme of local and national activity led by the We ran our first Inclusion Survey in 2018 to help us find out more Leadership Team, our U Board, BDO Inspire (our women’s network) about our BDO population. This allowed us to make decisions that and a group of passionate people, with the aim of ensuring there are informed by the facts of today to ensure we’re focusing our are no barriers preventing our talented people from succeeding. efforts on the right areas (actual rather than assumed challenges) As a signatory of the Women In Finance Charter, we’ve: and having an impact that creates measurable and sustainable X Improved our Gender Pay Gap for the third year running, progress. We continue to work with our people to capture key now at 16.1% mean demographic data. X Started the next cohort of senior women taking part in the Our results are consistent with our peers but we need, and want, 30% Club’s mentoring programme. In the past six years, more to do better. than 100 of our senior women have taken part – and we’ll have a record-breaking 30 people taking part this coming year X Discussed gender balance and our Gender Pay Gap data In an all-employee survey this year, 91% of BDO’s directly with each Leader across the firm people positively responded to being able to be X Re-checked our Early In Careers advertising to ensure themselves at work. it is accessible to any gender and implemented ‘inclusive recruitment’ training guides for people running interviews X Supported our BDO Inspire network to run a series of skills-based, virtual events – open to the whole firm. RACE IN THE WORKPLACE As a signatory to the Race At Work Charter, we have launched our Race Action Plan this year with five commitments: 01 LEADERSHIP 02 CAPTURE DATA 03 ZERO 04 EQUAL 05 HELPING YOU SUPPORT TOLERANCE RESPONSIBILITY SUCCEED We will support our We will measure and We will have zero We will take equal We will help Race Action Plan report on our data tolerance to racial responsibility for you succeed. from the top. and progress. harassment and equal opportunities. bullying. 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP WELLBEING Three years ago, we launched a Wellbeing programme OUR LOCAL TEAMS HELD: across BDO using Mind’s ‘5 Ways of Wellbeing’ as X Lunchtime yoga sessions our framework. BDO donated £20,000 to X Lunchtime park walks mental health charity, Mind, This included a dedicated Wellbeing portal, firm-wide promotions, this year through various X Cycling goals team challenges and events and company-wide ‘Performance funded activities. X Lunchtime pedalos Under Pressure’ resilience training. We hired a Wellbeing Manager in Regents Park to co-ordinate and develop our employee support, and created a X Treasure hunt network of Wellbeing Champions across the firm to share ideas and stories about how to improve our mental resilience and physical X Table football health in the workplace. Chair of our U Board, tournament Chris Grove, has been X In-office massages That we had already recognised Wellbeing as an important part shortlisted as ‘Exec Sponsor of our BDO culture – including being awarded ‘Silver’ in the Mind of the Year’ for the Inside X A ‘breathe’ workshop Wellbeing Index was a huge asset to the firm as Coronavirus hit Out mental health awards. X Blood donation visits the UK. Supporting our BDO workforce to care for their physical X Optimising and mental health during the global pandemic was non-negotiable. health workshop We shared Wellbeing resources and tips through our weekly #StayConnected bulletins, partnered with external Wellbeing X Crochet session experts to host live wellbeing webinars, promoted our Employee Five of our partners X Bake sale Assistance helpline, trained even more Mental Health First Aiders stepped up to take part in X Meditation days and, critically, looked out for each other. the MindCycle, a cycling challenge created by social X Creation of quiet areas enterprise, Inside Out, to with healthy snacks help smash the stigma of X Traffic-free cycle rides mental health. As well as X Taster sessions at the showing their support for Manchester Velodrome a culture thats resilient, mentally healthy and free of and hiring local sports stigma, the team achieved halls for netball and a bronze in the challenge. football tournaments. 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP CITIZENSHIP We also make a difference by sharing our skills, time and passion with the community. This activity keeps us inspired, engaged and energised, individually and collectively – and very proud of our culture. Helping not just each other or our clients but also helping society succeed. For circa 14 years, BDO has offered ten CSR days to everyone. This is often quoted back to us in interviews about why people want to Our BDO people spent 9,500 hours volunteering in come and work here. To encourage people to utilise their days in a their local communities, as they used their CSR days way that will truly help society succeed, we call our approach ‘5+5’: to help society succeed. X ‘My Action 5’ – five days can be used for the usual fundraising, volunteering or team-building days as people currently do – we call them action days. THANK YOU X ‘My Strategic 5’ – the other five days are called strategic days – It has been extremely inspiring and encouraging for us to see where people can use their professional skill sets to really make many of our healthcare and life sciences clients making their a difference. It might be as a trustee of a charity, working on own contribution to attempt to overcome the Coronavirus and a big societal challenge with some of our Tech Track companies its impact on society. We have been proud to have them as BDO or going into schools to help with interview prep or CV writing. clients and hope that their efforts continue to prove to be fruitful. Volunteering and fundraising is extremely important – to individuals at BDO and to the hundreds of communities we continue to support. There are simply too many stories to share in this report – not least the 100 people who joined in the UK’s 2.6 Challenge in April to raise money for the charities who would lose critical funding as a result of the London Marathon 2020 being cancelled due to Coronavirus restrictions. But, as a purpose-led firm, we need to do more than just take days out to do good deeds. We aspire to leave a legacy, which is about creating a future BDO for our people, stakeholders and society as a whole. There are things we need to do as a firm to maximise our positive impact on the world around us, but if we enable our people to make a difference at the same time, our impact will be far greater. Our Citizenship priority provides us with a ‘check and balance’ that we’re being a good corporate citizen and about our overall contribution to society. 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP SOCIAL MOBILITY Given that our Managing Partner joined BDO straight from school in 1987, after working in Walthamstow Market and choosing to join the workforce rather than go to university, you’d expect us to care a great deal about social mobility. And we do. We: X Were a founding partner in the creation of the social mobility drive called ‘Access Accountancy’ in 2014. This continues to provide greater opportunities to talented UK students from disadvantaged backgrounds X Hold a position as a Trustee on the Access Accountancy Patron’s Group through our partner, Sarah Hillary X Took part in a pilot outreach programme with other major accountancy firms to support students in social mobility cold spots and help set them up for success, whatever career they might want to consider in future X Were the first major accountancy firm to offer the higher apprenticeship in audit X Expanded our long-established school leaver programme. Both our graduate and apprentice programmes are now aligned to the Level 7 Accountancy/Taxation Professional Apprenticeship standard. Upon completion, our trainees will then qualify as an ICAEW, CIOT, CIMA or ACCA member and will also hold a Level 7 Accountancy/Taxation Professional Apprenticeship, which is the equivalent to a Master’s degree X Take part (C-19 excepting) in a range of mentoring and internships with organisations specifically targeting inner city schools and students from disadvantaged backgrounds X Support our trainees – who we recruit circa 400 each year through their exams, including study time, and our excellent results speak for themselves – regularly up to 10% above the national average X Are delighted to have welcomed 90 new apprentices into last year’s new cohort of BDO trainees; and will welcome 70 more before 2020 is out X Crafted our newly defined Employer Brand Promise, so we can clearly, consistently and coherently communicate what makes BDO a unique and attractive place to work. 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP 3. ENVIRONMENT At BDO, we act on climate change because it is the right thing to do for our employees, clients and future generations. Our Core Purpose is ‘helping you succeed’ – at its core, this is about social purpose; there is perhaps no greater alignment than with the Climate Change agenda. In January 2020, we set our goal to become carbon neutral, reducing our footprint by embedding environmental controls, carbon offsetting and achieve a greener culture. OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 07 PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach We are monitoring and minimising our impact on the environment. to environmental challenges. As well as establishing an environmental management system and KPIs, we are promoting environmental awareness amongst partners 08 PRINCIPLE 8 and staff. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. X Our plans to reduce our environmental impact are set out in our 2018-19 Carbon Footprint Report. Our commitments go 09 PRINCIPLE 9 beyond what is required for compliance Encourage the development and diffusion of X We achieved ISO14001 certification for environmental environmentally friendly technologies. management in 2010 and have retained it since X We are working to secure PAS 2060 accreditation by the end of 2020, through which all our UK offices will be carbon neutral OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT X We have introduced environmental criteria to our procurement processes, extending our ambitions to our supply chain. 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP 3. ENVIRONMENT AS A FIRM X BDO has committed to going carbon neutral – In January 2020, we worked with an independent carbon consultancy to offset our identified carbon footprints from 2019 and 2018 combined – Offsetting our emissions in this way helps to fund an African climate project, which provides efficient and safe Gyapa cookstoves to families across Ghana – We are working with Avieco to secure PAS 2060 accreditation by the end of 2020, when we will declare our offices carbon neutral X We have been reducing our actual carbon footprint at a steady rate year-on-year: last year, we reduced the firm’s intensity per FTE by 28% and the year before by 13% X We reduced our energy consumption, total emissions and emissions intensity for a third consecutive year; naturally, COVID-lockdowns played a part in this, as with many businesses X We review supplier contracts for their environment and sustainability commitments X We continue to be recertified for important environmental credentials (ISO14001:2015) which our clients and employees expect of us X More than half of our office locations are rated either very good or higher, with six offices rated ‘excellent’, by independent environmental consultants X We are working with our travel booking provider to measure and promote the carbon impact of each business journey requested in a post-C-19 world X Our people can now order and choose carbon-neutral BDO stationery and merchandise X We planted 300 trees in the UK as part of our Sunday Times Fast Track marketing partnership. 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP 3. ENVIRONMENT WORKING WITH OTHERS AS INDIVIDUALS X No single firm or individual can tackle climate change alone. X We want to keep working with our BDO people to identify the The solution is collaborative next right things to do X Our Senior Partner, Matthew White, has joined Chapter Zero, X Although decreased during COVID-related restrictions, business a climate forum for Board Chairs and Non-Executive Directors travel continues to be the largest part of our carbon output. We to ensure climate change appears on the agenda of every will be encouraging our people to think twice before travelling as boardroom table this year we ‘build back greener’ X We are helping many clients succeed on a variety of sustainability X We have trained Environment Champions in each office to help projects, including the development of Circular Economy, forest activate environment programmes locally protection technology and renewable power programmes X We have opened up a ‘There Is No Planet B’ group on our internal X The accountancy and business advisory work we do to help social media tool to share personal hints, tips and stories Renewable Energy companies with their corporate finance, X BDO employees can contribute to charities that deal with carbon forensics, audit or tax requirements is growing. Our partner, offsetting, for example the Woodlands Trust, through bespoke Marc Reinecke, has taken on the role as leader of BDO’s Global Give As You Earn benefits Renewables sub-sector, a team which is now receiving further X Our partners are also showing their commitment by personally attention and investment from across BDO globally paying to offset their individual footprints each year X We partner with CleanGrowth, supporting tech start-ups find X At BDO, we offer a generous ten CSR days each year. We are asking funding and a space to develop tech our people to think about how they can use some of their days to X Our Financial Model Assurance team is ranked #1 globally get involved in local Sustainability or Climate Change initiatives. in the Renewables sector. 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS | BDO LLP 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION BDO holds itself to the highest standards of ethical behaviours and has a zero tolerance approach to all forms of corruption and bribery. This is embedded in our values and implemented throughout our supply chain. We are committed to quality, independence and ethics. OUR APPROACH TO ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, At BDO, we don’t see ethics and compliance as a standalone including extortion and bribery. undertaking: the behaviours expected by our regulators and the ICAEW are already embedded in the firm’s Values, our commitment to quality, our strategic framework and, critically, our working culture. X Within BDO’s strategic framework, we specifically state: “We are committed to Quality, Independence and Ethics” X BDO is heavily regulated as a firm and all partners and staff comply with the ICAEW code of ethics X Extensive ethics and anti economic crime training for all partners and staff is provided each year X We have a designated Ethics Partner, Money Laundering Reporting Officer, and Quality and Risk Partner X Our Annual Transparency report documents our approach to ethics, independence, quality and risk X We take an active role in the wider anti-corruption agenda, for example as a signatory to the joint statement of support to the London Anti-Corruption Summit. FOR MORE INFORMATION: The proposals contained in this document are made by BDO LLP and are in all respects subject to the negotiation, agreement and signing of a specific contract. This document contains information that is commercially sensitive to BDO LLP, which is being disclosed to PAUL EAGLAND you in confidence to facilitate your consideration of whether or not to engage BDO LLP. It +44 (0)207 893 2435 is not to be disclosed to any third party without the written consent of BDO LLP, or without paul.eagland@bdo.co.uk consulting BDO LLP if public freedom of information legislation applies and might compel disclosure. Any client names and statistics quoted in this document include clients of BDO LLP and may include clients of the international BDO network of independent member firms. BDO LLP, a UK limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number OC305127, is a member of BDO International Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, and forms part of the international BDO network of independent member firms. A list of members’ names is open to inspection at our registered office, 55 Baker Street, London W1U 7EU. BDO LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to conduct investment business. BDO is the brand name of the BDO network and for each of the BDO member firms. BDO Northern Ireland, a partnership formed in and under the laws of Northern Ireland, is licensed to operate within the international BDO network of independent member firms. Copyright © December 2020 BDO LLP. All rights reserved. Published in the UK. www.bdo.co.uk 42009458
