2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 WINTERSHALL DEA AT A GLANCE Economical key figures 2019 2 -170 76 275 Company 51 201 320 617 3 1,671 2.8 (mboe/d) (€bn) 72% Gas 270 289 463 120 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE 2,847 EMPLOYEES 1 60+ NATIONS PRODUCTION EBITDAX 4 329 Northern Europe 1.7 Russia 35 1,198 Global footprint (€bn) MENA NORTHERN EUROPE RUSSIA Latin America Production: 201 mboe/d Production: 289 mboe/d 2P Reserves: 916 mmboe 2P Reserves: 2,234 mmboe Midstream CAPEX (excl. acquisitions) Other Environmental and social key figures 2019 11 0.65 2.66 22 MENA Production: 51 mboe/d 2P Reserves: 423 mmboe kg % % MIDSTREAM 4,140 km onshore gas pipelines CO 2 E/BOE METHANE TRIR WOMEN IN 2,460 km Nord Stream INTENSITY INTENSITY (Total Recordable EXECUTIVE Incident Rate per POSITIONS million hours worked) (Up to two levels LATIN AMERICA below the board) Production: 76 mboepd 4 13 2P Reserves: 254 mmboe 1 The number of employees is based on full-time equivalents (FTEs) for all fully and proportionately consolidated companies according to financial reporting. The number of employees reported in the sustainability report is based on headcount of fully and proportionately consolidated companies, plus two joint ventures (Wintershall AG, Wintershall Noordzee B.V.) at Midstream business REGIONS COUNTRIES 100%, used for calculation of health and safety KPIs and therefore differs from financial reporting. 2 The numbers for the calendar year 2019 are an aggregation of the consolidated financial statements of Wintershall Dea for the period May-December 2019, the consolidated financial statements of Wintershall for the period January-April 2019 and the consolidated financial statements of Dea for the period January-April 2019. 3 Excluding 25 mboe/d of Libyan onshore production 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX WINTERSHALL DEA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report documents Wintershall Dea’s sustainability perwere sourced from the expert units responsible, using repreThe following icons indicate important information: formance from 1.1. – 31.12.2019. It is the first Sustainability sentative methods. As a member of the International AssociaReport after the Merger. The report covers the operations tion of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) Wintershall Dea uses You can find more information in this report. of Wintershall Dea GmbH and its various subsidiaries globalthe definitions of this internationally recognised associations You can find more information on the internet. ly which carry out our business (Wintershall Dea Group). when compiling data. The report is based on the Sustainability Reporting StanAll data on employment refer to fully and proportionately dards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our reporting consolidated companies, plus two joint ventures (Wintershall DISCLAIMER for the reporting year 2020 is planned to be in accordance AG, Wintershall Noordzee B.V.) at 100% as of December 31, 2019. with the core option of GRI. We also take into account the This sustainability report contains forward-looking statements reOil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Occupational safety and process safety at all sites of Wingarding the future development of the Wintershall Dea Group and Reporting published by the global oil and gas industry assotershall Dea and its business as well as joint ventures, in its companies as well as of the economic and political environment. ciation for advancing environmental and social performance, which we have operatorship, have been compiled worldwide These statements are assessments that we have made based on IPIECA. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we comregardless of our stake and reported in full (100%). information available to us at the time this document was prepared. mit to its ten principles. With this Sustainability Report that Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of the future deveis available online, Wintershall Dea meets its obligation to Data on emissions, energy, water and waste includes all prolopments and results outlined therein. In the event that the underlydemonstrate how improvements have been made within duction sites on equity basis (percentage by shares) according assumptions do not materialise or unforeseen risks arise, actual these areas. The GRI Content Index from page 40 accordingly ing to IOGP w/o exploration and administration. Emission developments can deviate from the developments expected at preincludes references to the IPIECA indicators and UN Global factors are based on Wintershall Dea standards, GHG Protosent. Therefore, we cannot assume responsibility for the correctness Compact principles. col, IOGP and local standards and regulation. of these statements. Wintershall Dea does not assume any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this report All information for calculations in this report are based on The reporting period was from 1.1.2019 – 31.12.2019. Relevant above and beyond the legal requirements. national and international standards of the oil and gas information is included up to the editorial deadline of industry. The data and information for the reporting period 16 March 2020. The next report will be published in Q1 2021. 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX 1 GOVERNANCE 2 ENVIRONMENT 3 PEOPLE 12 Wintershall Dea at a Glance 19 Introduction 24 Climate protection 31 Health and safety 19 Being part of the solution 24 Emission management 32 Occupational safety 13 About this report 19 Sustainability at Wintershall Dea 24 Energy consumption and 32 Health management 15 Foreword 10 Sustainable Development Goals energy efficiency 33 Process safety 11 Materiality 24 Emissions 33 Security 16 Company Profile 26 Innovations for the climate 33 Emergency management 12 Strategy 33 Data and information security 12 Sustainability strategy 27 Environmental protection 13 Climate protection 27 Water and wastewater 34 Employees 14 Environmental protection 28 Waste 34 Company culture 15 Social responsibility 28 Oil spills and substance releases 34 Employment 16 Transparency and governance 35 Training and career development 29 Highlight: Biodiversity 36 Diversity and inclusion 17 Management 37 Work-life balance 17 Corporate governance 17 Sustainability management 38 Partnerships 18 HSEQ management 38 Strategic collaboration 18 Risk management 38 Sustainable procurement 39 Community engagement 19 Compliance 40 Highlight: Human rights and supply chain 20 Stakeholder dialogue 22 Highlight: Task Force on Climate41 GRI Index related Financial Disclosure 48 Glossary 50 Contact/Imprint 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX MARIO MEHREN, CEO FOREWORD Dear readers, I’m proud to share with you our 2019 Sustainability Report which sets We have set ourselves a zero-harm goal and are working to prevent out how Wintershall Dea strives to act in tandem with society and any incidents befalling our personnel, facilities or the environment. the environment. Sustainability is an essential part of Wintershall Dea’s identity. This is reflected in our value-based growth strategy, which reflects ecoFollowing the completion of our Merger in May 2019, Wintershall Dea nomic, environmental and social elements of sustainability. As such, has become Europe's leading independent gas and oil company. we are proud signatories of the United Nations Global Compact and We have started a new chapter in our 120-year history. We have high thoroughly support its ten principles for environmental protection, ambitions for performance, and for sustainability. At the heart of human and labour rights and anti-corruption. We also want to contriour new company’s values is a clear commitment: Wintershall Dea bute to the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. will work to strict environmental, health, safety and social standards. On the following pages you will find a comprehensive overview of Our objective is to contribute to a better world for future generations how Wintershall Dea accounts for environmental, social and goverby addressing two major challenges: meeting the world’s growing nance topics, and key figures measuring our ambition and perforenergy demand and mitigating climate change. We have a substanmance. I am delighted by the progress we have made in the past tial responsibility in this. With 70% gas in our portfolio and a low year, and I am excited about the high ambitions we have set for the Mario Mehren equity greenhouse gas intensity of around 11 kg CO2e/boe compared years to come. I am pleased to see this first Sustainability Report Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to IOGP average (2018: ~ 21 kg CO2e/boe) Wintershall Dea is well pofrom the combination of Wintershall and DEA. We intend to publish sitioned. For the future we developed a dedicated strategic climate a Sustainability Report annually. We know that there is more work protection approach based on four cornerstones – portfolio, emisto be done, and I expect to see further enhancements in our sustaision management, innovative technologies and offsetting – to further nability reporting in the coming years. Fully implementing external reduce the carbon footprint of our operations. We are committed standards such as the recommendations of the Task Force on Climato maintaining a high gas-oil ratio and set ourselves high standards te-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and GRI are important next whilst using environmentally friendly technologies and procedures. steps, and I welcome feedback from all stakeholders on our transFurthermore we will communicate our environmental footprint in a parency drive. transparent way. The social dimension of our business is equally important as our environmental and economical considerations. We do not compromise when it comes to health, safety, the environment and quality (HSEQ). 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX COMPANY PROFILE A RELIABLE PARTNER AND EXPERIENCED PIONEER WITH AN AMBITIOUS TEAM AT HOME IN THE WORLD Headquartered in Kassel and Hamburg, Wintershall Dea is a German company that explores and produces gas and oil in an efficient and responsible manner in 13 countries around the world. With activities in Europe, Russia, Latin America and the MENA region (Middle East & North Africa), Wintershall Wintershall Dea was formed on 1 May 2019 through the combination of the Dea has a global upstream portfolio and, with its participation in natural oil and gas business (including the midstream business) of BASF, comprising gas transport, is also active in the midstream business. Wintershall Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries; and the oil and gas business of LetterOne, comprising DEA Deutsche Erdoel AG and its subsidiaries EVEN STRONGER – TOGETHER (Merger). We are Europe’s leading independent gas and oil company, standing for more than 120 years of experience as an operator and partner of Following the Merger, the primary goal was to increase our competitiveness and future viability by pooling our forces. As Europe’s leading independent choice along the entire E&P1 value chain. The company employs around natural gas and crude oil company with a large and diversified portfolio, 3,4002 people from more than 60 nations worldwide. Wintershall Dea has the strength, know how and international presence to thrive in the global market and also seize great opportunities. The company is now better equipped to meet future challenges in the business environment – such as volatile oil and gas prices or the growing need to protect the environment and climate. 1 Exploration and production of Gas and Oil. 2 Number of employees shows headcount of fully and proportionately consolidated companies, plus two joint ventures (Wintershall AG, Wintershall Noordzee B.V.) at 100%. 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS – IMPORTANT Wintershall Dea is setting new industry-wide benchmarks VALUES THAT GUIDE US RAW MATERIALS FOR THE FUTURE in safety and environmental responsibility through technical We know that we as a company are measured at all levels innovation. The company has the capacity to develop cusOur industrialised society relies on oil and gas as important by our actions. Our four corporate values of trust, care, opentomised solutions for new projects and can take on the most underpinnings. Economic growth requires safe, long-term mindedness and bravery are therefore extremely important challenging fields. Wintershall Dea is exploiting the benefits and low-cost supplies of energy. As an energy source and to us in all our relations – both internally and externally. Our of the digital revolution. raw material for the industrial sector, hydrocarbons will convalues guide our actions and define how we want to work tinue to contribute greatly to this creation for decades to together – as a team, with our stakeholders and our partWe foster entrepreneurial spirit, empower our employees come. Oil is an essential raw material, for example in the ners. They are pivotal in defining Wintershall Dea’s culture. and welcome diversity. We encourage an open and teamchemicals sector. Furthermore, the importance of gas is groworiented work environment, always seeking the best possible ing. Thanks to its favourable climate footprint as compared solutions. to other fossil fuels, it is widely used for heating and generating electricity, and a raw material for the industry. We believe that we are contributing to a better world by today and for the future generations by simultaneously taking on two major challenges: by meeting the growing need for reliable and affordable energy and by helping WE ARE WE to mitigate climate change. WE TRUST WE CARE OPEN-MINDED ARE BRAVE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS, INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGIES AND AMBITIOUS PEOPLE Trust is the basis for all our vaWe care for our people, the enWe are convinced that open-minWe are ready to accept big chalThe company has more than 120 years of experience in the lues and also their result. We bevironment, our assets and our dedness is key: to being innovalenges, be they demanding fields, lieve in respect and sustainability capital. We accept responsibility tive, to achieving robustness, for new opportunities, or our social safe exploration, development and production of gas and as the foundation for our success. and act on it. We do not shy away securing exciting projects and an responsibility to advance the gas oil. Our long-standing expertise in engineering is our tradiWe also believe in trust as the from difficult conversations and inspiring work environment. We & oil industry. We have a strong basis for achieving our goals and weigh our decisions carefully. Safe work on the assumption that we performance delivery orientation, tion, and long-term strategic partnerships are our strength. empowering our organisation. operations that cause no harm to can learn something from every striving for excellence in all that We trust people to take informed people and the environment are person that we interact with. we do. We grasp opportunities Together with international public and private partners, decisions. always our top priority. while managing risks smartly. we participate in the most challenging projects around the globe and along the complete E&P lifecycle. 7 GOVERNANCE REACHING FOR 1 GOVERNANCE TOMORROW 19 Introduction 19 Being part of the solution 19 Sustainability at Wintershall Dea 10 Sustainable Development Goals 11 Materiality We balance the supply of safe, low-cost and 12 Strategy 12 Sustainability strategy reliable energy for our customers with ambitious 13 Climate protection sustainability goals. Our actions range from mini14 Environmental protection 15 Social responsibility mising our environmental impacts and improving 16 Transparency and governance transparency for stakeholders to establishing 17 Management 17 Corporate governance technical solutions for the energy transition. 17 Sustainability management 18 HSEQ management 18 Risk management 19 Compliance 19 Code of Conduct 19 Compliance management 19 Grievance mechanism 20 Stakeholder dialogue 21 Members and voluntary commitments 22 Highlight: Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosure 8 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Introduction INTRODUCTION BEING PART OF THE SOLUTION Our industry and our company play a vital role in the energy Furthermore, we assess the sustainability risks and look for innovative solutransition towards a low carbon economy. At the same time, the tions to mitigate them, in order to minimise the environmental impact. Our energy industry is under increasing scrutiny from multiple staketrack record paves the way for potential new business opportunities and holders on a wide range of environmental, social and governance creates value for the company, our shareholders, our partners and our employees – as well as for society. topics. At Wintershall Dea, we are working to meet growing demand for energy in a responsible manner by providing innovative and sustainable solutions. SUSTAINABILITY AT WINTERSHALL DEA For us, industry leading sustainability is an essential underpinning of our business model. We govern the company responsibly, we strive to mitigate Wintershall Dea’s strategy is designed to reinforce our position as the leading the risks we see, and we communicate in a transparent manner. This is, how European independent gas and oil company, by delivering profitable growth we keep our social licence to operate, and it builds into our investment case in the energy transition. for shareholders. Our strategy is underpinned by our expectation of continued demand for We produce gas and oil as efficiently and responsibly as possible. In the p. 12 our products in the coming decades, particularly natural gas, as industry process, we aim to minimise our environmental footprint and use resources and society adapt to the energy transition to a low carbon economy. Our efficiently. We advocate for high social standards, we collaborate extensively portfolio is well positioned for this transition, with natural gas representing with a wide range of stakeholders, and we aim to create trust through about 70% of our production and reserves base. transparency. We are convinced that responsible and sustainable policies and actions are Sustainability is an integral part of the corporate strategy we adopted in a prerequisite for long-term corporate success. We assess the environmental, 2019, following the Merger. social and economic aspects of projects and operations. 9 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Introduction SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN THE FOCUS OF WINTERSHALL DEA FOCUS SDGS & SPECIFIC TARGETS 1 OUR IMPACT / OUR ASPIRATIONS 6.3 Improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating We are committed to sustainable water management and strive dumping and minimising release of hazardous chemicals to avoid/minimise spills and leakages UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT and materials GOALS 6.4 Increase water-use efficiency and ensure sustainable We strive to increase water-use efficiency and perform water In 2015, the 193 member countries of the United Nations withdrawals risk assessments at relevant sites adopted the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. 6.6 Protect and restore water-related ecosystems We develop water protection plans for relevant sites This agenda is a plan of action for people, planet and prosWe assess our potential impacts on ecosystems as part of perity. At its core are 17 Sustainable Development Goals Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (SDGs) and related targets, which provide a framework of 7.1 Ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and Being mainly a producer of natural gas, we contribute to the provision action. The SDGs are a blueprint to achieve a better and modern energy of access to clean, affordable and reliable energy more sustainable future for all. 7.3 Double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency We aim to increase energy efficiency in our activities e.g. via systematic management of energy use Wintershall Dea is convinced that business action is needed 7.4 Enhance cooperation to facilitate access to research, techWe foster technological collaboration and knowledge exchange nology and investments in clean energy incl. energy effiin our operational activities as well as via cooperation with research to achieve these goals, and we are committed to play our ciency, cleaner fossil fuel technology and infrastructure institutions part. Many of the SDGs are relevant to Wintershall Dea operations to varying degrees and we are already contribut8.1 Sustain per capita economic growth We contribute directly and indirectly via our supply chain to ing to many of these goals. economic growth of the regions where we are active In 2019, following a company review, we decided to focus on 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through Our activities in the area of Research and Development and diversification and innovation innovation management aim for an increase in efficiency supporting the four goals where we can make the greatest contribution. 8.4 Improve resource efficiency in consumption and producWe assess and manage environmental impacts as part of HSEQ tion and endeavour to decouple economic growth from management environmental degradation These are Promotion of Diversity and Inclusion in the workplace is part of 8.5 Achieve full and productive employment and decent our sustainability strategy 6 Clean water and sanitation , work for all and equal pay for work of equal value We set ourselves targets to increase diversity of our leadership team 7 Affordable and clean energy , To support the integration of young workers into labour markets, we 8.7 Eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human offer apprenticeships/ trainee programmes, recruit young professionals 8 Decent work and economic growth and trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of and collaborate with educational institutions 13 Climate action . child labour Being signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are committed to respect human rights incl. international labor rights and social standards 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure We assess and manage related risks in own activities as well as We seek to minimise the negative impact of our activities working environments for all workers part of the contractor and supply chain management via our participation in the Joint Industry Human Rights Supplier Initiative while increasing our positive contribution. 13.2 Integrate climate change measures We set ourselves emissions reduction targets which we want to achieve by focusing on portfolio management, emissions manage13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising ment, technology development and offsetting We raise our employees’ and public awareness e.g. via related campaigns 1 Shortened version of the original text. 10 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Introduction MATERIAL TOPICS A FOCUS ON MATERIALITY CONNECTED TO SUSTAINABILITY Wintershall Dea carried out a materiality analysis in 2019. The goal was to identify and evaluate sustainability topics according to their strategic relevance and their impact both on our business environment and on Wintershall Dea. This analysis enabled us to meet the steadily increasing transparency o nsible par tnerships Resp requirements of the financial markets and to prepare for sustainability standards such as GRI and upcoming regulations. • Human rights tion • Supply chain pr • Partner engagement ot We carried out an online survey to identify the relevance of topics for exterec • Local communities He & nal and internal stakeholders and the business as well as the impact on the th al nta l environment of certain topics. In this way, we determined both, the expectame E NT • Waste • Occupational ety Envir saf SO C tions of our employees and those of our external stakeholders such as inves• Water health & safety on ENVI RO N M • Biodiversity • Process safety tors, business partners, suppliers and representatives of politics and science. • HSEQ culture IAL We evaluated the positive and potentially negative impacts of Wintershall MATERIAL Dea on people, society and the planet. To provide structure for this, specific TOPICS subject areas were defined prior to the survey with various possible options • Emission reduction • Diversity & inclusion for action for each of these subjects. Using both quantitative evaluation and • Energy efficiency • Life-long learning a qualitative ranking, we were able to assess the transformation potential for Clim • Technology & • Work-life balance innovation s each subject and each option for action. In addition to the stakeholder survey te p plo ye c e we have performed an internal assessment of potentially relevant subjects rote • Compliance Em by inter alia considering relevant industry trends and benchmarking with our ti o • Disclosure n • Stakeholder peers. The results were assessed by the Wintershall Dea executive team, and engagement clear accountabilities and action plans have been put in place. This analysis frames the content of this report. Tra ns p arency & governance The outcomes of the overall assessment are presented in the graphics and G OV E R N A N C E are mapped with the elements of our sustainability strategy. The inner circle includes the specific material topics that reflect business and stakeholder relevance as well as our company impacts on the environment. The middle circle presents the strategic themes, whereas the outer circle presents the three dimensions addressed in our sustainability strategy. 11 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Strategy STRATEGY OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY We are defining and implementing clear and industryOVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY: ACHIEVING LONG-TERM SUCCESS WITH RESPONSIBILITY leading standards in sustainability, and setting clear priorities and actions for the company. Explore and produce gas and oil in the most efficient and responsible way Minimised footprint Our sustainability framework, encompasses economic, environHigh transparency mental and social responsibility and is embedded in our corporate strategy. We endeavour to address these issues across all our ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE activities. Building on an uncompromising approach to Health, REDUCE EMISSION FOOTPRINT PROMOTE RESPONSIBLE ADVANCE SUSTAINABILITY Safety, Environment, Quality (HSEQ Management), our strategic COLLABORATION MANAGEMENT sustainability priorities are: Contributing to environmental Fostering high standards in all Aspiring to boost ESG1 and climate protection activities and a culture of inclusion performance climate and environmental protection, promotion of responsible collaboration, and advanced sustainability management. 1 Environment, Social & Governance 12 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Strategy CLIMATE PROTECTION global energy efficiency is increasing only by 1.8% on a these midstream activities are strong and predictable, and Addressing and adapting to climate change is one of the twenty-year average with a low of 1.2% in 2018. provide our shareholders with a stable financial underpinnbiggest challenges the world is facing today. We see the ing to the inherently more volatile upstream portfolio. competing forces of rising demand for energy products, The reductions in energy intensity have not kept pace with driven by population growth and rising living standards, but the overall growth in energy demand, which is driven by Today, we believe that our skills set is best suited to upat the same time the requirement from society to decarbonise population and economic growth. This development is stream and midstream activities. Our medium-term strategy the economy. Energy transitions are not new, for example expected to continue throughout the next decades. Most foresees the company as a major investor and innovator the move from coal to oil in railways and shipping, and the base case forecasts assume an increase in global primary in natural gas, alongside low carbon and low-cost oil. Our rise of combustion engines in the early 20th century. energy demand of 20% by 2040. These forecasts depend, technology and innovation programmes focus on improving However, the timescales, innovations and investments for however, heavily on future developments in Asia and Africa. the efficiency of our operations and investigating hydrothe current energy transition are sometimes underestimated. gen and carbon management technologies. Today’s energy transition to a low carbon economy is far Profitable growth in the energy transition reaching and complex, requiring government policy changes Our approach: More energy, less emissions Wintershall Dea expects continued demand for low carbon and difficult choices for consumers. At Wintershall Dea, we and low-cost hydrocarbons in the energy transition to a low Our energy transition strategy is based on portfolio optiare determined to play our part, and to deliver profitable carbon economy, in the medium term. We see natural gas misation, emissions management, innovative technologies growth in the energy transition. as having a crucial role as a low carbon energy source in and offsetting. Wintershall Dea is working on its emission the power, heat and transport sectors, next to renewable reduction pathway and will provide more information on the energies. Over time, today’s natural gas infrastructure can implementation and delivery of its strategy including a set Global energy demand be used to transport gas derived from green electricity and of short-, midand long-term ambitions in the near future. Over 80% of today's global primary energy demand is exhydrogen. pected to be covered by fossil fuels1. More than a quarter Portfolio: Some 70% of our reserves and production are naof all energy consumed globally still comes from coal. We Alongside our investment in upstream natural gas and oil tural gas, and we expect natural gas to remain the majority are covinced that replacing coal with natural gas is an improduction, Wintershall Dea is involved in midstream proof our portfolio. portant element of the energy transition. jects or companies with a history and strategic direction. Together with Gazprom and other European energy comManagement: With around 11 kg CO2e/boe we already have Energy efficiency is seen as a key component to mitigate panies, we have contributed to creating and expanding a low GHG intensity compared to IOGP average (2018: climate change. Recent normative scenarios in line with the the necessary transport systems onand offshore during ~ 21 kg CO2e/boe). We are working hard on implementing Paris Agreement assume an annual increase in efficiency the last three decades. A reliable and efficient transport of energy efficiency and emission reduction measures in our of 3%. Under this ambitious assumption, energy demand natural gas via pipelines will continue to be of crucial imactivities, for example by reducing methane emissions, eliwould be lower in 2040 than today, even though the world portance for security energy supply and achieving Europe’s minating process flaring and using renewable energies in economy grows by an average of 3.4% per year. However, climate protection goals. The cash flow and returns from our operations. 1 IEA World Energy Outlook 2019, Stated Policy Scenario Primary Energy Demand 2020 13 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Strategy Technology: We will continue to focus on technology and innovation, OUR ENERGY TRANSITION TARGETS with natural gas playing a crucial role in reducing the carbon footprint No routine flaring and venting of the energy sector. This includes activities in hydrogen energy Wintershall Dea is committed to the World Bank’s solutions, such as steam reforming and methane pyrolysis as well as “Zero Routine Flaring by 2030” initiative, which carbon capture and storage (CCS). targets the elimination of routine flaring of associated gas during operations. In addition, we are Offsetting: We intend to invest in nature-based solutions to comexploring technologies to also prevent flaring in pensate for unavoidable emissions that cannot be reduced further. non-routine operations. Transparency: We are committed to comprehensive reporting of our Enhance our transparency emissions performance and policies, including our participation in We support the TCFD recommendations and inthe Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and implementation of TCFD tend to implement them over time. recommendations over time. THE FOUR-PILLAR CLIMATE APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Wintershall Dea adheres to the highest environmental standards and we aim to minimise our impact on the environment. We carefully consider the PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Emission efficiency via Emission and energy efficiency potential adverse environmental effect of our activities during the life-time portfolio construction in operations of a project and focus on three key areas: Water and wastewater – we manage our water use carefully and try to use TRANSPARENCY Comprehensive reporting incl. support of TCFD water multiple times, for example through recycling drilling fluids and the use of circulation systems. OFFSETTING TECHNOLOGY Biodiversity – the exploration and production of oil and natural gas can Net GHG reduction supported Technology development to by nature-based solutions enable energy transition affect local natural habitats and communities. We therefore conduct risk assessments and studies to minimise our impact. Waste management – our activities can create waste, which we try to reduce as much as possible by applying our “prevent, reuse, recycle” concept and seeking innovative solutions. 14 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Strategy SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ing Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy. As a member The social dimension of our business is as diverse as the soof the UN Global Compact, we support the ten universal cieties in which we operate. Our social responsibility activiprinciples, the United Nations Sustainable Development ties are built on our core values of “care” and “trust”. We care Goals and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business for people who are involved in our activities, such as our own and Human Rights. We are guided by them in drafting our and business partners’ employees as well as for local cominternal requirements and organising our processes. In 2020, munities in the areas where we are active. We strive to be an we focus on aligning and evolving the processes of our leattractive employer, reliable partner, and a good neighbour. gacy organisations with a specific focus on contractor and Therefore, we foster high standards in all our activities. We supply chain management. also rely on our partners to act according to our values: conOUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS cession and joint venture partners, contractors and suppliers Zero harm to people as well as communities where we are active. We trust and Employees We want to have no fatalities and be amonencourage our partners to share our approach and we thep. 34 Our employees have the knowledge and commitment to gst the top performers with regard to health refore see promotion of responsible collaboration as one of continue driving our industry leadership position. In order to and safety in the industry based on the rankour strategic priorities in sustainability. attract and retain top talents, we want to be an attractive ings of the International Association of Oil employer by offering positive working conditions including and Gas Producers (IOGP). professional development opportunities, life-long learning Health and safety opportunities, and a good work-life balance. We believe that Increased diversity of the leadership team p. 31 Health and safety and a respective company culture is our an inclusive corporate culture is a key prerequisite to benefit We aim for >30% women in executive positop priority. We have established robust health and safety from the diversity of our workforce. To promote this, we have tions (up to two levels below the board) by management systems to continue driving our goal for “Zero developed a dedicated diversity and inclusion approach. In 2025. We also want to maintain a high proHarm”. We have the mindset, systems and processes in place 2020, we will continue to adapt and improve our companyportion of people from varied nationalities to further improve our performance and to learn from inwide standards and processes for employees. (>35%) in executive positions by 2025. cidents if they happen. We focus on both, personal health and safety, including preventive healthcare, and process safety at all of our facilities. Communities We conduct a detailed assessment of the potential impact of our operations on local communities, prior to operations Human rights commencing. We are committed to ongoing and open diaWintershall Dea strives to act worldwide in accordance with logue with stakeholders, and we provide regular information internationally acknowledged human rights standards, as on our activities. We contribute to the sustainable developwell as key labour and social standards. These include the ment of the communities where we operate. To that end Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Guidewe work closely with the local population, policymakers lines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO core labour stanand business communities and offer support for sustainable dards and the Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerndevelopment projects in the communities around us. 15 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Strategy TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE We see our sustainability performance as a key element of our strategy, and this mindset is embedded throughout the company at large. Led by the Management Board, we are committed to effective corporate governance, adherence to law, and a culture of ethics and compliance throughout the OUR TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE TARGETS organisation. Wintershall Dea is committed to high levels of transparency, and Establish comprehensive sustainability reporting to the implementation of leading reporting and governance systems. We are according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) establishing comprehensive sustainability reporting, in line with the Global standards for the reporting year 2020 Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards, throughout the company. We have an open and ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders on key topics such as Set up an external stakeholder advisory council climate change, energy supply reliability and future technologies, and we for exchange on material sustainability topics and are planning to set up a stakeholder advisory council, to further underto give guidance to the executive management stand and integrate our stakeholders’ perspectives. Transparency fosters trust, and trust is a fundamental value for us. Wintershall Dea is committed to open, transparent communication both internally and externally. Dialogue and engagement are high priorities for us, to enable us to understand the concerns and expectations of our stakeholders. Clear and regular reporting on our sustainability performance is one of the key elements here. Our reporting is guided by international reporting guidelines such as the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and sector-specific IPIECA guidelines, alongside the requirements that come from our support of the UN Global Compact. For the future, we plan to further expand our reporting. 16 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Management MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT We put a strong emphasis on good corporate governance Effective management of sustainability is vitally important undergo a dedicated sustainability assessment by the Corporate because by ensuring that Wintershall Dea operates accordfor the development of the company. We have policies and Sustainability unit. ing to good governance we safeguard long-term value – targets across our business units, and we are monitoring our for stakeholders, partners, employees and the public. The progress. The overarching responsibility for the topic lies SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE AT WINTERSHALL DEA structure of our corporate governance establishes us as an with the Chief Executive Officer and the Managment Board. Annual independent company on the pathway to an Initial Public MANAGEMENT BOARD Report p. 64 ff Offering (IPO). A sustainability unit as part of the strategy division ensures the strategic integration of sustainability into our core business and the coordination of company-wide measures. The SUSTAINABILITY BOARD COMMITTEE Strong Governance Structure team will be supported by an internal group of experts, the Central monitoring and steering committee for sustainability issues, it consists of all board members and is chaired by the CEO Sustainability Community. Within the team, the climate Wintershall Dea is a GmbH (limited liability company with manager will strategically coordinate the measures defined its registered seat in Celle, Germany) with corporate goverin the climate approach. Beyond regular exchange, the Board nance consistent with German laws. STRATEGY AND M&A and the Sustainability unit have two dedicated sessions per year where relevant sustainability topics are discussed SUSTAINABILITY UNIT In accordance with applicable German law, the fundamental and the course of action agreed. Ensures the strategic integration into core business and supports the elements of Wintershall Dea's corporate governance system Sustainability Board Committee by driving the implementation of its decisions are: its two-tier system with transparent effective seperation The implementation of regional and topic-related measures of the management of the company and supervision belies in the responsibility of the respective departments SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY tween the Management Board of Wintershall Dea and the and country organisations at our various locations. They Supports strategy implementation within the company, it consists of Supervisory Board, the one-third co-determination of shareone member of each business unit as well as relevant central functions are ideally positioned to judge the needs and expectations and is chaired by the sustainability unit holders and employees and the shareholders' rights at the of their specific areas and regions. To ensure alignment of Shareholders' Meeting and the Shareholders' Committee. … operational activities with the corporate sustainability strategy, relevant projects such as country-entries and investOrganisational structure Sustainability structure ments with potential meaningful sustainability impacts 17 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Management HSEQ-MANAGEMENT The majority of our sites have been certified by external ment is with the Management Board of Wintershall Dea auditors, and we continue to drive this certification throughGmbH. The Management Board is supported by the corporate The overall responsibility for Health, Safety, Environment and out the company. Based on these management systems, unit Risk Management, which designs the risk management Quality (HSEQ) rests with Wintershall Dea’s Chief Executive we have adopted a company-wide policy that clearly deprocess, defines related structures and methodologies and Officer. Our company's leaders are accountable for HSEQ fines responsibilities, processes and structures. Based on provides the required transparency over risks, opportunities performance. They are supported by an HSEQ team, compristhis, we also meet our corporate due diligence obligations. and respective response measures at group level. ing of highly qualified specialists. The HSEQ team is responOur employees are provided with regular training regarding sible for coordinating the specifications of the integrated all HSEQ issues. The goal of Wintershall Dea’s risk management is to identify management system, monitoring its implementation through and evaluate risks and opportunities as early as possible audits, and ensuring continuous reporting. and to take appropriate measures in order to seize opportuRISK MANAGEMENT nities, limit business losses and avoid risks that pose a threat Wintershall Dea has implemented HSEQ management sysWintershall Dea is developing and finalising an integrated to Wintershall Dea’s continued existence. tems in its operations and facilities worldwide. These systems risk management system based on the internationally rehave been aligned with ISO norms – ISO 14001 (environmental cognised Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Risk prevention is deeply integrated into the decision-making management), ISO 50001 (energy management), ISO 45001 Treadway Commission (COSO) framework and industry best processes of everyday business activities at every level of (occupational health and safety) and ISO 9001 (quality). practices. Overall responsibility for group-wide risk manageour company. We regularly carry out risk analyses for all current operations, in order to minimise the risks of our business operations and any negative effects they could have on people and the environment. ISO CERTIFICATION STATUS ISO 9001 In accordance with the TCFD recommendations, we intend quality management GERMANY NETHERLANDS, UK, DENMARK 2 EGYPT JOINT VENTURES 1 to improve our processes still further, to systematically identify, assess and manage climate-related physical and energy ISO 14001 environmental management GERMANY NORWAY NETHERLANDS, UK, DENMARK ARGENTINA EGYPT JOINT VENTURES 1 transition risks. This will include the incorporation of scenario analyses into strategic risk management and carbon pricing ISO 45001 GERMANY ARGENTINA EGYPT JOINT VENTURES 1 into investment decisions. health & safety management ISO 50001 GERMANY NORWAY JOINT VENTURE: SEVERNEFTEGAZPROM energy management 1 Joint Ventures: Achimgaz, Severneftegazprom, Wolgodeminoil 2 Maintenance department 18 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Compliance COMPLIANCE THE FOUNDATION FOR WINTERSHALL DEA‘S OPERATIONS Compliance – adhering to laws and self-imposed regulations – is a prerequisite for any responsible company. Our compliance programme is based on Wintershall Dea's activities. The Code of Conduct is the basis of all our business tion organisation is responsible for globally applicable reCode of Conduct, which applies worldwide. These regulatiactivities. Wintershall Dea demands the highest standards gulations, the compliance management system as well as ons are founded on globally valid values and international of its business partners and expects them to abide by our training measures. Local compliance managers in the various standards and encompass multiple topics, including our concorporate principles or similar principles. If a business partbusiness units are responsible for ensuring adherence to our duct towards people, environment and assets, towards inner does not meet these requirements, we are prepared to regulations and standards on site and in agreement with formation and towards business partners and third parties. take appropriate action – which may even include terminathe global compliance function. The primary goal of our compliance programme is to pretion of the relationship. vent violations – whether legal or related to other aspects of the Code of Conduct. For this reason, all employees are GRIEVANCE MECHANISM required to participate in training courses shortly after joinCOMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT If in doubt, employees are encouraged to take action and ing the company and on a regular basis thereafter. Our worldwide compliance function comprises of the Chief seek advice at an early stage. They can turn to their superCompliance Officer and the Department of Compliance visors as well as the legal department and the company comand Data Protection acting as global compliance managers pliance managers. Employees and third parties can also – CODE OF CONDUCT and local compliance managers in all business units. The anonymously if they prefer – turn to the compliance hotlines Wintershall Dea has a long tradition and, as a responsible Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to the CEO as or our digital whistleblower system to report potential viocompany, has played a substantial part in shaping the energy well as to the Wintershall Dea Management Board on a relations of laws or company regulations. Our whistle-blower industry. We can only maintain this reputation on a lasting gular basis about the implementation status of compliance Portal “SpeakUp” is available in all languages of the counbasis if we adhere to, and are willing to be measured by, initiatives, training courses, and, as required, compliance intries where Wintershall Dea is active. the standards defined by the Code of Conduct in our business cidents and key insights. The Compliance and Data Protec19 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Stakeholder dialogue STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE ENGAGING WITH SOCIETY STAKEHOLDERS AND COMMUNICATION FORMS We engage in dialogue with various stakeholders. The graphic below provides an exemplary overview of our related activities in 2019. We believe in an open and continuous dialogue with our stakeParticipation in sector-specific fairs inter alia ADIPEC 2019, Argentina BUSINESS PARTNERS holders. Though this, we understand more clearly the challenges Oil and Gas Expo 2019 we need to address on site, and what is expected of us. Bilateral exchange, open house days, project-related discussions COMMUNITIES AND and informational events CIVIL SOCIETY We are continuously engaging with various stakeholders. Being familiar with Monthly townhalls with Board members (management briefing), emtheir needs and expectations is an important prerequisite for our success EMPLOYEES ployee surveys e.g. feedback on the status of the integration process and the continued “licence to operate” for the company. We publish comWINTERSHALL DEA prehensive information about our activities on a regular basis and exchange Annual press conference, visits to production sites e.g. to Mittelplate with our stakeholders along the value chain. MEDIA in Germany Our mission is to understand the concerns and positions of the various interest Engagement in relevant networks and associations inter alia environNETWORKS AND groups and to build a trust-based relationship with them. This exchange mental and social working groups of IPIECA and IOGP ASSOCIATIONS helps us to identify topics early on and to take them into account in our activities and strategy processes. At the same time, we also want to discuss our Participation in inter alia expert discussions on national energy-related PUBLIC AUTHORITIES AND positions with our stakeholders, and improve their understanding of what policy measures such as German Gas strategy 2030 and Norwegian THE POLITICAL SPHERE climate policy we do. The form and level of our engagement varies according to the impact of our projects, the specific concerns of individual stakeholders as well as Participation in expert conferences, e.g. 81. EAGE conference and local cultural circumstances. Should our stakeholders wish to formally express exhibition in London; Research collaboration e.g. with Karlsruhe SCIENCE AND ACADEMIA Institute of Technology any sort of criticism of what we do, they are offered structured grievance mechanisms, which we handle carefully and responsibly at all times. SHAREHOLDERS AND Shareholder meetings, bond roadshows, analyst calls INVESTORS 20 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Stakeholder dialogue SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED COMMITMENTS AND MEMBERSHIPS MEMBERSHIPS AND VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS The company is actively engaged in various organisations, is committed We know that collaboration is a key precondition for sustainable developto the principles of selected initiatives, and pledges to achieve them. ment. Hence, we are not only engaging in bilateral dialogue with relevant Selected initiatives are: stakeholders, but also support multi-stakeholder networks. Our memberships in industry-specific sustainability initiatives is an important element of our sustainability strategy, taking on the challenges and finding solutions on an industry basis. Wintershall Dea is a member of, and signatory to, a number of global and national voluntary commitments and initiatives. These have goals of improving the sustainability contribution of business in United Nations IPIECA IOGP general, and our industry in particular. At the same time, we consider them Global Compact Global oil and gas industry International Association association for advancing of Oil & Gas Producers valuable platforms for learning and dialogue that help us as a company to environmental and social performance further improve. Guiding Principles on Reducing The World Bank TCFD Methane Emissions across the ”Zero Routine Flaring by Task Force on Climate-related Natural Gas Value Chain 2030“ Initiative Financial Disclosures Charter of Diversity Supplier Human D-EITI Rights Industry Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Germany Initiative 21 HIGHLIGHT: TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES MAKING OUR CLIMATE CONTRIBUTION TRANSPARENT AND MEASURABLE The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) requires transparency about climate risks from public companies – and Wintershall Dea supports these recommendations. One of the benefits we see in TCFD is transparency – inside the company to improve the quality of our strategic decisions, and externally with the investment community and other stakeholders. Wintershall Dea has also First established in 2015 by the Financial Stability Board, the TCFD has, in 2017, established transparency as one of the pillars of its sustainability strategy. published recommendations regarding transparent and effective corporate reporting on climate-related issues. These have prompted multiple public We are planning to implement the TCFD recommendations over time. In 2019, companies to critically assess their carbon emissions. we analysed which of the formal TCFD requirements afford our action, which in turn helped us to establish refreshed governance standards in the company We welcome the goals set out by the Task Force as climate change mitigation p. 17 In 2020, we will form additional working groups to develop scenario analyses brings major change for the oil and gas sector. Wintershall Dea became for climate change and integrate them into our risk management framework. a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in For the “metrics and targets” reporting requirement, we are consolidating the February 2020. relevant data from the recently-merged company. 22 ENVIRONMENT COMMITTED TO ENVIRONMENTAL 2 ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY 24 Climate protection 24 Emission management 24 Energy consumption and energy efficiency 24 Emissions 26 Innovations for the climate 27 Environmental and nature We are committed to ensuring safe and reliable operaprotection tions while protecting the environment and climate. 27 Water and wastewater 28 Waste We stand for responsible extraction of natural resources 28 Oil spills and substance releases and a professional management of risks. We apply 29 Highlight: Biodiversity cutting-edge technology solutions for environmental and climate protection to reduce our footprint. 23 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Climate protection CLIMATE PROTECTION EFFECTIVE EMISSION MANAGEMENT Rising energy demand will require growth in many ties require energy in many different forms, from electrical EMISSIONS 1 forms of energy supply, and yet greenhouse gas energy for powering pumps and compressors, to thermal We continue to seek opportunities to further reduce our energy in the form of steam for crude oil extraction or for emissions need to decline to mitigate the effects emissions. With around 11 kg CO2e/boe we have already heating our plants. We obtain our electrical power from the of climate change. Whilst the share of renewables a low GHG (Scope 1, Scope 2) intensity compared to IOGP public network or, in remote locations, generate it ourselves. Governance, average (2018: ~ 21 kg CO2e/boe). Our future climate apis growing quickly, they remain small in the enertargets proach is based on portfolio optimisation, energy efficiency, gy mix. We see an important role for natural gas, Where practical and possible, we improve energy efficiency p. 16 the use of innovative technologies and complemented by by using wind and solar power, combined heat and power since it has a lower CO2 emission factor than other offsetting. Wintershall Dea has already eliminated routine plants, micro gas turbines or thermal power stations, and fossil fuels. Wintershall Dea stands for low-cost we supply our offshore production platforms with power flaring at operated assets3 and uses the associated gas and reliable energy supply, whilst playing our for generating power, heat and steam. We have voluntafrom shore. rily committed ourselves to the World Bank’s “Zero Routine part in climate protection. Flaring by 2030” initiative. In addition, we are exploring technologies to also prevent flaring in non-routine operations. ENERGY 2 2018 2019 Furthermore, Wintershall Dea is committed to the Methane ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY1 Total energy consumption, M GJ 30.49 29.58 Guiding Principles and thus the continuous reduction of methane (CH4) emissions. These emissions occur when natural Wintershall Dea systematically monitors its energy conof which electricity consumption, 1,097,822 784,369 gas is released during the extraction or transportation of oil sumption and strives to increase the energy efficiency MWhel and gas. of its machinery and facilities. Our energy management of which steam consumption, system is based on ISO 50001 and is externally certified in 553,456 416,082 metric tons Germany, Norway, and Russian Joint Venture Severneftegazprom. We aim to reduce energy consumption in our opeEnergy intensity, GJ/t 1.15 1.05 rations and associated emissions while delivering low-cost energy. Energy consumption and emissions performance 1 Environmental data provided by third parties not available at reporting date are partially based on pro forma information, previous year’s data or calculations according to the are a key element for new projects. The energy efficiency change in production. Restatements in the following year could occur. 2 Includes data of all production sites on equity basis (percentage by shares) w/o exploration of any new project is therefore an important factor in the and administration according to IOGP definitions. 3 Except for Libya. Due to the security situation it is currently not possible to utilise the assofield development and procurement process. Our activiciated gas. 24 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Climate protection Emissions Scope 1 und Scope 2 Emissions Scope 3 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 3 2018 2019 Our activities result in the release of greenhouse gases, meScope 3 emissions have not been reported by Wintershall GHG (direct, Scope 1), m t 2.17 2.44 thane (CH4), carbon dioxide (CO2), and nitrous oxide (N2O). In or DEA in the past. We believe that Scope 3 emissions are CO2 (carbon dioxide), m t 1.90 2.11 addition, we emit inorganic gases such as carbon monoxide an integral part of greenhouse gas reporting and climate (CO), nitrogen oxide (NOX), and sulphur oxide (SOX), along change mitigation. As a first step, we determine our Scope 3 N2O (nitrous oxide), t 37.77 39.85 with further substances through the combustion of natural emissions based on category 11 – use of sold products – of CH4 (methane), t 4) 9,439 11,316 gas, fuel oil, and diesel for power generation. the GHG Protocol, which is considered to be the most relevant category for an E&P company. Subsequently, we will GHG (indirect, Scope 2), m t 0.19 0.08 Carbon dioxide accounts for by far the largest share at 2.11 complement our Scope 3 reporting with other relevant caGHG (indirect, Scope 3), m t 74 81 million metric tons (2018: 1.9 million metric tons of CO2). Emistegories. sions of other greenhouse gases add another 11,316 metric GHG intensity (Scope 1, Scope 2), 11.17 11.22 tons of CH4 (2018: 9,439 metric tons of CH4) and 39.85 metric kg CO2e/boe Emission rights trading tons of N2O (2018: 37.77 metric tons of N2O). CH4 intensity 5, % 0.54 0.65 Eight of our sites1 are subject to the legal requirements of The main driver for the rise in greenhouse gas emissions is the European Union Emissions Trading System. This includes increased production, especially in North Africa and Russia. one production facility in Germany as well as three producAdditionally, new compressors were put into operation at tion platforms in the Netherlands and four installations in various locations to maintain high gas production levels. In Norway. In 20192, these sites emitted a total of 480,443 tons Libya, it was not possible to utilise the associated gas due of CO2. We received 231,261 emission allowances and bought to the security situation. However, in relation to Wintershall an additional 249,182. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR (IN T) 3 2018 2019 Dea’s production of crude oil, natural gas, and condensate, our GHG (Scope 1, Scope 2) intensity of 11 kg CO2e/boe remains Total inorganic substances 6,941 8,473 at a low level compared to IOGP average (2018: ~ 21 kg CO2e/ Carbon monoxide (CO) 3,395 4,093 boe). Nitrogen oxide (NOX) 3,139 3,978 As part of our Methane Guiding Principles (MGP) commitOxide of sulphur (SOX) as SO2 407.26 402.40 ment, Wintershall Dea will conduct an internal and an external MGP Masterclass in 2020, which provides a strategic Organic substances view of the importance of methane emissions reduction. It Non-methane volatile organic targets decision-makers with respect to planning, mitigating, 4,050 5,853 compounds (NMVOC) measuring and reporting methane emissions. Additionally, 1 Assets under operational control, 100%. 2 Figures are subject to third party verification. Wintershall Dea supports a working group with the focus on 3 Includes data of all production sites on equity basis (percentage by shares) w/o exploraOther substances Principle 4: Advocate sound policy and regulation on metion and administration according to IOGP definitions in 2019 without Aasta Hansteen. 4 The data collection for the two former legacy organisations in 2018 was based on two Particulates 34.47 36.35 thane and is a member of the Programme Oversight Group. different guidelines (IOGP and BVEG). For Wintershall Dea data collection is based on IOGP definitions. 5 Based on own-operated data as defined by the OGCI methodology. 25 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Climate protection INNOVATIONS FOR THE CLIMATE Study on enhanced oil recovery and carbon storage Methane pyrolysis: In this high-temperature natural gas is Both Wintershall and DEA were active players in research split up into its constituents, hydrogen and solid carbon, withA feasibility study will assess how a mature field like the and innovation and, as part of the Merger, this knowledge out CO2 emissions. The resulting by-product is pure, solid carNorwegian platform Brage can be used for permanent CO2 and capability has been shaped into a new technology bon, which can be processed as an industrial raw material storage after the production period is completed. In the strategy. One of the aims of the strategy is to contribute to and is of growing interest for several products. For instance, study, it is assumed that CO2 will be transported by ship for a low carbon world. This includes technologies to further it is used in the production of elastomers, light construction direct injection into the reservoir. The study will analyse to reduce our emissions from operations and the assessment materials, printing inks as well as in the production of battewhich degree hydrocarbon production can be enhanced by of carbon capture and storage (CCS) and hydrogen technories. Methane pyrolysis is still at the research stage and will CO2 injection, applying the latest technology to optimise logies. A dedicated organization has been created for this require further development for commercial implementation. efficiency. The two-year study also includes reservoir simupurpose. lations to estimate the total volume of CO2 that can be stored permanently. The Wintershall Dea and Aker Solutions Research collaboration with KIT study is co-funded by the CLIMIT, Norwegian authorities’ Hydrogen from natural gas programme for research, development and demonstration In October 2019, Wintershall Dea and the Karlsruhe Institute of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies. AdditionHydrogen – used as a fuel – is potentially a key technology of Technology (KIT) agreed to undertake a research collaally, Wintershall Dea is actively assessing options in various as part of decarbonising the energy system. Wintershall Dea boration for the climate-friendly production of hydrogen North Sea countries on the potential for CCS options. is pursuing two alternatives for creating hydrogen, which from natural gas. KIT is one of the largest research and have close connectivity with our core business of natural education institutions worldwide. It builds a bridge between gas supply, and have advantages over the energy-intensive important scientific findings and their application for the Digitalisation electroysis process of producing hydrogen: benefit of society and economic prosperity. The joint Wintershall Dea-KIT project will run for an initial period of three Digitalisation is a matter of strategic importance. The beneSteam reforming: At elevated temperature and pressure, years, assessing future methane pyrolysis pilot and later fits reach from enhanced HSEQ performance and improved natural gas and steam react in the presence of a catalyst, industrial applications. KIT has already carried out fundaefficiency to better decision-making and a stronger strategic yielding a mixture of carbon dioxide and hydrogen. The mental research on producing hydrogen through direct positioning as a partner. We are developing and scaling up carbon dioxide can be captured and permanently stored methane pyrolysis based on liquid metal technology. solutions that address the highest impact business cases in underground rendering the produced hydrogen CO2-neutral. E&P space, measured by impacts on safety, sustainability While steam reforming is technologically mature and has and profitability. We interdisciplinarily develop new solutions been commonly used for decades, CCS still has some techand then scale them across the enterprise. Producing gas nical and, in some countries, political hurdles to overcome. and oil more sustainably is one focus: the introduction of However, the decarbonisation of natural gas in this way digitalised energy management systems can enable systecan contribute to shaping our energy system in a carbonmic evaluation and management of energy use at our neutral way. sites, driving measurable results. 26 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Environmental protection ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ENVIRONMENTAL AND NATURE PROTECTION Our environmental protection focus is on water and wasteIn 2019 8.21 million m3 of cooling water and 19.3 million m3 of other TOTAL WATER USE (IN MILLION M³) 2 forms of waste water were produced. After the water use, our offwater, waste management and biodiversity. We aim to shore production sites reprocessed 6.74 million m3 of water and 30 ensure the protection of the ecosystems in our surroundings. discharged it into water bodies in full adherence with legal limits. 27.51 24.42 Our approach, which we apply to both, the handling of A large part of the reservoir water, 11.72 million m3, was separated 20 raw materials and water, is: prevent, reuse, recycle. from the oil or natural gas by means of separating systems, purified and subsequently pumped back into the reservoir. A further 0.84 million m3 of water was discharged into the sewage system. 10 This included mainly sanitary wastewater and partly rainwater. WATER AND WASTEWATER 1 Water is an important resource and used throughout the project 5 lifecycle of oil and gas operations. We are continuously looking for WATER WITHDRAWN BY SOURCE 2019 (IN MILLION M³) 2 ways to reduce our use of this valuable resource, through innovative technologies, the recycling of drilling mud and the use of circulatory 0 0.09 0.38 0.35 2018 2019 systems. Relevant own operated key production sites have a water Groundwater protection plan in place. Particular attention is paid to our sites near Surface water protected areas where we carry out additional precautionary measures. We also take extra care at sites located in “water stress” areas, Seawater such as installations in Libya, Algeria, Egypt and the UAE. 27.51 Water from public WASSERVERBRAUCH 10.46 water system 16.24 Reservoir/ In 2019, we used a total of 27.51 million cubic metres (m3) of water production water (2018: 24.42 million m3). The largest part of this, with 16.24 million m3, was reservoir water, which is a by-product of producing crude oil and natural gas, followed by seawater with 10.46 million m3. The 1 Environmental data provided by third parties not available at reporting date are partially based on pro forma information, previous year’s data or calculations according to the change increase in water withdrawn mainly results from more produced in production. Restatements in the following year could occur. 2 Includes data of all production sites on equity basis (percentage by shares) w/o exploration reservoir water in Norway and Germany. and administration according to IOGP in 2019 without Aasta Hansteen. 27 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Environmental protection WASTE 1 Recycling and reuse of offshore platforms Wintershall Dea supported the joint industry project of IOGP and IPIECA for oil spill preparedness and response including The exploration and production of oil and natural gas can When oil and gas fields reach the end of their production the development of good practices and capabilities. create waste, which we seek to prevent or reduce as much life, it is our obligation as the facility’s operators to decomas possible. As part of our “prevent, reuse, recycle” concept, mission and dismantle the equipment. This can be a complex OIL SPILL AND SUBSTANCE waste is recycled or professionally disposed of to the largest task, especially in the offshore environment. RELEASES 4 2018 2019 possible extent. Wintershall Dea has developed extensive expertise in reusNumber of oil spills > 1 bbl 1 5 We comply with all the applicable national legislation, when ing platforms and does this in the most environmentally Volume of oil leakages > 1 bbl, in bbl 66.00 37.2 we categorise and deal with waste. In addition, we adhere and resource-friendly way possible. For instance, in 2019 at to international standards and our own corporate standards. the Kotter platform in the Dutch North Sea, a unique firstNumber of chemical spills > 1 bbl 1 3 In this way, we ensure that all non-preventable waste is recyctime procedure enabled scaffolding based on six pillars Volume of chemical leakages led or disposed of in in an environmentally responsible way. to be lifted by a floating crane and shipped so that the 6.4 3.2 > 1 bbl, in bbl 5) construction components could be dismantled on land and In 2019, Wintershall Dea’s total generated waste2 amounted subsequently recycled. In 2019, we also moved a gas proto 153,637 metric tons (2018: 139,073 metric tons). Of this total, duction platform from the Dutch continental shelf to Block Even though the number of spills increased, the volumes of 86,310 metric tons were hazardous waste, and 67,326 metric D12 near the UK, thereby enabling the topsides to be used spills reduced significantly by 44% re. oil spills and by 50% tons were non-hazardous waste3. We recovered 18,717 tons for gas production for a third time. This allows us to save re. chemical spills. The increased occurrence of oil spills and and properly and safely disposed 134,920 tons of the waste. resources and cut costs as compared to decommissioning leakages is mainly due to the difficult situation of our onshore and disposing of constructions and building brand new ones operations in Libya. As a result of both blockade-related The waste volumes rose in 2019 mainly due to more disposal every time. Wintershall Dea has reused seven platforms in production outages and limited availability of maintenance activities in the operations in Denmark and Egypt. this way already. providers in recent years due to security issues, corrosion in oil field flowlines has become a major source of concern. The challenges of the situation in Libya however led us to develop alternative solutions for maintenance support, inOIL SPILLS AND SUBSTANCE RELEASES cluding remotely-supervised certified inspections. In addiProcess safety p. 33 As part of our HSEQ management, we pursue the goal of tion, Libyan personnel is trained abroad to develop their preventing oil leaks and the release of harmful substances capacity for onsite supervision of local service companies. 1 Environmental data provided by third parties not available at reporting date are partially into the environment to the greatest possible extent. Therebased on pro forma information, previous year’s data or calculations according to the change in production. Restatements in the following year could occur. for, all Wintershall Dea facilities have a multiple barrier 2 Includes data of all production sites on equity basis (percentage by shares) w/o exploration and administration according to IOGP In 2019 without Aasta Hansteen. system that underpins safe operations and intercepts or 3 The terms “hazardous waste” and “non-hazardous waste” are used in accordance with statutory requirements applicable to the site. minimises the potential release of substances. 4 Data on Oil spills and substance releases is based on Wintershall Dea production activities with operational control. 5 According to IOGP reporting guideline, excluding leakage of well Emlichheim 132 in Germany, because no produced water was released to the environment. 28 HIGHLIGHT: BIODIVERSITY OIL PRODUCTION AND NATURE CONSERVATION CAN GO TOGETHER The Mittelplate safety precautions are exemplary for many measures taken by Wintershall Dea in sensitive areas: Part of the concept is to firmly anchor the production platforms to a sandbank. In the case of an emergency, aboveand belowground safety valves securely shut off the borehole. The platform is constructed like For more than 30 years now, the Mittelplate platform a liquid-tight steel and concrete basin. As the outer bulkheads are 11 metres high, in in the North Sea has been proven that oil production the event of an accident, more oil can be collected than even exists on the platform. can be operated safely, without incidents and thus can Around the platform, multiple fire and gas alarms have been installed, and these go hand in hand with high-level nature conservation. transmit their data to a central control station, which is manned around the clock. Since 2005, instead of being transported by ship, the oil produced from Mittelplate has been transported through a pipeline to the processing plant at the Dieksand Set in the World Natural Heritage Site Wadden Sea, the Mittelplate platform Land Station. This is of great benefit to the environment, as some 2,000 annual ship extracted approx. 35 million t of oil over the past 32 years. The development movements have been eliminated. Furthermore, the reservoir water extracted with is an artificial island, and it is an installation where we have a zero discharge the oil is transported to the land station via the pipeline, where it is separated from policy in place. It was constructed in such a way as to protect sensitive ecothe oil and subsequently purified. systems – a valuable experience from which other Wintershall Dea projects also benefit. The protection of ecosystems and biodiversity is essential for all The biodiversity protection around Mittelplate is also exemplary, in an area that is the regions in which we produce natural gas and oil. Before carrying out new important for bird life: Thanks to extensive monitoring measures, including an anaprojects or constructing new facilities, we evaluate their environmental impact lysis carried out by plane of the movement of sandbanks and their flora and fauna, through risk assessments and social and environmental impact studies. we were able to observe the behaviour of shelducks. 29 PEOPLE PARTNERS FOR 3 PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY 31 32 Health and safety Occupational safety 32 Health management 33 Process safety 33 Security 33 Emergency management 33 Data and information security 34 Employees 34 Company culture 34 Employment The social dimension of a sustainable business 35 Training and career development 36 Diversity and inclusion is as diverse as the settings and societies in 37 Work-life balance which we are active. We care about the health 38 Partnerships and safety of our employees and contractors, 38 Strategic collaboration 38 Sustainable procurement support and develop our staff, respect human 39 Community engagement rights and are engaged in local communities. 40 Highlight: Human rights and supply chain 30 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Health & Safety HEALTH & SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY ZERO HARM: THE FIVE PRIORITIES Our HSEQ management is based on five core pillars, which are laid down in our HSEQ Policy. This policy outlines in clear terms AS A CORE PRIORITY how we at Wintershall Dea integrate our company values into our p. 18 everyday work and how they form the guiding principles for our entire workforce. HSEQ Leadership Shaping HSEQ culture through own behaviour; Zero harm – that is our clear goal. We strive to prevent any harm to promoting cross-unit learning, exchanges and collaboration; driving cultural development. our people, the environment and our facilities. This is why we do not compromise when it comes to Health, Safety, the Environment and Safe & Healthy Workplace Quality (HSEQ). In doing so, we keep just as watchful an eye on on process safety, our employees and contractors as we do the people who Providing a safe and healthy working environment live near our sites as well as on the environment we are working in. for all of those working on our behalf. HSEQ Environmental protection Our leadership team plays a vital role in the promotion of a positive safety culture. They have to be a role model and are responsible for Minimising our environmental impact and optimising our energy efficiency. conveying all relevant HSEQ requirements to the entire company and for making sure that they are adhered to. Yet, we also know that ensuring this depends on everyone: Only when each and every employee recognises their responsibility, acts with care and is personally Security committed, we will be able to continuously ensure a high level of safety. Our HSEQ culture is firmly anchored in our company, but Identifying, understanding and managing security risks worldwide to protect the company, we always want to find ways to further improve our performance. our colleagues and ensure business continuity. By practicing open and transparent communication, we make sure that we learn from our mistakes and draw the right conclusions. Accident prevention Implementing and maintaining (1) robust barriers for known risks as well as (2) practices to create awareness for early signals. Mitigate escalation in case of accidents. 31 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Health & Safety OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY 1 HEALTH MANAGEMENT We want to prevent anyone who works for us from being Compared to 2018 lost work day cases increased from three We support our employees in staying healthy, motivated harmed – our goal is simply zero harm. Therefore, safety is to five (own employees: 4, contractors: 1). The figures illuand fit for work, with comprehensive health care services our first priority. Our global standards serve to protect our strate that occupational safety cannot be achieved simply and policies in place. All our locations have an operational employees and contractors as well as the neighbours of our by standards: A proactive safety culture is also extremely health management system, which we check regularly production sites. Safety talks, emergency training courses, important. Wintershall Dea responded to the changes in inby means of occupational health audits. The focus is on awareness workshops and seminars take place on a regular cident figures by initiating further trainings and campaigns occupational-medical provision, health support and probasis at all our locations including our contractors. In addiin 2019. Amongst others we started to implement the revised viding effective medical care in emergencies. tion, periodic occupational safety audits are conducted at set of Life-Saving Rules developed by IOGP in a joint-industry our sites. initative. These rules are easy to understand and to follow Based on our worldwide health campaigns with a diffeand represent key areas for actions where individuals have rent focus each year, each location is free to set different Our Total Recordable Incident Rate per million hours worked control over to prevent the majority of fatal injuries. We priorities that fit their local needs and circumstances best. decreased to 2.66 (2018: 3.17). However, with deep regret we kicked-off the implementation with a focus campaign on Measures from informational events, preventive medical have to announce one fatality. An employee died in a car the Life-Saving Rule “Driving”. check-ups and occupational medicine consultations all accident in Libya. the way to ergonomic workstation optimisation. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY KEY INDICATORS 1 Total (Employees & Contractors) 2018 2019 Employees 2018 2019 Contractors 2018 2019 Fatalities (FAT) 0 1 Fatalities (FAT) 0 1 Fatalities (FAT) 0 0 Lost Time Injury (LTI)2 3 5 Lost Time Injury (LTI)2 1 4 Lost Time Injury (LTI)2 2 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency per Lost Time Injury Frequency per Lost Time Injury Frequency per million 0.24 0.43 0.17 0.71 0.31 0.17 million hours worked (LTIF) 3 million hours worked (LTIF)3 hours worked (LTIF)3 Total Recordable Incidents (TRI) 39 31 Total Recordable Incidents (TRI) 14 11 Total Recordable Incidents (TRI) 25 20 Total Recordable Incident Rate Total Recordable Incident Rate Total Recordable Incident Rate 3.17 2.66 2.41 1.96 3.85 3.32 per million hours worked (TRIR) 3 per million hours worked (TRIR)3 per million hours worked (TRIR)3 Number of hours worked 3 12,309,066 11,642,172 Number of hours worked3 5,813,113 5,610,856 Number of hours worked3 6,495,953 6,031,316 1 Data on occupational safety is based on own operated Wintershall Dea activities at 100%. 2 LTI include fatalities. 3 Data on hours worked across all activities operated by Wintershall Dea. The calculation of working hours is based on local standards and are partially estimated and projected. 32 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Health & Safety Health Performance Index PROCESS SAFETY particularly true for regions of the world where political or Oil spills & To achieve as precise a measurement as possible and to substance We apply high safety standards to the design, construction social unrest can have a sudden impact on everyday life. effectively steer Wintershall Dea’s health care services, we releases, and operation of all our facilities worldwide. These stanShould it become necessary, we also provide personal asp. 28 are working towards introducing what we call the Health dards comply with – and frequently surpass – local legal sistance for business travellers and our local employees Performance Index (HPI). This indicator brings together requirements. When exploring and producing gas and oil, and their families. Our global security concept for all our company-wide health information in one meaningful data we only use technology that meets our safety standards. locations enables us to do this. set and supports business units in quickly identifying deThis applies to offshore and onshore facilities. Therefore, ficits, in order to put in place improvement programmes. we continuously invest in cutting-edge plants and further The HPI consists of five indicators, which deliver structured improve existing facilities. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT information about the following areas: recognised occupational diseases, medical emergency planning, first aid, A multi-layer barrier system ensures the safe operation of Wintershall Dea has implemented a clearly defined crossoccupational medical care and health promotion. Its imall facilities. This extends from technical installations all functional crisis management for emergency prevention plementation will begin in 2020. the way to guaranteeing a safe evacuation. Each barrier is and crisis response. Emergency plans, procedures and remade up of multiple safety elements that have been set gular safety drills ensure that, in case of an emergency, up with regard to their function, reliability and durability. the right measures can be taken at any place and time. If one barrier fails, the next one becomes operative. In this RECOGNISED OCCUPATIONAL way, the overall integrity of the facility is protected, even if Regular training classes held by our HSEQ specialists aim to DESEASES one or several elements malfunction. We check the effecraise employee awareness of risks and prepare them for tiveness of these barriers on a regular basis through audits emergency situations. These specialists train staff, contracand other measures. tors and authorities regarding all planned procedures and MEDICAL also carry out periodic checks of the emergency systems. HEALTH EMERGENCY PROMOTION PREPAREDNESS PROCESS SAFETY 1 2018 2019 This applies to firefighting as well as other emergency situations such as an uncontrolled release of oil or gas. Process safety events (PSE) Tier 1 1 2 HPI Process safety events (PSE) Tier 2 3 2 DATA AND INFORMATION SECURITY The total number of process safety events stayed the same Wintershall Dea attaches particular importance to the proin 2019 compared to 2018. There were 2 PSE in Europe and 2 tection of information and data since, today more than ever, PREVENTIVE FIRST AID PSE in Libya. The latter was mainly due to the security situthe value of a company is determined by its knowledge MEDICINE ation, which affects maintenance work. base and knowhow. Therefore, all of our employees, must be aware that their own behaviour plays a decisive role in our cyber security. To promote this careful mindset, we SECURITY carry out regular training classes on information and cyber ELEMENTS OF HEALTH PERFORMANCE To protect our employees and contractors as well as our security. A dedicated unit along with a global network of business activities, we ensure the security of our locations information protection officers supports our employees in 1 Process safety data is based on own operated Wintershall Dea operations at 100%. and are well prepared for any potential dangers. This is the implementation of our globally binding requirements. 33 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Employees EMPLOYEES A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER The Human Resources (HR) strategy sets three EMPLOYMENT priorities: dedicated employees, competent As Germany’s largest international gas and oil producer, executives and modern working conditions. Wintershall Dea had 3,394 employees1 worldwide at the end of 2019. Furthermore we had 83 apprentices and trainees. COMPANY CULTURE We attach great importance to respectful interpersonal collaboraEMPLOYEES BY REGION 2019 (IN %) 1 tion within an attractive work environment. Thanks to our inclusive and diverse company culture, targeted individual support and enabling of a good balance between work and leisure time, we offer 16 our employees a positive long-term employment perspective. 6 Our executives play an important role in implementing our company culture. We expect them to set an example and create a work environ2 3,394 76 ment in which our employees can develop their skills and abilities. EMPLOYEES We support them through targeted and topic-related executive training courses. Northern Europe Russia We go beyond the minimum statutory requirements in our commitLatin America ment to freedom of association, collective bargaining and social MENA (Middle East/ North Africa) partnerships. We offer benefits in line with local market conditions, appropriate working hours, paid annual leave. 1 The number of employees used for non-financial reporting shows headcount of fully and proportionately consolidated companies, plus two joint ventures (Wintershall AG, Wintershall Noordzee B.V.) at 100% w/o apprentices and trainees 34 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Employees Staff reduction after the Merger TRAINING AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT Career development and life-long learning The Merger on 1 May 2019 went along with a planned structuIn the global competition for the best specialists and manaDuring their annual review interviews, employees and exeral transformation and related staff reduction. In October gers, we want to attract qualified talents and experienced cutives come together to define the employee’s perspective 2019, Wintershall Dea concluded its negotiations with the experts. This is why we constantly invest in the training and for their personal career development. This helps us to outGerman works councils and the IG BCE (the German industrial career development of our employees. line potential career models across the entire company and union for the mining, chemical and energy industries) as well to create personalised career development plans. as we did with the Norwegian and Dutch unions and works councils. Training and career entry The Wintershall Dea further training programmes offer The success of Wintershall Dea is built on the dedication multiple qualification options, geared towards individual Wintershall Dea and the employee representatives were and technical qualification of its workforce. The range of our needs, across all our locations. This is how our employees also able to agree on the extent of the socially responsible worldwide training and education programmes goes from can improve their performance and fully unfold their poworkforce reduction: encompassing approximately 750 roles, traditional vocational training to career entry programmes tential in every phase of their career. In 2019, Wintershall the largest portion of the workforce reduction will take place for university graduates all the way to special programmes Dea launched a new concept of peer-to-peer learning in Germany, with an additional 200 job reductions in Norway, for junior executives. 83 young people at Wintershall Dea programmes via L3, our digital learning platform. This enwhere both legacy companies were also active. In total, the were in training or career entry programmes within the reables experienced employees to pass on their knowhow personnel reduction will affect about 1,000 employees. porting year (as of 31.12.2019). to their colleagues. Thereby, employees can decide themselves what, when and how they want to learn, or in what We give students the opportunity to get to know our compaway they would like to share their knowledge. L3 offers an Collaborating with employee representatives ny even while they are still at university. They can do interninspiring framework that enables social learning, mutual At Wintershall Dea, employer and employee representaships or write practice-based dissertations with us. University exchange and new ideas at all our locations and across all tives engage in an open and trusting dialogue. At locations graduates from all over the world can apply for a special business units. where the right of freedom of association and collective trainee programme in the areas of finance, IT or procurement bargaining are not anchored in local law, we grant our along with geology and oil-and-gas engineering. During the employees the right to organise themselves and involve 24-month programme, participants are prepared for their their elected representatives in any decisions that confuture tasks in a variety of operative units at home and abcern them. When operational changes end up affecting road as well as in technical industry-related seminars. 20 jobs, Wintershall Dea complies with all valid legal proviemployees took part in this programme within the reporting sions and collective agreements. year (as of 31.12.2019). 35 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Employees OUR WORKFORCE BY AGE BRACKET AND GENDER 2019 1 Female DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Diversity Management 50% 48.8 Male At Wintershall Dea, we are convinced that diversity contriTo meet the high standards we have set for ourselves, Total butes to business success. We promote an inclusive company Wintershall Dea will continue to expand its commitment to culture so we can benefit from the different perspectives greater diversity in the coming years. The most important 40% 35.8 our employees bring with them thanks to their diverse biomeasures will include company-wide standards, adjusted graphical backgrounds. Moreover we are convinced that HR processes, internal and external awareness-raising camemployees tend to be more highly motivated and identify paigns as well as the appointment of a diversity manager. 28.2 30% better with the company when their individual backgrounds Moreover, Wintershall Dea is striving to establish a culture are perceived and valued. In this way, we seek to strengthof inclusion, where equal opportunities and internationality 21.3 en the performance and innovative power of our workforce take priority as strategic diversity subjects. Executives will 19.3 20% and thereby the success of our company. play a key part as role models, and as multipliers. 16.6 13 We strive to employ people with both, technical and nontechnical backgrounds who can bring added value to Gender equality 10% 8.9 Wintershall Dea – regardless of their gender, nationality, 4.7 Traditionally, the oil and gas industry has been a sector with ethnic origin, religion or worldview, physical ability, age, 1.6 a male-dominated workforce. With the proportion of women 0.5 1.1 sexual orientation and identity. The principles of diversity 0 employed1 at Wintershall Dea around 27% (as of 31.12.2019), and equality are integrated into the Wintershall Dea Code up to 25 26 to 39 40 to 54 from 55 the company is well positioned in terms of its overall workof Conduct. By signing the Corporate Charter of Diversity force. We are planning to continuously increase the proporin Germany, we have also made our dedication to diversity tion of women in executive positions (up to two levels below visible to the outside world. the board) from 20% at day one as a merged company (as GENDER RATIO WITHIN EMPLOYMENT (IN %) 1 of 1.5.2019) to more than 30% by 2025. In 2019, we increased By implication, this also means we will not tolerate discrimithe share of women to 22%. One out of five board positions 73 nation or exclusion of any sort due to people’s personal was held by a woman. characteristics or preferences. Training courses for employees and executives – on topics such as unconscious bias – help 27 everyone increase their awareness of the value of diversity and inclusion. Female Male 1 All employees of fully and proportionately consolidated companies, plus two joint ventures at 100%, without apprentices. 36 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Employees International diversity Family care Our industry tends to be highly international. Deployment In Germany, the increasing number of employees exercising abroad is typical for many staff functions and is an important their right to parental leave clearly reflects many employees’ element of the delivery of our strategy. Today, our workforce desire to find a good balance between their work and family comprises people from more than 60 different countries. We life. The development of a global approach is currently unaim for this diversity to also be reflected in our executives: der consideration. Following the policies we have in place Our goal is to maintain a high proportion of people with in Wintershall Dea in Germany, further business units have varied nationalities on our global executive team (>35% by developed childcare concepts that exceed local legal re2025 1). quirements. We support parents by providing needs-based childcare and other services, including company crèches, preschools, daycare places and care programmes during WORK-LIFE-BALANCE school holidays. Employees with family members requiring care are offered support options all the way to temporary Wintershall Dea gives its staff the opportunity to adapt their time off work. working hours to fit their personal needs and circumstances. The two cornerstones of our concept are models for flexible working hours and a health programme. The design of these Health care provisions and programmes varies from country to country. They are both defined by legal framework conditions and We offer a comprehensive healthcare service to support our country-specific requirements. employees in remaining healthy, motivated and fit for work. As part of its operational health management. Wintershall Our models for working hours are highly flexible, creating p. 32 Dea offers its employees an extensive prevention and compathe necessary leeway for the needs of different stages of ny sports programme. Employees can use it while on the job, life. We offer our office employees the option of working which gives them more freedom to shape their private life. from home or in the form of alternating teleworking – as long as the specific job is basically suitable for it and no operational concerns preclude it. 1 No one specific nationality exceeds 65%. 37 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Partnerships PARTNERSHIPS SUCCESS THROUGH COLLABORATION Whether in Western Siberia, Latin America or the STRATEGIC COLLABORATION hydrocarbon production can be enhanced by CO2 injection, Arabian Gulf – the success of our partnerships applying the latest technology to optimise efficiency. With its large-scale projects, trustful partnerships are esdepends on the strength and skills of our partners. sential in the E&P industry, as these are often implemented Together with ADNOC, we are researching solutions for Many of our gas and oil production facilities are in consortia – sharing both risks and opportunities. This is tackling the challenges associated with reservoirs in Abu why Wintershall Dea values strategic, long-term partneroperated jointly with our partners. Dhabi. There, CEOR procedures (Chemical Enhanced Oil ships. Their enduring nature forms an important basis for Recovery), aim to improve extraction from fields charactesuccess. Many of the challenges facing the oil and gas inrised by high temperatures and high salinities. dustry cannot be solved by one company alone. Collaboration and partnerships allow us to combine our expertise Wintershall Dea is invested in long-term partnerships, which and capabilities, develop joint initiatives, and pursue econoSUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT is typical in an industry characterised by large-scale and mically effective and sustainable solutions. long-term projects. The majority of our activities are either Environmental protection, occupational safety and social carried out as joint ventures or operated by our partners. In Russia, Wintershall Dea has maintained a regular exchanstandards play an important role in how we evaluate new These include Gazprom in Russia, Equinor in Norway, BP and ge with Gazprom in the context of scientific and technical and existing supply relationships. Our criteria are strict EGPC in Egypt, Total in Argentina, Pemex in Mexico and ADcollaboration for almost 30 years. The varied topics of the and monitored on a regular basis. Wintershall Dea places NOC in the United Arab Emirates. collaboration have covered everything from technical soluequally high demands on its contractors and its own emtions to the efficient development of natural gas and liquid ployees regarding compliance with these standards. These partnerships are key to further successful growth, natural gas fields to questions of project management, susenabling us to access new resources and increase our protainability management and climate protection. We drive our business forward with a partnership-based duction and cash flow. At the same time, we are aware of approach. This also applies to our contractors. We pursue the shared responsibility for the management of these Together with Aker Solutions, we currently explore the CO2 long-term business relationships and have a strong interest activities. That is why we maintain a close dialogue with storage or use of CO2 as an EOR technology. The current feain continuously improving our performance through a joint the operators on sustainability-related topics and plan to sibility study on Brage will assess how a mature field can be effort. This requires that we inform and train our contractors intensify this in the future. used for permanent CO2 storage after the production period regarding our specifications in the areas of environmental . is completed. Furthermore it will be analysed to which degree protection, work and plant safety as well as due diligence in human rights. 38 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX Partnerships Supplier Code of Conduct COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT In addition to our purchasing conditions, our Supplier Code of Conduct Our approach to community engagement is two-fold: We are comlays down exactly what we expect from our suppliers. This is based mitted to long-term strategic support of sustainable development on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact on the protection of on local levels. And we seek to be a good neighbour. the environment, respect of human rights, promotion of labour and social standards and the fight against corruption. The overarching focus areas are supervised by a central corporate unit in Germany. The implementation at our locations is carried out To ensure that suppliers and contractors follow these sustainability by the Wintershall Dea country organisations. standards, we use a variety of tools. This can include a request for a self-disclosure submission and certification. We choose specific measures and projects together with local stakeholders, local authorities and community representatives. The dialogue with local communities helps us to identify potential chalParticipation in joint industry human rights supply chain lenges and to find out how we can work together with communities initiative to find solutions. We choose our partners based on their expertise and the strength and depth of their ties to the region in which we Wintershall Dea joined an industry initiative to promote human rights want to implement the project. standards in the supply chain in 2019, at an early stage, to support the development of framework conditions. The global industry inIn terms of social engagement, our priorities lie in the areas of eduitiative was established in 2018 by BP, Equinor, Shell, and Total with cation, science, culture, and social issues. We provide support in the goal of carrying out globally standardised human rights assessthe form of monetary donations and donations in kind, sponsoring, ments for contractors and suppliers and sharing the results. contributing our expertise, facilitating the exchange of knowledge among municipalities as well as through the personal involvement We supported the development of this platform, which is operated of our employees. by the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association (Norsk Olje & Gass). The human rights assessment questionnaire used for this purpose is baWhen it comes to choosing projects, important criteria include the sed on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and duration of the commitment as well as the projects’ social impact the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. It and the measurability of improvements. creates a common framework for assessing suppliers’ human rights records through a standardised method as well as synergies through the exchange of results among all the users. This prevents suppliers from undergoing multiple evaluations and facilitates the verification if they are observant of human rights. The platform is expected to become fully operational in all its functions in 2020. 39 HIGHLIGHT: HUMAN RIGHTS & SUPPLY CHAIN As part of compliance training, our employees receive education about the application of this company commitment in their everyday work life. Participation is mandaCOMMITTED TO HUMAN RIGHTS p. 19 tory for our entire workforce – as an introductory class for new employees as well as in the form of refresher training classes. To identify any actual and potential negative human rights impacts, we systematically Respect for human rights in our business is an important eleintegrate human rights assessments into our management systems – such as in the ment of how we assume our social and societal responsibility. areas of safety and health or human resources and in the selection of, and collaboOur standards comply with existing laws and regulations and ration with, our suppliers and contractors. In the coming years, we are planning to expand our efforts. In countries where national laws, rules, conflicts, or customs deviate are guided by internationally recognised principles. from international standards, restricting or contradicting them, we nevertheless apply the international standards as far as local law allows. In recent years, companies’ respect for human rights has attracted much We have established worldwide grievance mechanisms, for our employees, business attention through the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business partners, and the local communities near our sites. On a global level, a digital whistleand Human Rights as well as through a variety of political measures on blower system is available. On an operational level, multiple communications chana national level. Wintershall Dea supports these efforts. nels are in place, reflecting local needs. These include various formats from regular dialogue forums to hotlines. Our commitment to respect human rights is part of our Code of Conduct. In it, we refer to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD GuideWe are also involved in the development of corporate best practices for dealing with lines for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental human rights questions. We participate in the Human Rights Working Group of the Principles and Rights at Work, and the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Princiglobal industry association IPIECA and, in Germany, in the Peer Learning Group on ples concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy. Business and Human Rights of the German Global Compact Network. 40 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX This report is guided by the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global The content index is structured according to GRI Standards. Additional columns Reporting Initiative (GRI), the “GRI Standards”, in their current version. Due refer to corresponding indicators of the sector specific “IPIECA Oil and Gas to the ongoing consolidation of the former legacy organisations, not all Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting” as well as to the data for this report were available to be in full accordance with the GRI ten principles of the UN Global Compact. For the Global Compact, the page Standards.. This also applies to certain management approaches. An exreferences correspond to the Communication on Progress 2019. pansion of reporting is planned for the reporting year 2020. GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON) 1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organisational profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation 3 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 6 17 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Ownership: 72.7% BASF AG, 27.3% LetterOne Holdings S.A. GRI 102-6 Markets served 2, 6 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2 102-8-a: employment contract 102-8-b: employment contract GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 2, 34, 36 102-8-c: employment typ 102-8-d GRI 102-9 Supply chain 38-39 Significant changes to the organisation GRI 102-10 Not relevant, because first report. – and its supply chain 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 41 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON)1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 9, 12-14, 23-24, 26-27, 29 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 10, 14, 15, 21, 22 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 21 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Pr. 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 9-10, 13-15, 18, 24, 25, 28, 31, 40 Ethics and integrity Values, principles, standards, and norms GRI 102-16 Pr. 7, 10 7, 19, 34, 36, 39 of behaviour Mechanisms for advice and concerns GRI 102-17 19, 34, 36 about ethics Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 17 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SE1 20 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements No percentage. 35 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders SE1 20 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SE1 11, 15-16, 20, 35, 38-40 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20, 39 Reporting practice Entities included in the consolidated financial GRI 102-45 3 statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 3 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 11 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information Not relevant, because first report. – 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 42 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON)1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting Not relevant, because first report. – GRI 102-50 Reporting period 3 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report Not relevant, because first report. – GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 49 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 3, 41 GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index 41-48 GRI 102-56 External assurance None. MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 201ff: Economic standards GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 6-7, 9, 38 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2 Social investment strategies, programmes IPIECA SE4 39 and procedures GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE5, SE7 Pr. 2 15, 38-39 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE11, SE12 Pr. 10 19 Communication and training about anti205-2-a – 205-2-e: no figures GRI 205-2 SE11 Pr. 10 19 corruption policies and procedures or percentages given. 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 43 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON)1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 301ff: Environmental standards GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 E2, E3 Pr. 7 10, 13 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation E2 24 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity E2 24 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption E2 Pr. 8 24 IPIECA Management of flared gas E4 14, 24 GRI 303: Water and effluents 2018 Management approach: Water as a shared GRI 303-1 303-1-c omitted. 303-1-a partially omitted. E6 Pr. 7 10 resource Management approach: Management of water GRI 303-2 E7 Pr. 7 10, 12, 29 discharge-related impacts GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal 303-3-b: no figures. E6 27 GRI 303-4 Water discharge 303-4-b and -c omitted. E7 27 GRI 303-5 Water consumption 303-5-b omitted. 303-5-c not relevant E6 27 (no significant water storages). GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 E5 Pr. 7 11, 12 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, GRI 304-1 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Case study. 29 biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Case study. 29 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 E1 Pr. 7 10, 13-14, 24 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions E1 25 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 44 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON)1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions E1 25 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions E1 25 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity E1 2, 13-14, 25 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions E1 Pr. 8 14, 25 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), GRI 305-7 E8 25 and other significant air emissions Approach to alternative / renewable energy IPIECA UNGC E3 Pr. 9 26 Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies GRI 306: Effluents* and waste 2016 (* for Effluents see: GRI 303-4) GRI 103 Management approach 2016 E10 Pr. 7 12, 28 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method E10 28 GRI 306-3 Significant spills E9 28 IPIECA Decommissioning activities E11 28 GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 15, 18, 40 Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 307-1 No cases. regulations GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 Pr. 7, 8 10-11, 38-40 New suppliers that were screened using GRI 308-1 Reporting in the process of being established. 39 environmental criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply GRI 308-2 Reporting in the process of being established. 39 chain and actions taken 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 45 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON)1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 401ff: Social standards GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 10-11, 15, 18, 33, 34 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not No information on temporary or part-time GRI 401-2 34 provided to temporary or part-time employees employees. GRI 401-3 Parental leave No figures. 37 GRI 402: Labour-management relations 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE16 Pr. 3 34, 35 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes SE16 35 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2018 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 HS1, HS2, H2, HS5 10-11, 15, 31 GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system HS2 18, 31, 33 GRI 403-3 Occupational health services HS2 32-33 GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety HS3 32 GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health HS3 32 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and GRI 403-7 HS2 32-33 safety impacts directly linked by business relationships Workers covered by an occupational health and safety GRI 403-8 HS1 All (100%) management system GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries HS3 2, 32 IPIECA Number of Tier 1 process safety events HS5 32-33 GRI 404: Training and education 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE17 35 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and GRI 404-2 SE17 35 transition assistance programmes 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 46 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GRI STANDARD DESCRIPTION OMISSION (WITH REASON)1 IPIECA INDICATOR UNGC PRINCIPLE PAGE GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE15 Pr. 1, 2, 6 7, 10-11, 15, 36 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees SE15 15, 36-37 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE15 Pr. 6 36 GRI 412: Human rights assessment 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE8 Pr. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 10-11, 15, 40 Operations that have been subject to human rights GRI 412-1 Reporting in the process of being established. SE8 Pr. 4, 5 39-40 reviews or impact assessments Significant investment agreements and contracts GRI 412-3 that include human rights clauses or that underwent Reporting in the process of being established. Pr. 4, 5 39-40 human rights screening GRI 413: Local communities 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE1 9-10, 39 Operations with local community engagement, GRI 413-1 413-1-a: partial (no details and figures) SE1 15, 39 impact assessments, and development programmes GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 SE9 Pr. 2, 3, 4, 5 10-11, 15 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria SE9 Pr. 2, 3, 4, 5 38-40 GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 GRI 103 Management approach 2016 Pr. 10 15, 18, 40 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in GRI 419-1 No cases. the social and economic area 1 For GRI Standards only. Parts of GRI Standards that are not reported this year are aimed to be reported in the following year, the reason for omission being the ongoing consolidation of data and reporting processes at Wintershall Dea following the merger in May 2019. 47 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX GLOSSARY FTE 1,2,3 C D Full-Time Equivalents I CAPEX D-EITI 2P reserves Capital Expenditures Extractive Industries Transparency IG BCE 1P reserves plus those additional Initative Germany The German industrial union for G reserves which analysis of geoCCS mining, chemical and energy inscience and engineering data Carbon Capture & Storage dustries GHG indicate are less likely to be E Greenhouse Gas recovered than 1P reserves CEO ILO Chief Executive Officer International Labour Organisation EAGE GmbH European Association of GeoLimited Company CDP IOGP A scientists and Engineers Carbon Disclosure Project International Association of Oil GJ and Gas Producers ADNOC EBITDAX Gigajoule CH4 Abu Dhabi National Oil Company Earnings before interest, taxes, Methane IPO depreciation, amortisation and GRI Initial Public Offering ADIPEC exploration expenses is a meaGlobal Reporting Initiative CEOR Abu Dhabi International Petrosure of a company's operating Chemical Enhanced Oil Recovery IPIECA leum Exhibition & Conference performance in the oil and gas The global oil and gas industry industry CO H association for advancing environAG Carbon Monoxid mental and social performance Aktiengesellschaft – German EGPC HPI Stock Corporation Egyptian General Petroleum CorCO2 Health Performance Index ISO poration Carbon Dioxide International Organization for HR Standardisation EOR B CO2 e/BOE Human Resources Enhanced Oil Recovery CO2 Equivalent per Barrel Oil bbl Equivalent HSEQ K Barrel Health, Safety, Environment & COSO Quality F KIT bn Committee of Sponsoring Technology Institute of Karlsruhe Billion Organisations of the Treadway FAT Commission Fatalities 48 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX MWhel L megawatt hour of electircal P U energy LTIF PSE UAE Lost Time Incident Frequency m3 Process Safety Event United Arab Emirates cubic metre LWDC UK Lost Work Day Cases United Kingdom S N UN SDG United Nations M NMVOC United Nations Sustainable Non-methane volatile organic Development Goals Upstream (business) mboe compound Exploration and production of Thousand Barrels of Oil Equivalent SO2 crude oil and natural gas NoX Sulfur Dioxide mboe/d Nitrogen Oxides Thousand Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day NO2 Nitrogen Dioxide T mboepd Thousand Barrels of Oil Equivalent N2O TRI per Day Nitrous Oxide Total Recordable Incidents mmboe TRIR Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent Total Recordable Incidents Rate O per million hours worked MENA-Region Middle East & North Africa OECD TCFD Organisation for Economic CoopeTask Force on Climate-related MGP ration and Development Financial Disclosures Methane Guiding Principles OGCI Oil and Gas Climate Initiative 49 ABOUT THIS REPORT FOREWORD COMPANY PROFILE GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE INDEX PICTURE CREDITS AND SOURCES IMPRINT CONTACT Achim Multhaupt, Cover, page 5 Published by Sustainability Olivier Middendorp, page 8 Wintershall Dea GmbH E-mail: sustainability@wintershalldea.com Thor Oliversen, page 22 Friedrich-Ebert-Straße 160 Phone: +49 561 301-0 Oliver Helbig, page 23 34119 Kassel, Germany Christian Bruch, page 29 www.wintershalldea.com DEA, page 30 Corporate Communication John Iver Berg, page 40 E-mail: press@wintershalldea.com Concept, editing and layout Phone: +49 561 301-3301 Wintershall Dea GmbH Friedrich-Ebert-Straße 160 34119 Kassel, Germany akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH Corneliusstraße 10 80469 München, Germany Jung von Matt/BRAND IDENTITY GmbH Glashüttenstraße 79 20357 Hamburg, Germany Publication date 18 March 2020 The Sustainability Report 2018 is both available in German and English. 50
