Confidential information Trèves Group Corporate Social Responsibility Policy & Sustainable commitments Trèves Group, a family owned Company established in 1836, is committed to 1Employees, design, develop and manufacture environmentally conscious products Communities & which contribute to the reduction of thermal and acoustic emissions for the Society global automotive industry. 5He a and and lth & Saf ated ess tegr We are engaged in a sustainable development approach through concrete actions 2In al Busin Envi ronm ety concerning our products, services and operational activities to ensure satisfaction Ethic of all our stakeholders. Our belief in the values and principles of the UN Global Compact initiative and the associated seventeen sustainable development goals is ent a prerequisite of our operational excellence and customer satisfaction. In order to ensure the sustainable development of the Treves Group, we identified 4Co Env five sustainable commitments that will enable us to determine continuous ns iro er improvement targets and make a contribution to our business and to society. All cio nm o m n us en u st ctio the actions to achieve and maintain this commitment to sustainability and their Pr tal C a od ly 3tisf goals for continuous improvement are integrated into our management system. uc Sa t This will ensure consistency and alignment with our business strategy. Continuous improvement of this system shall be an ongoing objective. It will help to develop a true culture of sustainable development based on strong managerial Le 28 Septembre 2020 commitment and responsible behaviour by internal interested parties, in line with our “One Trèves” values. G. TREVES F. CHAUSSAT President CEO We believe truly that implementing and sharing our values and sustainable commitments with our stakeholders will contribute to the improvement of peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. Confidential information M07(EN)0 Corporate Social Responsability Policy
