2019 Annual Report EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS BEING COMMITTED TAKING LONG-TERM RESPONSIBILITY Notification of General Meeting Time and location: The Annual General Meeting of Catena AB (publ) will be held at the World Trade Center, Klarabergsviadukten 70 in Stockholm on 29 April 2020 at 4:00 p.m. CET. Registration Anyone wishing to participate must be registered as a shareholder in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB by 23 April 2020. Shareholders who have registered their shares with a trustee must have temporarily re-registered the shares under their own name not later than the above date. Any such registration should be requested in good time ahead of the AGM at the party holding the shares in trust. Notification of participation in the AGM must be made not later than 23 April at 2:00 p.m. • By e-mail to bolagsstamma@catenafastigheter.se • By telephone to +46 (0)730-70 22 22 • By mail to Catena AB (publ), Annual General Meeting, Box 5003, SE-250 05 Helsingborg, Sweden In the notification, shareholders should provide their name, personal identity number/corporate registration number, address, telephone number, any assistants and the number of shares. Any proxies should be submitted in writing no later than at the AGM. Proxy forms are available at www. catenafastigheter.com and at the head office in Helsingborg. These will also be sent to shareholders on request. It is advantageous for any participant planning to attend with the support of a proxy, certificate of incorporation or other certificates of authorisation to submit such documentation in good time ahead of the AGM to Catena AB. The announcement of the Annual General Meeting was published on 25 March 2020 and is available at www.catenafastigheter.com. Table of contents beneath fold-out. Contents INTRODUCTION Catena in brief 2-3 The past year Continued growth in 2019 4–5 Target fulfilment in 2019 6–7 CEO’s comments We are developing the logistics properties of the future 8–9 Our market Trends shaping the logistics of tomorrow 10–13 Current earnings capacity 15 OPERATIONS* Business model How Catena generates value 18–19 A complex logistics network 20–21 Property management close to customers 22 Property development as value driver 23–29 A value-driven organisation 30–31 Property operations 2019 – continued positive development in all parts of the operations 32–34 Catena’s property valuation 35 Regional development 36–37 List of properties by region 38–39 + fold-out Important events 40–41 Funding Financing in focus 42–43 Catena’s share performance 44–45 SUSTAINABILITY WORK* Sustainable operations 48–51 Sustainable properties 52–55 Sustainable logistics and societal development 56–58 A responsible and attractive employer 59–61 Sustainability Notes 62–71 Auditor’s review report on the sustainability reporting and opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report 71 FINANCIAL INFORMATION & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT* Contents 75 Consolidated financial Statements 76–81 Notes – Group 82–104 Financial statements – Parent Company 105–107 Notes – Parent Company 108-115 Appropriation of earnings and market outlook 116 Signing of the Annual Report 117 Auditors’ report 118–121 Corporate governance report Chairman of the Board 122 Corporate governance 123–128 Catena’s risk management 129–133 Board and management 134–135 OVERVIEWS AND INFORMATION Multi-year summary 136–137 Catena through the year 138 Press releases and glossary 139 * Forms part of the Annual Report. INTRODUCTION CATENA IN BRIEF Catena – this is who we are Catena owns, manages and develops strategically located logistics properties, adapted to current and future product flows and with the capacity to support Scandinavia’s metropolitan regions. 109 PROPERTIES Fair value: SEK 16,271 million 445 CONTRACTS Rental value: SEK 1,265 million 43 EMPLOYEES Gothenburg 10 FUNDING SOURCES Loans: SEK 8,785 million 14,477 SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders’ equity: SEK 6,318 million Copenhagen Locations where Catena has properties. 15.6 SEK BILLION MARKET CAPITALISATION Nasdaq Stockholm, Mid Cap 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION CATENA IN BRIEF FOCUSED BUSINESS MODEL 3 REASONS TO INVEST IN CATENA We shall sustainably and through Focused business model adds value partnerships develop efficient logistics With a focus on strategically located logistics properties facilities that serve the metropolitan adjacent to key logistic hubs, Catena has amassed a particuregions of Scandinavia. larly deep knowledge of logistics and trade – insights that safeguard Catena’s strong position in the market and provide DRIVEN TOWARDS OUR VISION customers with a proactive and ambitious partner. We link Scandinavia’s cargo flows. Project development as value driver A SUCCESSFUL APPROACH Development and refinement are important components in TO OUR WORK Catena’s overall business model. They create conditions for We exceed expectations, we take longvalue growth in the existing portfolio or through construction term responsibility and we are commitprojects. The large land reserve in strategically important ted – Catena’s values guide us in the positions is an important prerequisite for growing with new decisions we make, in our encounters and existing customers. with our customers and in our ongoing work. Examples of how these are Strong cash flow provides a stable platform translated into reality can be found on Having a wide range of customers, several of whom are among pages 16-17, 46-47 and 72-73. the largest distributors in the market, ensures strong cash flow and, with that, a secure and stable foundation for the company. 3 EXTERNAL FACTORS FAVOURING CATENA The global economy and trade Extensive structural changes, Demographic conditions affects drive demand for improved logiswith technological innovation as Catena’s operations. Urbanisation tics solutions able to meet needs the common denominator, are is driving a concentration of logisfor efficient flows in an increasbringing new consumption pattics positions closer to the cusingly complex and integrated terns. Digitally driven trade brings tomer and digitally driven trade world market. major changes that increase the is established most strongly need for logistics space, but that among younger people, suggestalso place demands on fast, ing an accelerating growth rate. individualised and climate-smart deliveries. The logistics chain is becoming even more critical, increasing demand for modern logistics properties in appropriate locations. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 3 INTRODUCTION THE PAST YEAR Continued growth in 2019 Strengthened by focused initiatives to efficiently and sustainably develop logistics properties, Catena continued to generate stable cash flows in 2019 – a prerequisite for a favourable total return in the long term. The year in figures Key share data 2019 2018 Change, % Rental income Fair value of the properties, SEK M 16,270.5 14,721.1 10.5 8% Economic letting ratio, % 95.0 95.9 -0.9 + Rental income, SEK m Surplus ratio, % 1,182.9 76.3 1,090.7 75.9 8.5 0.5 Increase to SEK 1,182.9 million Profit from property management, SEK M 626.8 571.3 9.7 Cash flow before change in working capital, SEK m 612.5 550.8 11.2 Profit from property management Pre-tax profit, SEK M 1,522.5 940.1 62.0 10% Equity ratio, % 35.6 33.4 6.6 + Earnings per share, SEK Equity per share, SEK 32.46 167.59 21.93 140.82 48.0 19.0 Profit from property management: Net asset value per share, EPRA NAV, SEK 202.87 169.53 19.7 SEK 626.8 million Share price at year-end, SEK 413.50 220.50 87.5 EPRA NAV + 20% Long-term net asset value, Fair value, SEK M Gothenburg, 14% Rental income, SEK M Gothenburg, 15% SEK 202.87 per share. Stockholm, Stockholm, 43% 44% Helsingborg, Helsingborg, 19% 17% Jönköping, 8% Jönköping, 8% Malmö, 16% Malmö, 16% Total: SEK 16,270.5 Total: SEK 1,182.9 million million Profit from property manageRental income and ment and cash flow before Fair value of the properties New tenancies/vacancies surplus ratio change in working capital SEK M SEK M SEK M % SEK M 18,000 200 1,200 100 800 15,000 150 75 600 12,000 100 800 50 9,000 50 400 0 6,000 400 -50 25 200 3,000 -100 0 -150 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 In Rental income Profit from property Out Surplus ratio management Net Cash flow before changes in working capital 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION THE PAST YEAR Development of the properties SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR Strengthened grip on southern approaches to Stockholm New spaces: to meet tomorrow’s needs and to secure efficient and sustainable + 50,000 m 2 Over the year, the operations were expanded through transport into the capital in the future. Catena will pursue the detailed planning process for the development of 1,000,000 square metres of land in Järna through a jointly-owned company. The investment complements previous development plans for 450,000 project development and acquisitions. square meters of land adjacent to Stockholm Syd in Nykvarn. Investments: 835 million Continued growth in major positions with several new facilities and logistics areas being added, mainly at Logistics Position Sunnanå, SEK outside Malmö, and Logistics Position Tostarp, outside Helsingborg. Expansion is also planned at E-City Engelholm, where Boozt intends Generates more lettable space, develops the properties and helps lower property expenses. to expand its operations. The development confirms Greater Copenhagen as an engine for growth and confirms the importance of south-western Skåne for Scandinavia’s product flows. Environmental certification initiated: 168,000 m Positive momentum in sustainability work affects all parts of Catena’s operations, particularly the systematic process of environ2 mentally certifying properties to further mitigate their environmental During 2019, Catena began environmentally impact. The overarching driving force entails playing an active role certifying 9 percent of the property portfolio in societal development by engendering conditions for sustainable in accordance with Miljöbyggnad Silver. logistics. Solsten 1:102, Härryda. Profit before tax Earnings per share Equity and return Equity/assets ratio SEK M SEK SEK M % % 1,600 40 8,000 80 40 1,200 30 6,000 60 30 800 20 4,000 40 20 400 10 2,000 20 10 0 0 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Shareholders’ equity Return on equity ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 5 INTRODUCTION THE PAST YEAR Target fulfilment in 2019 OVERARCHING FINANCIAL TARGETS The average debt Comments on 2019 Year 3 maturity should be A long average debt maturity with a varied distribution entails at least two years lower financing risk and increased opportunities for better and 2 renewed terms. Catena balances the risk associated with shorter debt maturity to the extra cost related to longer debt maturity. At 1 the end of the year, debt maturity was 1.3 years (1.4). To match our long-term target, we seek to increase our debt maturity in 2020. 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 The interest-coverage Comments on 2019 Multiple 5 ratio shall not be less The interest-coverage ratio indicates the capacity to cover interest 4 than a multiple of 1.75 expenses. For this reason, it is important to ensure there is a margin 3 to be able to withstand higher interest expenses and/or higher 2 vacancy rates, for example. At the end of the year, the interestcoverage ratio was 4.1 (3.4), a satisfactory level. 1 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 The equity ratio should Comments on 2019 % 40 be at least 30 percent The equity ratio indicates long-term payment capacity and, at the end of the year, it amounted to 35.6 (33.4). While Catena values 30 a strong equity ratio, at the same time, it weights this carefully to 20 meet shareholders’ return requirements. 10 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 SHARE PERFORMANCE Proposed dividend of SEK 6.50/share (5.75) in 2020 Share price trend 1 January 2013 – 29 February 2020 Corresponding to a yield of 1.6 percent (2.6). Catena OMX Stockholm PI Carnegie Real Estate Index SEK Share price trend up 87.5 percent 480 Increase from the opening price of SEK 220.50 to 375 SEK 413.50. 270 The highest price paid, on 30 December 2019 was SEK 421.50. 165 The lowest price quoted for the share was SEK 213.00 60 on 15 January 2019. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 The Nasdaq Stockholm’s index for the market as a Dividend per share Net asset value, and total return EPRA NAV whole (OMXSPI) increased by 29.6 percent (-7.7) and the SEK % SEK property index (CREX) increased by 57.1 percent (12.9). 8 100 240 200 6 75 160 4 50 120 80 2 25 40 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 1) -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 1) According to the proposal by the Board of Directors and the CEO. 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION THE PAST YEAR STRATEGIES AND OPERATIONAL OBJECTIVES Catena’s targets are based on four strategic horizons – property development, finance, sustainability and customers, and the market. They contribute to the financial targets in various ways and to the overall objective of showing strong cash flow. Property development Property value/growth Catena’s strategy is to grow through proprietary project development and -19 acquisitions to become an even better alternative for customers, investors -18 -17 and employees. In 2019, the value of the property portfolio increased by -16 11 percent, with SEK 753 million (684) comprising proprietary projects -15 and SEK 791 million comprising unrealised changes in value. The surplus 0 6,000 12,000 18,000 SEK M ratio increased from 75.9 percent to 76.3 percent, which is a step closer Surplus ratio to the target of 80 percent. Underlying this positive trend are completed -19 projects and efficient property management and, in particular, numerous -18 measures improving energy efficiency. -17 -16 -15 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Finance Average interest rate At all times, Catena seeks an appropriate distribution between sharehold-19 ers’ equity and debt and, ultimately, to secure short and long-term financ-18 ing at the lowest cost. On the balance sheet date, Catena had ten different -17 credit providers and the average interest rate, including costs for derivatives -16 and unutilised lines of credit, was 2.6 percent (2.7). -15 0 1 2 3 4% Sustainability Energy consumption Catena shall participate in societal development by developing financially -19 and environmentally efficient logistics locations, engaging in priority logistics areas and contributing to a better environment by using energy-18 efficient solutions in our properties. Energy use in comparable portfolios -17 and energy per square metre have decreased somewhat compared with 0 30 60 90 120 150 kWh/sq.m. the preceding year thanks to a number of major energy efficiency projects. During the year, certification was initiated for 100 percent of eNPS the new construction projects. In addition, Catena shall be an exciting -19 -18 and responsible employer, as attested to by the year’s employee survey -17 in which the eNPS result was 61, a decline from 63 for the preceding -16 year but nonetheless a very high value. -15 -100 -50 0 50 100 Clients and markets Average contract period The focus on innovative and sustainable customers and the pursuit of -19 long-term customer relationships form central components in Catena’s -18 strategy. Proactive business intelligence serves to strengthen the brand -17 -16 and engender conditions for acting as an active speaking partner who -15 generates added value for our customers. The average contract term 0 2 4 6 Year decreased slightly in 2019 to 4.9 years (5.1), still at a stable level. Brandstrengthening activities such as the LogistikTrender event and the sponsorship of Rögle BK’s home arena have helped strengthen the Company’s position in the industry and increase engagement, particularly in digital channels. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 7 INTRODUCTION CEO’S COMMENTS We are developing the logistics properties of the future Continued success ment. As we enter a new decade, we want to continue The 2019 year of operations was another strong year for being an active partner who, alongside our customers Catena. Compared with the preceding year, we increased and through partnerships, develops the logistics network our profit from property management by SEK 55.5 million and provides facilities fully adapted to current and future to SEK 626.8 million – over a three-year period, it has goods flows. risen by 98 percent. This generates strong cash flow, providing the basis for stable value growth and building Responsibility over time financial capacity to be able to maintain the pace of Durable structures are safe and designed with the future project development, but also to be able to counter more in mind – sustainability addresses the same aspects, turbulent external developments. Our portfolio of 109 albeit from a societal perspective. In both cases, failing properties and a total lettable area of 1.8 million square to assume responsibility is an ethical and business risk. metres is growing being continuously developed. We participate in the development of society with our construction projects and the design of the future logistics network is of great importance in achieving a more The design of the logistics network of the transport-efficient society with reduced CO2 emissions. future is of great importance for achieving Over the year, we also invested approximately SEK 753 million in our existing properties – an opportunity to a more transport-efficient society. increase performance and efficiency. We do not deny that the contexts in which we operate have a substantial Complex logistics networks impact on the environment, although the large volumes Catena’s principal driving force is to develop properties handled in the system also mean that each intelligent with the vision of linking Scandinavia’s cargo flows. Logissolution reducing waste, kilometres or kilowatt hours tics solutions and flows can no longer be considered linear makes a big difference. For a long time, we have worked – instead, warehousing points are flexible and adaptable in a structured manner with measures to increase energy parts of a complex and changing ecosystem. With new efficiency, and this has produced good results. We address opportunities to plan and optimise flows through digiall areas where we can act more sustainably in the same talisation, artificial intelligence and automation, entirely systematic manner – whether this involves sustainable new opportunities open up. Functioning coordination properties, sustainable logistics or our role as an embetween facilities and increased transparency mean that ployer. Today, Catena’s ambition is to certify new buildings resources can be used more efficiently. This is an essential in accordance with the Miljöbyggnad Silver standard as prerequisite for a functioning society in which goods and a minimum, work within the framework of Agenda 2030 cargo in constant movement must be optimally positioned with six of the UN’s goals and we have joined the Global in the logistics network to meet demands in terms of Compact. With a well-considered strategy and a long-term on-time delivery, cost and climate footprint. We can see approach, our experience is that it is possible to benefit that purchase prices and lead times have become more financial, social and environmental values in a single effort. generic than ever. Beyond service to the customer and the customer’s experience, today it is the logistics solution Major positions grow further that determines who wins the battle for customers and, in During 2019, our growth mainly occurred at major the same way, logistics is crucial for a company being able logistics positions. Gathering logistics facilities provides to present a sustainable offer. economies of scale, which is more efficient and sustainInterest in logistics has increased in recent years and able. This trend is evident at the Helsingborg logistics we are now also experiencing an increase in skills in the cluster, Logistics Position Tostarp, where we are constructarea. With more people realising the value and potential ing a new 18,300 square-metre terminal for PostNord and of efficient logistics, our work becomes much more enjoyan 18,000 square-metre extension for Nowaste Logistics. able and we hope that we have helped focus attention on During the year, Nowaste’s 11,000 square-metre highthese issues to some extent. At the same time, this also bay warehouse was completed at the site. Another site at means we operate in an increasingly competitive environwhich multiple logistics operations have been gathered is 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION CEO’S COMMENTS With more people realising the value and potential of efficient logistics, our work becomes much more enjoyable. Logistics Position Sunnanå outside Malmö. Here, construction is in progress of a more than 10,200 square-metre air cargo facility for DHL Express, a 1,850 square-metre extension for DHL Freight, adjacent to the existing terminal, and the second and final phase of our 36,000 squaremetre multi-tenant warehouse. Another major position, Ecity Engelholm is also expanding, currently with a 22,800 square-metre extension for Boozt Fashion at the site. Catena’s land reserve, with associated building rights, land allocations and options, encompass a potential 4.8 million square metres of space. This is a prerequisite for being able to develop the logistics positions of the future. In November 2019, we secured 1 million square metres of developable land connected to the southern access routes to Stockholm at Järna in the Municipality of Södertälje. The location provides a gateway for cargo flows into Stockholm and the Mälardalen valley with nearby connections to the E4 motorway, a harbour and a main railway line, complementing well our venture at Stockholm South in the Municipality of Nykvarn. The detailed planning process is being advanced in a jointly owned company and the ambition is to create a logistics hub at the site for efficient and climate-smart goods and cargo flows into the capital. Clearer targets ahead Catena is an efficient organisation with slightly more than 40 employees. It is critical for the operations that everyone applies their skills optimally and, with what we achieved in 2019, I am sure that is the case. Nonetheless, the level of commitment in the organisation is what impresses me most. In preparing our business plan for 2020, we invested greater effort regarding the operational targets that guide our efforts and all employees contributed in this process. This resulted in clearer and sharper ambitions, affording us the conditions to continue exceeding expectations – whether these involve strategic choices for the future or details that make a difference in everyday life. Helsingborg, March 2020 Benny Thögersen, CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 9 INTRODUCTION OUR MARKET Trends shaping the logistics of tomorrow GLOBAL TRADE Every day, several hundred million packages are The global economy and trade drive delivered around the world to expectant private demand for improved logistics soluindividuals who have made an exciting online tions able to meet needs for efficient purchase or to companies needing businessflows in an increasingly complex and critical spare parts for expensive production lines. integrated world market. Increasingly integrated world trade has laid the foundation for a growing need for more efficient logistics. World trade and world GDP have seen positive growth over the past ten years, both increased by 26 percent between 2008 and 2018. The global retail market is estimated at TECHNICAL INNOVATION Technological development and increasing eExtensive structural changes, with commerce give great opportunities to improve technological innovation as the comconsumers’ purchasing experience in different mon denominator, are bringing new ways. For example, through increased conveniconsumption patterns. Digitally driven ence, transparency and design, which in various trade increases the need for logistics ways are crucial to the future success of the retail space, but that also place demands trade. on fast, individualised and climateMobility for people, goods and data is changsmart deliveries. The logistics chain ing rapidly. Urban mobility presents a huge chalis becoming more critical, bringing lenge, but also great opportunities. The greatest increased demand for modern logistics growth is expected in goods mobility, particularly properties in appropriate locations. in dense urban areas, along with growing DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES Today, 55 percent of the world’s population lives Demographic conditions affect in urban areas, a proportion that is expected Catena’s operations. Urbanisation is to increase to 68 percent by 2050. Forecasts driving a concentration of logistics show that urbanisation, combined with the positions closer to the customer and overall growth of the world’s population, can digitally driven trade is established add another 2.5 billion people to the cities by most strongly among younger people, 2050. According to Statistics Sweden, Sweden’s suggesting an accelerating growth population will pass 10 million in 2020 and 11.3 rate. million in 2050. About 70 percent of the population increase will occur in the three metropolitan counties. The functionality of the smart city is dependent on functioning urban flows and the 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION OUR MARKET slightly more than USD 25,000 billion in 2019, an 5,000 billion. Swedish e-commerce Swedish e-commerce +13%, increase of 4.5 percent. This represents a decline sales increased by 13 percent to SEK 2019 compared with the past five years when global 87 billion in 2019 and are expected to SEK bn retail sales increased by between 5.7 and 7.5 perreach SEK 97 billion in 2020. Rapid de100 cent annually. The decline in growth in consumer velopment in digitally-driven commerce 80 spending reflects growing economic uncertainty is imposing new demands on logistics in several parts of the world. At the same time as solutions that are sustainable and 60 the overall figures for retail have stagnated, globefficient in the long term. al e-commerce has risen by 20.7 percent in 2019 Source: HUI, E-barometern, IQLogistics. 40 to USD 3,535 billion. By 2021, forecasts suggest 20 that global e-commerce will be approaching USD 0 FORECAST -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -20 e-commerce. The highest margin benefit is access to inventory balances and Investments derived from regional and city logistics, when the increased control over the availability warehouse automin ation 27 goods are to be distributed to the store or directly of goods in different locations provides to the consumer. That is when the number of opportunities for frequent, flexible and traffic movements and hence the cost and envifully loaded transports. The market for USD ronmental impact are greatest. warehouse automation is expected to billion in 2025 Better, faster and smarter logistics also involve double to USD 27 billion by 2025. automated logistics facilities and logistics sysSource: IQLogistics, Modern Materials tems building on artificial intelligence. With them, Handling. The global market for warehouse the flow of goods is improved, the cost is reduced automation is expected to double for handling and picking and available storage from USD 13 billion in 2018 to USD spaces can be used optimally. In turn, immediate 27 billion in 2025, an average annual growth rate of 11.7 percent between 2019 and 2025. challenges are many, but can be met with investcities, consumers can already receive ments in sustainable innovations and systems their goods on the same day they placed 7 10 where logistics plays a central role. their order. Shorter delivery times can Studies show that 34 percent of online shopreduce the retailers’ expenses for stock, pers are between 35 and 54 years old. Millencapital and obsolescence. At the same nials, currently between the ages of 18 and 34, time, awareness of the role of logistics of are the next-largest group at 30 percent and are is also increasing from a sustainability expected to live in urban areas by 20 expected to increase in pace with their purchasperspective, providing incentives for 50 ing power. Durable goods and clothing lead in new innovations. online retail, although FMCG is the segment that Source: World Bank, UN. is expected to grow fastest. Today’s younger consumers do not want to wait. In some major ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 11 INTRODUCTION OUR MARKET Stable rental market Customers In line with the increased cargo flows in recent The sector’s customers include logistics companies years, due in particular to increased e-comto whom producers and wholesalers outsource merce, demand for modern well-located spaces their logistics function through third-party logistics. has been high. Major players in the area are DHL, PostNord, Rent levels for newly produced logistics faciliSchenker, DSV, Bring and Green Cargo. The sector’s GLOBAL ties are determined largely by the costs for land customers also include producers and suppliers TRADE and production. The rental market for logistics who handle their logistics in-house in their own or properties is relatively stable. Despite the limleased premises. This is true both of heavy indusited supply of space, development in rent levels tries such as Volvo and Electrolux as well as large has been weak, particularly in the regional retailers like ICA, Axfood and IKEA and e-commerce towns. Closer to the metropolitan cities where companies such as Apotea, Boozt, Dustin, Mathem the availability of land is limited, an increase and Mat.se. in rent levels can be discerned. Even looking ahead, rent hikes are generally expected to be Other managers, logistics properties limited by the considerable supply of developA small number of property companies specialise able land and stable production costs, but also in logistics properties. In addition to Catena, the by strong competition among contractors and larger Swedish listed companies include Sagax a project developers for new assignments in the nd Corem. Several of the established property comsegment. However, increasing differentiation panies have increased their focus in the logistics can be discerned. The rent for well-placed segment, such as Castellum, FastPartner and Stenterminals as well as e-commerce warehouses dörren. Privately owned Kilenkrysset and interand specialised premises for e.g. food, for national companies ProLogis and Goodman also TECHNICAL which demand is high, is somewhat higher than operate in Sweden. In addition, Logistic Contractor INNOVATION for warehouses. The share of railway transports develops and builds logistics facilities. in the overall logistics mix is also expected to increase, due to increased environmental focus. The government declaration states that more Catena’s economic letting ratio long-distance freight is to transfer from road to % rail and maritime transport. This places de100 mands on better access to container terminals 80 where cargo can be moved between rail and 60 road, for example. Larger logistics warehouses can be supplemented with local distribution ter40 minals. The trend is towards larger distribution 20 centres that serve increasingly large areas, as 0 European infrastructure improves and trans-15 -16 -17 -18 -19 portation times decrease. On the other hand, distribution centres for food and other fastCatena’s average rent level moving consumer goods that require frequent Kr/kvm SEK/sq.m. 800 DEMOGRAPHIC deliveries are located a little more densely and CHANGES closer to retailers and consumers. Accordingly, 600 such facilities are decreasing and can be combined with city logistics in omni-facilities. There, 400 located in close proximity to residential areas, 200 e-commerce functions can also be placed for distribution directly to end customers or through 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 delivery points. 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION OUR MARKET Active investment market Financial markets E-commerce is driving new construction of warehousThe year 2019 will go down in history as the year when Swedes and logistics buildings. Between 2015 and 2017, ish long-term sovereign rates, for the first time ever, moved more than half a million square metres of warehouse into negative territory, thus adding Sweden to a small number and logistics space have been newly produced. in 2018, of countries, including Germany and Switzerland, where the more than 600,000 square metres were completed, same occurred. The phenomenon can be attributed, among and in 2019 more than 650,000 square metres were other things, to a combination of a lack of inflation expectacompleted. The trend looks set to continue even in 2020. tions and strong government finances, making Sweden a In particular, demand for parcel handling terminals is safe place for investment. Globalisation and digitalisation expected to increase steadily over a five-year period. in the form of the sharing economy and increasing compeThe growth and future beliefs of the property developtition, a transformed labour market (with a greater proporers have contributed to high levels of speculative contion of service companies) and fast-footed resources have struction. Slightly more than 50 percent of the facilities in made it particularly difficult for central banks around the Stockholm and about 40 percent in Gothenburg have been world to manage monetary policy. Over the past year, the constructed entirely or partly on speculation. Swedish Riksbank (central bank) has adjusted its repo The market has been undergoing a structure change rate from a negative interest rate to a zero interest rate since the beginning of the 2000s. Previously, the portfolio and has, for the time being, steered away from negative was largely owned by the companies using the premises, territory. but a consolidation of ownership is now underway. WareEntering 2020, the Swedish economy is starting to house and logistics properties have gradually become a slow down. This is expected following several years property segment in which institutional players also want of strong growth. The current negative trend is being to have indirect or direct exposure. strengthened in part by trade conflicts, credit tightenThe logistics and warehouse market continues to be ing in China, uncertainty surrounding Brexit and the characterised by a wide spread with respect to such parameongoing spread of the corona virus. Forecast figures, ters as ownership, size, modernity and efficiency. This means for GDP (1 percent according to the Riksbank), unemthat most institutional investors still have a smaller allotment, ployment (6.9 percent according to the Riksbank) and particularly of logistics properties, than the segment’s porconsumer confidence indicate relatively weaker growth tion of the total commercial property stock. for 2020. Unlike many other EU countries, Sweden can Transaction activity within the segment has never been benefit from its low public debt by using fiscal policy to greater. Investor interest in commercial properties has deshore up growth. creased, while demand for warehouses and logistics propIn 2019, stock markets generally performed well, with erties has increased significantly. In 2019, the transaction the Swedish (OMXSPI) index rising by about 30 percent volume for logistics and industrial properties amounted to over the past year. At the same time, credit markets have approximately SEK 37 billion, with almost half being classhown high levels of activity and low yields. Interest in sified as purely logistics properties and foreign investors properties as an investment and in the logistics segment accounting for about 85 percent of logistics acquisitions. in particular has been record high. Against the background Return requirements for modern logistics properties are of a more uncertain global macroeconomic growth rate and record-low. Nevertheless, it is relatively cheap to invest a consistent duality among several of the world’s central in Sweden compared with core markets in continental banks, there is a well-established consensus among econoEurope. In 2019, Blackstone acquired a larger portfolio mists that low interest rates will persist for some time. of warehouse, logistics and light industry properties of Despite decreased global activity, specifically against the about 500,000 square metres for some SEK 4.2 billion, backdrop of the viral pandemic that has temporarily put the The seller was Corem. Prologis also acquired a property markets on hold, we expect a benign future for Catena. Lookportfolio of 295,000 square metres for SEK 3.8 billion ing ahead, we expect remedial measures from central banks, from Bockasjö and Alecta. NRP divested a portfolio and a larger element of fiscal policy stimuli, to underpin liquidwith some properties located in Sweden for approxiity and business. Given persistent fundamental driving forces, mately SEK 4.0 billion. The buyers were Allianz and the broad diversity of customers and strong cash flow, Catena CBRE GIP. takes a confident view regarding upcoming funding needs. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 13 INTRODUCTION OUR MARKET Catena knows logistics trends! As the leading company in logistics properties, Catena monitors, analyses and debates logistics trends in various ways. An appreciated meeting place for new knowledge and inspiration in the area is the LogistikTrender (Logistics Trends) conference that Catena is arranging for the tenth year in 2020. In 2019, the theme was the logistics revolution, with digitalisation, automation and technology growing at an accelerating LogistikT rate and generating entirely new opportunities. More than 350 render invitees listened to 12 inspirational speakers during the fullybooked conference. 2020 See more from LogistikTrender 2019 at www.catenafastigheter.com JUBILE LogisticEsTHEME: b time and eyond In 2019, Fabian Bengtsson, space Dunke rs cultura the owner of NetOnNet and Helsingb l centre former CEO of SIBA, painted org a thought-provoking and inspiring picture of doing business with China. Jacob Lovén and Tom Xiong, entrepreneurs and inspirational speakers (“Digital Dragon” podcast) gave exciting insights into how new business models are being formed in the wake of digitalisation. 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB INTRODUCTION OUR MARKET Current earnings capacity Earnings capacity on Catena’s average interest rate level including hedges for current loan debt less capitalised interest in normal SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 project volume. As of 2019, ground rents are no longer Rental income 1,208.9 1,158.0 recognised as property expenses, but rather as interest Property expenses -276.0 -276.0 on the liability for the right-of-use assets. The tax is calcuNet operating surplus 932.9 882.0 lated on a conventional basis according to the tax rate at Central administration -36.4 -32.4 any given time. Share of profit of associates -5.0 -5.0 Yield Net financial items -223.4 -223.9 % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Ground rent -9.8 – EPRA NIY Profit from property (initial yield) 5.8 6.2 management 658.3 620.7 EPRA “topped-up” (normalised yield) 6.1 6.4 Tax for the year -140.9 -132.8 Profit/loss for the year 517.4 487.9 Catena presents a direct yield here in the form of “Net Key share data Initial Yield (NIY)” and “topped-up” Net Initial Yield in Profit for the year, accordance with EPRA’s definitions. Both key figures are SEK per share 13.7 12.9 calculated on the basis of Investment properties accordNumber of shares ing to the consolidated balance sheet plus addition of outstanding, millions 37.7 37.7 ownership of investment properties in joint ventures and after deductions for development land and projects not yet In the table, Catena presents its earnings capacity on a completed. Net initial yield (NIY) is based on contractual 12-month basis. As the table is not equivalent to a foreannual rent for properties in Catena’s own portfolio as cast, but is intended to reflect a normal year, actual outwell as our share of contractual annual rent in properties comes may differ because of decisions that affect the owned by joint ventures after deduction of initial discounts. outcome positively as well as negatively in relation to From these annual rents, deductions are made for exnormal years, like unforeseen events. The presented earnpected operating and maintenance expenses and property ings capacity does not include any assessment of changes administration. The net operating surplus calculated in this in rent, vacancy or interest rate. Catena’s income stateway differs from current earnings capacity mainly because ment is also affected by changes in value and changes contracted annual rent and expenses for projects not yet in the property portfolio as well as changes in the value completed are not included. of derivative instruments. None of this has been taken In the calculation of EPRA “topped-up” NIY, contracted into account in the current earnings capacity. The net annual rent is used without deduction of initial discounts. operating surplus is based, as at the balance sheet date, Up to 31 December 2018, ground rents were also included on contracted leases and normalised property expenses in the property expenses. The change affects the yield by for the current portfolio. Financial expenses are based around 0.1 percentage points. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 15 OPERATIONS We exceed expectations – commitment and detailed planning determine success Considerable sums are at stake when companies choose to change and relocate their warehouse functions. Calculations take more than rental costs, location and area into account. Equally important is that construction, changes during the course of the project and on-time completion be thought out down to the last detail. For many companies, seasonal events, such as Christmas shopping, summer collections and promotional campaigns are business critical and can cost millions in lost sales if something goes wrong. For the past five years, Catena has handled renovations and project development for the equivalent of SEK 2.6 billion. A guiding principle is that we exceed customer expectations by establishing agile processes in which every detail is planned and where we can generate commitment at an early stage by bringing different parties and suppliers together. Third party logistics operator Nowaste’s high-bay warehouse in Helsingborg is an exciting example of how narrow time margins require more of everyone but can also exceed everyone’s expectations. Nowaste provides its customers with customised logistics solutions that include their own automation and IT solutions and experienced logistics personnel. Customers include well-known brands such as Home Furnishing Nordic, Atria, Bolist, Brothers, Polarn o. Pyret, Björn Borg, Panduro, Coolstuff and Everfresh. In 2018, Nowaste became a tenant at Logistics Position Tostarp outside Helsingborg with its unmistakeable warehouse, eye-catching façade and a total area of 30,400 square metres. World record high-bay? With a successful business model and many interested customers, in 2019, Nowaste chose Catena to build a high-bay facility adjacent to its major warehouse at Tostarp in Helsingborg. The initiative was partly speculative and contracts had not been signed with all customers when construction began. Today, the high-bay warehouse is one of the most modern e-commerce warehouses in the Nordic countries. The 11,000 square metre facility houses 105 automated shuttles (OSR), picking stations, delivery bays and parcel sorting. When clothing companies Polarn o. Pyret and Brothers became contracted customers for the state-of-theart terminal, the urgency and pressure increased to complete construction and install the IT and automation systems in the building. Moving goods and establishing procedures are demanding tasks – and the objective was unequivocal – everything had to be ready by Black Friday. With strong collaboration between Nowaste as the client and Catena as the project manager, all suppliers were given a common platform to work from and it was possible to open the high-bay warehouse ahead of schedule, with all functions fine-tuned, in good time for Black Friday in November 2019. Accordingly, the project was completed in record time, taking just 12 months from signing to the commencement of operation. The collaboration between Nowaste and Catena is now continuing. In the fall of 2019, an extension of about 18,000 square metres was approved, which will be erected adjacent to Nowaste’s first building at Logistikposition Tostarp. Occupancy is scheduled for September 2020. One of our three core values is that we exceed expectations. We behave professionally in everything we do, large or small, and have the skills needed to meet both current and future needs. Based on this, we always go a little further, daring to be innovative. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS ”Together with Catena, we beat all expectations. Catena’s capacity to bring together the strengths of all and then build commitment despite the time pressure determined this success. It was only at the mingle following the inauguration that our customers realised how tight the process had been.” – Jesper Brandin, Sales Manager, Nowaste Logistics AB. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 17 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL How Catena generates value By offering attractive logistics facilities in strategic locations, Catena generates value for its various stakeholders. Strong cash flow, enabling the stable development of the operations and dividends to shareholders, is Catena’s overarching objective. How this is to be achieved is stated in the business concept: ”We shall sustainably and through partnerships develop efficient logistics facilities that serve the metropolitan regions of Scandinavia”. The vision is to link Scandinavia’s freight flows, which requires in-depth insights regarding the goods and cargo flows of the future. It is in everyday life that earnings are generated Catena is a value-driven organisation – exceeding expectations, assuming responsibility over time and demonstrating commitment are the fundamental values underpinning all relationships and decisions. It is through active, day-to-day property development and management that Catena is able to continue generating strong cash flow. From the outset in 2013, the property volume has increased by a total 381 percent, with financial stability being maintained and some SEK 766 million being distributed to shareholders between 2013 and 2019. 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL NEW OPERATIONAL TARGETS LOOKING AHEAD The day-to-day work is guided by clear operational targets based on four strategic horizons. The outcomes of the 2019 targets are presented on pages 6-7. In the business plan for 2020, greater effort has been invested with regard to the operational targets with the ambition of further clarifying the objectives. Property development Sustainability Catena shall grow to become an even better alternative for What Catena delivers should be sustainable over time. Catcustomers, investors and employees, offering modern, ena should never lose a transaction because we fail to meet sustainable and cost-efficient properties. Profit from property the sustainability requirements imposed – ecological, social or management shall grow by at least 10 percent annually and economic. Among the targets formulated for 2020, it is statthe Company strives to maintain a strong cash flow, in which ed that Catena shall certify all newly-constructed properties profit from property management should account for at least at the Miljöbyggnad Silver standard or equivalent and that all 50 percent of every krona in income. free-standing newly-constructed buildings shall include a phoFurthermore, the targets set for 2020 are that at least SEK tovoltaic cell facility. Calculated in kWh/m2, energy consump600 million of annual growth is to be achieved through protion should decrease by 15 percent for normal-year-adjusted prietary project development and that the operating surplus heating and by 10 percent for electricity in 2025 compared should increase by at least 3 percent annually in comparable with 2017, with properties and project properties acquired in portfolios. the past two years being exempt. By 2030, all energy shall be Read more about property acquisitions on pages 23–29. fossil-free and, combined, all of the targets serve to reduce Catena’s greenhouse gas emissions. Finance To remain an attractive and responsible employer, we seek Within the framework of its finance policy, Catena shall a high level of employee loyalty and a willingness to recomensure appropriate financing at the lowest possible cost in mend us, with the Company striving for an eNPS of at least the short and long term. Three overarching financial targets +40 in its annual survey. All employees shall be afforded equal focused on financial stability bring long-term stability to opportunities for development and should consider their workCatena’s business model: ing environment to be safe and stimulating. In addition, gender equality and diversity shall increase in all professional catego• An equity ratio of at least 30 percent, providing favourries by 2025. able opportunities for returns The target is well balanced Read more in our Sustainability Report. given the Company’s cash flow. • The interest-coverage ratio shall not be less than a multiClients and markets ple of 1.75, since this provides a reassuring safety margin When major logistics facilities need to be established, Catena in preparation for rising market interest rates and/or a should always receive an enquiry . Good relations and a higher vacancy ratio. Over the past five years, the intereststrong brand are important success factors – the Company coverage ratio has varied between multiples of 2.3 and strives for increased awareness and seeks to consolidate its 4.8. position as a leading company in the area of logistics. Catena has quantified its targets more clearly, establishing • Average debt maturity should be at least two years to safethat the Company shall achieve a market share of at least 15 guard financing over a reasonable period of time in order percent of newly-produced logistics space (square metres) in to reduce refinancing risks and secure optimal credit terms Sweden, an economic letting ratio of at least 95 percent and for continued financing. Over the past five years, debt a customer retention rate of more than 90 percent. Furthermaturity has varied between 1.3 and 2.5 years. more, the target for newly-signed leases is a rental period of at least five years, and preferably ten years or more. The focus The overarching targets are supplemented by operashould be on innovative and sustainable customers where tional targets that, for 2020, include the Company value can be added through a customer-friendly approach. having at least five credit providers in its loan portfoRead more about clients and markets on pages 10–13. lio, a loan-to-value ratio of no more than 60 percent and opportunities for green financing in 2020. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 19 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL A complex logistics network To meet end-customers’ demands in terms of on-time delivery, climate footprint and cost, the product should always be optimally positioned in the logistics network. One delivery might proceed directly from a small-scale producer to the end-consumer. To be achievable, another delivery may require a regional distribution centre and city logistics. Yet another delivery may involve terminals, logistics warehouses and distribution centres for delivery six months after the order was placed. Different logistics properties fulfil distinct tasks in collecting, storing and distributing goods, imposing different demands on the property. Catena offers all kinds of logistics facilities, interacting in flows of varying complexity. Terminal for immediate transshipment A terminal is primarily designed for the transshipment of cargo and goods that are received and delivered on the same day. Goods arrive there from manufacturers and distributors in Sweden and elsewhere in the world, by sea, air, rail and road. Some are container terminals that are especially well equipped for transferring cargo from one mode of transport to another. The terminals are strategically located near population centres, but, most importantly, with convenient connections to ports, rail routes and major roads. Terminals are often the first establishment at a new logistics location. Terminals are generally operated by one of the major third-party logistics providers and several hundred customers may be served by a single terminal. Logistics warehouses for storage Logistics warehouses are where goods are placed while awaiting sale and provide a buffer between the customer and the supplier, regardless of whether consumer products or industrial input goods are concerned. Their equipment also differs, from pallet racks to full automation, often with universal systems suited to a number of different products. Logistics warehouses are often located at the producer’s facilities or importer’s port, or at collection points for one or more units that are placed so that the nature of the goods, centrally within a region. As a rule, stages in the logistics chain can be minimised. The logisoperations are conducted by third-party logistics compatics warehouse is also generally located adjacent to a nies such as DHL, Schenker, PostNord and others. An Eterminal. Operations at a logistics warehouse are norcommerce warehouse is a type of distribution centre that mally conducted by a single tenant or a small number specialises in serving the growing e-commerce segment. of tenants, who may be a producer, wholesaler, importer E-commerce warehouses often have equipment for packor a third-party operator. ing goods prior to delivery to distribution points where end users can collect their goods. They can also be centrally Distribution centre – for onward distribution located in urban areas or otherwise easily accessible to A distribution centre is designed to store goods in a central consumers in order to streamline and improve the suplocation for a short period before onward transport to plier’s distribution in the last stage – reaching consumers. retailers in the distribution centre’s service region. In particular, this requires good loading and unloading opporOmni warehouses and city logistics tunities. Distribution centres are often located along the An omni-facility is a hybrid between, for example, a ring roads encircling population centres or, based on the terminal and a logistics warehouse. That means it has the 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL numerous gates characteristic of the terminal and the What is referred to as city logistics involves facilities space required to receive and dispatch incoming and specially designed for frequent, fast and short-distance outgoing goods on the same day. However, it also has the transports of fast-moving consumer goods to retailers height characteristic of a logistics warehouse, which is or directly to consumers. The peri-urban facilities, are needed to cost-efficiently warehouse goods, even over specifically designed to handle different types of goods extended periods. An omni facility or an omni warehouse from multiple suppliers. They are equipped for rational can include virtually any combination of logistics functions picking because shipments, although small, may consist required, depending on location and area. of several different products from several suppliers. In this An increasing trend in the trade sector sees centralised way, shops, which are not seldom situated in expensive warehouses increasingly being supplemented by more locations, can minimise storage space, save costs and decentralised structures. Shops and department stores are tie up less capital. Producers and importers also get their equipped with storerooms that act as omni facilities for products out to the shops where there is current demand. the immediate vicinity, functioning as warehouses, shop Smaller hub terminals close to towns and cities are also stockrooms and pick-up points for online sales. becoming more common. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 21 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL Property management close to customers Through property management close to customers, Catena creates the right conditions for a profitable property portfolio while helping the Company’s customers achieve their business objectives. Always exceeding the customer’s expectations and assuming responsibility over time are success factors. Characteristic of Catena’s employees is their genuine commitment. Tenant services Efficiency and maintenance The Company’s extensive and diverse property portfolio Catena’s properties are continuously improved. The tenant makes it possible to regulate space flexibly and in pace should rest assured that the property will be kept in good with customer development. Through property managecondition and that control of the property is part of the ment close to customers, Catena is able to understand offering. Sometimes, particularly when it comes to cost or and meet the needs that arise for the customer. Catena energy efficiency enhancements, the refinement process has a broad expertise in logistics and properties and is is initiated by Catena, and sometimes this occurs in collabable to act as a facilitator in collaboration with a network oration with an existing or new tenant. Through digitalisaof specialists in areas including security functions, IT tion and innovative solutions, Catena continuously refines control systems, handling equipment and fully-automated the customer offering in its own operations. solutions. In this way, Catena is able to help adapt properties to meet new needs. Development Having a skilled and efficient property management organisation in place in the regions safeguards relations, not only with customers, but also with the local business community and society in general. This makes it possible to respond quickly to the problems that can arise. By also staying one step ahead and challenging customers with regard to existing and new needs, Catena helps its customers achieve their business objectives while seizing new business opportunities. Catena’s active property management resulted in the Company continuing to strengthen its customer relations over the year and increasing the number of customers. Norra Varalöv 31:11, Ängelholm. 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL Property development as value driver Catena’s stated ambition is to grow both by refining and developing the opportunities offered by existing properties, as well as by establishing new strategic logistics positions for current and future flows of goods. On defined strategic positions, Catena currently has, through acquisitions, development and new production, 109 attractive logistics facilities and the target is for at least SEK 600 million annually to be earmarked for proprietary development projects. This provides the Company with the conditions to grow alongside new and existing customers and, in the long term, to generate a favourable and sustainable return. The development projects also raise the level of quality and earnings capacity of the portfolio through, for example, increased efficiency and by directing investments towards sustainable properties. Today, the objective is to certify all newly produced properties at the Miljöbyggnad Silver standard or the equivalent and to investigate and document the possibility of certifying properties undergoing major redevelopment. In 2019, Catena invested a total of SEK 753 million (684) in new construction, extensions and renovations. Over the past five years, the Company has invested an average of SEK 520 million annually. On the balance sheet date, projects were in progress with remaining investments of about SEK 760 million. Development of existing facilities Continuously developing existing properties in consultation with customers is central for Catena. The existing portfolio is continuously refined to improve the customer’s cargo flows and to contribute to the customer’s operations. Catena has the experience and expertise to meet strict demands on logistics efficiency and is an active speaking partner who understands logistics and flows. Energy efficiency is a priority area. Heating and electricity are the single largest operating cost item for properties, meaning that optimised use of energy leads to both improved environmental performance and positive financial effects for both Catena and its tenants. Catena is investing major sums to save energy, which may involve, for example, choosing the right source of heating, enabling energy recycling, installing photovoltaic cells, installing more efficient ventilation or switching to lighting with modern LED technology. Logistics Position Sunnanå. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 23 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL New production focusing on prominent logistics motorway,outside Helsingborg. Construction began in positions 2019 of an 18,300 square-metre terminal for PostNord, New construction and extension projects, broaden the intended for handling single consignments, parcels and customer base and our offering. Over the year, Catena letters. In addition, an approximately 11,000 square-metre extended and cemented prominent logistics positions high-bay warehouse for Nowaste Logistics has been in several locations. These are logistics locations offercompleted at the site. For the same customer, Catena has ing optimum conditions in terms of communications and also approved and commenced an approximately 18,000 demographics, but also opportunities for synergies. By square-metre extension adjoining Nowaste’s first facility taking a holistic approach and working with site developat Tostarp. ment encompassing an entire area, synergies are derived In Ängelholm, the E-city Engelholm e-commerce cluster that benefit both Catena and its tenants. Further developis growing. Catena is constructing a new, approximately ing an important logistics position and the opportunities 22,800 square-metre building for Boozt Fashion adjacent that existing properties offer in the form of, for example, to its existing building in the area. The venture strengthens development rights and supplementary acquisitions are a E-city Engelholm as an excellent location for e-commerce. priority for Catena. Also, at the Katrineholm Logistics Centre, a modern In 2019, Logistics Position Sunnanå, which enjoys an node in an excellent location where rail and road freight optimal logistics location at a direct exit from national are handled efficiently, an approximately 2,000 squareroute 11 and 300 metres from the exit from the E6/E20 metre facility is being built for PostNord. motorway, just outside Malmö, grew further, with 25,900 square metres of lettable space having been completed Transactions for Chefs Culinar, DHL, DS Smith and Lekia. Next to the Catena readily supplements land acquisitions with acquisiDHL terminal, which was Catena’s first establishment tions of existing investment properties to achieve longin the area, an air freight warehouse of about 10,200 term and strategic benefits. The intention is to generate square metres is being built for DHL Express. With the air future opportunities in terms of our development rights, cargo warehouse, the development of Logistics Position while selectively identifying properties with existing buildSunnanå continues, which, with its unique location for ings but also with potential for future development. transports both inside and outside Sweden, forms a hub During the year, Catena acquired three properties in for current and future flows of goods. attractive logistics locations and with potential for favourAnother central logistics location is Logistics Position able cash flow – the Muttern 6 property in Kungälv, the Tostarp, situated right alongside the E6/E4 Välingen 2 property in Karlstad and the Sockret 7 property Major projects during the year 1) Lettable Projects Property Address Municipality space, m2 Type Completed new construction and extensions > SEK 100 million ICA, Bring and Pågen Mappen 4 Köpetorpsgatan 6 Linköping 6,200 Distribution centre Chefs Culinar Sunnanå 12:52 Flansbjersvägen 13 Burlöv 7,800 Distribution centre Multi-tenant warehouse, part 1 Sunnanå 12:52 Flansbjersvägen 15 Burlöv 18,100 Logistics warehouses Nowaste Logistics Plantehuset 3 Mineralgatan 17 Helsingborg 11,000 Distribution centre Procurator, extension Tahe 1:64 Målövägen 2 Jönköping 12,600 Logistics warehouse Total, completed projects 55,700 New construction and extensions in progress > SEK 100 million Multi-tenant warehouse, part 2 Sunnanå 12:52 Flansbjersvägen 17 Burlöv 18,100 Logistics warehouses Boozt Fashion Norra Varalöv Produktionsvägen Ängelholm 22,800 Logistics 31:11 10C warehouse DHL Express Sunnanå 12:52 Flansbjersvägen 14 Burlöv 10,200 Distribution centre PostNord Plantehuset 3 Mineralgatan 14 Helsingborg 18,300 Terminal Nowaste Logistics, extension Plantehuset 3 Mineralgatan 15 Helsingborg 18,000 Distribution centre Total, ongoing projects 87,400 Total, projects 143,100 1) In addition to the larger projects reported in the table, minor projects and adaptations for tenants occur. 2) Catena considers a project to have been completed when receiving a certificate of completion and/or when the tenant makes its first rent payment. 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL in Malmö. Acquisitions allow Catena to grow, establish opthe E6/E20 motorway can easily be reached – an excellent erations more quickly in new locations and to broaden its future location for city logistics. customer base. Although the Muttern 6 property, located During the year, the Mörby 5:28 property was divested in the attractive and expanding Rollsbo industrial area, at an underlying property value of SEK 83 million. Disposwhere Catena already owns two properties, was vacant als can free up resources and ensure that Catena always when acquired, it was soon leased to a new tenant. The has an attractive property portfolio that generates strong same applies for the Välingen 2 property, which was also cash flows. Furthermore, new consumption patterns, carquickly leased. By acquiring the Sockret 7 property, Catena go flows and other developments in society or customers’ gained control of a larger area in Malmö, located centrally, requests to buy properties can result in logistics properties close to the harbour and central station and from where becoming better suited to other purposes. Property acquisition Transfer Space, Property Rental income/ Property designation date Region Municipality sq. m. value, SEK M year, SEK M Välingen 2 Jan 17, 2019 Stockholm Karlstad 3,430 20.4 2.1 Sockret 7 Apr 1, 2019 Malmö Malmö 2,707 9.2 0.3 Muttern 6 May 29, 2019 Gothenburg Kungälv 7,800 52.1 0.0 Total 13,937 81.7 2.4 Property sales Space, Property Profit, Property designation Vacated Region Municipality sq. m. value, SEK M SEK M Mörby 5:28 Nov 7, 2019 Stockholm Nykvarn 186 83.0 0.6 Total 186 83.0 0.6 Estimated Estimated Expended Letting ratio operating investment, by end of Remaining on balance CompEnvironmental surplus, SEK m SEK m 2019, SEK m inv., SEK m sheet date, % leted 2) certification 7.6 101 102 0 100 2019 Q1 7.9 115 108 0 100 2019 Q2 Miljöbyggnad Silver 12.3 179 179 0 100 2019 Q3 Miljöbyggnad Silver 6.7 101 102 0 100 2019 Q4 Miljöbyggnad Silver 7.7 107 97 10 100 2019 Q4 42.2 603 588 10 12.2 179 143 36 0 2020 Q2 Miljöbyggnad Silver 12.0 193 5 188 100 2020 Q4 Miljöbyggnad Silver 10.2 150 40 110 100 2020 Q4 Miljöbyggnad Silver 15.7 250 138 112 100 2020 Q3 Miljöbyggnad Silver 9.1 132 19 113 100 2020 Q3 Miljöbyggnad Silver 59.2 904 345 559 101.4 1,507 933 569 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 25 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL Potential projects It may be that a detailed development plan must gain On the balance sheet date, Catena’s total land reserves, legal force before the transaction takes place or that a including land allocations and options, represents a player seeking to establish operations at the site can be combined potential land bank of approximately 4.8 million presented. During 2019, Catena signed, for example, an square metres. The land reserve provides opportunities for agreement enabling the development of a future logistics development projects that can, in turn, generate future location in an excellent location near the E4 motorway net operating surpluses and project earnings. When proand the main rail line in Järna (in the Municipality of jects can be completed depends, among other things, on Södertälje), just south of Stockholm. This involved Catena the economic trend, the market situation and the detailed acquiring 50 percent of the company Södertuna utveckling development planning process, if this has not taken place. AB, a newly formed company in which the remaining 50 Part of the land reserves is wholly owned while others percent is held by Gerstaberg Gård AB. The purpose of the are co-owned. Detailed development planning has been jointly owned company is to advance the detailed develconducted for most land that Catena owns outright and opment planning process for the Södertälje Gerstaberg such land is therefore included in existing investment 1:7 property and, within the framework of this cooperaproperties. tion, Catena is entitled to acquire land from Södertuna Land allocations and options are commonplace and utveckling as detailed planning is completed. The objective provide an opportunity for allocated land to be activated is to establish building rights for all or part of the area. under certain conditions. The ongoing dialogues that CateCombined with Catena’s development plans for Logistics na conducts with municipalities are necessary for creating Position Stockholm Syd in the Municipality of Nykvarn, this future opportunities for development. Some agreements initiative, can make Catena a leading player adjacent to include an option component, usually associated with havStockholm’s southern approach routes. ing to meet predetermined conditions before an acquisition can be made and Catena can gain access. Plantehuset 3, Helsingborg. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL Larger potential projects Total land ParticipaDetailed development Area Municipality area, m2 tion plan status Owned/jointly owned (in selection) Logistics Position Järna Södertälje 1,000,000 50% Detailed development Read more on next two-page spread planning not complete Örebro Syd Örebro 920,000 34% Detailed development Read more on next two-page spread planning not complete Logistics Position Sunnanå Burlöv 110,000 100% Detailed development Read more on next two-page spread planning not complete Folkestaleden Eskilstuna 75,000 100% Detailed development plan Logistics Position Katrineholm Katrineholm 50,000 100% Detailed development plan Västerslätt Umeå 42,000 100% Detailed development plan Lodgatan, Malmö Hamn Malmö 40,000 100% Detailed development plan Mappen Linköping 40,000 100% Detailed development plan Option E-City Ängelholm 850,000 Detailed development Read more on next two-page spread planning not complete Stockholm Syd Nykvarn/ 450,000 Detailed development Read more on next two-page spread Södertälje planning not complete Logistics Position Tostarp Helsingborg 230,000 Detailed development Read more on next two-page spread planning not complete Land allocation agreements Landvetter Härryda 210,000 Detailed development planning not complete Torsvik Syd Jönköping 200,000 Partial detailed development plan Lockarp Malmö 40,000 Detailed development plan Arnö Nyköping 15,000 Detailed development plan ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 27 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL Prominent logistics hubs with development potential Catena is advancing the deSOLNA tailed development planning STOCKHOLM process having bought into a jointly owned company with the objective of establishing development rights for all or part of the site, which is situated in close proximHUDDINGE ity to the E4 motorway and the railway. The location is excellent, since the planned East E4/E20 Link railway corridor is also expected to free TUMBA SÖDERTÄLJE up freight capacity on the main rail line runNYKVARN ning right alongside the area. E4 VÄSTERHANINGE Developable land: Terms: 1,000,000 m2 New detailed development plan GNESTA The part-owned Örebro Syd is intelligently located at Sweden’s E18/E20 demographic centre-point, from where deliveries to all of ÖREBRO Scandinavia can be achieved efficiently within eight hours. The site forms an unbeatable logistics hub with valuable access to key transport routes and different modes of transport, including road, E18 rail and airfreight. Developable land: Terms: 920,000 m2 New detailed development plan Logistics Position Sunnanå has the best possible location, E22 with a direct exit from main road 11 and just a further 300 metres to the exit from the E6/ LUND E20 motorway. The Öresund region BJÄRRED E6 has a significant population base and Malmö forms part of Greater Copenhagen. Additional land for potential development is available LOMMA DALBY at the site, where Chefs Culinar, Svensk E22 Cater, DS Smith, Lekia, DHL Express and DHL Supply Chain already have operations. STAFFANSTORP MALMÖ Developable land: Terms: 110,000 m2 None Detailed development E20 planning in progress E6/E20/E22 OXIE 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL ÄNGELHOLM E6/E20 Catena’s ambition is to further develop the E-City Engelholm e-commerce cluster with sustainable solutions and intelligent synergies for future trade. The Position is situated in an excellent logistics location with nearby access to both the E6 and E4 motorways. There is additional land for potential development at the site and Boozt Fashion and DreamLogistics are already present at the site. E6/E20 E4 Developable land: Terms: 850,000 m2 Land acquisition permits New detailed developKATTARP ÅSTORP ment plan SOLNA Catena seeks to further develop STOCKHOLM the emerging logistics centre Stockholm Syd, only 30 minutes from Stockholm. The location alongside the E20 motorway and in close proximity to the E4 HUDDINGE motorway is a near-perfect location, optimal for managing product flows and enabling E4/E20 sustainable deliveries to Stockholm meeting TUMBA SÖDERTÄLJE the needs that emerge as trade and consumpNYKVARN tion patterns change. E4 VÄSTERHANINGE Developable land: Terms: 450,000 m2 New detailed GNESTA development plan KATTARP ÅSTORP At the Tostarp industrial area in Helsingborg, a modern logistics cluster is emerging in a premium location where the E4 E4 and E6 motorways divide. As part ÖDÅKRA of Greater Copenhagen and with a large population base, the Öresund region E6 E20 and Helsingborg are highly interesting for BJUV logistics purposes. Additional land for potential development is available at the site, where Nowaste Logistics, PostNord and Freja Transport & Logistics already have operations. MÖRARP ÖRESUND HELSINGBORG Developable land: Terms: 230,000 m2 Land acquisition permits PÅARP New detailed developE4 ment plan ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 29 OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL A value-driven organisation Catena works on the basis of shared values. The position as a leader in logistics properties is attributable largely to the capacity existing throughout the organisation. Extensive experience and specialist expertise in logistics, property development, property management and transactions generate value for customers but also enable short decision paths and freedom of action. BUSINESS AND PROPERTY Lettable area, thousand m2 PROJECT MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT Region Göteborg, 231.2 Region Gothenburg Region Stockholm, 764.8 Region Helsingborg Region Helsingborg, 391.7 CEO Region Jönköping Region Jönköping, 209.6 Region Malmö Region Treasury/Finance, HR, Malmö, 245.4 Communications, Sustainability Region Stockholm See also the regions’ development on pages 36-37 and the property list on fold-out. Catena is an efficient organisation with slightly more than The regions are also responsible for the development of 40 employees. It is therefore business critical that the Catena’s business regionally through contacts with the Company benefit fully from the experiences and skills that local business community and the local authorities. In this exist within the operations and that the business structure way, the regions can initiate transactions and developis optimal in relation to the Company’s objectives. ment. Catena’s organisation is divided into regions. There are The regional property management organisations are also Group-wide functions for Treasury/Finance and CSR, supported by central functions with specific skills in transwhich encompasses HR, Communications and Sustainactions, financing, sustainability, communications and HR. ability. Management bears the overall responsibility for The flexible and customer-oriented business structure business development, financial control and performance affords Catena considerable opportunities to manage its review. Treasury/Finance is responsible for the continuous growing portfolio and develop the operations over both reporting that is based on in international standards and the long and short term and has enabled the Company to the Group’s financing. The function is also responsible, significantly strengthen customer relations and increase together with the CEO, for the Group’s transactions and the number of customers. communications with the financial markets and society. Shared values Strong regions Catena’s growth rate and success depends largely on Property management is organised into regions according coordinated teams of employees who work together to to the geographical location of the properties: Gothenachieve established objectives. An important component burg, Helsingborg, Jönköping, Malmö and Stockholm. of the work is a shared body of values that all employees The Property Management function is responsible for can use as the starting point for major and minor deciservice and contact with the tenants to thereby identify sions. and resolve problems with also evaluating the possibilities Catena works actively with the Company’s values ​​and of developing both customer relationships and premises. regularly discusses what they mean in practice, both in the Catena engages internal managers, property technicians management team and in the organisation as a whole. and external property managers. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS BUSINESS MODEL Our approach Exceeding expectations Taking long-term responsibility Being committed We behave professionally in everyBoth our own work environWe work close to our customers thing we do, large or small, and ment and society as a whole are and one another and we are have the skills needed to meet affected by how we act and the passionate about what we do. At current and future needs. Based decisions we make. What we Catena, we believe in having fun on this, we always go a little furdeliver must be sustainable over at work and we do not fear this ther, daring to be innovative. time – ecologically, socially and joy being contagious – we are financially. happy to share! ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 31 OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS 2019 – continued positive development in all parts of the operations For Catena, 2019 was another strong year in which key performance indicators, such as rental income, net operating surplus and profit from property management improved. The positive trend is the result of active project development but also of efficient management and administration. Catena’s strong cash flow provides favourable opportunities for continued growth, both in new facilities, as well as in existing holdings. The property portfolio During 2019, to facilitate possible future projects, Catena On 31 December 2019, following transactions and propsigned, for example, an agreement enabling the developerty settlements, Catena’s property portfolio comprised ment of a future logistics location near the E4 motorway 109 logistics properties (107) located along important and the main rail line in Järna (in the Municipality of transport routes and population centres mainly in southSödertälje), just south of Stockholm. Combined with Catern and central Sweden. The total lettable area amounted ena’s development plans for Logistics Position Stockholm to 1,842,700 square metres (1,792,500). The total rental Syd in the Municipality of Nykvarn, this initiative, can make value amounted to SEK 1,264.8 million (1,216.1) and conCatena a leading player adjacent to Stockholm’s southern tractual annual rental income totalled SEK 1,202.0 million approach routes. The sites are 1,000,000 and 450,000 (1,166.7). Following active leasing efforts, the economic square metres in area respectively. letting ratio amounted to 95.0 percent (95.9). A new detailed development plan for the area east of the current Logistics Position Sunnanå was completed Project development for consultation and approval. The area covers 110,000 Catena has the stated ambition of growing through project square metres. Space for further construction remains on development and has a portfolio of possible development Catena’s land at the Tostarp Logistics Position and leasing projects with potential land reserves of 4.8 million square efforts are ongoing. metres, both on its own account and in jointly owned comAn option for 200,000 square metres of land in the panies. The project portfolio includes land allocations and Torsvik area was signed with the Municipality of Jönacquisition options for strategically located projects at difköping and a land allocation agreement for 210,000 ferent stages, ranging from rent negotiations to detailed square metres at Flygplatsmotet was signed with the planning, in all regions. Municipality of Härryda. The largest projects in progress in 2019 consisted Read more about Catena’s projects on pages 23–29. of the completion of logistics properties or commenceA complete list of properties is given on pages 38-39 + fold-out. ment of construction at Logistics Positions Sunnanå and Tostarp, the e-commerce cluster E-city Engelholm and in Income and rent Jönköping and Katrineholm (see Investments on pages Rental income for the year increased by 8 percent to SEK 24-25). 1,182.9 million (1,090.7), corresponding to SEK 651/m2 The property portfolio Average contract period Economic letting ratio Development of property portfolio per region, SEK M Year % SEK M 6 100 18,000 5 80 4 12,000 60 3 40 2 6,000 1 20 Gothenburg, 2,296.6 Helsingborg, 3,019.3 0 0 0 Jönköping, 1,266.3 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Malmö, 2,639.6 Property value, SEK M Stockholm, 7,048.7 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS (638). In comparable portfolios, rental income increased Client categories Catena’s ten largest shareholdby 2.3 percent compared with the preceding year. The reers as at 31 December 2019 maining increase in rental income derives from completed 1. DHL projects and the net effect of acquisitions and disposals. 2. ICA Fastigheter The letting ratio remained stable at 95.0 percent (95.9). 3. PostNord This is a result of strategically placed logistics facilities 4. Martin & Servera and focused leasing efforts. Income from contracts with 5. Nowaste Logistics terms of more than three years accounted for approxi6. Intervare mately 66 percent (67) of Catena’s contracted annual rent. 7. Boozt Fashion This entails stable income with no appreciable variation Logistics companies, 45% 8. Menigo Food Service between periods, except in connection with acquisitions Trading companies, 48% 9. Alwex Lager & Logistik and sales. The average remaining lease period is approxiIndustrial companies, 4% mately five years. Other 3% 10. Bring Letting and occupancy Net operating surplus and surplus ratio During the year, 64 tenants moved in with newly-signed The net operating surplus – rental income less property contracts for a total area of ​​127,000 square metres. The expenses and property administration, rose by 9 percent contract value for new tenancies was SEK 85.6 million over the year to SEK 902.8 million (827.6). This is primarily (58.2), while that for discontinued tenancies ended up at a result of the increased space, the stable letting ratio and SEK 62.7 million (18.5) for 57 terminated contracts with efficiency improvements, not least in the area of energy. a total area of ​​94,000 square metres. This entails a net Among other things, Catena has continued to invest in increase in new tenancies at a value of SEK 22.9 million energy-saving technology, more sustainable heating and (39.7). better lighting and ventilation systems. Property expenses rose by 6 percent to SEK 280.1 million (263.1), predomiLease structure nantly as a result of the larger property portfolio. In sumThe contract portfolio is long term and tenants consist mary, the surplus ratio increased from 75.9 to 76.3 perprimarily of large, credit-worthy and well-established locent. There are seasonal variations in the operation and gistics, industrial and commercial companies. This lessens maintenance of properties. Very cold winters with a lot the risk of customer losses driven by customers’ insolof snow or an unusually hot summer can entail increased vency. At 31 December 2019, Catena’s ten largest tenants expenses. accounted for 45.3 percent (43.9) of the Group’s contracThese variations are offset, to some extent, through tual rental income. The leases for these ten tenants expire onward invoicing of expenses to tenants. within one to 14 years. On the balance sheet date, the average remaining lease term remained stable, although it Profit from property management decreased slightly to 4.9 years (5.1). The table to the right Profit from property management, the carrying amount shows Catena’s largest customers. However, it is worth with reversals of changes in value and tax, increased noting that many of the companies are represented by a compared with the previous year by SEK 55.5 million, number of local decision-making units. or 10 percent, to SEK 626.8 million (571.3). The primary A table showing the maturity structure of the leases is reason for the improved profit from property management presented on page 77. is an increased operating surplus. Profit from property manageNew tenancies/vacanRental income and ment and cash flow before cies surplus ratio Net operating surplus change in working capital SEK M SEK M % SEK M SEK M 200 1,200 100 1,000 800 150 800 100 900 75 600 50 600 600 50 400 0 400 -50 200 300 25 200 -100 -150 0 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 In Rental income Profit from property Out Surplus ratio management Net Cash flow before changes in working capital ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 33 OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Profit from property management was also affected posiAcquisitions tively by a decrease in financial expenses over the year Over the year, Catena acquired the three properties Välfrom SEK 238.5 million to SEK 228.2 million. The financial ingen 2 in Karlstad, Sockret 7 in Malmö and Muttern 6 in expenses decreasing despite a larger loan portfolio is due Kungälv, in favourable logistics locations with potential to a lower average interest rate. for good cash flow, at a total value of SEK 82.1 million. Compared with 2018, Catena has lowered its average interest rate by 0.1 percentage points to 2.6 percent (2.7). Investments Ongoing investments have been made in new construcRead more about financing on pages 42–43. tion, remodelling and extensions at existing properties for SEK 752.6 million. At Logistics Position Sunnanå, outside Profit for the year Malmö, the first tenants have now moved into the 36,200 Profit for the year increased by 49 percent to SEK 1,223.8 square-metre multi-tenant warehouse and Chiefs Culinar million (823.4), which was SEK 400.4 million higher than has moved into its 7,800 square-metre distribution warefor the preceding year. The unrealised changes in the house. In Sunnanå, the remaining part of the multi-tenant value of properties were SEK 462.1 million higher than in warehouse, as well as a new approximately 10,200 the preceding year. Realised changes in values of propersquare-metre warehouse for DHL Express, are also now ties amounted to SEK 75.2 million and consisted predomibeing completed. nantly of the redemption of an option agreement regardAt the Plantehuset 3 property within the Tostarp ing land in the municipality of Staffanstorp, which affected Logistics Position in Helsingborg, construction has been earnings by SEK 58.7 million. The sale of the Högsbo 21:2 completed of a 11,000 square-metre logistics warehouse property in 2016 affected profit since, in connection with for Nowaste Logistics, including a high-bay section. At the disposal, a provision was made for rent guarantees the same time, construction of PostNord’s new 18,300 up to and including 31 August 2019. The portion of the square-metre terminal is in progress. Work to extend guarantee commitment not realised has been recognised Nowaste’s major, 30,400 square-metre warehouse by an as income. The unrealised change in the value of derivaadditional 18,000 square metres has also commenced. tives amounted to SEK 29.3 million on the balance sheet At the Tahe 1:64 property in Jönköping, adaptations date. This was attributable to market interest rates on and an extension have been completed for the tenant shorter-term maturities have risen more over the year Procurator, which has moved into the well-adapted than the rates on long-term maturities have fallen. The premises that now offer 35,000 square metres of space. unrealised changes in value are of an accounting nature In Ängelholm, the E-city Engelholm e-commerce cluster and do not affect cash flow. In 2018, the Riksdag (Swedish is growing. Catena is constructing a new, approximately Parliament) adopted new tax rules for the corporate sec22,800 square-metre building for Boozt Fashion adjator, entailing among other things, a reduction in corporate cent to its existing building. At the Katrineholm Logistics tax in two steps to 21.4 percent as of 2019 and to 20.6 Centre, a modern node in an excellent location, an appercent as of 2021. Most of the deferred tax for the year proximately 2,000 square-metre facility is being built for is expected to be realised no earlier than 2021 and has PostNord. therefore been reported at the lower tax rate. Read more about profit for the year on pages 76–77. Disposals During the year, the Mörby 5:28 property in Nykvarn was Development of property portfolio sold at a value of SEK 82.6 million. Catena’s real estate portfolio has gradually been developed with more modern logistics facilities and developUnrealised changes in value able land with an increased potential for further improveUnrealised changes in value of Catena’s properties have ment in profit from property management. arisen as a result of a lower yield requirement, coordination, well-executed projects and good property management and amounted to SEK 791.2 million in 2019. This corresponds to 5.1 percent of the value before adjustFair Number of SEK M amount properties ment. Property portfolio at Read more on property valuation on page 35. beginning of year 14,721.1 107 Acquisitions* 82.1 3 Related party transactions Investments in existing properties 752.6 Profit for the year includes minor related party transacSales -82.6 -1 tions with Hansan AB and companies owned by Board Translation difference 6.1 Members Ingela Bendrot and Katarina Wallin. Unrealised changes in value 791.2 Total investment properties 16,270.5 109 * Property value after deduction of deferred tax and with addition of transaction expenses. 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Catena’s property valuation Precision, clear guidelines and well-functioning procedures engender conditions for fair valuation of assets. A proven valuation model Like most listed property companies, Catena has opted to recognise its investment properties at fair value, in accordance with IAS 40. Catena performs quarterly internal valuations of all of its investment properties. The internal valuation is used to determine the fair values recognised in the balance sheet, The valuation is based on a six-year cash-flow model for each individual property. The model is based on actual income and expenses, adjusted for a normalised future earnings capacity in terms of both income and expenses. When assessing the future earnings capacity, factors taken into account include the expected changes in the rent level based on the current rent of the individual lease compared with the market rent for each date of maturity, and changes in letting ratio and property costs. The yield value has then been calculated in a cash-flow statement The operating surplus reflects how the market views the per property. corresponding properties’ income and expenses at the The yield value includes the value of the assessed time of valuation. A change of +/-1 percent in these future payment flows over the next five years and the parameters impacts the estimated fair value. present value of the assessed value of the property in five Other corrective parameters are the property’s developyears’ time. The yield value has then been adjusted for the ment potential in the form of, for example, development value of on-going projects and land with unutilised develrights. opment rights. Changes in value of investment properties Significant variables To verify the internal valuations, external valuations of a The parameters that significantly impact the value of a selection of the Company’s properties are also carried out. property are the discount rate and its development. AsDuring the year, Cushman & Wakefield valued approxisumptions including interest rates, debt/equity ratio, inflamately 59 percent of the portfolio, representing a value tion assumptions, yield requirements, property location, of SEK 9.6 billion. tenant structure, etc. are included in the discount rate. A certain discrepancy is permitted between the internal valuation and the fair value before the fair value is adjusted. The discrepancy should be within a range controlled by a permitted discrepancy from the established yield Impact requirement of +/-0.25 percent. Change +1% -1% Only when the deviation exceeds or falls short of Discount rate, SEK M -2,434 3,117 this range is the fair value adjusted. This discrepancy is Assumed annual rent development, accepted since there is always an element of uncertainty SEK M 759 -897 in the estimated value. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 35 OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Regional development Comments on 2019 Priorities in 2020 GOTHENBURG • A lease-extension agreement was signed with the region’s largest customer, ICA, and its offices and warehouses of a total 54,000 • Focus on the detailed development planning process for the site at Flygsquare metres. The agreement covers a five-year period and also platsmotet. includes investments in energy saving measures. • Focus on continued land acquisitions. • During the year, the 8,000 square-metre Muttern 6 property in • Continued work on renegotiation of Kungälv was acquired, with a ten-year agreement being signed leases. with Ekoligens. • Continued focus on energy projects • A 15-year agreement was signed with LEO’s Lekland for the 4,300 involving renewable energy (photosquare-metre Klarinetten 1 property. voltaic cells/geothermal heat). Contacts • A land allocation agreement for 210,000 square metres at FlygJohan Franzén, platsmotet was signed with the Municipality of Härryda during Regional Manager Gothenburg the year. johan.franzen@catenafastigheter.se HELSINGBORG • The conversion from natural gas to district heating was completed at the Vångagärdet 20 property. • Continued efforts to gain ownership of land with detailed development • Construction commenced of a new 18,300 square-metre terminal planning. building for PostNord at Tostarp in Helsingborg, the first property • Completion of PostNord’s terminal, the certified in accordance with Miljöbyggnad Silver. extension of Nowaste’s warehouse in • Construction commenced of a new 22,800 square-metre wareHelsingborg and of Boozt’s warehouse house for Boozt. in Ängelholm. • Construction of an 18,000 square-metre warehouses for Nowaste was started. Contacts • A decision was taken to start work on a new detailed development Göran Jönsson, plan for the Hästhagen area in Helsingborg. Regional Manager, Helsingborg goran.jonsson@catenafastigheter.se JÖNKÖPING • During the year, a three-year agreement was signed with DHL regarding its 34,000 square-metre warehouse at Torsvik in • Commence a new construction project or major extension during the year. Jönköping. Also at Torsvik, a remodelling and extension project • Increase the surplus ratio through active for Procurator was completed. Procurator now leases a total efforts to fill vacancies and investments 35,000 square metres. in energy efficiency improvements. • At the 6,700 square-metre Postiljonen 1 property in Växjö, a • Continued efforts to increase the land three-party solution was secured with PostNord and Alvestaglass, reserve. with Alvestaglass signing a 15-year agreement. • An option on 100,000 square metres of land in the Torsvik area Contacts was specified with the Municipality of Jönköping. A detailed Johan Franzén, development plan is in place and Catena can gain access to the Regional Manager Jönköping land in 2021. johan.franzen@catenafastigheter.se MALMÖ • Logistics Position Sunnanå in Malmö continued to be developed. Chefs Culinar’s facility was ready by Easter and the first stage • Access to three new logistics facilities in Denmark with PostNord as the tenant. of the multi-tenant warehouse was ready by the summer, with • Continued work for the detailed developDS Smith, DHL Supply Chain and Lekia as tenants. Construction ment plan for the area east of Sunnanå commenced of a 10,200 square-metre air cargo facility for DHL to gain legal force, with accompanying Express, with the tenant scheduled to move in 2020. marketing. • A new detailed development plan for the area east of the current • Completion of DHL’s air cargo wareLogistics Position Sunnanå was completed for consultation and house and the second part of the multiapproval. The area covers 110,000 square metres. tenant guest warehouse in Sunnanå. Contacts • Expand Mathem’s space in Arlöv. Jörgen Eriksson, Regional Manager Malmö jorgen.eriksson@catenafastigheter.se • The planning processes for current land holdings in Örebro, StockSTOCKHOLM holm Syd and Järna progressed according to plan. • Continued focus on planning for our regional land holdings, with the aspira• In older logistics properties, measures to improve energy efficiency tion of commencing construction in late continued, photovoltaic cells were brought into operation at a new 2020. cooling terminal in Linköping. • Refinement of the property portfolio, • In 2019, an agreement was signed for a hub terminal for Postfocusing on our logistics positions. Nord in Katrineholm with the tenant scheduled to move in during • Facilitate the commencement of conJune 2020. struction of a multi-terminal on propri• A decision was made to expand the warehouse and logistics etary land in Umeå. Contacts space for the third-party logistics company Speed Logistics in Maths Carreman, Rosersberg by 7,500 square metres to 30,000 square metres. Regional Manager Stockholm • Strategic leasing of about 20,000 square metres in our two older maths.carreman@catenafastigheter.se logistics buildings in Linköping. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Rental income Property value Net operating surplus Letting ratio Key share data SEK M SEK M % 2019 2018 Change, % 210 2,500 100 Surplus ratio, % 84.4 87.2 -3.2 175 2,000 80 Contractual annual rent, SEK M 164.1 170.4 -3.7 140 Rental value, SEK M 173.2 172.0 0.7 1,500 60 105 Profit from property management, SEK M 113.2 107.11) 5.7 1,000 40 Lettable area, thousand m2 231.2 223.2 3.6 70 No. of properties 15 14 7.1 35 500 20 No. of contracts 46 46 0.0 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 SEK M SEK M % 2019 2018 Change, % 210 3,500 100 Surplus ratio, % 73.9 70.2 5.3 175 2,800 80 Contractual annual rent, SEK M 217.0 201.3 7.8 140 Rental value, SEK M 228.0 214.6 6.2 2,100 60 105 Profit from property management, SEK M 113.0 83.51) 35.3 1,400 40 Lettable area, thousand m2 391.7 382.4 2.4 70 700 20 No. of properties 23 23 0.0 35 No. of contracts 128 128 0.0 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 SEK M SEK M % 100 1,500 100 2019 2018 Change, % Surplus ratio, % 62.9 67.4 -6.7 80 1,200 80 Contractual annual rent, SEK M 109.4 106.4 2.8 60 900 60 Rental value, SEK M 117.4 117.1 0.3 Profit from property management, SEK M 43.8 43.51) 0.7 40 600 40 Lettable area, thousand m2 209.6 209.6 0.0 20 300 20 No. of properties 12 12 0.0 No. of contracts 66 50 32.0 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 SEK M SEK M % 2019 2018 Change, % 200 3,000 100 Surplus ratio, % 66.5 65.2 2.0 160 2,400 80 Contractual annual rent, SEK M 198.4 175.1 13.3 120 1,800 60 Rental value, SEK M 204.2 179.3 13.9 Profit from property management, SEK M 85.1 73.41) 15.9 80 1,200 40 Lettable area, thousand m2 245.4 219.3 11.9 No. of properties 17 16 6.3 40 600 20 No. of contracts 60 55 9.1 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 SEK M SEK M % 600 7,500 100 2019 2018 Change, % Surplus ratio, % 80.7 79.5 1.5 480 6,000 80 Contractual annual rent, SEK M 513.1 513.5 -0.1 360 4,500 60 Rental value, SEK M 542.0 533.1 1.7 Profit from property management, SEK M 310.2 289.41) 7.2 240 3,000 40 Lettable area, thousand m2 764.8 758.0 0.9 120 1,500 20 No. of properties 42 42 0.0 No. of contracts 140 144 -2.8 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 1) For 2019, Catena has implemented a change in the capitalisation and adjustment of intra-Group interest rate terms. The segment’s comparative figures for 2018 have been adjusted to reflect these changed conditions. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 37 Norra Varalöv 31:11, Ängelholm. List of properties by region Type, square metres ContracTaxable Rental tual Logistics Valuevalue, value, rent, wareDistriProperty Postal address Address year SEK T SEK T SEK T house bution Terminal Other Total Gothenburg 1 Vindtunneln 1 Borås Vevgatan 18 2002 74,901 10,884 10,884 16,897 0 0 0 16,897 2 Backa 97:10 Hisings backa Exportgatan 43 1979 57,901 10,084 10,084 13,983 0 0 0 13,983 3 Varla 6:15 Kungsbacka Kabelgatan 5 1980 88,611 15,638 14,197 25,006 0 0 0 25,006 4 Vindtunneln 2 Borås Segloravägen 6 2006 80,200 8,219 8,219 16,391 0 0 0 16,391 5 Källbäcksryd 1:408 Brämhult Tvinnargatan 17 1990 5,111 571 571 0 1,247 0 0 1,247 6 Björröd 1:205 Landvetter Västra Björröds2018 26,927 6,266 6,266 0 3,380 0 0 3,380 vägen 4 7 Backa 23:2 Hisings Backa Exportgatan 20 A 2006 33,600 5,457 5,457 0 3,984 0 0 3,984 8 Generatorn 11 Mölndal Aminogatan 32 C 2006 13,545 2,871 2,871 0 1,995 0 0 1,995 9 Klarinetten 1 Mölndal Arnegårdsgatan 12 2007 25,800 4,584 0 0 3,667 0 0 3,667 10 Muttern 6 Kungälv Bilgatan 25 2010 49,870 4,800 4,800 8,000 0 0 0 8,000 11 Backa 23:5 Hisings Backa Exportgatan 14-16 2013 49,263 17,559 17,559 7,670 7,659 0 0 15,329 12 Fördelaren 1 Kungälv Truckgatan 15 1979 264,733 33,224 33,224 0 54,000 0 0 54,000 13 Bulten 1 Kungälv Bultgatan 27 1997 90,344 17,265 16,852 23,090 0 0 0 23,090 14 Solsten 1:102 Mölnlycke Fibervägen 2-8 1987 118,298 33,091 33,091 42,437 0 0 0 42,437 15 Backa 23:9 Hisings Backa Exportgatan 20 2009 16,683 2,697 21 1,824 0 0 0 1,824 Total Gothenburg Region 995,787 173,209 164,095 155,298 75,932 0 0 231,230 Helsingborg 16 Plantehuset 3 Helsingborg Mineralgatan 15, 17 2018 99,123 26,459 26,459 0 41,460 0 0 41,460 17 Remmen 1 Åstorp Ji-Te gatan 9/ 1985 14,346 3,737 3,063 0 6,782 0 0 6,782 Persbogatan 1-3 18 Lejonet 6 Åstorp Bangatan 7 1973 3,068 958 958 0 1,785 0 0 1,785 19 Lejonet 7 Åstorp Bangatan 9 A 1995 9,566 1,877 1,877 0 3,624 0 0 3,624 20 Köpingegården 1 Helsingborg Trintegatan 10, 13, 15 2004 122,991 26,229 26,229 14,403 0 24,522 0 38,925 21 Kopparverket 11 Helsingborg Stormgatan 11 2007 114,400 7,298 7,298 26,600 0 0 0 26,600 22 Plantehuset 2 Helsingborg Mineralgatan 11 2011 13,607 4,155 4,155 4,694 0 0 0 4,694 23 Hästhagen 4 Helsingborg Landskronav. 5, 7 / 2005 106,301 28,080 24,392 50,823 0 0 0 50,823 Rännarbanan 30 24 Förmannen 4 Ängelholm Transportgatan 13 1993 63,871 12,125 12,125 22,241 0 0 0 22,241 25 Misteln 1 Åhus Täppetleden 1 2011 9,332 1,521 1,521 1,900 0 0 0 1,900 26 Rebbelberga 26:37 Ängelholm Framtidsgatan 3 2007 60,936 9,117 9,117 15,960 0 0 0 15,960 27 Norra Varalöv 31:11 Ängelholm Produktionsvägen 10 2017 151,402 37,771 37,771 43,927 14,545 0 0 58,472 m.fl. 28 Kärra 1:23 Ängelholm Helsingborgsvägen 1929 1,296 168 168 0 0 0 200 200 528 29 Norra Varalöv 31:5 Ängelholm Produktionsvägen 11 2011 7,908 1,875 1,875 4,056 0 0 0 4,056 30 Rebbelberga 26:38 Ängelholm Framtidsgatan 5 1998 3,873 754 754 849 0 0 0 849 31 Vångagärdet 20 Helsingborg Landskronavägen 23, 1974 94,954 23,091 17,314 25,690 0 0 0 25,690 25 A and B 32 Arnulf Öfverland 1 Kristianstad Estrids väg 2 1997 6,288 989 989 0 2,236 0 0 2,236 33 Konen 5 Halmstad Kristinehedsvägen 16 2011 5,082 1,102 1,102 0 727 0 0 727 34 Hammaren 1 Klippan Stackarpsvägen 8 1977 23,357 5,613 4,870 18,456 0 0 0 18,456 35 Hammaren 2 Klippan Stackarpsvägen 10 2002 68,550 18,252 18,252 32,550 0 0 0 32,550 36 Bunkagården Helsingborg Bunkagårdsgatan 5 Spec. 0 12,770 12,770 0 28,250 0 0 28,250 Mellersta 2 37 Fräsaren 12 Halmstad Fräsaregatan 6 Spec. 0 4,001 4,001 0 0 5,435 0 5,435 38 Bunkagården Helsingborg Bunkagårdsgatan 1 Land 14,964 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Mellersta 1 Total, Helsingborg Region 995,215 227,940 217,059 262,149 99,409 29,957 200 391,715 OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Type, square metres ContracTaxable Rental tual Logistics Valuevalue, value, rent, wareDistriProperty Postal address Address year SEK T SEK T SEK T house bution Terminal Other Total Jönköping 39 Barnarps-Kråkebo 1:44 Jönköping Möbelvägen 39 1991 115,446 14,405 14,405 34,126 0 0 0 34,126 40 Lagret 1 Nässjö Terminalgatan 6 2004 66,224 20,957 20,957 0 0 24,404 0 24,404 41 Lagret 4 Nässjö Terminalgatan 6 2016 44,595 5,490 5,490 9,252 0 0 0 9,252 42 Tahe 1:64 Taberg Målövägen 2 1980 97,854 11,798 7,884 29,209 0 0 0 29,209 43 Barnarps-Kråkebo 1:56 Jönköping Stolsvägen 2 2001 22,156 2,870 2,870 4,030 0 0 0 4,030 44 Postiljonen 1 Växjö Nylandavägen 2 Spec. 0 6,003 6,003 0 0 6,702 0 6,702 45 Däcket 1 Oskarshamn Lövgrensvägen 4 Spec. 0 1,367 1,367 0 0 2,908 0 2,908 46 Älghunden 3 Jönköping Muttervägen 3 1983 17,047 1,819 1,819 0 3,738 0 0 3,738 47 Ättehögen 2 Jönköping Herkulesvägen 56 1987 37,600 5,862 5,800 8,709 0 0 0 8,709 48 Fröträdet 1 Växjö Högsbyvägen 3 1990 158,751 36,039 32,026 0 68,580 0 0 68,580 49 Rockan 2 Värnamo Torpvägen 2 Spec. 0 5,361 5,361 0 0 9,729 0 9,729 50 Smeden 1 Växjö Ljungadalsgatan 10 Spec. 0 5,417 5,417 0 0 8,210 0 8,210 Total, Jönköping Region 559,673 117,387 109,399 85,326 72,318 51,953 0 209,597 Malmö 51 Sunnanå 12:51 Arlöv Flansbjersvägen Spec. 0 19,316 19,316 0 0 16,940 0 16,940 10 and 12 52 Sunnanå 12:52 Arlöv Flansbjersvägen 2018 108,000 30,078 30,078 8,362 25,923 0 0 34,285 13-18 53 Sunnanå 1:20 & 1:21 Arlöv Tullstorpsvägen 110 Land 7,999 1,202 1,202 0 0 0 0 0 54 Sockret 4 Malmö Lodgatan 9-13/ 1979 45,542 4,023 3,361 14,796 0 0 0 14,796 Tånggatan 4 55 Tågarp 16:22 Arlöv Företagsvägen 14 1974 31,400 7,003 6,971 9,849 0 0 0 9,849 56 Sunnanå 5:16 Arlöv Land 1,581 47 47 0 0 0 0 0 57 Morup 5 Malmö Kosterögatan 12-14 Spec. 0 18,408 15,888 0 24,931 0 0 24,931 58 Sockret 7 Malmö Tånggatan 2 A and B Land 5,316 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 59 Bronsringen 1 & 3 Oxie Bronsgjutaregatan 4 2008 54,000 8,576 8,576 0 5,510 0 0 5,510 60 Terminalen 1 Trelleborg Terminalsgatan 2 1971 57,400 11,301 10,952 24,292 0 0 0 24,292 61 Tågarp 16:17 Arlöv Lagervägen 4 1978 159,946 40,161 38,174 0 47,682 0 0 47,682 62 Kornmarksvej 1 Bröndby Kornmarksvej 1 0 47,786 47,786 0 47,121 0 0 47,121 63 Slätthög 6 Malmö Olsgårdsgatan 8 B 2014 25,317 2,853 2,853 3,158 0 0 0 3,158 64 Tankbilen 9 Trelleborg Godsvägen 9 2008 35,821 5,579 5,579 8,700 0 0 0 8,700 65 Olsgård 4 Malmö Olsgårdsgatan 11 2018 15,895 1,863 1,863 1,526 0 0 0 1,526 66 Slätthög 4 Malmö Olsgårdsgatan 8 A 2015 20,602 2,287 2,287 2,123 0 0 0 2,123 67 Slätthög 1 Malmö Olsgårdsgatan 6 2015 36,967 3,754 3,429 4,486 0 0 0 4,486 Total, Malmö Region 605,786 204,236 198,361 77,292 151,167 16,940 0 245,399 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Type, square metres ContracTaxable Rental tual Logistics Valuevalue, value, rent, wareDistriProperty Postal address Address year SEK T SEK T SEK T house bution Terminal Other Total Stockholm 68 Tuvängen 1 Södertälje Morabergsvägen 25 2000 21,128 2,495 2,495 0 2,640 0 0 2,640 69 Dikartorp 3:12 Järfälla Passadvägen 8, 10 2002 185,173 23,418 23,418 29,465 0 0 0 29,465 70 Nattskiftet 11 Stockholm Elektrav. 11-23/ 1996 20,000 37,255 34,352 0 25,617 0 0 25,617 Drivhjulsv. 42 71 Slottshagen 2:1 Norrköping Kommendantvägen 5 Spec. 0 10,301 8,748 0 0 15,126 0 15,126 72 Vanda 1 Kista Vandagatan 3 1990 177,178 23,118 22,626 23,240 0 0 0 23,240 73 Sothönan 3 Katrineholm Industrigatan 7, 1986 22,850 12,363 11,278 10,000 0 14,755 0 24,755 Terminalgatan 3 74 Terminalen 1 Hallsberg Hallsbergsterminalen Spec. 0 12,531 12,531 0 0 25,850 0 25,850 12-20 75 Jordbromalm 4:33 Haninge Lillsjövägen 19 2005 165,776 18,703 18,703 23,547 0 0 0 23,547 76 Skogskojan 1 Östersund Grindvägen 3 Spec. 0 4,012 4,012 0 0 3,466 0 3,466 77 Drivremmen 1 Hägersten Drivhjulsv. 17/ Spec. 0 26,453 26,453 0 0 33,123 0 33,123 Västberga Allé 41 78 Ekeby 2: 2 Eskilstuna Folkestaleden 3 1976 3,709 3,551 3,551 0 0 7,976 0 7,976 79 Batteriet 7 & 8 Umeå Spårvägen 26 A and B Spec. 0 1,915 1,915 0 0 4,376 0 4,376 80 Målås 4:4 Sundsvall Förmanslänken 9 A Spec. 0 3,742 3,742 0 0 8,120 0 8,120 81 Östanvinden 5 Karlstad Östanvindsgatan 4 1983 3,155 764 764 0 1,330 0 0 1,330 82 Basfiolen 7 Norrköping Moa Martinsons gata 1983 4,957 555 555 0 1,318 0 0 1,318 10 A 83 Vasslan 1 Årsta Sockengränd 2 1986 51,635 6,494 6,494 0 5,431 0 0 5,431 84 Värdshuset 3 Sundsvall Värdshusvägen 5 1985 3,677 804 804 0 1,512 0 0 1,512 85 Sörby Urfjäll 38:2 Gävle Elektrikergatan 4 1990 5,496 807 807 0 1,427 0 0 1,427 86 Källstalöt 1:6 & 1:7 Eskilstuna Brunnsta 19 1975 81,070 18,320 18,320 32,200 0 0 0 32,200 87 Stenvreten 8:33 Enköping Varggatan 17 2010 49,000 15,734 15,734 0 10,873 0 0 10,873 88 Rosersberg 11:81 Rosersberg Metallvägen 31 2006 172,400 15,782 15,782 0 22,605 0 0 22,605 89 Rosersberg 11:116 Rosersberg Metallvägen 60 2013 104,200 9,850 9,850 10,171 0 0 0 10,171 90 Statorn 31 Norrköping Malmgatan 14 1972 59,600 6,855 6,327 0 15,708 0 0 15,708 91 Törsjö 2:49 Örebro Paketvägen 1, 3 2004 207,768 31,537 31,537 55,255 0 0 0 55,255 92 Mosås 4:66 Örebro Paketvägen 10 Spec. 0 7,498 7,498 0 0 8,885 0 8,885 93 Mosås 4:57 Örebro Paketvägen 6 1970 39,517 4,437 4,407 12,089 0 0 0 12,089 94 Godsvagnen 6 Örebro Terminalgatan 2 1992 83,784 9,376 9,376 19,600 0 0 0 19,600 95 Magneten 6 Umeå Kontaktvägen 20 Land 23,000 338 338 0 0 0 0 0 96 Snesholm 1:16 Morgongåva Molnebov. 10/ 2018 81,000 18,916 18,916 0 38,000 0 0 38,000 Tjusarev. 40 97 Lagret 1 Umeå Depåvägen 1 1991 126,902 15,379 15,379 0 24,892 0 0 24,892 98 Välingen 2 Karlstad Välsviksleden 218 2009 12,374 1,827 808 3,430 0 0 0 3,430 99 Sköns Prästbord 2:4 Sundsvall Timmervägen 4 1973 29,657 19,088 14,942 0 24,600 0 0 24,600 100 Mätaren 6 Umeå Mätarvägen 3 1977 88,328 15,096 12,334 24,484 0 0 0 24,484 101 Planeraren 2 Borlänge Planerargatan 3 1979 76,300 25,714 25,714 0 32,758 0 0 32,758 102 Bleket 2 Karlstad Brisgatan 4/ 1973 37,795 13,381 5,476 0 22,605 0 0 22,605 Lovartsgatan 6 103 Frukthallen 3 Årsta Frukthandlarvägen 1968 119,400 22,000 19,756 0 21,696 0 504 22,200 3-9 104 Mappen 3 Linköping Köpetorpsgatan 8 1977 93,200 18,921 15,340 0 28,500 0 0 28,500 105 Jordbromalm 4:41 Jordbro Lillsjövägen 52 Spec. 0 22,630 22,630 0 32,898 0 0 32,898 106 Slammertorp 3:3 Järfälla Mejerivägen 5 2000 134,000 16,230 16,230 0 17,545 0 0 17,545 107 Korsberga 1 Västerås Saltängsvägen 50 2011 56,636 8,036 8,036 0 10,100 0 0 10,100 108 Adaptern 1 Norrköping Blygatan 25 1975 105,800 17,299 17,299 0 28,429 0 0 28,429 109 Mappen 4 Linköping Köpetorpsgatan 6, 10 1979 76,496 18,522 17,810 22,388 6,225 0 0 28,613 Total, Stockholm Region 2,522,961 542,047 513,088 265,869 376,709 121,677 504 764,759 TOTAL 5,679,422 1,264,819 1,202,001 845,934 775,535 220,527 704 1,842,700 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 39 79 97 100 76 80 99 84 85 101 87 89 88 96 107 69 105 98 70 103 102 81 86 78 83 77 93 72 75 91 92 68 94 106 74 73 73 71 82 90 109 108 109 104 14 10 12 11 11 13 1 7 2 43 42 4 5 15 6 47 39 46 9 8 3 E39 49 45 48 50 40 41 44 E45 37 33 24 26 27 30 36 23 29 31 27 22 21 20 34 35 European highways 20 16 17 18 19 32 Main rail routes 25 Logistics 62 52 52 51 61 Distribution E20 57 54 55 63 67 Terminal 64 60 59 65 66 E47 OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS Important events Ahead of the Annual General Meeting on 25 On 11 July, Catena signed a ten-year lease, April 2019, the Nomination Committee with an annual rent of approximately SEK submitted a proposal regarding the com10.5 million, with DHL Express and is investposition of the Board of Directors. The ing SEK 150 million at Logistics Position SunNomination Committee proposed that Henry nanå, just outside Malmö. The new building Klotz, Katarina Wallin, Tomas Andersson, Ingela Bendrot will be an air freight warehouse of approximately and Hélène Briggert be re-elected as Board Members 10,200 square metres, Catena’s fifth building at the site. and that Gustaf Hermelin be re-elected as the Chairman Tenants are scheduled to move in during the autumn of the Board. It was also proposed that Magnus Swärdh of 2020. The new building will be adjacent to the DHL be newly elected as Board Member, since Bo Forsén had terminal that was the first facility established by Catena in declined re-election. The Annual General Meeting adopted the area, since which facilities in the area have also been the Nomination Committee’s proposal. leased to Chefs Culinar, Svensk Cater, DS Smith and Lekia. On 26 February 2019, Catena signed a 15-year lease In early September, Catena was released from an option with PostNord and commenced the new construction of agreement signed with the Kilenkrysset entitling Catena a 18,300 square-metre terminal for handling of piece to acquire logistics land in the municipality of Staffans goods, pack­ages and letters, at Logistics Position Tostarp torp. Kilenkrysset, which had intended to sell the land to located where the E4 and E6 motorways meet outside another player, repurchased the option agreement for a Helsingborg. The investment amounts to SEK 250 million remuneration of SEK 59 million, which, following deducand the rental value amounts to slightly more than SEK 16 tion of transaction costs, is reported as a realised change million. PostNord is expected to move into the new premin value in the third quarter financial statements. ises in summer 2020. On 20 September, Catena signed a lease with Boozt FashAt the end of January, it was decided that Catena would be ion and invested SEK 193 million in an additional building a new arena sponsor for Rögle BK’s home arena, which as at E-City Engelholm. The new building of approximately of 1 May will change name to Catena Arena. The agree22,800 square metres will be erected adjacent to Boozt’s ment extends for two years. existing facility. The contract has a duration of 11 years and 4 months, with an estimated operating surplus of At the beginning of April, Catena signed a slightly more than SEK 12 million. The new building will be lease with Post­Nord and commenced conenvironmentally certified in accordance with the Sweden struction of a logistics facility of some 2,000 Green Building Council’s Miljöbyggnad Silver certification, square metres, including offices, parking with strict requirements regarding energy, indoor environand marshalling areas. Construction will take ment and choice of materials and will also be equipped place at Catena’s Sothönan 3 property, adjacent with a photovoltaic cell facility with an output of 255 kWp. to the Katrineholm logistics centre, a modern node and an The tenant is scheduled to move in during the autumn of excellent location for cargo flows where goods transport2020. ed by rail and truck can be handled efficiently. The lease extends over ten years. On 2 October, Catena signed a lease with Nowaste Logistics and is investing SEK 132 At the end of May, Catena acquired the Muttern 6 propmillion in a 18,000 square-metre extension. erty in Kungälv at a value of SEK 52 million. The property The extension will be constructed adjacent to comprises a 7,800 square-metre logistics building. The third-party logistics company Nowaste’s first property was acquired vacant but is now fully let. facility at Logistics Position Tostarp, which was completed in the autumn of 2018. The extension is the In June, Catena signed an agreement with third-party third stage in Nowaste’s expansion at the site alongside logistics company Speed Logistics and invested a total of the E6 and E4 motorways outside Helsingborg – with a SEK 65 million in the Rosersberg 11:81 property north of 30,400 square-metre logistics building previously having Stockholm, which is being expanded by 7,500 square mebeen erected in 2018, as well as an 11,000 square-metre tres. Following the investment, which also includes modhigh-bay warehouse that was completed in November, ernising the existing premises, the property will be slightly both of which bear Green Building environmental certifimore than 30,000 square metres in size. The extension is cation. The extension project, which is also being envischeduled for completion in the spring of 2020. ronmentally certified, also includes the redevelopment of approximately 1,500 square metres of existing premises. Through the project, Nowaste plans to add additional capacity for warehousing and logistics, as well as for outlet sales and a photo studio. The length of the contract is five years with an estimated net operating surplus of slightly more than SEK 9 million. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS PROPERTY OPERATIONS In mid-October, Catena sold the Mörby 5:28 property in of ​​12,700 square metres. Development rights for about the municipality of Nykvarn. Tenant Söderenergi acquired 20,000 square metres are also associated with the properthe plot of approximately 95,400 square metres on which ties, offering opportunities for future expansion. PostNord a smaller building of 186 square metres is also located. is signing a ten-year lease in connection with the transacSöderenergi’s lease agreement included the possibility tion and the estimated net operating surplus for the propof acquiring the land in question. The divestment was erties amounts to approximately SEK 12.7 million. The conducted as a corporate disposal at an underlying value acquired properties are modern, space-efficient, terminalof approximately SEK 83 million with control being transstyle distribution hubs, strategically located near access ferred in the fourth quarter of 2019. roads to urban areas, making them suitable for handling last-mile deliveries. Catena took possession of the properIn October, the Nomination Committee ahead of Catena’s ties in Hilleröd and Horsens on 31 January. The building in Annual General Meeting 2020 was appointed. The NomiOdense is under construction, with Catena being schednation Committee consists of: Anders Nelson, appointed uled to take possession on 1 September 2020. by Backahill Kil AB, Johannes Wingborg appointed by Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning AB, Jan Persson apCatena and Coop Logistik have agreed to continue discuspointed by Kilen 134 Strängnäs AB, and Gustaf Hermelin, sions with the intention of Catena acquiring a property Chairman of the Board and appointed by SFU Sverige AB. and constructing an approximately 105,000 square-metre automated warehouse in the Municipality of Eskilstuna. On 31 October, Catena appointed Sofie Bennsten as DepFor Catena, this statement of intent entails acquiring uty CEO and CFO. Sofie will succeed the current Deputy part of the Aspestahult 1:1 property in Eskilstuna Logistik CEO and CFO, Peter Andersson, who has expressed his Park, and constructing and automating the new facility. desire to reduce his current involvement following many Catena’s total investment is estimated at between SEK 3.7 successful years in this position. Peter will continue to be billion and SEK 3.9 billion. If the planned schedule holds, involved in Catena in a new role as Treasurer. In connecthe facility is expected to be brought into operation in tion with this change, Jörgen Eriksson, Regional Manager 2023. The process will continue with negotiations on the Malmö, was also appointed Deputy CEO of the Company. final terms of the collaboration. The parties involved with All of these management changes will be implemented at disclose further information in connection with the signing the end of April 2020. of a binding agreement. For a purchase consideration of SEK 50 million, in NovemJohan Franzén will be stepping down effective 1 April ber Catena acquired 50 percent of the company Södertuna 2020 and will continue in his current role as Regional utveckling AB, a newly formed company in which the Manager for Gothenburg and Jönköping during his period remaining 50 percent is held by Gerstaberg Gård AB. The of notice. The process of recruiting a successor has been purpose is to develop 1,000,000 square metres of land in initiated. Järna (in the Municipality of Södertälje) for logistics purposes. The new company owns the Södertälje Gerstaberg On 14 February, Catena signed an agreement to acquire 1:7 property, situated in an excellent logistics location the Magasinet 3 property, with a plot area of slightly closely adjacent to the E4 motorway and the railway in more than 66,100 square metres. The property is situated the Municipality of Södertälje. Through the jointly-owned adjacent to the 1,000,000 square-metre Gerstaberg 1:7 company, Catena seeks to advance the detailed planning site that Catena intends to develop through its partnerprocess for the land concerned. Within the framework ship holding in the company Södertuna utveckling AB. The of the collaboration, Catena has preferential rights to property now being acquired encompasses building rights purchase land from Södertuna utveckling as detailed planof approximately 10,000 square metres and a lettable ning is completed. The objective is to establish building area with tenants of approximately 21,000 square metres. rights for all or part of the area. Combined with Catena’s The combined rental value amounts to approximately SEK development plans for Stockholm Syd in the Municipal12 million. The acquisition is being conducted as a corpoity of Nykvarn, this initiative, can make Catena a leading rate transaction at a value of SEK 130 million. The site is player in locations near the southern approach routes to being sold by Folkpolarna AB. Stockholm. The Nomination Committee has submitted a proposal Significant events after the end of the year regarding the composition of the Board of Directors to the On 9 January, Catena acquired three properties in Hilleröd, Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 April 2020. It is Horsens and Odense, in Denmark, from PostNord, which proposed that Magnus Swärdh, Katarina Wallin, Tomas is also a tenant in the relevant properties. The acquisiAndersson and Hélène Briggert be re-elected and that tions were conducted as a corporate transaction at a total Gustaf Hermelin be re-elected as the Chairman of the underlying property value of SEK 235 million following Board. In addition, the new election of Vesna Jovic and the deduction of deferred taxes. The properties are situCaesar Åfors is proposed, as Henry Klotz and Ingela ated on plots with a combined area of approximately Bendrot have declined re-election. 61,000 square metres and have a combined lettable area ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 41 OPERATIONS FUNDING Financing in focus Developing, owning and managing logistics properties requires good access to capital. The combination of well-diversified financing with an attractive property portfolio generating strong cash flow makes room for continued controlled growth under favourable conditions. Catena’s portfolio, which focuses on strategically located At the end of the year, Catena had assets amounting to logistics properties is characterised by long-term cusSEK 17,770 million (15,906), of which property values tomer relationships and stable cash flows. The portfolio accounted for SEK 16,271 million (14,721), with these is distributed between more than 300 customers, several being financed in part with equity of SEK 6,318 million of which are among Sweden’s most well-known brands in (5,309) and in part with liabilities amounting to SEK their respective industries. This creates security for both 11,452 million (10,597). The equity ratio corresponded shareholders and credit providers and ensures that the to 35.6 percent (33.4) on the balance sheet date. Company is able to continue financing its operations on Read more about the balance sheet on page 79. favourable terms, now and in the future. Interest-bearing liabilities and structure Catena’s financial strategy serves to ensure that the In 2019, Catena negotiated new credit agreements and Group can, at any given time, secure capital and liquidity renegotiated existing ones totalling SEK 2,688 million at the lowest possible cost and that payment systems are (1,683). In total, the Group’s net borrowing rose by SEK appropriate. The strategy is adapted partly to the Group’s 268 million (949). business operations and partly taking into account the At the end of the year, interest-bearing liabilities financial policy reviewed and adopted by the Board of Diamounted to SEK 8,785 million (8,517), all of which rectors annually. The finance policy constitutes an internal were secured through property mortgages. The liabilities framework and regulations for how the Group’s financial consisted in part of SEK 6,724 million (6,390) in traditional risks are defined and managed these mainly being counbilateral bank loans, in part SEK 1,386 million (1,228) in terparty, liquidity, refinancing and interest rate risks. secured bonds and in part SEK 675 million (899) in commercial papers. Consequently, interest-bearing liabilities Policy amounted to 54.0 percent (57.9) of the value of the Objectives Outcome properties. In addition to loans raised, there were, at the Average debt maturity, years >2 1.3 time, confirmed and unutilised credit commitments from Credit providers, number >5 10 banks amounting to SEK 425 million (540). Combined, Interest-coverage ratio, multiple > 1.75 4.1 debt maturity on interest-bearing liabilities averaged 1.3 Equity ratio, % > 30 35.6 years (1.4) and, over the ensuing year, approximately 45 percent (27) of the portfolio will be refinanced under Read more about financial risks on pages 131-132 and in note current agreements. 19 and a set of financial targets on page 19. After the end of the year, approximately SEK 800 million was renegotiated and a backup facility of Capital structure SEK 1 billion was expanded to SEK 2 billion. The relationship between equity and borrowed capital is of considerable significance for shareholders, credit Bank borrowing providers and the operations in general. Changes in the Traditional and bilateral credit agreements with banks capital structure affect the Company’s risk and its return constitute Catena’s main source of financing. At the end capacity, and Catena works continuously to achieve an of the year, these amounted to 76 percent (75) of total appropriate structure. interest-bearing liabilities and were distributed among Capital structure Source of financing Borrowing and interest expenses SEK M % % 18,000 35.6% 100 5 33.4% 8% 15,000 32.3% 80 4 31.6% 16% 12,000 60 3 9,000 35.7% 76% 40 2 6,000 3,000 20 1 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Shareholders’ equity Bank loan Other liabilities Bond Loan-to-value ratio Interest-bearing liabilities Commercial papers Average interest rate Percentages refer to shareholders’ equity 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS FUNDING Capital and interest maturity Debt maturity Interest maturity, including derivatives Year SEK M Share, % Interest, including margin, % SEK M Share, % Interest, including margin, % 0-1 3,960.0 45.1 1.5 4,263.0 48.5 1.1 1-2 2,690.8 30.6 1.2 755.7 8.6 5.0 2-3 978.6 11.1 1.5 500.0 5.7 3.9 3-4 1,155.2 13.2 1.7 500.0 5.7 3.3 4-5 500.0 5.7 3.0 52,265.9 25.8 4.1 Total 8,784.6 100.0 1.4 8,784.6 100.0 2.6 eight (eight) different banks. This diversified bank borrowInterest-rate risk management ing affords Catena scope and security in future acquisition Interest expenses are a significant part of Catena’s earnsituations and/or in connection with renegotiations. ings. They are mainly affected by changes in the market interest rate, but also by changing rules and conditions in Bonds the credit market, which can, in turn, alter credit margins. Within the framework of Svensk FastighetsFinansiering Catena works continuously and strategically to limit the (SFF), Catena has issued secured bonds. At the end of the effect of these changes in various ways. year, the outstanding volume amounted to SEK 1,386 milTo limit the Group’s interest-rate risk, Catena mainly lion (1,228), corresponding to 16 percent of Catena’s total uses fixed-rate loans and interest-rate derivatives, primarinterest-bearing liabilities. Diös Fastigheter AB, Catena AB, ily traditional interest-rate swaps. Fixed rate loans are Fabege AB, Platzer Fastigheter Holding AB and Wihlborgs valued at nominal value, while interest rate derivatives are Fastigheter AB hold equal 20-percent shareholdings in continuously marked to market, meaning that the carrying SFF. The MTN programme, which is secured through amount corresponds to fair value, with the change being property mortgages, amounts in its entirety to SEK 12,000 recognised in the income statement. On the balance sheet million and may be exercised by all shareholders, subject date, the carrying amount was a negative SEK 381 million to certain predetermined parameters and commitments. (411) and the change in value was SEK 29 million (35). After the end of the year, SFF received a credit rating The change in value of the derivatives does not affect cash equivalent to BBB+ from Nordic Credit Rating. flow and, on reaching maturity, the value of derivatives is More about SFF can be found on the Company’s always zero. website Svenskfastighetsfinansiering.se. At the end of the year, fixed-rate loans, excluding Commercial papers commercial papers, amounted to SEK 843 million (920) Catena has an outstanding commercial paper programme, and the nominal volume of outstanding interest rate providing an attractive opportunity for short-term funding, swaps purchased amounted to SEK 4,522 million (4,529). at most one year. The programme has a framework Combined, they comprised an interest-rate hedge of 61 amount of SEK 2 billion and can be traded through percent (64) of the total loan portfolio. At the end of the Swedbank and Danske Bank. At the end of the year, the year, about 49 percent (37) of the portfolio had an interest outstanding volume issued amounted to SEK 675 million maturity of less than one year and the average interest (900), corresponding to 8 percent (11) of total interestmaturity for the entire portfolio including derivatives was bearing liabilities. The commercial papers are at all times 2.3 years (3.0). backed by a secured, unutilised credit facility that hedges Towards green financing the refinancing risk in the underlying commercial papers. For a long time, Catena has worked purposefully towards Interest expenses and sensitivity sustainable operations, focusing on mitigating negative On the balance sheet date, the average interest rate, environmental effects and increasing energy efficiency. including the cost of derivatives and unutilised lines of As part of this objective, Catena has initiated processes to credit, was 2.6 percent (2.7). The lower real interest exensure that future financing consists of green alternatives. pense is primarily an effect of generally lower borrowing An important piece of the puzzle in this work is linked to cost during the year. Given that a majority of the Group’s the Group’s ambition to environmentally certify new buildloans are subject to interest rate floors, Catena’s interest ings in accordance with Miljöbyggnad Silver. expenses are affected positively even when the market Liquidity interest rate rises, assuming that it is in negative territory. During the year, the Group financed its operations with If the market interest rate, defined as Stibor 3 months, cash flow from its operating activities in the amount of were to rise by 1 percentage point, Catena’s interest exSEK 614 million (518), contributing strongly to investment penses would, all else being equal, rise by approximately in 2019. At the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents SEK 27 million (14) and, if the market interest rate were to amounted to SEK 131 million (281) and together with fall by one percentage point, the interest expenses would confirmed lines of credit, liquid funds amounted to SEK increase by approximately SEK 24 million (36). 556 million (821). With Catena’s financial strategy in mind, the interestcoverage ratio for the year was a multiple of 4.1 (3.4). ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 43 OPERATIONS FUNDING Catena’s share performance Catena strives to give the shareholders a long-term sustainable and competitive total return on their investment with a balanced risk. The share’s total return over the year was 90 percent. Accurate, clear, current and transparent information facilitates the market valuation of the Company. Catena’s shares were listed on the Stockholm Stock Shares and share capital Exchange on 26 April 2006. The shares are traded on the The share capital of Catena AB is to be no less than SEK Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, Nordic list, Mid Cap in the 55,000,000 and no more than SEK 220,000,000. The Real Estate sector, under the ticker CATE. During 2019, total number of shares is not permitted to be less than the share price rose by 88 percent (38), from the open12,500,000 and more than 50,000,000. At 31 Deceming price of SEK 220.50 to SEK 413.50. The lowest price ber 2019, the share capital in Catena AB totalled SEK quoted for the share was SEK 213.00 on 15 January, and 165,874,953.20 distributed between 37,698,853 ordinary the highest price was SEK 421.50 on 30 December. The shares. The quotient value per share is SEK 4.40. Each total return on the share in 2019 amounted to 90 percent share confers one vote and each person entitled to vote at (45). the General Meeting of shareholders may vote for the full During the year, 19,329,083 shares (8,441,556) were number of shares held and represented. All shares confer traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, corresponding to a turnover equal rights to participate in the Company’s assets and rate of about 51 percent (23) based on the average numearnings. The shares are not subject to any limitations as ber of shares. regards the right to transfer of ownership. The development of share capital is described in Note 18 Dividend policy and dividends Shareholders’ equity and under Earnings per share on page 97. In the long-term, Catena’s dividends to shareholders should amount to 50 percent of profit from property management after standard tax. For the 2019 financial Net asset value year, the Board of Directors and the CEO propose a total The net asset value is the Company’s total capital that the dividend of SEK 245.0 million (216.8), corresponding to Company has to manage to thereby create both a value 50 percent of total profit from property management after development and yield for the owners. With assets and standard tax. Per share, that is SEK 6.50 (5.75). This corliabilities taken up at fair value, the net asset value can be responds to a yield of 1.6 percent (2.6). calculated based on the Company’s equity. However, conRead more about the share and dividend on page 116. sideration should be taken to tax effects. The long-term net asset value (EPRA NAV) is estimated at SEK 202.87/ EPRA share (169.53). This corresponds to 49 percent of CatSince 2017, Catena has been included in the EPRA interena’s share price at year-end. national property index on the London Stock Exchange, positively affecting the Company’s ability to attract both existing and new investors. Share price trend 1 January 2018 – 29 February 2020 Share price trend 1 January 2013 – 29 February 2020 No. of SEK shares SEK 500 3,000 480 6,833 420 2,400 375 340 1,800 270 260 1,200 165 180 600 100 0 60 2019 2020 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Catena OMX Stockholm PI Carnegie Real Estate Index Catena OMX Stockholm PI Carnegie Real Estate Index Share turnover/month, 000s 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS FUNDING Shareholders Data per share As at 29 February 2020, Catena AB had 14,308 share2019 2018 holders (14,350). The largest shareholder is the Backahill Group with 29.8 percent (29.8) of the capital. No other Share price at year-end, SEK 413.50 220.50 shareholder held 10 percent or more of the shares outPrice trend over the year, % 87.5 38.3 standing. Owners outside of Sweden accounted for 43.6 Highest price paid during the year, percent (42.4) of the capital. Owners in Sweden accounted SEK 421.50 224.50 for 56.4 percent (57.6) of the share capital and votes, of Lowest price paid during which legal entities accounted for 50.9 percentage points the year, SEK 213.00 148.00 (52.9) and private individuals for 5.6 percentage points Profit from property management (4.8) of the share capital and votes. On 29 February 2020, per share, SEK 16.63 15.21 Catena AB held no treasury shares. Earnings per share, SEK 32.46 21.93 Read about Catena’s ownership structure and the largest Dividend per share, SEK 6.50 1 ) 5.75 owners on page 124. Dividend yield, % 1.6 2.6 Total return on the share, % 90.1 44.7 SEK M SEK/share P/E ratio 13 10 Equity as per balance sheet 6,318.0 Cash flow before change in Reversal working capital per share, SEK 16.25 14.67 Goodwill -503.0 Equity per share, SEK 167.59 140.82 Net asset value per share, Interest-rate derivatives EPRA NAV, SEK 202.87 169.53 as per balance sheet 381.1 Turnover rate, % 51.3 22.5 Deferred tax as per balance sheet 1,451.9 No. of shares at year-end, 000s 37,699 37,699 Long-term net asset value, Average number of shares, 000s 37,699 37,550 EPRA NAV 7,648.0 202.87 1) According to the proposal by the Board of Directors and the CEO. Incentive programmes Analysts monitoring Catena Catena has no share-based incentive programmes, opABG Sundal Collier Staffan Bülow tions or convertible securities issued. Nor were there any DNB Niklas Wetterling authorisations to issue any such financial instruments in 2019. Accordingly, none of the Board members or any Erik Penser Bank Rikard Engberg of the senior executives in Catena hold any warrants in Kempen John Vuong Catena as per 31 December 2019. Kepler Cheuvreux Jan Ihrfelt Pareto Securities Markus Henriksson Peter Andersson, Deputy CEO, CFO Contacts peter.andersson@catenafastigheter.se Market price relative Dividend and Net asset value, EPRA NAV to equity per share payout ratio Dividend yield and total return % SEK % SEK % SEK % 250 7 60 240 10 210 100 6 50 200 175 200 8 80 5 160 40 140 150 4 6 60 30 120 105 100 3 4 40 20 80 70 2 50 10 40 2 35 20 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18-191) -15 -16 -17 -18-191) -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Dividend Dividend, total Net asset value Payout ratio Yield Total return 1) According to the proposal 1) According to the proposal by the Board of Directors by the Board of Directors and the CEO. and the CEO. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 45 OPERATIONS “From the start, Catena has been an inquisitive and impelling client. With our systematic solution, most of the energy heating the building is renewable and free. That is why the amount of energy purchased from Sweden’s almost fossilfree electricity grid is so low. Catena benefits from this, as do we and our environment.” – Knut Nordahl, founder of Energisystem Tellus AB. At Catena’s multi-tenant warehouse in Sunnanå, Catena’s project manager has, in collaboration with Energisystem Tellus AB, taken another innovative approach and installed three space-saving energy walls measuring 10 x 8 metres. To date, the results are very promising. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS We take responsibility – Innovative solution provides energy-efficient facilities Energy efficiency is a key issue when designing and constructing new facilities. The purpose is, of course, to cut costs for us and for our customers. Heating is one of the most significant expenses for large logistics properties with goods to protect and activities around the clock. It is equally a matter of sustainability though, and of our external impact – we and our customers know that our current and future business models require clear environmental responsibilities to survive. Catena has a number of sustainability goals and strategies related to energy that range from certifications for green financing, continuous targets for reducing consumption of heating and electricity to a target of fossil-free energy by 2030. A tree that produces more energy than an entire forest In several major projects of recent years, such as Boozt Fashion’s ecommerce warehouse and DreamLogistics in Varalöv, Nowaste Logistics’ facility outside Helsingborg and at four facilities in Sunnanå outside Malmö, we have chosen to collaborate with an innovative energy contractor, Energisystem Tellus. They use heat pump technology in a unique way to heat premises via underfloor heating, drastically reducing energy expenses. The system benefits from the inert mass and large surface area of the concrete floor and is so energy efficient that water of 25-30 °C is sufficient to heat the buildings even on the coldest winter days. A truly innovative part of the system is Tellus’ energy tree, which, occupying very little space, absorbs renewable energy from the atmosphere by cooling water vapour to ice crystals. The water vapour in the outdoor winter air contains four times more energy than boiling water! The energy tree itself has just one moving part, while the entire system has fewer moving parts than conventional systems. In addition, all of the parts are of superior quality, which is why the heating system is sustainable in the long run. The results speak for themselves. For Green Building certification, the Swedish National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s annual energy requirement of 45 kWh/m2 is adjusted, requiring a level that is 25 percent lower (33.75 kWh/m2 annually). For Catena’s holdings* with energy trees the average level is about 5.1 kWh/m2 annually. Energy consumption, kWh/m2 annually Swedish National Board of Housing, 45 Building and Planning’s requirements 33.75 Requirement for Green Building certification 3.0 – 6.7 Catena’s portfolio holdings with energy trees* An important stance embodied in our values is that we assume responsibility over time. Both our own work environment and society as a whole are affected by how we act and the decisions we make. What we deliver must be sustainable over time – ecologically, socially and financially. Catena should never lose a transaction because we fail to meet the sustainability requirements imposed. We take our sustainability work very seriously and our business plan sets out strict rules of conduct, measurable sustainability targets and clear strategies for achieving those targets. You can read more about all of our sustainability work on pages 48-71. * Catena’s portfolio with Tellus’ energy system includes Boozt Fashion’s e-commerce warehouse and DreamLogistic in Varalöv, Nowaste Logistics’ facility outside Helsingborg and four plants in Sunnanå outside Malmö. Variations in energy consumption depend on the design and use of the buildings. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Sustainable operations In parallel with climate change, we are seeing changing consumption patterns and cargo flows in the global production systems. This imposes rigorous demands on fast, intelligent and cost-efficient deliveries that balance economic, social and environmental aspects – a more sustainable logistics. Catena’s sustainability work has taken a major step forward in 2019 and the bar will also be raised in 2020. Benny Thögersen, CEO Dikartorp 3:12, Järfälla. 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Priority area the environment and anti-corruption. The ten principles Sustainability is one of Catena’s prioritised strategic areas. also reflect Catena’s core values. This begins with the ongoing efforts made to ensure that Furthermore, Catena has taken a position on the UN’s Catena’s own operations are conducted sustainably. This, goal for sustainable development, Agenda 2030, and the in turn, enables sustainable logistics solutions for the Company’s operations have been mapped in relation to Company’s customers. The work is based on three focus the global goals. Six main objectives have been identified areas: sustainable properties, sustainable logistics and where the operations have a major impact. The identified being an attractive employer. Catena has a high level of goals, together with the Company’s other strategic targets ambition in the area of sustainability and seeks to mainand stakeholder dialogues, have been the basis for the tain a high rate of development going forward. preparation of updated sustainability targets in Catena’s In order to ensure that the sustainability perspective business plan. The new targets have been developed with is integrated into all parts of the operations, all employthe aim of both strengthening the operations and contribees undergo environmental training when recruited and uting to Agenda 2030. The targets are clearer, more longupdates and development discussions in the area of susterm and more measurable. tainability occur continuously through internal channels, In its environmental work, Catena has taken further as well as at personnel and interdisciplinary meetings. steps forward, in particular with regard to climate change. In addition, certification in accordance with ISO 14001 Over the year, Catena initiated a risk analysis in line with constitutes a framework for the Company’s environmental the Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosures work. (TCFD). By reporting in accordance with the TCFD, the Company prepares and future-proofs itself for climateStrategic initiatives during the year related risks and opportunities. The ambition is to extend The year was characterised by major changes and a highthe reporting in accordance with the TCFD’s recommendaer pace in Catena’s sustainability efforts. A strategically tions over the coming years. important part of this has been to appoint a Sustainability To ensure a high standard in Catena’s sustainability Manager. This has generated impetus for implementation, reporting, the Company reports in accordance with the sustainability issues have become even more closely inteGRI Standards, Core level, and has implemented EPRA’s grated into transactions, while processes in sustainability Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations. For the work and for initiating new projects within the Company first time, Catena’s Sustainability Report has also been have been simplified. reviewed by an auditor. The Sustainability Report follows In 2019, Catena signed the UN Global Compact and its the principle of prudence and has been prepared in acten principles on human rights, the working environment, cordance with Chapter 7 of the Annual Accounts Act. UN AGENDA 2030 GOALS SELECTED BY CATENA ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Focus area Sustainability targets 2019 Strategies 2019 Outcomes and activities 2019 SUSTAINABLE Certify all newly-produced Contribute to a better • In 2019, one building was certified in accordPROPERTIES properties and, as far as environment through ance with the Green Building standard. possible, the properties energy-efficient solutions • Certification processes in accordance undergoing major rein our properties. with the Miljöbyggnad Silver standard development, to enable were initiated for four new buildings and green financing by 2020. seven existing buildings in 2019. For one new building, the application for preliminary Choose energy solutions certification was submitted in December from a lifecycle perspective, 2019. always examining possibili• One new photovoltaic cell facility was ties to install photovoltaic installed in 2019. Four photovoltaic cell cells. facilities have been ordered and many more are planned for installation in 2020. • Ongoing energy efficiency measures at existing properties. SUSTAINABLE Being engaged in networks Being involved in societal • Participation in conferences, including LOGISTICS AND and holding regular meetings development through comthe Sustainable Tomorrow and Business SOCIETAL with stakeholders in our mitment in priority areas of Arena conferences, and others. DEVELOPMENT market areas. logistics. • We arranged our own conference, LogistikTrender 2019. • Participation in the forum on “shared development of property-adjacent delivery spaces” • Development of the “Arenastaden” project with the partly-owned company Urban Services. ATTRACTIVE Participate in career days at Be an exciting and responsi• Collaboration with Malmö University. AND universities and colleges with ble employer that attracts • Participation in a Master’s thesis RESPONSIBLE the aim of attracting young dedicated and competent project. EMPLOYER and committed employees. employees, both new and • Two trainees in 2019 in salary and existing – the best people energy. Achieve an eNPS of at least should choose us 40. • eNPS 2019 +61 1) Agenda 2030 targets refer to sustainability targets for both 2019 and 2020, unless otherwise stated. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Agenda 20301) Sustainability targets 2020 GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY • All free-standing new buildings should include a Target: 7.2 photovoltaic facility adapted to the conditions of Increase the share of renewable energy in the world the property and the tenant. (see pages 52–54) • Fossil-free energy by 2030 (applies to energy that Catena purchases/generates). Target: 7.3 • Reduce energy use for normal-year adjusted heatDouble the increase in energy efficiency ing by 15 percent in kWh/m2 and for electricity by (see pages 52–54) 10 percent in kWh/m2 by 2025 compared with 2017. • Based on SBT (Science Based Target) calculations, GOAL 9: SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) INFRASTRUCTURE should be reduced. In 2020, the SBT calculation Target: 9.4 will be performed and the appropriate percentage Upgrade all industries and infrastructure for for the reduction will be set. increased sustainability • By 2025, 100 percent of our properties will be (see pages 52–54) connected to our control and monitoring systems. • Certify all newly produced properties at the Miljöbyggnad Silver standard or the equivalent and to investigate and document the possibility of certifying properties undergoing major redevelopment. The target is for 25 percent of the Group’s total area to be certified by 2025. GOAL 9: SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND • Exert a positive influence on our business partners INFRASTRUCTURE and our environment by strengthening our brand Target: 9.4 and being involved in societal development. Upgrade all industries and infrastructure for increased sustainability (see page 56) GOAL 17: PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Target: 17.17 Encourage effective partnerships (see page 56) • Increase gender equality and diversity in all occupaGOAL 4: QUALITY EDUCATION tional groups by 2025 to better reflect the composiTarget: 4.4 tion of society. Increase the number of people with skills fostering • All employees shall be afforded equal opportunities financial security for development and should consider their working (see page 61) environment to be safe and stimulating. • Achieve an eNPS rating of at least 40 in the annual GOAL 5: EQUALITY (NEW GOAL TO BE ADDED IN 2020) employee survey. Target: 5.5 Ensure full participation for women in leadership and decision making (see page 61) GOAL 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Target: 8.8 Protect workers’ rights and promote a safe and secure working environment for all (see pages 60–61) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE PROPERTIES Sustainable properties Catena works continuously to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Together with customers and suppliers, the Company seeks to engender conditions for properties that are as sustainable as possible. This is achieved by, among other things, improving energy efficiency, transitioning to renewable energy and environmentally certifying buildings. Climate Environmental certifications The world faces major challenges when it comes to According to its sustainability targets, reducing global greenhouse gas emissions and meeting Catena will certify all newly produced the objectives of the Paris agreement. Business plays an properties. In the autumn of 2019, a deciimportant role in bringing this about and the demands sion was also made that they should be for companies to reduce their greenhouse gas emiscertified at the Miljöbyggnad Silver standsions are expected to increase. According to the Swedish ard at least. Catena has previously worked National Board of Housing, Building and Planning, the in accordance with the GreenBuilding certification system property sector accounts for about 12.2 million tonnes and a building was certified according to GreenBuilding C02e annually, corresponding to 19 percent of Sweden’s in the spring of 2019. This means that the building uses total greenhouse gas emissions. Catena seeks to assume 25 percent less energy than required under the Swedish its responsibility and aims, with its updated sustainability National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s contargets, to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. In 2020, struction regulations. Although several new buildings were the Company will set this target in relation to the Science prepared to be able to attain the GreenBuilding standard in Based Target Initiative’s calculations to ensure that the 2019, the applications to certify these buildings were not work is in line with science. submitted as Catena has chosen to aim for the MiljöbygCatena assumes responsibility for both direct and indignad Silver standard instead. rect emissions. The majority of Catena’s greenhouse gas The Miljöbyggnad Silver standard imposes significantly emissions come from energy use in properties. The Comhigher requirements than GreenBuilding – not only does pany has reduced emissions by 3 percent since 2018. The it encourage the use of renewable energy and energydecrease is connected to Catena’s decision to purchase efficient building designs, it also takes the origins of the only renewable electricity for its properties, to improve the building materials into account, for example, and their energy-efficiency of its buildings and to replace fossilimpact on health and the environment. The Silver level based heating solutions with district heating or geotherof Miljöbyggnad ensures more efficient use of resources mal heat where possible. while preparing Catena for potentially increasing future To further reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, Catena demands. In December 2019, Catena submitted its apcontinues to work with environmental certifications, phoplication for preliminary certification in accordance with tovoltaic cell facilities and other energy projects, as well Miljöbyggnad Silver for the new construction of a terminal as strengthening its cooperation with customers to also for PostNord in Tostarp. This is expected to achieve certiinfluence tenants’ energy use. fication in 2020. In addition, certification processes have ben initiated for three new buildings and seven existing buildings. The ambition is for 25 percent of the entire portGreenhouse gas emissions by activity and in total Distribution of greenhouse gas Catena’s total greenhouse (tonnes CO2e) emissions per activity 2019 gas emissions (tonnes 2019 2018 CO2e), 2017-2019 2% Electricity 3,644 3,545 Tonnes 10,000 45% Natural gas 844 1,421 43% 7,500 Heating oil 14 31 District heating 3,536 3,350 5,000 Business travel and commuting 167 142 2,500 Total 8,205 8,489 0% 10% 0 The table shows Catena’s total greenhouse gas emis-17 -18 -19 Electricity, tonnes CO2e sions by relevant activity. In 2019, Catena received Natural gas, tonnes CO2e supplementary data on energy use for 2018 and has Heating oil, tonnes CO2e therefore revised its greenhouse gas emissions for District heating, tonnes CO2e 2018. Business travel and commuting, tonnes CO2e 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE PROPERTIES OJECT ENERGY PR et Vångagärdrg Vångagärdet energy project in Helsingborg For Catena, improving the energy efficiency of our properties is one of the most Helsingbo important measures we can take from an environmental perspective, but also from a cost-saving perspective. One of the largest energy projects of 2019 was carried out at the Vångagärdet 20 property in southern Helsingborg. The building, which was constructed between 1958 and 1988, comprises approximately 26,000 square metres, with production and warehouse areas accounting for 12,000 square metres, and the CO2 saving remainder being offices and other areas. Catena’s head office is located in the 765 tonnes CO e/year 2 property. Together with Öresundskraft, Catena chose to convert the property from existing gas and steam systems to district heating. Heating with gas was both 13 % lower expensive and inefficient as an old steam boiler entailed considerable energy energy use losses. The building was connected to the district heating network with the aim of creating a pleasant indoor climate, reducing environmental impact and Annual savings supporting efficient and safe operation. The energy from the district heating network comprises nearly 100 percent recycled energy. SEK 900,000 The project represents a financially and environmentally wise solution, since the change of system is expected to lead to an annual saving of about SEK 900,000 and of about 765 tonnes CO2e, corresponding to about 300 cars driving 1,500 km/year. Vångagärdet 20, Helsingborg. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE PROPERTIES folio to achieve at least the Miljöbyggnad Silver standard 2017. In 2019, consumption of both heating and electricity or the equivalent by 2025. decreased in kWh/m2 compared with 2018 and the total Although most environmental certification systems energy intensity (kWh/m2) decreased by 7 percent since are adapted for properties that are not logistics facilities, 2017. Catena has been able to deal with various challenges and Catena is also working to increase the found a way forward for this type of property. As a memproportion of renewable energy and, by ber of the Sweden Green Building Council, Catena helps 2030, 100 percent of Catena’s energy will develop methods for more sustainable logistics buildings. be fossil-free. Although the target is aimed primarily at energy purchased by Catena, Energy the Company is also working to identify Heating and electricity are the largest fossil-free solutions for energy purchased individual operating expenses for properby customers. Even today, all electricity purchased by ties, and the opportunities for efficiency Catena is green and the Company is working to influence improvements, both in terms of expense energy sources for heating use, as well as energy purand environmental impact are considerchased by our tenants. The Company assesses, for able. According to the updated sustainexample, the district heating companies’ environmental ability targets, Catena will reduce energy use for normalimpact in producing heating and, where conditions are year adjusted heating by 15 percent (kWh/m2) and for appropriate, Catena is examining the possibility of instead electricity by 10 percent (kWh/m2) by 2025 compared with using geothermal heat or other electrical heating. At the same time, Catena is developing and strengthening its collaboration with tenants, providing increased knowledge Energy consumption per square metre and more opportunities for influence in terms of their sq.m. kWh/sq.m. purchased energy sources. 2,000,000 150 The properties’ large roof areas provide good oppor1,600,000 120 tunities for installing photovoltaic cells and, together with customers, the Company is working to exploit these 1,200,000 90 opportunities. Catena’s objective is for all new buildings to include a photovoltaic system adapted to the circumstanc800,000 60 Lettable space for which Catena has energy data es of the property and the tenant, and where the electricity 400,000 30 Lettable space for which generated can be consumed within the property. There are Catena lacks energy data currently six facilities installed on roofs, two of which are 0 0 Energy consumption/ -17 -18 -19 square metre owned by Catena, while others are owned by the relevant tenant. In total, these six plants have an annual capacity The diagram shows the development of the property portfolio’s size and of approximately 2,603 MWh, corresponding to the annual energy consumption per square metre. Catena lacks access to data for the entire portfolio and energy use is based on the consumption by 92 percent consumption of 160 single-family homes. Significantly of the portfolio in 2019. more photovoltaic cell installations are planned for 2020. Energy use Total Comparable portfolios 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 Total electricity use, MWh 122,200 118,234 103,295 103,978 104,884 – of which, purchased by landlord 55,773 53,021 40,249 48,386 46,950 – of which, purchased by tenants 65,184 64,656 63,046 55,461 57,922 – of which, solar energy generated in-house by landlord 257 1 – of which, solar energy generated in-house by tenant 986 556 131 11 LOA, m2 1,633,637 1,493,457 1,264,347 1,284,902 1,284,902 Intensity, kWh/m2 75 79 82 81 82 Total heat use (normal year corrected), MWh 61,967 64,872 53,627 48 640 53,075 – of which, natural gas 4,177 7,035 6,487 4,072 6,800 – of which, heating oil 51 110 55 51 110 – of which, electricity to heat pump 2,019 1,989 898 1,236 1,311 – of which, district heat 55,721 55,738 46,187 43,281 44,854 LOA, m2 1,604,104 1,517,137 1,298,746 1,215,331 1,215,331 Intensity, kWh/m2 39 43 41 40 44 Total, MWh 184,168 183,107 156,921 152,618 157,959 Number of properties reported 105 102 93 84 84 LOA, m2 1,618,870 1,505,297 1,281,546 1,250,117 1,250,117 Energy intensity, kWh/m2 114 121 122 122 126 The table shows the energy used in Catena’s properties by type of energy and energy use per square metre (intensity). Energy generated in-house includes energy from photovoltaic cells used as electricity in the property. Electricity for heat pumps is included in total heating, not in total electricity. Heating use figures are normal-year-adjusted in accordance with SMHI’s degree days. In 2019, Catena received supplementary data on energy use for 2017 and 2018 and has therefore revised energy use for those years. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE PROPERTIES To coordinate resources, knowledge and capacity in conalso has a major impact on the buildings’ energy perfornection with solar energy, a photovoltaic cell group has mance during operation. In addition to standard supplier been formed within the Company. requirements, for any construction project exceeding SEK 5 million, Catena requires the preparation of an environCollaboration with customers mental plan. For contracts exceeding SEK 250,000, CatCollaboration and close dialogue with tenants represent ena requires systems for assessing and following up the an important part of our work to create sustainable construction materials used. Suppliers must use one of properties. Well-functioning collaborations are essential the three most common systems for assessing construcin reducing greenhouse gas emissions, environmentally tion materials – Byggvarubedömningen (BVB), Sunda-Hus certifying properties and improving their energy efficiency, Miljödata or BASTA. For simpler projects carried out by as well as installing solar panels. local contractors, Folksam’s green construction guide can Accordingly, in connection with redevelopment, extenbe used. sion and new construction projects, the customer is involved in the project from an early stage and the Company Waste also maintains an ongoing dialogue with tenants during In most cases, Catena’s tenants are responsible for their the property management phase. For example, Catena own waste management. For those tenants where Catena measures not only its own energy use, but also the use is responsible for waste management, the objective is for for which the customer is responsible. By reporting conwaste to be sorted into the fractions applicable for each sumption figures and exploring ways of streamlining and municipality. Sorting should be performed in a manner reducing these, Catena works alongside its customers to that is easy and natural for the tenants. Hazardous waste identify solutions suitable for both the tenant and the landgenerated by Catena’s own operations is primarily hanlord. dled by the property maintenance contractors. Catena One area in which collaboration with customers drives requires that contractors have environmental manageinnovation and development is sustainable logistics solument systems in accordance with ISO 14001, with their tions, about which you can read more on page 56. own procedures for waste management or that they apply Catena’s procedures for the management of hazardous Supplier assessments waste. Catena uses external suppliers and partners for, among Catena is well aware of the importance of the waste other things, property management and large parts of the issue and seeks to increase knowledge about the amount construction process for new construction and converof waste that is handled at our properties, to then be able sion. This means that a substantial part of sustainability to influence and reduce this amount. In 2019, Catena bemanagement is conducted in partnership with suppliers gan collecting data on the amount of waste in accordance and partners. The Company’s employees are responsible with EPRA’s sustainability best practice recommendations, for ascertaining whether the suppliers that are engaged see page 67. Although not all suppliers of waste manageare serious actors. ment services keep statistics, this represents an initial step During the year, Catena developed its Code of Conduct in gaining greater control. for suppliers, which includes requirements in the areas of the environment, the working environment and ethics. Business ethics guidelines The requirements are based on the ISO 14001 environCatena’s ethical guidelines provide the platform for the mental management system, as well as the ten principles daily work of the Company’s employees, partners and of the UN Global Compact. Suppliers performing work suppliers. Behaviour must always be pervaded by good at Catena’s properties and where Catena is expected to business ethics and comply with current legislation and purchase services for at least SEK 250,000 annually must agreements. be approved in accordance with the Company’s sustainCatena has an ethics policy that describes the Compaability requirements. Suppliers are required to familiarise ny’s fundamental values and guidelines for employees and themselves with Catena’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers Board members. The policy includes guidelines in accordand to accept these requirements by signing the docuance with the ethical rules on contact and relation promotment, which is then kept on file by Catena. For suppliing benefits in business activities that were developed by ers with more than 20 employees, a self-declaration the Swedish Anti-corruption Institute. It is management’s must also be completed, in which information about the responsibility to ensure that managers and employees Company’s work in the areas of the environment, workhave the knowledge required to follow the Company’s ing environment and ethics is documented and assessed. policies and guidelines. All major purchases and agreeRelevant certificates, procedures and policies must be ments are controlled centrally and assessed to determine attached with the declaration. In 2019, Catena employed whether they are correct and reasonable. only Swedish and a small number of Danish suppliers. A Catena introduced a whistle-blower programme in total of 162 suppliers have been identified for assessment, 2019, under which employees and partners can report of whom 65 have been assessed and approved. This work shortcomings that contravene applicable legislation, ethwill continue in 2020 and Catena will also perform spot ics, morals or Catena’s policies. All reports are received checks in the form of site visits to ensure compliance with anonymously and investigated by an external actor. the requirements. Submitted reports are handled by a special whistle-blower committee at Catena. Choice of materials for new builds and conversions No applications have been received via the function Careful selection of materials is important to ensure since its inception in the autumn of 2019. healthy and safe premises, but choice of material choice ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE LOGISTICS AND SOCIETAL DEVELOPMENT Sustainable logistics and societal development Catena operates in a context that is crucial for modern society but that unequivocally influences the environment, as tenants’ operations often entail extensive transports. By developing more sustainable logistics solutions, Catena is able to influence both business partners and the environment positively, while, at the same time, a strong brand in sustainable logistics generates value for the Company’s stakeholders. Sustainable logistics solutions encouraging more efficient technologies and industrial Sustainable logistics entails optimising processes with a lower environmental impact. flows based on environmental, social and Involvement in networks and regular meetings with economic aspects. One of the challenges municipal councils, cooperative organisations and special of sustainable logistics is logistics planinterest associations in all market areas allows Catena ning where optimisation can often point in to present the Company’s views on logistics challenges different directions. Examples of common and to ensure that logistics issues are taken into account optimisation parameters that can be contradictory are a in urban planning processes, for example, while Catena maximal load factor, minimal transport time, the shortest increases its internal knowledge on the topic. Catena also possible route to the goods’ final destination, and precollaborates with various universities and, in 2019, coopdetermined delivery times. erated in a master’s thesis project at the Royal Institute of Catena is working to create conditions for more Technology, and commenced a partnership with Malmö sustainable logistics planning and the optimum solution University to conduct research into business models in varies and looks different for different customers. Undere-commerce. standing customers’ various challenges and possible soluIn 2019, Catena also joined a forum on the “shared detions, both today and in the future, is central to Catena’s velopment of property-adjacent delivery spaces”, in which operations. Catena strives to be flexible and agile in the various stakeholders collaborate, including property ownsolutions it offers, always seeking to stay one step ahead ers, hauliers and systems suppliers. Focusing on the final and to understand emerging trends, challenges and new transport leg, opportunities for new, sustainable solutions hubs. are discussed, explored and developed. Working closely with several municipalities to contribCatena also arranges the annual Logistik ute to more cost and environmentally efficient solutions, Trender conference. Various industry facilitates greater use of vehicle capacity and more accustakeholders participate in this, and it rate route planning. In creating sustainable logistics soluprovides a unique platform for knowledge tions, a key strategic decision entails selecting appropriate exchange and for increasing collaboration locations for our properties – that is, logistics locations between different parties. In 2019, the streamlining current cargo flows but also taking possible focus was on the technological revolution future trends in goods transport into account. Terminals and the topics discussed included the opportunities of located near major cities, adjacent to major motorways digitalisation and the challenges facing the logistics and rail freight stations ensure efficient transport routes industry. The focus area for LogistikTrender 2020 is and flexibility in choosing the mode of transport. “Logistics beyond time and space”, with the perspective In addition, properties near metropolitan regions of sustainability running as a common thread throughout optimise intelligent and peri-urban logistics, as goods can the programme. be reloaded without passing through the urban centre as is currently often the case. Smart, peri-urban logistics are Societal development outside the industry necessary in achieving a more sustainable society and Catena also contributes to societal development outside is also of importance for the capacity to handle the ever the logistics industry. By sponsoring a variety of initiatives, increasing proportion of digitally-driven trade. organisations and activities that contribute to positive and sustainable societal development, the Company aims to Knowledge and development achieve values and benefits for all parties involved. To create sustainable logistics solutions that take future One of Catena’s more extensive sponsorship partnertrends and risks in the logistics industry into account, ships was further expanded in 2019 when Catena became Catena is working to increase knowledge and the pace the arena sponsor for the Rögle BK ice hockey team. The of development in the area. Catena would like to help collaboration benefits both the top-level ice hockey team, steer the sector in a more sustainable direction while also as well as the club’s aggressive sustainability efforts and 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE LOGISTICS AND SOCIETAL DEVELOPMENT ambitious activities for children and young people, in benefit from the benefits of running their operations in which both girls and boys have opportunities to develop properties that are sustainable. in their sport in socially rewarding contexts. Society benefits greatly from sustainable logistics solutions, not only because this ensures smooth logistics Value creation for the Company’s stakeholders and efficient product flows, but also because strategically Sustainable logistics has great potential for long-term well-situated logistics properties enable sustainable urban impacts on society, in terms of environmental, social development as goods traffic in cities is reduced. and economic parameters. Catena maintains an ongoing dialogue with its key stakeholders to ensure that the Company also focuses on the most relevant areas of sustainCreated and distributed economic value, SEK M ability. 18% One way to quantify companies’ direct impact on their 37% stakeholders is to assume how the Company’s income has 5% Suppliers, 225.7 Employees, 55.4 been distributed to different stakeholder groups – employShareholder dividend, 216.8 ees, suppliers, and society through tax payments. The dia17% Interest, 237.9 gram shows how Catena’s income in 2019 was distributed Taxes, 55.3 among various stakeholder groups. 4% Retained economic value, 463.4 19% A strong brand in sustainable logistics generates value The diagram shows how Catena’s income in 2019 was distributed among for the Company’s shareholders while opening up opporvarious stakeholder groups. The total value generated amounted to SEK tunities for green financing. Catena’s customers can also 1,254.5 million. From industrial property to one of Sweden’s largest paddle-ball halls Identifying appropriate logistics locations is one of Catena’s key strategies for more sustainable logistics. However, these locations can shift as society develops and certain properties lose their logistics purpose. Although Catena usually sells such properties, in some cases the Company takes the initiative to convert logistics properties to more suitable purposes. One such property is Hästhagen, a former industrial property in southern Helsingborg. As the city grows, the area has become increasingly important for urban social development, while space for logistics and industry is decreasing and moving further out from the city centre. Accordingly, in 2019, Hästhagen obtained a new function. The older industrial buildings now house one of Sweden’s largest paddle-ball halls, a trampoline park, café, salad bar and hamburger restaurant, as well as some smallerscale office spaces. Catena has adapted the property to a more suitable purpose for the city and helped create a more attractive area for the urban community. Hästhagen 4, Helsingborg. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABLE LOGISTICS AND SOCIETAL DEVELOPMENT ENT Y DEVELOPM COMMUNIT n Arenastade Solna Intelligent peri-urban logistics at Arenastaden, Solna. At Arenastaden in Solna, outside Stockholm, Catena is working on a project to achieve sustainable peri-urban logistics. Without action, the Arenastaden neighbourhood, with about 100,000 square metres of shops, 4,000 homes and 30,000 workplaces, will generate more than 5,000 transports per week. Through the company Urban Services, which was founded in 2017, Catena collaborates with Reduction of direct Fabege, RagnSells and Servistik in developing a locally sustainable logistics network deliveries (target) in which deliveries, resource management and recycling are handled in a shared flow to and from the area. Overall, the project should reduce direct deliveries by 70 70% percent. This occurs through a shared loading centre from which goods can be transported the last stretch by smaller electric vehicles. The vehicles will then carry back returns and recycling materials to maximise the utilisation of the vehicles’ capacity. In 2019, the customer agreement with Westfield Mall of Scandinavia was extended to 2022 and the focus remains on increasing the proportion of new customers. Transports Shared loading Arenastaden centre Returns and waste Arenastaden, Solna. 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A RESPONSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER A responsible and attractive employer In order to understand customer needs and to generate business, it is crucial that Catena can attract and retain skilled employees. The work is based on shared values. +61 Catena’s eN PS result fo 2019 sh r employees ows that are satisfie and are very d ambassador good the Compa s for ny. A value-driven organisation conducted in November 2019 and was responded to by Catena has a small but effective organisation comprised 100 percent of the employees. of individuals with substantial industry experience and The results of the employee survey show that Catena’s considerable expertise. Being an attractive employer is a employees are very satisfied and are good ambassadors strategic objective for Catena and part of its business plan. for the Company. Catena has also performed a risk analysis regarding its One way of measuring an organisation’s attractiveness employees and this is described on page 130. as an employer is following up employee loyalty in terms An important component in efforts to achieve set tarof eNPS, Employee Net Promotor Score. The rating is a gets are shared values that all executives and employees measure of how many of the employees are prepared to can use as the starting point for all decisions, major as recommend the Company as a workplace on a scale of well as minor. Catena’s values were launched in December -100 to +100. A positive rating means that the organisa2018 and form a natural part of the operations (read more tion has more active ambassadors than critics. The eNPS about Catena’s values on page 30). score for 2019 was 61, which was slightly lower than for the preceding year but significantly higher than the target Catena’s values of at least +40. The result is also very high in both a national and international comparison. Exceeding Taking long-term Being expectations responsibility committed Skills development Continual skills development is crucial for Catena to continue to understand and be able to resolve the current and future challenges of its customers. Personal development plans are prepared in conjunction with the annual employee dialogues carried out with all employees. All employSatisfied employees ees are given a wide range of possibilities for choosing Its employees are Catena’s most important resource and training, courses and seminars they wish to participate in entirely crucial for the operations. One way of following up on the Company’s account. Central and prioritised training the employees’ view of the Company’s role as an employareas are management issues, finance, the environment er and its ongoing sustainability work is by means of the and law. In 2019, Catena continued to offer substantial annual employee survey. The latest employee survey was opportunities for employees to develop themselves and ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A RESPONSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Training hours their professional skills, and a number of employees have 2019 2018 2017 taken more extensive courses in management and control. Average for all employees 17 8 21 During the spring, all employees attended the LogistikWomen 17 11 12 Trender event that Catena organises each year. This day is Men 17 6 23 primarily aimed at customers and other stakeholders, but is, at the same time, also an opportunity for employees to The table above shows the average number of training hours per learn more about where the logistics industry is heading employee. In 2019, these broke down into 19 hours for management and 16 hours for other employees. and also entails all employees sharing the same knowledge platform. Employee distribution 2019 Health and safety Catena works to create a healthy and % Age % Gender pleasant work environment for the Com100 100 pany’s employees, encompassing work on 80 80 risks associated with both the physical and psychosocial work environment. 60 60 Important elements of this work are to create the conditions for balance between work and leisure and ensure 40 40 that employees have the opportunity to manage their own 20 20 time and influence their work situation. Catena has collective bargaining agreements for all employees and allows 0 0 employees to decide which tools they need to facilitate -17 -18 -19 -17 -18 -19 >50 years 30-50 years <30 years Men Women their work. Issues related to work environment, health and safety are addressed regularly at personnel meetings, at The diagram shows the percentThe diagram shows the smaller personnel meetings held in each location, as well age of employees in various age percentage of women as at cross-group meetings. More ongoing information is categories There were a total of and men among Catena’s 43 employees as at 31 December employees. distributed via internal channels. 2019. Management also works on an ongoing basis with following up and ensuring a healthy work situation for all employees. Regional managers and others with responWork-related accidents and accident frequency sibility for personnel bear considerable responsibility in 2019 working with Catena’s employees to assure a safe workNumber Frequency ing environment. In cases of insecure working situations, Work-related accidents 0 0 discussions are held with the manager responsible, with Number of serious work-related accidents 0 0 the CEO or HR Manager and measures are determined Number of work-related accidents in joint consultation. In 2019, Catena also introduced a resulting in deaths 0 0 whistle-blower programme enabling employees to report Accident statistics include in-house personnel only. The calculashortcomings anonymously and in the strictest confitions are based on a total 83,567 working hours. Accident frequency is reported per 200,000 working hours. dence. All reports are received and investigated by an external actor. Total labour force, number 2019 2018 2017 Proportion Proportion Proportion Number women, % Number women, % Number women, % No. of employees 43 33 41 24 39 23 Employees on permanent contracts 42 31 41 24 37 22 – Of whom, full time 42 31 41 24 37 22 – Of whom, part-time 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees on temporary contracts 1 100 0 0 2 50 The table shows the number of employees and the proportion of women at Catena, divided into different types of employment. During the year, Catena did not have any externally contracted personnel. Employee mobility, count 2019 2018 2017 Proportion Proportion Proportion Number women, % Number women, % Number women, % New employees 6 83 6 17 7 29 Share of total number of employees at year-end, % 14 15 18 Employees who left 4 25 4 0 6 50 Share of total number of employees at year-end, % 9 10 15 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A RESPONSIBLE AND ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Absence due to illness Equal opportunities for all 2019 2018 2017 Upon new employment, promotions and continuous evaluAverage, all employees, % 0.8 0.7 0.7 ation, Catena assesses expertise, experience and personal Women, % 1.5 0.9 1.0 characteristics. The Company shall not discriminate, either Men, % 0.5 0.7 0.7 positively or negatively, on the basis of ethnicity, gender, religion or other beliefs, disability, sexual orientation, The table shows sickness absence as a proportion of the planned gender identity or expression, age or social origin. number of working hours. No work-related fatalities, injuries, The Board of Directors consists of three women and accidents or illnesses were reported. four men. However, women are currently under-represented in both the management team and the Board. Salary relationship between men and women Catena works actively to attract female 2019 applicants in both recruitment and promoRatio tion and has the updated objective of inGroup Management, % 70 creasing gender equality and diversity in Other employees, % 73 all occupational groups by 2025. In 2020, The table shows women’s salaries in relation to men’s salaries. Catena will strengthen its HR function and The salary relationship between men and women in Group hire a new HR manager to safeguard, for management is significantly affected by the fact that the CEO is example, a broad recruitment process. The Company also a man. For other employees, the average is affected by the fact that the female employees are younger and do not hold senior seeks to develop role descriptions able to attract a diversipositions. fied workforce. Because staff turnover at Catena is low, change will be slow. Catena’s work environment policy provides a framework Attracting new talent for systematic efforts regarding the work environment. One of Catena’s strategic objectives is to In our systematic annual efforts on the working environattract new employees by participating in ment, three areas have been identified that need strengthjob fairs at universities and colleges. ening, these will be reviewed in 2020. Over the year, Catena participated in The work environment policy has been made available an MSc thesis project carried out by two to all employees, who have also been given training in students from the Royal Institute of Techthis area. All new recruits undergo the same training. If nology on the development of logistics in e-commerce. needed, further training is arranged via the occupational Students were given the opportunity to participate free health service or other suppliers, and Catena also offers of charge in the LogistikTrender conference arranged by opportunities for further education on these issues. BeCatena and to collect data through interviews with Catcause Catena did not hire in any external personnel during ena’s CEO. In partnership with Malmö University, Catena the year, the points stated above apply only to Catena is participating in a project in business model development employees. involving e-commerce logistics properties. Catena also hosted two trainees during the year. One in the area of salary administration and one in energy and technology. Summary Board and employees 2019 2018 2017 Number Proportion women, % Number Proportion women, % Number Proportion women, % Board of Directors 7 43 7 43 7 43 Under 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 30–50 years 2 100 2 100 2 100 Over 50 years 5 20 5 20 5 20 Management 7 14 7 14 7 14 Under 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 30–50 years 3 33 3 33 3 33 Over 50 years 4 0 4 0 4 0 Other Employees 36 36 34 26 32 25 Under 30 years 4 100 2 50 3 33 30–50 years 19 32 20 30 15 33 Over 50 years 13 23 12 17 14 14 The table shows the composition of the Company by gender and age category. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes Catena’s Sustainability Notes contain supplementary data for the Company’s sustainability reporting, which has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The sustainability reporting for the 2019 calendar year follows the GRI Standards, level Core. The Sustainability Report applies to Catena AB and all of should focus on and how stakeholders’ priorities are met, its wholly-owned subsidiaries. In the event that any subas well as additional information on governance in priority sidiaries are not included in a calculation or figure, this is areas. Catena also presents a GRI index and discloses stated on page 65. certain supplementary tables and charts, as well as the The Sustainability Notes provide information on how sources of the data, assumptions and conversion factors the Company has chosen what the sustainability report used in the accounts. Bulten 1, Kungälv. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Stakeholders and materiality Catena’s operations aim to generate returns for the Based on an ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and an shareholders, and to succeed, Catena needs to meet the in-depth stakeholder dialogue conducted in 2014, nine needs of the customers. Catena succeeds well when there areas have been identified as material in the Company’s are employees, partners and suppliers who can identify sustainability efforts. The table below lists these nine the customers’ wishes and ensure that they are put into areas and the corresponding sustainability disclosures in practice. New construction can be affected by political the GRI Standards. decisions and the approval of local residents. The table In 2020, Catena plans to conduct a new, more comprebelow presents the most important stakeholders, the most hensive materiality analysis and stakeholder dialogue. important possibilities for dialogue and the stakeholder groups’ most important issues. Stakeholder group Opportunities for dialogue Key issues Shareholders, • Annual General Meeting • Business model, objectives and analysts and • Regular meetings, including in connection with interim reports strategy investors • Ongoing phone contacts • Funding • Meetings with shareholders and analysts • Growth • Capital Markets Day in Båstad • Profit • LogistikTrender – an annual day for the industry’s stakeholders, • Sustainability and Corporate at which a current theme is discussed and penetrated in detail Governance • Website • Publication of information • Share liquidity Employees • Regular contacts • Opportunities for training and skills • At least one annual performance interview development and salary review • Clear career paths • Annual personnel conference to educate and motivate • Salary and benefits • Intranet • Balance between work and leisure • Diversity and equality Society • Regular contacts with public sector decision makers to improve • Goods supply and smooth logistics logistics locally, regionally and nationally • Trends • LogistikTrender – an annual day for the industry’s stakeholders, • Traffic intensity at which a current theme is discussed and penetrated in detail • Low environmental impact • The management organisation’s regular contact with tenants, • Cost-efficient solutions businesses and local officials • Long-term view • Website • Collaboration with, and sponsorship of, local sports and community associations Suppliers • LogistikTrender – an annual day for the industry’s stakeholders, • Stable partner at which a current theme is discussed and penetrated in detail • Regular personal meetings with suppliers • Website Customers • LogistikTrender – an annual day for the industry’s stakeholders, • Stable and flexible landlord at which a current theme is discussed and penetrated in detail • Accessibility • Reinforced active management organisation that maintains • Cost-efficient premises regular contact with tenants • Environmental efficiency • Website • Access to multiple modes of transport Catena’s sustainability aspects GRI standards Work with energy efficiency and renewable energy Energy, Emissions Offer training and skills development for employees Terms of employment and working conditions, Health and safety, Training Preventing bribery and corruption Anti-corruption Generate financial returns Economic performance Establish the conditions for logistics flows with a minimal Indirect financial impact environmental impact Disseminating knowledge about sustainable logistics Indirect financial impact Aim for a low environmental impact in new builds and Environmental impact from products and services, Labelling of conversions products and services Striving for diversity in the organisation Diversity and equal opportunities, Non-discrimination and jobs Imposing demands on suppliers with regard to health, Assessment of suppliers’ environmental impact safety and the environment ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI index The following table lists references to the GRI disclosures and indicators reported by Catena within the Company’s reporting of its sustainability work. GRI Standard 403 is reported for the 2018 version, the remaining modules refer to the 2016 version. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Standards Description Page reference/Comments ORGANISATION PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation 82 102-2 Key brands, products and services 3 102-3 The organisation’s headquarters 82 102-4 Countries with operations 89 102-5 Ownership structure and corporate format 44-45 102-6 Markets 36-37 102-7 Size of the organisation 4-5, 37-39, 42-43, 60-61 102-8 Labour force 60-61 102-9 Supply chain 55 102-10 Significant changes in the organisation and its supply chain 5, 40-41 102-11 Application of the precautionary principle 49 102-12 External initiatives 49.52 102-13 Membership 52 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 102-14 Statement by senior decision maker 8-9 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and codes of conduct 31 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 124-135 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENT 102-40 Stakeholder groups 63 102-41 Proportion of labour force covered by collective agreements 60 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholder groups 63 102-43 Approach to communication with stakeholders 63 102-44 Issues raised by stakeholders and the handling of these 63 REPORTING PROFILE 102-45 Entities included in the report 62 102-46 Process for defining the contents of the report 63, 65 102-47 Identified material areas 63 102-48 Revised information 65 102-49 Significant changes 63, 65 102-50 Reporting period 65 102-51 Date of latest report March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact details for questions regarding the report and its contents 71 102-54 Statement that the report complies with the GRI Standards 62 102-55 GRI index 64 102-56 External assurance 49, 71 SUBSTANCE-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI Standards Description Page reference/Comments GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 11-13, 18-19, 57 201-1 Generated and distributed financial value 57 GRI 203: INDIRECT FINANCIAL IMPACT 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 11–13, 56 203-2 Significant indirect financial impact 56-57 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 55 205-3 Number of corruption cases No cases, see also page 55 GRI 302: ENERGY 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 52-55 302-1 The organisation’s energy consumption 54, 65 CRE1 Energy intensity in buildings 54, 65 GRI 305: EMISSIONS 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 52-55 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 67 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 67 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 67 GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT AND WORKING CONDITIONS 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 59-61 401-1 Personnel turnover 60, does not report region or age distribution due to the low number of individuals GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 59-61 403-1 – 403-7 Governance 59-61, 70-71 403-9 Work-related injuries 60-61 GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 59-61 404-1 Training for employees 60 404-3 Development interviews 60 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 59-61 405-1 Composition of the Company 60-61 GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 59-61 406-1 Number of cases of discrimination No cases CRE: PRODUCT LIABILITY 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Governance 52, 65 CRE8 Sustainability certifications for new construction, remodelling and 67 extensions 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES EPRA sBPR: Performance measures consumption of the relevant indicator for the entire propCatena reports the Company’s sustainability indicators erty (25,960 square metres), divided by the total area and based on EPRA’s latest recommendations: Best Practices then multiplied by the office area (645 square metres). Recommendations on Sustainability Reporting, sBPR, third The use of the office space is also included in the conedition from September 2017. Catena reports sustainabilsumption figures reported for the total. ity ratios for all 28 of EPRA’s BPR Performance Measures. Key figures are reported for energy, greenhouse gas emisThird party review sions, water, waste, environmentally certified buildings, Catena’s Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI corporate governance and social aspects. Standards has been reviewed by PWC. See the auditor’s review report of the Sustainability Report on page 71. EPRA’s recommendations Organisational boundaries Delimitation – reporting of landlord and tenant’s consumption Catena reports key performance indicators in accordance Catena reports statistics for electricity, heat and water rewith the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s ’Equity-share apgardless of whether the Company or the tenant is responproach’, that is, Catena reports the total consumption of sible for the agreement. its properties according to its share of the shareholders’ equity in these. Catena is a co-owner of a joint venture Normalisation property with a 45-percent holding. This property has been Catena calculates intensity key performance indicators excluded from the EPRA accounting. Together with its by dividing by the total lettable area of the buildings. subsidiaries, Catena owns the remaining properties 100 Catena uses SMHI (Swedish Meteorological and Hydropercent and they are included in the EPRA key perforlogical Institute) degree days for the normalisation of mance indicators. Catena also reports consumption where energy for heating. the customer is responsible for electricity, heat and water, since Catena seeks to influence not only its own consumpSegment analysis (geography, building type, etc.) tion, but also seeks to help tenants reduce/streamline Catena owns only logistics properties and just a few office their consumption. buildings. As the proportion of offices is low and are often It is only with regard to waste that Catena has no located within logistics properties, Catena has not divided statistics on its customers’ consumption. the figures between different types of buildings. Since Catena mainly owns properties in Sweden, and Reporting only a very small proportion in Denmark, it is also not Catena is working actively to gain access to relevant data relevant to report the statistics distributed geographically. measures from all of its properties, hence the updated sustainability target for 100 percent of our properties Reporting for the Company’s own offices to be connected to our control system by 2025. This is Catena reports estimated consumption for its head office, important in order to report correct and relevant data and where about half of Catena’s employees work. For the to engender favourable conditions for good and efficient remaining offices, there are no precise figures and reasontechnical management. Today, Catena has access to data able estimates cannot be made as the offices represent on almost the entire portfolio – in total, 92 percent of the only smaller parts of larger properties where energy-inten2019 portfolio. The total lettable area (LOA) included in sive operations are conducted. the measure for each indicator is stated together with the respective key performance indicators. Explanations of outcomes For key figures in comparable holdings, Catena has inSome key performance indicators differ from the figures cluded properties that have been part of the holdings since presented in the preceding Annual Report. In its 2018 2018 or earlier, where there is measurement data for all Annual Report, Catena cited figures that were, in part, of 2018 and 2019 and where the size of the total lettable estimates, while the 2019 Annual Report presents precise area has not changed between 1 January 2018 and 31 figures. To read more about the changes in the environDecember 2019. mental key performance indicators between 2018 and As mentioned, Catena has only limited data for waste, 2019 and the savings achieved, see pages 52-54. which is because tenants generally take care of waste management themselves and, for the properties where Location of EPRA Sustainability Performance data in the Catena handles waste management, the waste companies report only have limited statistics. See Catena’s EPRA index on page 68. Estimate of the landlord’s consumption Reporting period Reported data are measured, statistically significant and The reporting for each year presented in the EPRA table are not estimated. Only data for Catena’s head office at pertains to the calendar year (1 January to 31 December). Vångagärdet 20 is estimated as Catena does not have sub-meters in the office area, which is part of a larger Materiality building. To obtain consumption figures, Catena has taken Catena’s materiality analysis is reported on page 63. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Environmental indicators, EPRA Electricity use Total Comparable portfolios EPRA Indicacode Unit tor 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 Change, % Elec-Abs MWh ElectricTotal purchased electricity 122,715 119,392 104,119 104,917 105,977 -1 Elec-Lfl ity of which, purchased by landlord 56,290 53,154 40,249 48,480 46,950 of which, purchased by tenant 66,425 66,238 63,870 56,437 59,027 Total solar energy generated 1,243 557 131 11 1,091 in-house of which, the landlord’s 257 1 of which, the tenant’s 986 556 131 11 Total electricity use 123,958 119,949 104,119 105,048 105,988 -1 % renewable proportion 41 42 N/A 40 40 kWh/m2 Intensity 75 78 79 81 82 -1 m2 Area LOA 1,648,182 1,540,947 1,322,819 1,299,447 1,299,447 % Share of total LOA 89 86 80 71 72 The table shows electricity use at Catena’s wholly-owned properties, broken down into purchased sources and sources generated in-house. All reported energy generated inhouse has been used in Catena’s properties. In accordance with EPRA’s guidelines and unlike the table on page 54, electric heating is included in electricity use. This explains the higher total electricity use compared with the table on page 54. The renewable proportion includes electricity that Catena purchases from Vattenfall, as well as electricity generated using photovoltaic cells. For electricity purchased by tenants, Catena has no details of the source. Accordingly, the renewable proportion is probably higher than stated. District heating use Total Comparable portfolios EPRAcode Unit Indicator 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 Change, % DH&CMWh District Total district heating use 55,721 55,738 46,187 43,281 44,854 -4 Abs heating and of which, purchased 33,646 33,588 27,430 27,184 26,775 DH&Cdistrict coolby landlord LfL ing of which, purchased 22,075 22,150 18,757 16,097 18,079 % by tenant renewable proportion 94 93 N/A 93 93 kWh/m2 Intensity 43 44 42 42 45 -5 m2 Area LOA 1,292,991 1,265,564 1,103,467 1,027,797 1,002,107 % Share of total LOA 70 71 66 56 56 The table shows district heating use and consumption at Catena’s wholly-owned properties in comparable portfolios. The figures are normal-year-adjusted in accordance with SMHI’s degree days. Catena does not use district cooling in its properties. Fuel consumption Total Comparable portfolios EPRAChange, code Unit Indicator 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 % FuelsMWh Fuel Total fuel use 4,228 7,145 6,542 4,123 6,910 -40 Abs of which, purchased 4,072 6,800 6,241 4,072 6,800 Fuels-LfL by landlord of which, purchased 155 345 301 51 110 by tenant % renewable proportion 0 0 0 0 0 kWh/ Intensity 27 46 42 28 47 -40 m2 m2 Area LOA 154,725 154,725 154,725 146,025 146,025 % Share of total LOA 8 9 9 8 8 The table shows fuel use and consumption at Catena’s wholly-owned properties in comparable portfolios. The low total use for 2019 is attributable to a change in a property that switched from gas to district heating in August 2019. Energy use, total Total Comparable portfolios EPRAIndiChange, code Unit cator 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 % MWh EnerTotal energy use 183,906 182,833 156,848 152,452 157,753 -3 gy purchased/generated by landlord 94,265 93,543 73,920 79,737 80,525 Energypurchased/generated by tenant 89,642 89,289 82,928 72,716 77,227 Int kWh/m Intensity 114 121 122 122 126 -3 m2 Area LOA 1,618,870 1,505,297 1,281,546 1,250,117 1,250,117 % Share of total LOA 88 84 77 68 70 The table shows the energy intensity of all energy use at Catena’s wholly-owned properties. The total energy use differs from the table on page 54 because electricity used for heat pumps is included as normal-year-adjusted heating on page 54, but is included as (non-normal-year-adjusted) electricity in the table above. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Greenhouse gas emissions, broken down between Scope 1, 2 and 3 Total Comparable portfolios EPRA-code Unit Indicator 2019 2018 2019 2018 Change, % GHG-Dir-Abs tonnes Direct Scope 1 958 1,506 274 470 -42 GHG-Indir-Abs CO2e Indirect Scope 2 926 859 5,728 5,707 0 Indirect Scope 3 6,321 6,124 N/A N/A N/A GHG-Int kg CO2e/ GHG Intensity 5.1 5.6 4.8 4.9 -3.0 m2 intensity m2 Area LOA 1,618,870 1,505,297 1,250,117 1,250,117 % Share of total LOA 88 84 68 70 The table shows indirect and direct greenhouse gas emissions and their intensity. Business travel and employee commuting are included in the total consumption figures for Scope 1 and 3, but are not included in the figures for comparable portfolios. Business travel and commuting accounted for 167 tonnes CO2e in 2019 and 142 tonnes CO2e in 2018. Water use Total Comparable portfolios EPRA-code Unit Indicator 2019 2018 2019 2018 Change, % Water-Abs m3 Water Total water use 240,487 215,407 198,901 191,050 5 Water-LfL of which, purchased 136,526 123,308 115,858 112,137 by landlord of which, purchased 103,961 92,099 83,043 78,914 Water-int by tenant l/m2 Intensity 152 153 171 164 5 m2 Area LOA 1,586,399 1,409,796 1,163,563 1,163,563 % Share of total LOA 86 79 63 65 The table shows water use in Catena’s properties. Waste Total Comparable portfolios EPRA-code Unit Indicator 2019 2018 2019 2018 Change, % Waste-Abs tonnes Waste Hazardous waste 14.21 0.66 14.21 0.66 95 Waste-LfL other/unknown treatment 14.21 0.66 14.21 0.66 method Non-hazardous 247.90 277.19 144.45 256.08 -77 for incineration 16.65 23.12 11.42 18.12 for recycling 151.24 113.77 82.54 98.08 for landfill 24.62 10.60 23.68 10.60 for composting 5.10 6.12 5.10 5.92 other/unknown treatment method 50.28 123.57 43.48 123.35 Total 262.11 277.84 158.66 256.73 -62 m2 Area LOA 564,888 481,556 389,253 389,253 % Share of total LOA 31 27 21 22 The table shows the amount of waste in properties where Catena engages waste companies and where there are statistics on the amounts treated in terms of weight. Environmental certifications Total EPRA-code Indicator 2019 2018 Cert-tot Number of certified items 7 6 Certified area (m2) Green Building 149,562 126,675 Certified area (m2) Miljöbyggnad Silver 0 0 Total certified area (m2) 149,562 126,675 Certified area, share of total portfolio (%) 8 7 The table shows the number of buildings that are environmentally certified, as well as the total certified area. Several properties are undergoing certification processes for Miljöbyggnad Silver and are planned to be certified in 2020. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Use at Catena’s head office Total, comparable portfolios EPRA-code Unit Indicator 2019 2018 Change, % Elec-Abs, Lfl MWh Electricity Total electricity use 22.8 33.9 -33 DH&C-Abs, Lfl District heatTotal district heating use 16.2 N/A ing Fuel-Abs, Lfl Fuel Total fuel use 48.4 N/A Energy-Int kWh/m Energy Intensity 135.6 52.5 GHG-Dir-Abs tonnes CO2 Greenhouse Scope 1 8.6 N/A GHG-Indir-Abs gas emisScope 2 0.7 N/A sions GHG-Int kg CO2e/m2 Intensity 14.4 N/A Water-Abs, Lfl m3 Water Total water use 187 213 -12 Water-Int l/m2 Intensity 289.9 330.2 -12 WasteABS, Lfl tonnes Waste Total (non-hazardous, for recycling) 0.5 0.3 31 m2 Area LOA 645.0 645.0 The table shows use at Catena’s head office. All values are estimated. No data for heat use available for 2018. Social indicators Total EPRA-code Indicator 2019 2018 H&S-Asset Proportion of properties where health and safety assessment has been performed (%) 100 100 H&S-Comp Occasions when health and safety deficiencies have been observed at Catena properties 0 0 Comty-Eng Proportion of properties where community projects have been implemented (%) 0 0 EPRA sBPR Index The table below lists references to data for each EPRA sBPR indicator. EPRA-code GRI Standard indicator Reference Environmental Performance Measures Elec-Abs 302-1 66 Elec-Lf 302-1 66 DH&C-Abs 302-1 66 Dh&C-Lfl 302-1 66 Fuel-Abs 302-1 66 Fuel-Lfl 302-1 66 Energy-int CRE1 66 GHG-Dir-Abs 305-1 67 GHG-Indir-Abs 305-2 67 GHG-Int CRE3 67 Water-Abs 303-1 67 Water-Lfl 303-1 67 Water-Int CRE2 67 Waste-Abs 306-2 67 Waste-Lfl 306-2 67 Cert-Tot CRE8 67 Social Performance Measures Diversity-Emp 405-1 61 Diversity-Pay 405-2 61 Emp-Training 404-1 60 Emp-Dev 404-3 60 EmpTurnover 401-1 60 H&S-Emp 403-2 (2016) 60 H&S-Asset 416-1 68 H&S-Comp 416-2 68 Comty-Eng 413-1 68 Governance Performance Measures Gov-Board 102-22 134-135 Gov-Select 102-24 125-126 Gov-Col 102-25 126 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Reporting in accordance with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) In 2019, Catena applied, for the first time, the TCFD’s recagement team and the Board of Directors. Catena works ommendations in describing and analysing the Company’s with and applies frameworks including EPRA sBPR, GRI, work on climate-related risks and opportunities. In 2019, Agenda 2030 and TCFD to measure, monitor and address the focus was on identifying relevant financial climateclimate-related risks and opportunities. related risks and opportunities, as well as their impact and The table below describes the scope and refers to the the Company’s exposure to them. Catena’s Sustainabilrelevant pages for more detailed explanations. In 2020, ity Manager, Communication Manager and CFO worked Catena will continue its efforts to integrate the framework together over the year to map this out. The results have more clearly into its operations. been presented, revised and finally approved by the manTCFD Governance Strategy Risk management Indicators and targets A) The Board of Directors’ moniA) Climate-related risks and A) Catena’s processes for A) Catena’s indicators for toring of climate-related risks and opportunities identified by identifying climate-related assessing climate-related risks opportunities, see pages 69 and 129. Catena and their impact, see risks, see pages 69 and 129. and opportunities, see pages pages 132–133. 50–54, 65. B) Role of management in assessing B) Impact of risks and opporB) Catena’s processes for B) Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and managing climate-related risks tunities on the organisation’s managing climate-related in accordance with the Greenand opportunities, see pages 69 and operations, strategy and risks, see pages 129 and house Gas Protocol, see table 129. financial planning, see pages 132-133. on page 67. 132–133. C) Contingencies in Catena’s C) Integration of the above C) Targets for management strategy for various climateprocesses into the organisaof climate-related risks, see related scenarios, see pages tion’s general risk manageCatena’s sustainability targets 49 and 69. ment, see pages 129 and on pages 50–51. 132-133. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Boundaries tors is retrieved from the sources in accordance with the All of the sustainability aspects Catena has deemed to be table below. significant in various ways have an impact on the ComThe conversion factors are reviewed and updated once pany’s operations and employees. The key performance a year in connection with the preparation of the Sustainindicators presented refer to Catena and its wholly-owned ability Report. As far as possible, Catena uses conversion subsidiaries, unless exceptions are described in connecfactors that include all relevant greenhouse gases, that tion with the data presented. Catena strives for comparais, CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3. The Company bility in historical data. does not perform its own conversions from other greenSome of Catena’s sustainability aspects may also house gases to CO2e and therefore has no overall value have an impact outside the Company’s legal framework, for Global Warming Potential (GWP). The combustion of such as at customers and suppliers. In these cases, this renewable fuels, just like fossil fuels, causes greenhouse impact and the limitations on Catena’s responsibility are gas emissions, but as these emissions are part of a cycle, described in an ongoing manner in connection with the Catena does not report these emissions under the Comreporting of governance and indicators. pany’s greenhouse gas emissions. The conversion factors relating to the use of renewable fuels consist of the part Background data and complementary indicators of the fuel that is fossil, for example, the approximately In this section, Catena presents the methods, assumptions 15 percent of E85 fuel that consists of petroleum. and conversion factors used to prepare the Company’s key performance indicators and GRI indicators. Supplemental Governance, health and safety information is also presented. Catena’s management system for health and safety applies to all employees and is based on identified risks and Supplier evaluation overarching legal requirements. Health and safety issues The Company is evaluating appropriate indicators to are dealt with on an ongoing basis at management meetmeasure and follow up suppliers’ performance in a ings, personnel conferences and through contact with the relevant and cost-effective manner. Catena currently occupational health service. Although the management measures none of the GRI indicators for the disclosure of team is responsible for the annual follow-up of work envisupplier evaluation of the environmental impact, despite ronment matters, all employees are able to submit cases this having been identified as material. In 2019, Catena or, if they so wish, to participate in management meetings updated its supplier assessment, see more on page 55. when specific agenda items are addressed. Information Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions regarding Catena’s policies and manuals is available to all Catena has this year changed its method for calculating employees via Catena’s internal IT platform. energy use and now reports energy use for 89 percent of The work environment policy contains instructions and the total lettable area – the remaining 11 percent is not forms for the reporting of incidents and accidents and for included in the figures because Catena lacks access to how these are to be investigated. From time to time, an tenants’ meter readings. To ease understanding, Catena appointed group shall ensure that no employees are subpresents all energy use in MWh or kWh. To convert energy ject to reprisals. Incidents are followed up by the manageuse from MWh to GJ, use the conversion factor 3.6. Catment team and a health and safety officer if one has been ena measures and monitors greenhouse gas emissions appointed. The position of health and safety officer is curannually in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol rently vacant and all incidents must therefore be reported (GHG Protocol). Information on usage and conversion facto the CEO. Scope Activity Data source Conversion factor Use of oil and natural gas not Internal data collection via energy Conversion factors are obtained from GHG metered individually for each monitoring system Protocol Scope 1 tenant. Business trips by company car Statistics on use are derived from Conversion factors are obtained from the mileage compensation Swedish Transport Administration and NTM Use of electricity and district Internal data collection via energy Conversion factors from the relevant energy heating in properties not monitoring system suppliers, in some cases with one year’s delay Scope 2 metered individually for each due to lack of access to current statistics tenant Use of oil, natural gas, elecInternal data collection via energy Conversion factors are obtained from GHG tricity and district heating as monitoring system Protocol metered individually for each tenant Business trips Usage statistics are retrieved Conversion factors for car journeys are obtained (own car, train, taxi, air) from distance-based compensafrom the Swedish Transport Administration and Scope 3 tion, recorded costs and travel NTM, for taxi trips from Taxi Stockholm, for train agency journeys from SJ and for air travel from GHG Protocol Employee commuting Statistics on use are based on Conversion factors for different modes of transemployee surveys conducted port are obtained from the Swedish Transport annually. Administration and NTM. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY NOTES An annual review of the work environment is conducted in contact the occupational health service directly when the the form of safety rounds at each department and regionneed arises. This should first be approved by the manager al office. Catena also conducts an annual risk assessment, responsible or HR. with action plans and follow-up of the systematic work Catena offers all employees an annual wellness environment efforts being prepared. Based on annual subsidy. Involvement in various events is encouraged as checks, assessments are made regarding what needs to employees can participate in various health runs and other be changed in the work environment. events together. All employees also have the opportunity to take out private health insurance, a benefit that is volunOccupational health tary for the employee and taxable. Catena has signed an agreement on occupational healthcare for all locations where Catena’s employees are posted. Health checks and specific interviews on preventive measures are conducted with all employees every two years to identify, minimise and eliminate health risks. The Anna Wallander, Sustainability Manager health checks are performed by an external and independContacts anna.wallander@catenafastigheter.se ent occupational health care provider. Employees may also Auditor’s review report on the sustainability reporting scope than the focus and scope of an audit in accordance and opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report with the International Standards on Auditing and generally To the Annual General Meeting of Catena AB (publ), Corporate accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Registration Number: 556294-1715 The auditing firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and thus has a comprehenIntroduction sive quality control system that includes documented We have assigned by the management of Catena AB guidelines and procedures regarding compliance with (publ) (“Catena”) to review the 2019 Sustainability Report. professional ethical requirements, standards of profesOur review covers the Sustainability Report on pages sional practice and applicable requirements in laws and 48-71 of the Annual Report, which also constitutes the regulations. We are independent in relation to Catena in Statutory Sustainability Report. accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our professional Responsibility of the Board of Directors and management ethics responsibility according to these requirements. for the Sustainability Report The procedures performed in a review do not enable us The Board of Directors and company management are to obtain a level of assurance such that we would become responsible for preparing the Sustainability Report includaware of all significant matters that might be identified in ing the Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with an audit. The conclusion based on a review does not give applicable criteria and the Annual Accounts Act. The critethe same level of assurance as a conclusion expressed ria are stated on page 62 of the Annual Report and consist based on an audit. of the parts of the GRI Standards that are applicable to Our review is based on the criteria selected by the the Sustainability Report, as well as the Company’s own Board of Directors and company management, as defined reporting and calculation principles. This responsibility above. We believe these criteria are appropriate for the also includes the internal control deemed necessary to preparation of the Sustainability Report. prepare a sustainability report free of material errors, We believe that the evidence we obtained during our whether due to irregularities or mistakes. review is sufficient and appropriate for the purpose of providing a basis for our statement below. Auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the SusOpinion tainability Report based on our review and to submit an Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention opinion regarding the Statutory Sustainability Report. Our that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report has assignment is limited to the historical information prenot, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance sented and thus does not include future-oriented data. with the above-stated criteria selected by the Board of We conducted our review in accordance with ISAE 3000 Directors and company management. Certification assignments other than audits and reviews A statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. of historical financial information. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying anaMalmö, 20 March 2020 lytical review and undertaking other review procedures. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB We conducted our review of the Statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with FAR’s recommendation RevR Mats Åkerlund Fredrik Ljungdahl 12 Auditor’s opinion on the Statutory Sustainability ReAuthorised Sustainability Specialist, port. A summary review and a review in accordance with Public Accountant member of FAR RevR 12 has a different focus and is substantially less in ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 71 OPERATIONS ”Catena’s commitment means a lot in connection with major financial undertakings, such as constructing a terminal. Both with regard to our shared ambitions in terms of the environment and sustainability, as well as their flexible approach to construction, making financial provisions that aid decisionmaking and give greater freedom.” – Mattias Hovinen, Project Manager Property Development, PostNord. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OPERATIONS We are committed – changing customer needs require flexibility and responsiveness Digitally driven trade brings major changes that increase the need for logistics space, but that also place demands on fast, individualised and climate-smart deliveries. With its broad knowledge and analysis of goods and cargo flows, Catena is an active speaking partner and is highly committed to its customers’ development. A good example is Catena’s long-term and successful collaboration with PostNord, involving facilities in both Sweden and Denmark. Logistics locations for growth PostNord delivers more than 171 million packages to the 25 million inhabitants of the Nordic region each year, as well as to 2 million companies. Important synergies can be achieved when terminal and distribution operations are co-located and are able to coordinate more closely with nearby facilities. PostNord’s new 18,300 square-metre terminal, being constructed by Catena at Logistics Position Tostarp in Helsingborg, will be an important node in the company’s logistics network, the new facility being a natural step as parcel volumes from Europe steadily rise. The terminal is environmentally certified in accordance with Sweden Green Building Council’s Miljöbyggnad Silver certification, and will mainly handle parcel, individual consignment and distribution operations, as well as some distribution of letters. It is built around an automated sorting machine and PostNord is scheduled to move in the summer of 2020. The new location in Helsingborg strengthens PostNord’s presence in a highly expansive region, relieving existing terminals at a time when import volumes are increasing, when meeting our e-commerce customers’ growth is crucial and PostNord’s own third-party logistics operations are expanding. Catena is also building a 2,000 square-metre logistics facility for mail sorting and logistics shipments for PostNord at the Katrineholm logistics centre. A central location is necessary as consignments are distributed to the nearby town using electric vehicles. Sustainable partnership for future parcel deliveries To adapt to continuously growing e-commerce, with parcel volumes increasing and letter volumes drastically decreasing, PostNord is working purposefully on adding capacity and identifying new solutions. “Sameday deliveries” were recently launched in Sweden on a trial basis and, in Denmark, digital parcel boxes have begun to be introduced within walking distance from people’s homes for easier, more convenient and environmentally friendly deliveries. Studies show that increasing numbers of consumers are prepared to make active choices for more environmentallyadapted deliveries. This requires increased transparency from PostNord and the capacity to propose more sustainable alternatives. PostNord sees considerable potential in artificial intelligence and ‘machine learning’ here, streamlining transport methods and logistics to be able to respond in detail to questions regarding returns and vehicle load levels. Reviewing flow analyses for transport methods, the effect on emissions and aspects of structural engineering are part of the process when selecting locations in which to establish operations. One of our three values is that we are committed. We work close to our customers and one another and we are passionate about what we do. At Catena, we believe in having fun at work and we do not fear this joy being contagious – we are happy to share! Through property management close to customers, Catena creates the right conditions for a profitable property portfolio while helping the Company’s customers achieve their business objectives. You can read more about our property management and project development close to customers on pages 22-29. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 73 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONTENTS Contents The Group Parent Company Financial Statements Financial Statements Statement of Comprehensive Income 76–77 Income Statement 105 Statement of Financial Position 78–79 Balance sheet 106 Statement of Changes in Equity 80 Statement of Changes in Equity 107 Cash-flow Statement 81 Cash-flow Statement 107 Notes Notes Note 1. General information 82 Note 1. Accounting policies 108 Note 2. Accounting and valuation principles 82–87 Note 2. Financial risk management 108 Note 3. Operating segment information 88–89 Note 3. Significant estimates and assumptions for accounting purposes 108 Note 4. Rental income 90 Note 4. Net turnover 108 Note 5. Property expenses and central administration 90 Note 5. Cost of services performed 108 Note 6. Fees and expenses to auditors 90 Note 6. Employee and personnel expenses 108–109 Note 7. Leasing 90 Note 7. Fees and expenses to auditors 109 Note 8. Employee and personnel expenses 90–92 Note 8. Leasing 109 Note 9. Financial income and expenses 92 Note 9. Financial income and expenses 109 Note 10. Tax 92–93 Note 10. Tax 109–110 Note 11. Goodwill 93 Note 11. Property, plant and equipment 110 Note 12. Investment properties 93–95 Note 12. Participations in Group companies 110–111 Note 13. Property, plant and equipment 95 Note 13. Participations in associated companies 112 Note 14. Participations in associated companies and collaborative arrangements 95–96 Note 14. Accounts receivable 112 Note 15. Accounts receivable 96 Note 15. Financial instruments and financial risk management 112 Note 16. Other receivables 97 Note 16. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 113 Note 17. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 97 Note 17. Equity 113 Note 18. Equity and earnings per share 97 Note 18. Other provisions 113 Note 19. Financial instruments and Financial risk management 97–99 Note 19. Accrued expenses and deferred income 113 Note 20. Classification of financial instruments 100 Note 20. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 113 Note 21. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 101 Note 21. Cash-flow Statement 114 Note 22. Accrued expenses and deferred income 101 Note 22. Classification of financial instruments 114–115 Note 23. Related parties 101 Note 23. Significant events after the end of the financial year 115 Note 24. Significant events after the end of the financial year 101 Note 24. Related parties 115 Note 25. Cash-flow Statement 102 Note 26. Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 103–104 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 75 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income SEK M Note 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 3 -31 Dec 2019 -31 Dec 2018 Rental income 4 1,182.9 1,090.7 Property expenses 5 -280.1 -263.1 Net operating surplus 902.8 827.6 Central administration 5,6,7,8 -34.1 -31.4 Other operating income 4.5 2.5 Other operating expenses -0.4 -0.3 Participations in profit of associated companies 14 -11.5 8.5 Financial income 9 3.4 2.9 Financial expenses 9 -228.2 -238.5 Financial expenses for right-of-use assets 7 -9.7 – Profit from property management 626.8 571.3 Realised changes in value of investment properties 12 75.2 4.7 Unrealised changes in value of investment properties 12 791.2 329.1 Changes in values of derivatives 20 29.3 35.0 Profit before tax 1,522.5 940.1 Current tax 10 -21.8 -7.8 Deferred tax 10 -276.9 -108.9 Profit for the year 18 1,223.8 823.4 Other comprehensive income Translation difference1) 2.2 7.3 Comprehensive income for the year 1,226.0 830.7 Attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 18 1,226.0 830.7 Non-controlling interests – – Earnings per share Earnings per share, SEK2) 18 32.46 21.93 Dividend per share, SEK 6.503) 5.75 1) The item may be reversed in the Income Statement. 2) Prior to and after dilution. 3) The Board’s proposed dividend. Consolidated quarterly earnings 2019 2018 SEK M Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Rental income 297.8 300.1 291.0 294.0 285.3 277.9 264.3 263.2 Net operating surplus 220.9 226.8 231.9 223.2 217.1 213.9 204.0 192.6 Profit from property management 148.8 160.1 162.0 155.9 148.5 148.6 138.3 135.9 Profit before tax 461.0 419.0 329.2 313.3 191.5 365.5 160.4 222.7 Profit after tax 372.0 344.3 261.7 245.8 158.1 294.1 194.6 176.6 RENTAL INCOME Rental income, SEK M Rental income for the year increased by 8 percent to SEK -19 1,182.9 1,182.9 million (1,090.7), corresponding to SEK 651/m2 (638). -18 1,090.7 In comparable portfolios, rental income increased by 2.3 percent -17 892.0 compared with the preceding year. The remaining increase in -16 786.6 rental income derives from completed projects and the net -15 464.2 effect of acquisitions and disposals. 0 300 600 900 1,200 SEK M See list of acquisitions and divestments on page 25. 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Duration of leases as per 31 December 2019 The derivatives are marked to market, meaning that the carrying amount agrees with the fair value. The change is recognised Year of Number of Contractual annual Contractual in the Income Statement. The carrying amount was a negative maturity contracts rent, SEK M annual rent, % SEK 381.1 million (410.5). The change in value of the derivatives 2020 178 108.4 9 does not affect cash flow and, on reaching maturity, the value 2021 69 163.2 14 of derivatives is always zero. The nominal value of the deriva2022 49 141.4 12 tives is equivalent to 51 percent of consolidated interest-bearing 2023 60 182.7 15 liabilities. 2024 25 108.2 9 2025 22 135.2 11 Fixed interest, including derivatives 2026+ 42 362.9 30 Year SEK M Interest rate, %1) Share, % Total 445 1,202.0 100 2020 4,263.0 1.1 48.5 2021 755.7 5.0 8.6 Income from contracts with terms of more than three years 2022 500.0 3.9 5.7 accounted for 66 percent of Catena’s contracted annual rent. The average remaining lease period has decreased slightly but 2023 500.0 3.3 5.7 remains high at 4.9 years (5.1). 2024 500.0 3.0 5.7 2025 1,122.0 3.9 12.8 Economic letting ratio, % 2026 1,143.9 4.3 13.0 -19 95.0 Total 8,784.6 2.6 100.0 -18 95.9 1) Refers to the current average interest rate per 31 December 2019. The -17 94.7 margin is distributed evenly across the fixed-interest period. -16 93.0 -15 95.5 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Reduction in the rate of interest through interest-rate swaps The letting ratio decreased in 2019, partly due to bankruptcies Interest rate, at the end of the year and partly due to premises temporarily Start year End year % SEK M vacant during remodelling for new tenants. 2011 2021 2.9 500.0 2012 2021 2.7 191.7 NET OPERATING SURPLUS 2013 2021 2.8 22.0 The net operating surplus increased by 9 percent in 2019, 2013 2021 2.8 42.0 reaching 76.3 percent. The net operating surplus increased, 2012 2022 2.3 500.0 primarily due to acquisitions and completed projects, but was 2014 2023 1.7 500.0 also affected by ground rents being reported as a financial expense as of 2019. 2014 2024 1.4 500.0 2017 2025 2.3 561.0 Property expenses in relation to rental income, % 2017 2025 2.3 561.0 2017 2026 2.7 572.0 -19 23.7 2017 2026 2.7 572.0 -18 24.1 -17 24.7 Total 2.3 4,521.7 -16 26.5 -15 24.3 PROFIT 0 10 20 30 40 % Profit for the year was SEK 400.4 million higher than for the preceding year. Changes in the property values had a positive PROFIT FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT effect on profit for the year and were SEK 532.6 million higher Profit from property management increased by 10 percent. than in 2018. Underlying the improvement is an expanded portfolio, an The change in the value of derivatives was positive due to the improved operating surplus and lower financing expenses fact that market rates on shorter maturities increased more than in relation to the size of the loan portfolio. the rates on long maturities have fallen. RETURN ON TOTAL EQUITY Profit from property management, SEK M The return on total equity increased from 7.6 to 10.2 percent. -19 626.8 The increase was predominantly attributable to changes in the -18 571.3 values of properties, although these also increased the balance -17 440.1 sheet total. -16 316.0 -15 259.3 Return on equity, % 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 Mkr -19 10.2 Over the year, Catena’s average interest rate was 2.6 percent -18 7.6 (2.7), as an effect of loan renegotiations and the market interest -17 7.1 rate trend having a positive impact on the cost of interest rate -16 6.9 swaps. -15 10.5 0 4 8 12 % Average interest rate, % -19 2.6 -18 2.7 -17 3.2 -16 3.6 -15 2.6 0 2 4% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 77 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 11 503.0 503.0 Investment properties 12 16,270.5 14,721.1 Tangible fixed assets 13 4.0 1.5 Right-of-use asset ground rent 7 330.2 – Participations in associated companies 14 75.9 27.4 Deferred tax assets 10 85.1 96.9 Other non-current receivables 19,20 94.1 61.2 Total non-current assets 17,362.8 15,411.1 Current assets Accounts receivable 15 16.6 12.7 Other receivables 16 191.4 125.6 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 68.1 75.3 Cash and cash equivalents 19 131.2 281.2 Total current assets 407.3 494.8 TOTAL ASSETS 20 17,770.1 15,905.9 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 165.9 165.9 Other capital contributions 2,161.3 2,161.3 Profit brought forward 3,990.8 2,981.6 Shareholders’ equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders 6,318.0 5,308.8 Non-controlling interests – – Total equity 18 6,318.0 5,308.8 Interest-bearing liabilities 19,20,21 4,784.7 6,170.2 Deferred tax liability 10 1,537.0 1,271.6 Lease liability 19 327.8 – Other non-current liabilities 19 384.3 412.6 Total non-current liabilities 20 7,033.8 7,854.4 Interest-bearing liabilities 19,20,21 3,999.9 2,346.6 Accounts payable 125.5 105.4 Current tax liabilities 19.6 22.6 Liabilities to associated companies – 1.0 Other liabilities 74.5 75.4 Accrued expenses and deferred income 22 198.8 191.7 Total current liabilities 20 4,418.3 2,742.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,770.1 15,905.9 CAPITAL STRUCTURE Catena manages its capital to generate a return to its owners. A well-considered balance between equity, interest-bearing debt and capital employed is pursued so that capital is sufficient considering the operations being conducted. Over the year, the equity ratio rose to 35.6 percent (33.4), following the financial target set by the Board of Directors. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ASSETS land at the Tostarp Logistics Position and leasing efforts are Properties ongoing. Catena’s capital employed is primarily placed in 109 logistics At the Tahe 1:64 property in Jönköping, adaptations and properties at strategic locations next to transport routes and an extension have been completed for the tenant Procurator, hubs and in locations adjacent to cities or nearby. The lettable which has moved into the well-adapted premises that now offer area has increased by 2.8 percent over the year, following 35,000 square metres of space. acquisitions and divestments. In recent years, the bulk of assets have been gradually replaced from out-dated warehouse and inUnrealised changes in value dustrial properties to modern logistics facilities and developable Reassessments of fair value over the course of the year take place land, which gradually improves the asset portfolio’s possibilities through an internal valuation, which is described in more detail of generating returns. in Note 12. The valuation model entails a present value estimate of assessed future payment flows. Assets, SEK M -19 16,270.5 1,092.3 407.3 Goodwill -18 14,721.1 690.0 494.8 Reported goodwill of SEK 503.0 million on the balance sheet -17 13,131.1 882.8 232.7 date is, in full, an effect of the reporting of nominally deferred -16 10,786.4 839.6 718.9 tax relating to temporary differences between fair value and -15 4,781.5 1,342.1 824.3 taxation value recognised for properties included in the business 0 6,000 12,000 18,000 Mkr combination of Tribona in 2016. Properties Other fixed assets Current assets Current assets A large part of Catena’s income is charged in advance, while A list of the properties is provided on pages 38-39 and in the fold-out. interest and other expenses are charged in arrears, limiting the need for working capital. That and good liquidity mean that Catena is well equipped for continued acquisitions and investments. Property portfolio LIABILITIES Property portfolio Fair Number of Interest-bearing liabilities development, SEK M amount properties At the end of the year, Interest-bearing liabilities amounted to Property portfolio at beginning of year 14,721.1 107 SEK 8,784.6 million (8,516.8) of which the share of traditional Acquisitions* 82.1 3 bank loans amounted to 76 percent, secured bonds to 16 percent and commercial papers to 8 percent. The credit framework Investments in existing properties 752.6 amounted to SEK 9,209.6 million. Sales -82.6 -1 During the year, Catena has renegotiated financing agreeTranslation difference 6.1 ments with a total framework of approximately SEK 2,687.8 Unrealised changes in value 791.2 million. On the balance sheet date, interest maturity, including Total investment properties 16,270.5 109 derivatives, was 2.3 years, with a debt maturity of 1.3 years. After the end of the year, approximately SEK 800 million was * Property value after deduction of deferred tax and with addition of renegotiated and a backup facility of SEK 1 billion was expanded transaction expenses. to SEK 2 billion. Acquisitions During the year, the net property value increased by 11 percent. Debt maturity Among other things, three properties were acquired. The MutContract volUtilised, Unutilised, tern 6 property in Kungälv for a property value of SEK 52.1 Year ume, SEK M SEK M SEK M million, the Välingen 2 property in Karlstad for a property value 2020 4,060.0 3,960.0 100.0 of SEK 20.4 million and the Sockret 7 property in Malmö for a 2021 3,015.8 2,690.8 325.0 property value of SEK 9,2 million. The acquisitions are presented on page 25. 2022 978.6 978.6 – >2023 1,155.2 1,155.2 – Total 9,209.6 8,784.6 425.0 Disposals In accordance with an option agreement with the tenant, the Mörby 5:28 property in Nykvarn was sold during the year, at a value of SEK 83.0 million. Bonds via SFF The disposals are reported on page 25. Catena’s outstanding covered (through property mortgages) bond financing amounts to SEK 1,386 million and is fully Investments financed through Svensk FastighetsFinansiering AB (SFF). In addition to acquisitions, ongoing investments of SEK 752.6 million have been made in existing properties. At Logistics PosiCommercial paper financing tion Sunnanå, outside Malmö, the first tenants have now moved Catena has established a commercial paper programme with into the 36,200 square-metre multi-tenant warehouse and Chefs a framework amount of SEK 2 billion. Papers within the proCulinar has moved into its 7,800 square-metre distribution gramme have a maturity of at most 364 days. The programme warehouse. In Sunnanå, the remaining part of the multi-tenant is arranged by Swedbank AB, which also functions as an issuing warehouse, as well as a new 10,200 square-metre warehouse institute together with Danske Bank. To manage the refinancfor DHL Express, are now being completed. ing risk, the programme has secured backup facilities (through At the Plantehuset 3 property within the Tostarp Logistics property mortgages). Position in Helsingborg, construction has been completed of a On the balance sheet date, the outstanding volume was 11,000 square-metre logistics warehouse for Nowaste Logistics, nominally SEK 675 million. including a high-bay section. At the same time, construction of PostNord’s new 18,300 square-metre terminal is in progress. EQUITY Work to extend Nowaste’s major, 30,400 square-metre wareIn 2019, equity changed comprehensive income for the year less house by an additional 18,000 square metres has also comdividends paid. menced. Space for further construction remains on Catena’s Changes in shareholders’ equity are presented on page 80. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 79 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated changes in shareholders’ equity Profit Total NonShare Other capital brought Parent Company controlling Total SEK M capital contributions forward shareholders interests equity Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2018 164.6 2,112.6 2,319.3 4,596.5 – 4,596.5 New share issue 1.3 48.7 – 50.0 – 50.0 Comprehensive income for the year – – 830.7 830.7 – 830.7 Dividend – – -168.4 -168.4 – -168.4 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2018 165.9 2,161.3 2,981.6 5,308.8 – 5,308.8 Profit Total NonShare Other capital brought Parent Company controlling Total SEK M capital contributions forward shareholders interests equity Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2019 165.9 2,161.3 2,981.6 5,308.8 – 5,308.8 Comprehensive income for the year – – 1,226.0 1,226.0 – 1,226.0 Dividend – – -216.8 -216.8 – -216.8 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2019 165.9 2,161.3 3,990.8 6,318.0 – 6,318.0 Equity, SEK M Equity and dividend per share, SEK SEK 8,000 180 8 6,000 6 120 4,000 4 60 2,000 2 0 0 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 -15 -16 -17 -18-191) Equity per share Dividend per share. 1) Proposal by the Board of Directors and the CEO. 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated cash flow analysis 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 SEK M Note 25 -31 Dec 2019 -31 Dec 2018 1 Operating activities Profit before tax 1,522.5 940.1 2 Adjustments for non-cash items -894.9 -375.6 Tax paid -15.1 -13.7 Cash flow before changes in working capital 612.5 550.8 3 Changes in working capital 4 Change in operating receivables -87.1 -13.9 Change in operating liabilities 88.3 -19.2 5 Cash flow from operating activities 613.7 517.7 6 Investing activities Acquisition of assets via subsidiaries -18.7 -75.3 7 Divestment of assets via subsidiaries 7.6 24.3 Investments in investment properties -752.6 -796.6 8 Divestment of investment properties 0.2 4.8 Investments in property, plant and equipment -3.2 -0.4 Acquisitions of other financial assets -75.1 -92.0 9 Divestments of financial assets 16.3 120.1 Cash flow from investing activities -825.5 -815.1 10 Financing activities 11 Borrowings 2,822.7 2,423.0 Amortisation of loans -2,545.0 -1,771.1 12 Dividend paid -216.8 -168.4 Cash flow from financing activities 60.9 483.5 13 Cash flow for the year -150.9 186.1 14 Opening cash and cash equivalents 281.2 94.8 Exchange rate difference in cash and cash equivalents 0.9 0.3 Closing cash and cash equivalents 131.2 281.2 15 16 17 CASH FLOW BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL CASH FLOW Primarily due to the improved profit from property management, Cash flow has been impacted by significant investments 18 cash flow for the year before changes in working capital inin existing investment properties of SEK 752.6 million. creased by SEK 61.7 million to SEK 612.5 million. 19 -19 612.5 -19 -150.9 20 -18 550.8 -18 186.1 -17 418.7 -17 -50.9 -16 294.3 -16 -56.1 21 -15 241.5 -15 2.1 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 SEK M -160 -70 20 110 200 SEK M 22 23 24 25 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 81 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Notes – Group 1 Note 1. General information 2 Catena AB (publ), corporate registration number 556294-1715, clearly specified from other sources. The actual outcome may has its registered office in Helsingborg, in the County of Skåne, deviate from these estimates and assessments. 3 Sweden. The Company is the Parent Company of a Group of Those assessments made by the senior management on companies including subsidiaries. The address of the Company’s application of IFRS that have a material impact on the financial headquarters is PO Box 5003, SE-250 05 Helsingborg, Sweden statements and estimates made that can entail material adjust4 and the visiting address is Landskronavägen 23A in Helsingborg. ment of ensuing years’ financial statements are described in the Catena’s shall actively manage, enhance and pro-actively note for the item that could be subject to such adjustment. This develop its property portfolio by identifying and conducting applies in particular to the note regarding investment properties. 5 value-enhancing programmes that raise the attractiveness of the The accounting principles presented below for the Group have properties and their yield, with due consideration of risk. Catena been applied consistently for all periods presented in the con6 also sells properties when the opportunity to create further solidated financial statements, unless otherwise stated below. growth is deemed to be limited. The Group’s accounting principles have been applied consistOperations in the Parent Company Catena AB are comprised ently in the reporting and consolidation of the Parent Company, 7 exclusively of inter-Group activities and the assets mainly consist subsidiaries and associated companies. of shares and participations in subsidiaries which, in their turn, 8 own properties or shares in property companies. New and amended standards applied by the Group The Parent Company is listed on NASDAQ Stockholm, Mid Cap. The following standards are applied for the first time by the The Annual Report and the consolidated accounts were apGroup for financial years commencing 1 January 2019 or later: 9 proved for publication by the Board of Directors and the CEO Leases – the new IFRS16 standard is applied with retroacon 20 March 2020 and will be presented to the Annual General tive application of the transition method without recalculation Meeting on 29 April 2020. of comparison figures. Implementation of the standard means 10 that nearly all leases are reported in the balance sheet, since no distinction is made between operating and finance leases. Ac11 Note 2. Accounting policies cording to the new standard, an asset (the right to use a leased asset) shall be reported, as well as a financial liability to pay Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise specified. lease payments. Short-term leases (of 12 months or less) and 12 leases where the underlying asset is of a low value are exempt Compliance with standards and legal requirements and expensed on a straight-line basis in profit or loss. These The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in consist mainly of short-term leasing of land and renting of of13 accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Internafice equipment. In the Group’s capacity as a lessee, the change tional Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the Interconsists of the present value of ground rents and leased cars 14 national Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretabeing booked up in the balance sheet. With regard to leasehold tion statements issued by the International Financial Reporting agreements, Catena recognises assets with a right-of-use asset Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as approved by the European of SEK 349.2 million and a lease liability of SEK 346.6 million 15 Commission for application in the EU. The Group also applies at the transition to IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019 and SEK 3.5 the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 million for cars. During the transition, there is no effect on equity 16 Supplementary accounting rules for groups. and comparative figures for 2018 have not been restated. The The Parent Company applies the Swedish Financial Reporting Income Statement and Cash-Flow Statement is primarily be afBoard’s recommendation RFR 2 (Accounting for Legal Entities), fected by ground rent being reclassified from Property expenses 17 which entails the same accounting policies as for the Group to Financial expenses. For 2018, ground rents amounted to SEK except in the cases provided for in Note 1 to the Parent Compa10.4 million and for 2019 to SEK 9.7 million. For further inforny’s accounts. Those deviations that occur between the Parent mation, see also Note 7. 18 Company’s and the Group’s policies are caused by limitations in the possibilities for applying IFRS in the Parent Company as a New standards and interpretations yet to be adopted by the 19 consequence of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and, in some Group cases, for tax reasons. A number of new standards and interpretations will come into effect for financial years commencing after 1 January 2019 and 20 Preconditions for the preparation of the Parent Company’s have not been applied in the preparation of this financial report. and the Group’s financial statements None of these are expected to have a material impact on the The functional currency of the Parent Company is SEK and this consolidated financial statements except. 21 None of the other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that have not is also the reporting currency of the Parent Company and the Group. This means that the financial statements are presented yet entered into force are expected to have a significant impact 22 in SEK. All amounts, unless otherwise stated, are stated in SEK on the Group. million. Assets and liabilities are recognised at historical cost, except for investment properties and certain financial assets and Segment reporting 23 liabilities, which are recognised at fair value. Financial assets Operating segments are recognised in a manner that correand liabilities recognised at fair value comprise derivative instrusponds to the internal reporting submitted to the Chief Operatments. ing Decision Maker (CODM). The CODM is the function that is 24 Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS responsible for allocating resources and assessing the perforrequires that senior management makes assessments, estimance of the operating segments. At Catena, this function is 25 mates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting identified as the CEO and senior management, that is, the unit policies and the recognised amounts of assets, liabilities, income at Catena that makes strategic decisions. and expenses. The estimates and the assumptions are based 26 on historical experience and on a number of other factors that Classification seem reasonable under the prevailing circumstances. The result Non-current assets and non-current liabilities, essentially, of these estimates and assumptions is then used to assess the consist of amounts expected to be recovered or paid after more carrying amounts for assets and liabilities that are otherwise not than 12 months of the balance-sheet date. Current assets and 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP current liabilities, essentially, consist only of amounts expected of consolidated surplus and deficit values. In the Consolidated to be recovered or paid within 12 months of the balance-sheet Income Statement the Group’s share of the companies’ net date. earnings after taxes adjusted for any depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses or reversals of acquired surplus and deficit Consolidation principles values is reported as participations in the earnings of associ1 Subsidiary ated companies. Dividends received from associated companies Subsidiaries are all companies (including structured companies) reduce the carrying amounts of the investment. “Participations 2 over which the Group has decisive control. The Group controls a in the earnings of associated companies” are reported as part of company when it is exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns profit from property management from its holdings in that company and has the opportunity to afWhere the Group’s share of losses reported by the associated 3 fect the return through its influence over the company. A controlcompany exceeds the reported value of the Group’s holdings, ling influence implies directly or indirectly a right to determine a the value of the holdings is reduced to zero. The equity method 4 company’s financial and operational strategies in order to gain is applied until the time the significant influence ceases. Unrealfinancial benefits, which is the general rule with a shareholding ised gains that arise from transactions with associated compaof 50 percent or more of the voting rights. In assessing the existnies and jointly controlled companies are eliminated to an extent 5 ence of a controlling influence, potential voting shares that can that corresponds with the Group’s participation in the Company. be utilised or converted promptly are taken into consideration. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same manner as unrealSubsidiaries are recognised in accordance with the acquisition ised gains, but only to the extent that no indication of a need for 6 method if the acquisition of a subsidiary meant the acquisition impairment exists. of a business and not solely of assets and liabilities. This method Catena notes that, the accounting of its participation in Svensk 7 entails that the acquisition of a subsidiary is treated as a transFastighetsFinansiering AB (SFF), is described as having been action through which the Group indirectly acquires the subsidireported in accordance with the equity method. SFF is, in fact, ary’s assets and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. a joint operation and, with the exception of a minor reclassifica8 The consolidated cost is established through an acquisition tion, has actually been reported as such. Accordingly, Catena’s analysis in conjunction with the acquisition of operations. The holding in SFF has been redefined from an associated company analysis establishes the cost of the participation rights or the to a joint operation. This change entails no effect on sharehold9 business, the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and ers’ equity, profit or cash flow. The principal change entails an the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. The acquisition adjustment of the balance sheet through the elimination of the 10 value of the shares in the subsidiary or business comprises the shareholding and liabilities and Catena’s participation in current fair values as of the day of transfer for assets, liabilities arising investments instead being recognised among current receivaor assumed and issued equity instruments paid in consideration bles. Comparison figures have been adjusted where necessary. 11 for the net assets acquired. The acquisition value includes the fair value of all assets and liabilities resulting from an agreed Holding in joint operations conditional purchase price. Acquisition related costs are exA holding in a joint operation is a collaborative arrangement 12 pensed as incurred. Identifiable assets and liabilities assumed through which the parties with a joint controlling influence over in a business combination are initially measured at fair value on the operations are entitled particular assets and have particular 13 the acquisition date. For each acquisition, the Group determines obligations regarding the liabilities arising from the operations. if the non-controlling interest in the acquired company should be The joint controlling influence is regulated in agreements and recognised at fair value or at the holding’s proportional share of is exerted only when the parties sharing the controlling influ14 the acquired company’s net assets. ence must give their consent to the relevant operations. For joint If the cost exceeds the fair value of the identifiable assets operations, Catena recognises its share of assets, liabilities, 15 acquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, income and costs, as well as its share of shared assets, liabilithis difference is recognised as goodwill. If the cost is less than ties, revenues and expenses item by item in the consolidated the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and the confinancial statements. Transactions and other interactions with 16 tingent liabilities, this difference is recognised in profit or loss. shared operations are eliminated in the consolidated financial When the acquisition of subsidiaries means the acquisition of statements. investment properties that are not part of a business, the cost is 17 allocated over the individually identifiable assets and liabilities Transactions with holdings without controlling influence based on their relative fair values at the acquisition date. All The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as 18 acquisitions of subsidiaries in 2018 and 2019 were recognised transactions with the Group’s shareholders. In the case of acquias asset acquisitions. sitions from non-controlling interests, the difference between The financial statements of subsidiaries are incorporated in the price paid and the actual share acquired of the carrying 19 the consolidated financial statements from the moment conamount of the subsidiary’s net assets is recognised in equity. trolling influence arises until the date the controlling influence Gains and losses on divestments to non-controlling interests ceases. Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income or exare also recognised in equity. 20 penses and unrealised gains or losses arising from intra-Group transactions among Group companies are entirely eliminated in Divestment of a controlling influence, significant influence 21 the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. and shared influence, respectively When the Group no longer exercises a controlling influence, Associated companies and joint ventures significant influence or shared influence, each remaining holding 22 A company is reported as an Associated company when Catena is re-measured at fair value and the change recognised in profit holds at least 20 percent of the votes, or at most 50 percent, or or loss. The fair value is used as the first carrying amount and 23 otherwise has a significant, but non-controlling influence over comprises the basis for continued reporting of the remaining its operational and financial control. A joint venture is a colholding in the associated company, joint venture or financial aslaborative arrangement through which the parties with a shared set. All amounts pertaining to the divested operations that were 24 controlling influence over the operations are entitled to the previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recogventure’s net assets. From the point at which a significant influnised as if the Group had directly divested the attributable assets ence is obtained, and until it ceases, the holdings are reported or liabilities. This means that amounts previously recognised in 25 in the consolidated accounts in accordance with the equity other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. method. The equity method means that the Group’s carrying 26 amounts for shares in associated companies and joint ventures Translation of foreign currencies correspond to the Group’s share of the companies’ equity as Items included in the financial statements for the various units well as consolidated goodwill and any other remaining values in the Group are valued in the currency used in the economic ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 83 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP environment in which the respective company is primarily active Financial income and expenses (functional currency). In the consolidated financial statements, Financial income and expenses comprise interest income on bank the Swedish krona (SEK) is used, which is the Parent Company’s account funds and receivables, interest expenses on loans, divifunctional currency and the Group’s reporting currency. dend income and exchange gains and losses. 1 Interest income on receivables and interest expenses on Transactions and balance sheet items in foreign currencies liabilities are calculated using the effective interest method. 2 Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the funcEffective interest is the interest-rate at which the present value tional currency at the exchange rate in force on the transaction of all future incoming and outgoing payments during the fixeddate or the date that the items were revalued. Exchange gains interest term is equal to the carrying amount of the receivable 3 and losses that arise in the payment of such transactions and in or liability. the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign curInterest income and interest expense respectively include rencies at the closing day rate are recognised in profit or loss. amounts distributed over time for transaction expenses and any 4 Transactions with countries outside of Sweden only arise in discounts, premiums and other differences between the initial exceptional cases. carrying amount of the receivable or liability and the amount 5 settled when the item falls due for payment. Group companies Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive Earnings and financial position for Group companies (Catena payment has been established. 6 Bröndby A/S and Catena Holding NO AS), which have a different functional currency than the reporting currency are translated to Profit from property management 7 the reporting currency according to the following: Catena’s operations focus on growth in cash flow from on-going • assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets are transproperty management operations. Catena has elected to present lated at the closing day rate, a single performance measure called “profit from property man8 • revenues and expenses for each of the income statements agement”, which essentially reflects the cash flow generated are translated at the average exchange rate, and from its on-going property management operations. Changes in • all exchange differences that arise are recognised in other the value of investment properties and derivative instruments 9 comprehensive income. are not included in cash flow from on-going property management operations and are therefore not included in this perfor10 Goodwill and fair value adjustments that arise on acquisition mance measure. of a foreign business are treated as assets and liabilities of this business and translated at the closing day rate. Tax 11 Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income Operating income taxes are recognised in profit or loss unless the underlying transIncome is recognised in profit or loss when the control of a prodaction is recognised directly in equity, whereby the associated 12 uct or service has been transferred to the counterparty. If any tax effect is recognised in equity. Current tax is the tax payable material uncertainty exists regarding payment, attached costs or receivable for the current year, which includes adjustment of 13 or risk and if seller retains an involvement in the day-to-day mancurrent tax attributable to preceding periods. agement such as would usually be associated with ownership, Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the balancethe payment is not taken up as income. Income is recognised sheet method, based on temporary differences between the 14 at the fair value of what has been received or is expected to be accounting and tax values of assets and liabilities. The following received after deductions for any discounts given. temporary differences are not taken into consideration: tem15 porary differences arising on initial recognition of goodwill, the Rental income initial reporting of assets and liabilities that are not business Income from property and rental discounts are recognised on combinations and that, at the transaction date, do not impact 16 a straight-line basis in profit or loss, based on the terms and the carrying amount or the taxable earnings. Nor are temporary conditions of the lease. Advance rents are recognised as prepaid differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries and rental revenue. Revenues from early redemption of leases are associated companies not likely to be reversed within the fore17 reported, in cases where no further performance is required seeable future. The valuation of deferred tax is based on how from Catena, as revenue in the period in which compensation the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are expected to be 18 was received. Included in rental income are expenses invoiced realised or settled. on to customers, consisting primarily of property tax and media, Deferred tax assets pertaining to deductible temporary difsince these are directly linked to the lease agreements. In all ferences and loss carry-forwards are recognised only insofar as 19 material respects, onward invoicing is deemed to correspond to they are likely to result in lower tax payments in the future. performance commitments that, like rent, are settled over time Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax and reported as revenue in the corresponding period. rules that have been decided or were, for all practical purposes, 20 decided at the balance-sheet date. Income from property sales In legal entities, untaxed reserves are recognised including 21 Catena recognises income and costs from the acquisition and the deferred tax liability. However, in the consolidated financial sale of property at the date on which control transferred to the statements untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilipurchaser, which normally coincides with the occupancy date. ties and equity. 22 Any agreement between the parties pertaining to risks and benefits, and involvement in the day-to-day operations is taken Financial instruments into account when assessing the moment in time for recognising Financial instruments recognised in the Balance Sheet include 23 income. Furthermore, any circumstances that could impact the assets such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, outcome of the transaction which are outside the seller’s and/or loan receivables and derivatives. Equity and liabilities include 24 the buyer’s control are taken into account. financial instruments in the form of accounts payable, borrowCriteria for income recognition are applied individually for ings and derivatives. each transaction. A financial asset or liability is recognised in the Balance Sheet 25 when the Company becomes a party to the commercial terms Operating expenses and financial income and expenses and conditions of the instrument. Accounts receivable including 26 Central administration rent claims, termed accounts receivable in the Annual Report, This includes the cost at overall Group level for items including are recognised when the invoice has been sent. A liability is Group management, personnel administration, IT, investor recognised when the counterparty has performed and a contracrelations, audits, financial statements and listing costs. tual obligation to pay exists, even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts payable are recognised when invoices are 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP received. A financial asset is removed from the Balance Sheet Derivative and hedge accounting when the rights inherent in the agreement are realised or expire Catena does not apply hedge accounting. All derivatives are or if the Company loses control over them. This applies equally reported in the categories: “Financial assets measured at fair for part of a financial asset. A financial liability is removed from value via profit or loss” and “Financial liabilities measured at fair the Balance Sheet when the obligation arising from the agreevalue via profit or loss.” 1 ment has been met or has otherwise been extinguished. This applies equally for part of a financial liability. Fair value of financial instruments 2 Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recognised The fair value of loans and interest-rate swaps is determined by on the transaction date, which is the date on which the Company discounting future cash flows by the quoted market interest rate agrees to acquire or dispose of the asset. for each maturity. Values of interest-rate cap agreements are 3 On initial recognition, financial instruments are classified determined using the option pricing model. In all cases level 2 is based on the type of asset and, for debt instruments, based on applied under IFRS 13. The Company’s own credit risk is taken 4 the business model. Financial instruments are initially recoginto account in the fair value valuation of the loans. nised at a cost corresponding to the instrument’s fair value with an addition for transaction expenses. Exceptions are those catSet-off of financial assets and liabilities 5 egorised as financial assets or liabilities recognised at fair value Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amounts through profit or loss, which are recognised at fair value excludrecognised in the Statement of Financial Position only when the ing transaction expenses. Subsequent reporting depends on how following criteria are met: 6 the financial instruments are classified in accordance with what • There is a legal right to offset the recognised amounts and the is outlined below. For further information, please refer to the Company intends to settle the items with a net amount or to 7 Impairment section below. realise the assets and liabilities at the same time. • Financial income and expenses are offset in profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair value via profit or loss when they are connected to the offset financial assets and 8 The category includes derivatives for which hedge accounting is liabilities. not applied. More information is available about accounting policies and 9 Financial assets reported at amortised cost financial risk management in Note 19, Financial instruments and Loan receivables and accounts receivable are financial assets financial risk management. 10 held for the purpose of collecting contractual cash flows. The receivables arise on cash lending and when Catena provides Cash and cash equivalents services directly to the credit recipient without intending to trade Cash and cash equivalents include liquid funds and immediately 11 in the receivables. This category also includes acquired receivaavailable balances at banks and equivalent institutions as well bles. Receivables are measured at amortised cost. Amortised as current liquid investments with maturities of less than three cost is determined on the basis of the effective interest rate calmonths from the acquisition date that are exposed to only insig12 culated at the time of acquisition. This means that surplus and nificant risk of changes in value. deficit values and direct transaction expenses are accrued over 13 the term of the instrument. Accounts receivable are reported Property, plant and equipment at the amount expected to be received, less deductions for loss Property, plant and equipment is recognised as an asset in the risk reserves. The expected maturity of accounts receivable is Balance Sheet if it is likely that future economic benefit will ac14 short and, accordingly, amounts are recognised at the nominal crue to the Company, and the cost of the assets can be reliably amount without discounting. The reserve for expected credit determined. 15 losses is calculated based on the loss risk for the entire maturity Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the Group at of the claim and is recognised on initial reporting of the claim. cost after the deduction of accumulated depreciation and any The size of the provision comprises the difference between the impairment. The cost includes the purchase price and expenses 16 asset’s carrying amount and the present value of future cash directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and conflows. An impairment of accounts receivable is recognised in dition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner profit or loss as a reduction in operating income and impairintended. 17 ment of a loan receivable is recognised under the item, financial Where property, plant and equipment comprise components expenses. with significant differences in useful life, these are treated as 18 separate components of property, plant and equipment. Financial liabilities measured at fair value via profit or loss The recognised amount of an item of property, plant and This category consists of derivatives for which hedge accounting equipment is derecognised from the Balance Sheet on disposal 19 is not applied. Liabilities in this category are measured at fair or sale or when no future economic benefits can be expected value on an on-going basis and any value changes are recogfrom its use. Gains or losses from the disposal or scrapping of nised in profit or loss. an asset consist of the difference between the selling price of 20 the asset and its carrying amount less direct selling expenses. Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Gains or losses are recognised as other operating income/ex21 Loans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts payable, penses. are included in this category. Financial liabilities are initially valued at fair value, net after transaction expenses. Thereafter, Additional expenses 22 financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost and any Additional expenses are added to the cost only if it is likely that difference between amounts received (net after transaction the future economic benefits associated with the asset will ac23 expenses) and the repayment amount is recognised in profit crue to the Company, and that the cost can be reliably deteror loss allocated over the term of the loan using the effective mined. All other additional expenses are recognised as a cost in interest method. On premature redemption of loans without the period they arise. Any undepreciated carrying amounts for 24 new loans being secured, interest compensation is reported in exchanged components or parts of components are scrapped profit or loss on the date of redemption. Non-current liabilities and expensed in conjunction with the exchange. Repairs are have an expected maturity exceeding one year, while current liexpensed on an on-going basis. 25 abilities have a maturity of less than one year. Accounts payable and other operating liabilities with short expected maturities are Depreciation methods for property, plant and equipment 26 therefore normally recognised at nominal value. Dividends paid Depreciation is performed on a straight-line basis over the are recognised as a liability from the moment the AGM adopts estimated useful life of the asset. Equipment, fixtures and fitthe dividend. tings are depreciated over 5–20 years. The applied depreciation methods and the residual value and useful lives of the assets are reassessed at the end of each year. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 85 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Investment properties assets are grouped for impairment testing at the lowest level Investment properties are those held with the purpose of genwhere substantially independent cash flows can be identify erating rental income, value appreciation or a combination of (known as a cash-generating unit). Impairments are recognised the two. Investment properties are initially recognised at cost when the carrying amount of an asset or cash generating unit 1 in the Balance Sheet, which includes expenses directly attributexceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are exable to the acquisition. Investment properties are subsequently pensed in profit or loss. 2 recognised at fair value in the Balance Sheet. If the Group begins refurbishing an existing investment property for continued use Impairment testing of non-financial assets as an investment property, during the renovation, the property Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful 3 is recognised as an investment property. Reassessments of fair life or intangible assets that are not ready for use, are not value over the course of the year take place through an internal amortised, but rather impairment tested annually or upon an valuation, which is described in more detail in Note 12. The valuindication of a value decrease. An impairment loss is recognised 4 ation model entails a present value estimate of assessed future in the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its payment flows. If, during the current year, any significant value recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an 5 changes exist for individual properties, revaluation is carried asset’s fair value less selling expenses and value in use. When out in conjunction with the quarterly reports. Quality assurance assessing impairment requirements, assets are grouped at the is carried out of any internal valuations performed on a sample lowest level at which there are essentially independent cash 6 of properties, which are then valued externally each year, after flows (cash-generating units). For assets (other than goodwill) which a reconciliation of the internal and external valuations is that were previously impaired, a test for reversal is done every 7 performed. Investment properties are at level 3 in the valuation closing date. hierarchy. Both unrealised and realised value changes are recognised in Impairment tests for financial assets 8 profit or loss. Realised value changes pertain to changes in value Catena values the future expected credit losses associated with over the past quarterly reporting period for properties sold. investments in debt instruments reported at amortised cost and Unrealised changes in value pertain to other value changes. In at fair value with changes via other comprehensive income on 9 connection with acquisitions of properties or companies, the the basis of forward-looking information. The Group selects transaction is usually recorded per the date on which Catena reservation method based on whether or not there has been a 10 gains access, since control of the item is normally transferred significant increase in credit risk. on that date. Rental income and income from property sales are In accordance with the rules under IFRS 9, Catena applies a recognised in accordance with the principles described in the simplified method for impairment testing of accounts receivable. 11 section on operating income. For expected credit losses, Catena recognises reserves based on the loss risk for the entire maturity of the claim and is recogAdditional expenses nised on initial reporting of the claim. 12 Additional expenses are added to carrying amounts. Additional expenses are added to the carrying amounts only if it likely that Reversal of impairments 13 the future financial benefits associated with the asset will accrue Impairments are reversed if indications exist that the impairto the Company and the cost can be estimated in a reliable manment need no longer exists and a change has occurred in the ner. All other subsequent expenses are expensed in the period underlying assumptions for the calculation of the recoverable 14 they arise. Repairs are expensed as expenditures are incurred. amount. A reversal is only carried out to the extent that the asBorrowing costs that are directly attributable to purchases, set’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that construction or production for larger new builds, extensions and would have been reported after any applicable deduction for de15 conversions of assets that take considerable time to complete preciation, if no impairment had been carried out. Adjustments for the intended use or sale are included in the cost of the asset. of amounts for expected credit losses relating to loans, leases 16 Capitalisation of borrowing costs is carried out on the condition and accounts receivable are reported as an impairment gain or that it is likely that these will lead to future financial benefits and loss in profit or loss. that the costs can be reliably measured. 17 Cash-Flow Statement Assets held for sale The cash-flow statement is prepared in accordance with the indi18 Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their rect method. The recognised cash flow only comprises transaccarrying amounts will mainly be recovered through a sale transtions that entail payments in or out. Cash and cash equivalents action and a sale is considered highly likely. They are recognised in the cash-flow statement correspond to the definition of cash 19 at the carrying amount or at fair value less selling expenses, and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet. whichever is lower. Share capital 20 Impairment Buyback of Catena shares The carrying amounts for the Group’s assets are reviewed on Holdings of treasury shares and other equity instruments are 21 each balance-sheet date to ascertain whether any need for recognised as a reduction in equity. The acquisition of such inimpairment exists. IAS 36 is applied for testing the need for imstruments is reported as a deduction from equity. Proceeds from pairment of assets other than financial assets, which are tested disposals of equity instruments are recognised as an increase in 22 under IFRS 9, investment properties carried at fair value, which equity. Transaction expenses directly attributable to the issue of are tested under IAS 40 and deferred tax assets. The valuation new shares or warrants are recognised, net of tax, in equity as a of the excepted assets as noted above is tested in accordance deduction from the issue proceeds. 23 with the applicable standard. Earnings per share 24 Impairment testing of tangible assets and participations in Calculation of earnings per share is based on consolidated profit subsidiaries, associated companies, joint ventures, etc. for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders If an indication of a need for impairment exists, the recoverable and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during 25 amount of the asset is estimated under IAS 36 as the higher the year. of the asset’s value in use and fair value less selling expenses. 26 When calculating the value in use, future cash flows are disEmployee benefits counted at an interest rate before tax that takes into account the Short-term employee benefits in the form of salaries, holiday market’s assessment of the risk-free interest rate and the risk pay, paid sick leave, etc. as well as social security contributions associated with the specific asset. If it is not possible to establish are recognised as these are earned. substantially independent cash flows to individual assets, the 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Pensions Leasing – lessee Catena has various pension plans. Generally, the pension For reporting periods up to and including 2018, leases are plans are funded through payments to insurance companies or classified in the consolidated accounts either as financial or nominee registered funds, where payments are determined by operational leases. Financial leasing exists when the economic periodic actuarial calculations. Agreements regarding pensions risks and benefits associated with ownership are, essentially, 1 and other compensation paid after termination of employment transferred to the lessee, and where this is not the case the are classified as defined-contribution or defined-benefit pension lease is defined as operational leasing. Catena reported no 2 plans. A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan, financial leases in the Balance Sheet in 2018. Operational leaswhereby Catena pays defined premiums to a separate legal ening means that the leasing fee is recognised as a cost in profit or tity. Catena has no legal or informal obligations to make further loss, and allocated over the term, starting from initial utilisation, 3 payments if the legal entity has insufficient assets to discharge which may differ from what has actually been paid in the form all payments of employee benefits relating to employee service of leasing fees during the year. 4 in current or prior periods. A defined-benefit pension plan is a As of 1 January 2019, the leasing agreements are reported pension plan without defined contributions. Instead, definedas right-of-use assets and corresponding liabilities from the benefit plans specify an amount that the employee will receive date on which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. 5 as a pension benefit following retirement. This is normally based Assets and liabilities arising from lease agreements are initially on several factors including age, length of service and salary. recognised at present value. Payments included in the present Catena has defined-contribution pension plans and commitvalue pertain to fixed fees. Leaseholds are judged to have an 6 ments for pensions under the so-called ITP plan which, accordalmost perpetual time horizon, so payments that are expected to ing to a statement issued by the Swedish Financial Reporting be paid after the current contract period are also included in the 7 Board RFR 6, is a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. calculation of the present value. Ground rents are discounted at The Company has not been provided with information for the a 3 percent rent rate and vehicle leasing at the implicit contract 2004-2019 financial years that would allow the reporting of its rate. The Group is exposed to future adjustments in ground 8 commitments under the ITP plan as a defined-benefit plan. Acrents. When such adjustments take effect, the lease liability is cordingly, commitments under the ITP plan, which are secured revalued and adjusted against the right-of-use assets. Leasing through insurance with Alecta, are reported as a defined-conpayments for vehicles are broken down into amortisation of the 9 tribution plan. The year’s fees for pension insurance contracted liability and interest. Since leaseholds are considered to have a with Alecta amounted to SEK 3.4 million (3.6). For 2020, the perpetual useful life, the entire payment is reported as interest. 10 Company is expected to pay about SEK 3.8 million to Alecta. The interest is recognised in profit or loss over the lease period Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to the policy owners and/or in a manner that results in a fixed interest rate for the lease liinsured parties. At the end of 2019, Alecta’s surplus in the form ability reported in each period. 11 of the collective consolidation level was 148 percent (142). The The right-of-use assets are valued at cost and include the collective consolidation level comprises the market value of amount at which the lease liability was originally valued, Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligation calplus leasing fees paid on or before the commencement date. 12 culated in line with Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which do not Right-of-use assets pertaining to vehicles are depreciated on comply with IAS 19. The Company’s share of the total savings a straight-line basis over period of use. Since leaseholds are 13 premiums for ITP 2 in Alecta amount to 0.01183 percent and the considered to have an almost eternal time horizon, these rightCompany’s share of the total number of active insured parties of-use assets are not subject to amortisation. amounts to 0.00621 percent. 14 Commitments as regards fees for defined-contribution plans Leasing – lessor are recognised as an expense in profit or loss as they arise. The Group enters into operational leases with customers in its 15 capacity as landlord, see Note 4. Accounting policies for the Termination benefits recognition of rental income are stated above. Catena is also Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminata lessor of automation equipment to a limited extent. These 16 ed by Catena in advance of the normal retirement date or if an leases are reported in the consolidated financial statements as employee accepts leaving service voluntarily to receive such benfinancial receivables with the income as interest income in net efits. Catena recognises termination benefits when the Group is financial items. 17 demonstrably required to terminate employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal. Benefits 18 that fall due more than 12 months after the balance-sheet date are discounted to present value. 19 Provisions A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has an existing legal or informal commitment due to an event 20 that has occurred and it is likely that an out flow of resources will be required to settle the commitment, and a reliable esti21 mate of the amount can be made. A present value calculation is made to take into account significant time values for future payments. 22 Contingent liability 23 A contingency is recognised when there is a potential commitment that stems from events that have occurred and whose existence is confirmed only if one or more uncertain future events, 24 which are outside of the Company’s control, occur or do not occur, or when there is a commitment that stems from events that have occurred, but which is not recognised as a liability or 25 provision because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the commitment or because the amount 26 cannot be reliably calculated. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 87 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 3. Operating segment information 1 Gothenburg Helsingborg Jönköping Malmö Stockholm Income Statement 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rental income 173.2 165.4 207.2 175.9 96.2 94.8 190.6 170.5 515.7 484.1 2 (Of which, re-invoiced expenses) (10.3) (7.8) (15.2) (12.5) (13.6) (12.1) (39.5) (37.7) (39.3) (40.0) 3 Property expenses -27.1 -21.1 -54.0 -52.4 -35.7 -30.9 -63.9 -59.4 -99.4 -99.3 Net operating surplus 146.1 144.3 153.2 123.5 60.5 63.9 126.7 111.1 416.3 384.8 4 Central administration – – – – – – – – – – 5 Other operating income – – – – – – – – – – Other operating expenses – – – – – – – – – – 6 Participations in the earnings of associated 7 companies – – – – – – – – – – Financial income1) 2.4 3.2 0.6 1.2 1.2 1.6 1.5 1.5 6.2 6.3 Financial expenses1) -35.3 -40.4 -40.8 -41.2 -17.9 -22.0 -43.1 -39.2 -112.3 -101.7 8 Profit from property management 113.2 107.1 113.0 83.5 43.8 43.5 85.1 73.4 310.2 289.4 9 Realised changes in 10 value of investment properties 15.7 1.3 – 0.1 0.2 – 58.7 – 0.6 3.3 11 Unrealised changes in value of investment properties 104.2 36.8 211.3 87.7 43.2 23.8 121.7 20.8 310.8 160,0 12 Changes in value of goodwill – – – – – – – – – – 13 Changes in values of derivatives – – – – – – – – – 0.3 Profit before tax 233.1 145.2 324.3 171.3 87.2 67.3 265.5 94.2 621.6 453.0 14 Tax Profit for the year 15 1) For 2019, Catena has implemented a change in the capitalisation and adjustment of intra-Group interest rate terms. The segment’s comparative figures for 2018 regarding financial income and expenses have been adjusted to reflect these changed conditions. 16 17 Gothenburg Helsingborg Jönköping Malmö Stockholm Other disclosures 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 18 Goodwill 110.7 110.7 41.5 41.5 40.1 40.1 76.1 76.1 234.6 234.6 Investment properties 2,296.6 2,114.9 3,019.3 2,564.6 1,266.3 1,109.6 2,639.6 2,220.3 7,048.7 6,711.7 Investments through 19 acquisitions 52.2 – – 45.0 – – 9.3 21.2 20.6 541.3 Investments in 20 non-current assets 25.3 67.4 243.4 236.4 113.5 14.0 282.2 169.3 88.0 197.2 Amortisation and depreciation – – – – – – – – – – 21 Deferred tax receivables 1.5 1.7 0.3 0.3 – 3.3 0.1 – 4.1 6.4 22 23 24 25 26 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Operating segments Catena’s operating segments, which consist of regions, have Central administration and been established based on information, which Catena’s Board eliminations Total (the CODM at Catena) has gathered to evaluate and make strategic decisions. 1 2019 2018 2019 2018 – – 1,182.9 1,090.7 The Group’s segments comprise the following regions: 2 Gothenburg – comprising 15 properties – – (117.9) (110.1) Helsingborg – comprising 23 properties – – -280.1 -263.1 Jönköping – comprising 12 properties 3 – – 902.8 827.6 Malmö – comprising 17 properties Stockholm – comprising 42 properties 4 -30.0 -31.4 -34.1 -31.4 For more information on the regions’ properties, see the property – 2.5 4.5 2.5 list in the Administration Report. 5 Internal prices between the Group’s various segments are – -0.3 -0.4 -0.3 calculated according to market terms and consist mainly of invoiced administrative expenses. 6 Directly attributable items and items that can be allocated to -11.5 8.5 -11.5 8.5 segments on a reasonable basis are included in the earnings, as7 -8.5 -10.9 3.4 2.9 sets and liabilities for each segment. The allocation of property administration costs was primarily based on the area. The seg11.5 6.0 -237.9 -238.5 ments’ investments in property, plant and equipment and invest8 ment properties include all investments apart from investments -38.5 -25.6 626.8 571.3 in current inventories and inventories of minor value. Catena has one tenant who individually accounts for more 9 than 10 percent of the Group’s income. These revenues, which together amount to approximately SEK 175 million, are distribut10 – – 75.2 4.7 ed between the Helsingborg, Jönköping, Malmö and Stockholm regions. The Parent Company’s earnings, after allocation of the results 11 of sales of participations in Group companies, are included in – – 791.2 329.1 the unallocated amount. Following elimination of participations in Group companies and intra-Group settlement as well as redis12 – – – – tribution of participations in associated companies, the Parent Company’s assets and liabilities are included in the unallocated 13 29.3 34.7 29.3 35.0 amount. -9.2 9.1 1,522.5 940.1 All operations are conducted in Sweden, except for one prop-298.7 -116.7 erty that is in Denmark and this property belongs to the Malmö 14 1,223.8 823.4 region. 15 16 Central administration and eliminations Total 17 2019 2018 2019 2018 – – 503.0 503.0 18 – – 16,270.5 14,721.1 – – 82.1 607.5 19 0.2 0.4 752.6 684.7 20 -0.6 -0.9 -0.6 -0.9 21 79.1 85.2 85.1 96.9 22 23 24 25 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 89 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 4. Rental income Note 7. Leases In the Group’s capacity as lessee Duration of leases as per 31 December 2019 1 2019 2018 Information on operating leases – the Group as lessor. Cash outflow 10.9 11.8 Year of Number of Contractual annual Contractual Total 10.9 11.8 2 maturity contracts rent, SEK M annual rent, % Of the cash outflow, SEK 9.7 million (0.0) was reported as 2020 178 108.4 9.0 interest expenses. 3 2021 69 163.2 13.6 Future undiscounted cash flows for contracted periods mature 2022 49 141.4 11.8 for payment: 4 2023 60 182.7 15.2 2019 2018 2024 25 108.2 9.0 Within one year 10.9 11.7 5 2025 22 135.2 11.2 Between one and five years 40.0 42.5 2026+ 42 362.9 30.2 Longer than five years 344.0 381.3 Total 445 1,202.0 100.0 6 Total 394.9 435.5 Contracted rental income by contract size, SEK M 7 Contractual rental The Group’s leases consist primarily of leaseholds and to a Number of contracts income, % lesser extent car leases. Leaseholds are deemed to have a per>10.0 33 51.6 petual term and no depreciation is therefore applied. Ground 8 rent may be changed, resulting in a change in the value of the 5.0–10.0 39 24.4 right-of-use asset and the lease liability. 3.0–5.0 33 10.8 9 2.0–3.0 19 4.0 Lease commitments as per 31 December 2018 435.5 1.0–2.0 34 4.4 10 Leasehold commitments per 31 December 2018, 0.5–1.0 40 2.6 discounted at an interest rate of 3% 230.4 <0.5 247 2.2 Additional: Effect of leasehold contracts being deemed 11 Total 445 100.0 to have a perpetual term 116.2 Car leasing per 31 December 2018 discounted at an 12 implicit contractual rate of interest 3.5 Note 5. Property expenses and central Lease liability recognised per 1 January 2019 350.1 administration Prepaid lease premiums 2.6 13 Property expenses 2019 2018 Right-of-use assets recognised per 1 January 2019 352.7 Operating expenses 87.2 86.4 Additional right-of-use assets, leaseholds 4.4 14 Repair and maintenance 67.5 54.2 Additional right-of-use assets, vehicles 1.2 Property maintenance and technical Changed ground rent in existing right-of-use assets -26.9 15 inspection 27.5 28.5 Depreciation, vehicles -1.2 Property tax 33.9 27.3 Right-of-use assets recognised Ground rent – 10.4 16 as per 31 December 2019 330.2 Other external expenses 24.4 21.0 Property administration 39.6 35.3 There are no variable fees that are not included in the lease 17 Total 280.1 263.1 liability. Of the total value for right-of-use assets, SEK 326.7 million 18 comprises leaseholds and SEK 3.5 million comprise car leases. Central administration 2019 2018 The year’s expense for short-term leases amounts to SEK 1.5 Personnel expenses 15.9 15.0 million and is reported as property expenses. The year’s expense 19 Services purchased 17.6 15.5 for leases where the underlying asset is of low value is less than Depreciation of property, SEK 0.1 million and is reported as central administration. plant and equipment 0.6 0.9 20 Total 34.1 31.4 21 Note 8. Employee and personnel expenses Within the Group, part of the Parent Company’s costs are re-invoiced on to subsidiaries and classified at subsidiaries Average number of whom of whom and the Group respectively as property expenses. employees 2019 men 2018 men 22 Employees in Sweden 42 72% 38 76% 23 Note 6. Fees and expenses to auditors 2019 2018 2019 2018 Gender distribution Men Women Men Women 24 Audit engagement 1.6 1.4 Board of Directors 57% 43% 57% 43% Audit activities in addition to the audit engagement – – Management 86% 14% 86% 14% 25 Tax consultancy 0.3 0.2 Total 1.9 1.6 26 Fees for audit engagements pertain to fees for the statutory audit, that is, all work necessary to prepare the auditors’ report, as well as audit advice provided in conjunction with the audit engagement. Audit activities in addition to the audit engagement pertain to fees for various types of quality assurance services. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Salaries, fees, benefits Pension expenses 2019 2018 and other remuneration 2019 2018 Chief Executive Officer 1.4 1.1 Chairman of the Board 0.3 0.3 Other senior executives Chairman of the Board (6 and 6 individuals respectively) 2.6 3.0 1 (special fee, Jan-Apr 2018) – 0.6 Other employees 3.7 3.2 Other Board Members 1.0 0.9 Total 7.7 7.3 2 Chief Executive Officer Base salary 2.2 1.9 Statutory social security contributions 3 Other remuneration 0.5 0.5 incl. payroll tax 2019 2018 Other senior executives (6 and 6 individuals respectively) Chairman of the Board 0.1 0.1 4 Base salary 6.8 6.4 Chairman of the Board (special fee, Jan-Apr 2018) – 0.2 Other remuneration 1.7 1.5 5 Other Board members 0.3 0.2 Other employees 22.2 19.8 Chief Executive Officer 1.4 1.0 Total 34.7 31.9 6 Other senior executives (6 and 6 individuals respectively) 3.1 3.1 Other employees 7.5 6.8 7 Total 12.4 11.4 Total 54.8 50.6 8 2019 2018 9 Fees, Board Member, SEK thousands of which, for of which, for (annual Board fee determined by AGM, April 2019 committee committee and April 2018 respectively) Board fee work Board fee work 10 Gustaf Hermelin 330 – 300 – Henry Klotz 225 60 210 60 11 Bo Forsén – – 170 20 Hélène Briggert 190 25 175 25 12 Katarina Wallin 185 20 160 10 Tomas Andersson 165 – 150 – 13 Ingela Bendrot 190 25 175 25 Magnus Swärdh 175 10 – – 14 Total 1,460 140 1,340 140 15 Remuneration to the Board and CEO pertains to the Board and Directors’ fees and terms of employment and dismissal for CEO of the Parent Company. At the 2019 Annual General Meetsenior executives ing, it was decided, as at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, that Policies 16 compensation for participation in the Remuneration Committee Remuneration paid to the CEO and other senior executives comshould be paid in the amount of SEK 20 thousand to the chairman prises base salary, other remuneration (which comprises bonus and mileage allowance) and pension. The term senior executives 17 of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 10 thousand each to the other two members. Fees are also paid to the chairman of the refers to the six individuals at Catena (six) who, together with Audit Committee in the amount of SEK 50 thousand and of SEK the Chief Executive Officer, comprise the senior management. 18 25 thousand each to the other two members. For the composition of management, see pages 134-135. Pension benefits and other remuneration paid to the CEO and other senior executives are paid as part of total remuneration. 19 Fees are paid to the Board in accordance with a decision by the Annual General Meeting. For 2019, fees totalled SEK 1.5 mil20 lion (1.3), of which the Chairman received SEK 0.3 million (0.3). Market-based compensation of SEK 25 thousand (0) and SEK 80 thousand (0) respectively for services rendered in sustainabil21 ity consulting and as a conference moderator, was paid to companies owned by Board members Ingela Bendrot and Katarina Wallin. The amounts are not included in the above table. 22 Bonus 23 Bonuses to the CEO can amount to a maximum of 50 percent of annual fixed salary. Bonus decisions are made on an annual basis and do not imply any entitlement to bonuses in coming years, 24 The bonuses are pensionable. In addition, senior executives can receive a bonus in addition to their fixed salaries. Other senior executives can receive a maximum bonus of 25 percent of their 25 fixed annual salary. The main principle in the Group is fixed monthly salary. For 26 other company employees, when extraordinary work has been performed or extraordinary results have been achieved, a bonus may be paid corresponding to a maximum of one month’s salary. Bonus decisions are made annually in arrears by the Remuneration Committee. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 91 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP The bonus target for 2019 was that profit from property management should exceed the adjusted budget by 3 percent. Note 9. Financial income and expenses The Remuneration Committee considers the matter of the Financial income 2019 2018 Company’s obligations and provisions have been made for boInterest income1) 2.4 2.9 1 nuses of SEK 4.2 million (3.7) for 2019, including social security Exchange gains 1.0 – contributions. The bonus system covers only one year at a time, currently Total 3.4 2.9 2 only 2019. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the evaluation and outcome of the system. Financial expenses 2019 2018 3 Interest expenses2) -216.0 -227.3 Pensions The pension age of the Chief Executive Officer is 65. Pension Exchange losses – -1.3 4 Other financial expenses -12.2 -9.9 contributions are made equal to 35 percent of pensionable pay. Contractual ITP is utilised first and, thereafter, the remainder Financial expenses for 5 is allocated to other pension insurances. Pensionable salary is lease assets -9.7 – calculated according to the ITP plan’s rules. Total -237.9 -238.5 Retirement age for the Deputy CEO and other senior execu6 tives, six individuals in total (six), is 65. Their pensions are seNet financial items -234.5 -235.6 cured through insurances. Pension agreements stipulate pension 7 premiums of 15-35 percent of pensionable salary and, in other 1) All interest income refers to assets valued at amortised cost. cases, in accordance with the ITP plan. In addition, other senior 2) Of which interest expenses from liabilities valued at amortised cost, executives and all other personnel are also covered by the ITP SEK 105.8 million (101.8). 8 agreement. The pension expense corresponds to expenses for definedbenefit plans under IAS19. 9 Note 10 Tax Severance pay Upon termination by the Company, the CEO shall be paid during Recognised in the Statement of 10 Comprehensive Income 2019 2018 a 12 months notice period. No severance pay is paid. Should the CEO secure other employment or start his own operations, his Current tax 11 salary during the termination period is offset by income from the Tax for the year -21.8 -7.7 new employer. In the event of notice being provided by the CEO, Tax attributable to amended tax assessment – -0.1 the notice period is six months. 12 The employment contracts with the Deputy CEO and other Total -21.8 -7.8 senior executives can be terminated by Catena with a notice 13 period of four to twelve months. In addition to salary during the Deferred tax notice period, severance pay corresponds to three to six months’ Investment properties -247.1 -69.5 salary and is paid at the end of the notice period. Should Catena Derivatives -6.1 -13.4 14 release the executives from the obligation to work during the notice period, any income from new employment or proprietary Tax loss carry-forwards -0.7 -19.0 operations shall, in certain cases, be offset against salary paid Untaxed reserves -23.2 -7.0 15 by Catena. In the event of termination by a senior executive, a Other deferred taxes 0.2 – notice period of two to six months applies. In this case no severTotal -276.9 -108.9 16 ance payment is made. Total recognised tax -298.7 -116.7 No severance payment was made to senior executives whose employment ended. 17 Reconciliation of effective tax 2019 2018 Preparation and decision-making process Profit before tax 1,522.5 940.1 18 During the year the Remuneration Committee provided the Tax according to current rate: 21.4% Board with recommendations for policies for remuneration to (22.0%) -325.8 -206.8 senior executives. The recommendations included the proEffect of changed tax rate 11.2 79.2 19 portions between fixed and variable remuneration and the framework of any pay increases. The Remuneration Committee Non-deductible expenses, incl. interest appointed by the Board prepares, negotiates and submits prodeduction limitation -1.2 -0.8 20 posals to the Board regarding the terms for the CEO. Following Tax attributable to preceding years 0.3 -0.1 proposals from the CEO, the Remuneration Committee deterNon-taxable sales of companies 17.6 3.5 21 mines remuneration to other senior executives. The RemuneraOther non-taxable income – 2.1 tion Committee also decides whether any bonus is payable and Tax on participations in profit of then evaluates the system and the outcome. associated companies -2.4 1.9 22 All decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee are reported back to the Board. Other 1.6 4.3 The Remuneration Committee met on one occasion in 2019. Recognised effective tax -298.7 -116.7 23 The recognised effective tax rate in percent totalled 19.6 24 (12.4). 25 26 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Deferred tax recognised in the financial statements 2018 2019 AcquisiAcquisitions/ Recogtions/ Recognised Disposals nised RecogDisposals 1 OB in profit Recognised of compaCB in profit nised in of compaCB Deferred tax assets 2018 or loss in equity nies 2018 or loss equity nies 2019 Investment properties 16.8 -8.0 -1.5 – 7.3 -4.7 -0.5 – 2.1 2 Tax loss carry-forwards 21.0 -19.0 – 2.6 4.6 -0.7 – – 3.9 Derivatives 98.0 -13.4 – – 84.6 -6.1 – – 78.5 3 Pension provisions 0.4 – – – 0.4 0.2 – – 0.6 Total deferred tax assets 136.2 -40.4 -1.5 2.6 96.9 -11.3 -0.5 – 85.1 4 Deferred tax liability 5 Investment properties 1,152.6 61.5 -0.4 – 1,213.7 242.4 -0.1 -0.1 1,455.9 Untaxed reserves 50.9 7.0 – – 57.9 23.2 – – 81.1 6 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,203.5 68.5 -0.4 – 1,271.6 265.6 -0.1 -0.1 1,537.0 In addition to the above tax loss carry-forwards, there are no material unused tax losses for which deferred tax assets have not 7 been recognised. 8 Note 11. Goodwill Note 12. Investment properties 9 Goodwill 2019 2018 Investment properties are recognised at fair value. Opening cost 503.0 503.0 Change for the year 2019 2018 10 Closing cost 503.0 503.0 Opening balance 14,721.1 13,131.1 Acquisitions 82.1 607.5 11 The acquisition of Tribona in 2016 constituted a business comNew builds, extensions and bination and is recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Business conversions1) 752.6 684.3 12 Combinations. Unlike in the case of an acquisition of assets, Sales -82.6 -46.5 this entails that deferred tax should be taken into account in all Translation differences, etc. 6.1 15.6 temporary differences. The remaining reported goodwill of SEK 13 503.0 million on the balance sheet date is, in full, an effect of the Unrealised changes in value 791.2 329.1 reporting in full of nominally deferred tax relating to temporary Carrying amount 16,270.5 14,721.1 differences between fair value and taxation value. The item will 14 change as properties including goodwill are sold or revalued at Taxable values 2019 2018 less than cost. 15 Taxable values, buildings 3,980.0 3,094.8 Taxable value, land (of which leaseholds, SEK 117.3 million) 1,699.4 1,329.8 16 Total 5,679.4 4,424.6 17 31 Dec 31 Dec Impact on profit for the year 2019 2018 Rental income 1,182.9 1,090.7 18 Property expenses before property management for investment prop19 erties that generate rental income 240.5 227.7 1) Borrowing costs are expensed to earnings in the period to which they 20 pertain except for the interest expense under the production time pertaining to larger new builds, extensions and conversions that take considerable time to complete. These are organised as their own companies where all borrowing pertains to these new builds, extensions and conversions, which 21 means that interest expense attributable loans in these companies is capitalised. The capitalised interest expense was SEK 7.5 million (6.0). 22 Lettable Fair Investment properties Number of area, m2 value, 23 by region properties thousands SEK M Gothenburg 15 231.2 2,296.6 24 Helsingborg 23 391.7 3,019.3 Jönköping 12 209.6 1,266.3 Malmö 17 245.4 2,639.6 25 Stockholm 42 764.8 7,048.7 Total 109 1,842.7 16,270.5 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 93 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Fair value Income can be normalised if the estimated rent trend over the Fair value is established based on an internal valuation model six-year period is assessed as deviating from the initial forecast. that is updated every quarter. The calculation of fair value for In which case, this is performed based on expected changes in each individual property is performed using a six-year cash flow rental income based on the individual contract’s current rent 1 model. versus the assessed market rent at the contract maturity date and changes in long-term vacancy rates. 2 Valuation categories for investment properties In addition, operation and maintenance costs can be the subAll of the Group’s properties are assessed as being at level 3 in ject of normalisation, based on an analysis of historical as well the valuation hierarchy. The Group’s properties comprise prias current costs with respect to the tenant’s and the landlord’s 3 marily logistics properties, which have similar risk profiles and obligations under the lease. valuation methods. The Group also has significant component of 4 projects. The assessed value of projects in progress is based on Development rights the value of the development rights where the flow in progress The fair value recognised in the Balance Sheet with regard to is also taken into account. development rights represents the estimated values of planned 5 development rights on each property. The valuation method Yield and real growth applied for the development rights is based on the location price The most significant variables in the model, which are decisive method whereby the value has been assessed relative to each 6 for assessed fair value, are the yield requirement and the inflalocation. Following an assessment whereby the locations of Cattion assumption. Other key variables are long-term operating ena’s development rights have been weighed in, deductions are 7 surpluses, rent levels, vacancy levels and geographic location. made for estimated costs for demolition, planning, etc. DeducAmong other items, the applicable market risk-related intertions have also been made for waiting times and assessed risk est rate for property investments is used to establish the yield associated with development rights. 8 requirement. This is based on a number of factors including market interest rates, debt/equity ratio, inflation forecasts and Calculation 9 the required return on paid-in capital. However, property-specific When all variables have been established based on the above conditions also affect the yield requirement. The yield requiredescription, a calculation of the present value is carried out for ment is the property’s net operating surplus in relation to its fair the next five years’ net operating surplus in the cash-flow model. 10 value. In addition, the present value of the residual value is based on The approved yield is used as the discount rate with a supplethe net operating surplus from year six in this model. Thereafter, ment for annual inflation. The level of annual future inflation is any adjustment for the value of on-going projects and land with 11 assessed as being 2 percent. unutilised development rights is carried out. The total of these values comprises the estimated fair value. 12 Net operating surplus and vacancy rate A certain discrepancy is, however, permitted between the calcuNet operating surplus is the difference between income from lated value and the carrying amount prior to adjustment of the property and operating and maintenance costs (property expenscarrying amount. The discrepancy should be within a range con13 es before property administration costs). trolled by a permitted discrepancy from the established direct The starting point is the current forecast for net operating yield requirement of +/-0.25 percent. Only when the discrepsurplus based on the previous year’s outcome. However, income ancy exceeds or falls below this range is the carrying amount 14 and operating and maintenance costs for an individual year can adjusted. This discrepancy is accepted since there is always an be impacted by factors that are not regularly recurring under the element of uncertainty in the estimated value. 15 long life of the property. If this should prove to be the case for the actual forecast values, the amounts for the individual year are normalised. 16 Compilation of outcomes for significant variables used in the internal valuation model: 17 For definitions, see pages 136-137. Actual outcome 18 Gothenburg Helsingborg Jönköping Malmö Stockholm Total Rental value, SEK M 173.2 228.0 117.4 204.2 542.0 1,264.8 19 Economic letting ratio, % 94.7 95.2 93.2 97.2 94.7 95.0 Contractual annual rent, SEK M 164.1 217.0 109.4 198.4 513.1 1,202.0 20 Net operating surplus before property administration costs, SEK M 151.3 161.6 65.0 131.8 432.7 942.4 Property yield before property administration 21 costs, % 6.6 5.4 5.1 5.0 6.1 5.8 Surplus ratio before property admin. % 87.4 78.0 67.6 69.2 83.9 79.7 22 The fair market value can first be established when it is sold. The fair value calculations under the above model include vari23 ous assessment factors that contain an element of uncertainty. To ensure the accuracy of the internal valuation, external 24 valuations are conducted of a selection of the portfolio, with Cushman & Wakefield valuing about 59 percent of the portfolio, corresponding to a value of SEK 9.6 billion during 2019. 25 26 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Number of properties valued 2019 2018 Note 13. Tangible fixed assets No. of properties 61 67 Equipment 2019 2018 External valuation, SEK M 9,887.1 10,033.0 Opening cost 5.0 4.6 1 Corresponding internal valuation, SEK M 9,566.8 9,807.9 Acquisitions 3.1 0.4 Deviation, SEK M 320.3 225.1 Sales and disposals -0.1 0.0 Deviation in % 3.3 2.3 2 Closing cost 8.0 5.0 Carrying amount 16,270.5 14,721.1 Proportion valued externally, % 58.8 66.6 3 Opening depreciation -3.5 -2.6 Sales and disposals 0.1 0.0 Valuation Depreciation for the year -0.6 -0.9 4 Since all property valuations contain assessment factors with varying degrees of uncertainty, normally, a specific uncertainty Closing depreciation -4.0 -3.5 interval is stated for the estimated values. Accordingly, on Carrying amount 4.0 1.5 5 comparison of the internally calculated values and the external valuations, a deviation interval of +/-10 percent between these Depreciation is distributed over the following items in profit 6 values is accepted before the internal values are subjected to or loss any retesting. Comparison is made at the total level for the 2019 2018 externally valued portfolio. 7 Central administration 0.6 0.9 Sensitivity analysis The parameters that significantly impact the value of a prop8 erty are the discount rate and the rental value. Assumptions including interest rates, debt/equity ratio, inflation assumptions, 9 the required return on paid-in capital, property location, tenant structure, etc. are included in the discount rate. Rental value reflects the market’s view of what tenants are willing to pay for 10 property space. To illustrate how a change of +/-1 percent in these parameters impacts the estimated fair value, the following sensitivity analy11 sis can be carried out: 12 Impact Change +1% -1% 13 Discount rate, SEK M -2,434 3,117 Rental value, SEK M 759 -897 14 15 Note 14. Participations in associated companies 16 and collaborative arrangements 17 The following table shows the ownership share and the consolidated carrying amount for associated companies and joint ventures, SEK M. 18 Registered Carrying 2019 Classification Corp. Reg. No. office Participation amount 19 Foodhills Fastighet AB Associated companies 559122-6617 Bjuv 45.0% 15.6 Södertuna utveckling AB Joint Venture 559184-0367 Södertälje 50.0% 50.0 Törsjö Logistik AB Associated companies 559014-0272 Örebro 34.0% 9.3 20 Urban Services Sweden AB Associated companies 559108-8397 Solna 25.0% 1.0 Total 75.9 21 Registered Carrying 22 2018 Classification Corp. Reg. No. office Participation amount Foodhills Fastighet AB Associated companies 559122-6617 Bjuv 45.0% 17.3 23 Huddinge Regulatorn 2 AB Joint Venture 556584-0005 Stockholm 0.0% – Törsjö Logistik AB Associated companies 559014-0272 Örebro 34.0% 9.3 Urban Services Sweden AB Associated companies 559108-8397 Solna 25.0% 0.8 24 Total 27.4 25 Pertains to the percentage of share capital, which corresponds to the proportion of voting rights. 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 95 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Total assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the above holdIn 2019, Catena acquired 50 percent of the newly formed comings, which are not individually significant, are presented in the pany Södertuna utveckling AB. The remaining 50 percent of the following tables. company, the purpose of which is to develop 1,000,000 square Associated companies’ summary income statements and metres of land for logistics purposes, is owned by Gerstaberg 1 Gård AB. balance sheets, SEK M (100%) 2019 2018 2 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Accumulated cost Income statement Opening balance 0.0 82.5 3 Rental income 36.6 18.0 Acquisitions 50.0 – Net operating surplus -14.6 -17.5 Sales – -99.3 Profit for the year -29.8 -20.1 The year’s participation in profit after tax – 16.8 4 Carrying amount at year-end 50.0 0.0 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 5 Balance Sheet Joint operation Fixed assets 306.8 213.2 The Group has one material joint operation. Catena conducts Current assets 27.1 22.6 financial operations in an associated company, SFF Holding 6 AB (referred to below as SFF), through the subsidiary Svensk Total assets 333.9 235.8 FastighetsFinansiering AB (publ), which entail raising loans 7 Shareholders’ equity 24.1 34.5 on the capital market through the issuance of bonds (MTNProvisions – – Medium Term Notes), and conducting lending operations by Other liabilities 309.8 201.3 providing cash loans. The company is owned by Catena AB, 8 Diös Fastigheter AB, Fabege AB, Platzer Fastigheter Holding Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 333.9 235.8 AB and Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB – each with a holding of 20 9 percent. For these operations, Catena recognises its share of joint assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses item by item in Joint ventures’ summary income statements and balance the consolidated financial statements. Transactions and other 10 sheets, SEK M (100%) interactions with the joint operations have been eliminated in the 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 consolidated financial statements. Assets and liabilities of the Group, attributable to the operations of SFF, mainly comprise 11 Income statement bond loans and the Group’s share of short-term investments. Rental income – 19.4 As of 31 December, Catena had outstanding bonds through the 12 Net operating surplus – 12.8 SFF totalling SEK 1,386 million (1,228), which are described in Profit for the year 0.0 4.7 more detail in the financing section on pages 42-43 of the Annual Report. On 31 December, current investments amounted 13 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 to SEK 66.8 million (59.4). In 2018, this holding was reported as an associated company in accordance with the equity method. Balance Sheet Comparison figures have been adjusted where necessary. 14 Fixed assets 1.5 – Current assets – – 15 Total assets 1.5 – Note 15. Accounts receivable Shareholders’ equity 1.5 – Maturity structure, 16 Provisions – – accounts receivable 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Other liabilities – – < 30 days 1.1 3.0 Total shareholders’ equity 31-60 days 1.2 0.8 17 and liabilities 1.5 – 61-90 days 0.5 0.4 Associated companies >91 days 3.5 1.4 18 Törsjö Logistik AB owns land and is developing a logistics posiTotal 6.3 5.6 tion in Örebro. Catena owns 34 percent of the company together Not yet due 13.3 8.6 19 with Örebroporten Förvaltning AB with 33 percent and AB LokalTotal 19.6 14.2 husman i Örebro 2 with 33 percent. Urban Services Sweden AB is owned by Catena as an associ20 ated company together with Fabege, Ragnsells and Servistik, Impaired receivables with 25 percent each. The company will develop and coordinate Opening provision -1.5 -0.6 21 logistics for the transport of products and goods into and out of Provision for probable losses -3.6 -3.0 Arenastaden in Solna. Reclassification as contract asset – 1.9 On 1 March 2018, Foodhills Fastighet AB acquired three prop22 erties in Bjuv and will own and manage these. The company is Confirmed losses 2.1 0.2 owned by Catena and Backahill AB, with 45 percent each, and by Closing provision -3.0 -1.5 Foodhills AB with a holding of 10 percent. Total accounts receivable 16.6 12.7 23 2019 2018 The Group applies the simplified method for calculating exAccumulated cost pected credit losses. The method is based on the application of 24 Opening balance 27.4 10.4 expected losses across the entire the maturity of the claim. Acquisitions – 0.3 To calculate expected credit losses, accounts receivable have 25 Shareholder contributions 10.0 25.0 been grouped based on their credit characteristics and the number of days by which they are overdue. Historical loss data The year’s participation in profit after tax -11.5 -8.3 are used together with current and forward-looking data that 26 Carrying amount at year-end 25.9 27.4 can affect customers’ ability to pay the claim. Delayed payments Joint ventures (more than 30 days overdue) constitute a presumption that a On 3 September 2018, Catena divested its remaining share of heightened credit risk prevails. the company Huddinge Regulatorn 2 AB to the other partner, WA Huddinge AB. 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 16. Other receivables Note 19. Financial instruments and financial risk 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 management Receivable, associated companies 34.9 20.1 1 Financial policy VAT and other tax receivables 76.9 44.0 Catena is exposed to financial risks and Catena AB’s central Short-term investments 66.8 59.4 financial management bears the operational responsibility for 2 Other receivables 12.8 2.1 the implementation of the financial operations. The Board of Total 191.4 125.6 Directors of Catena AB reviews the financial policy annually and determines its contents, regulating the mandate of the finan3 cial management and determining the financial risks to which Note 17. Prepaid costs and accrued income the Group is exposed and how these are to be managed. The overall objectives of the financial operations can be summarised 4 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 in four parts i) safeguarding the Group’s capital requirements Administration and property in the short and long term, ii) minimising the Group’s financial 5 expenses 5.1 3.9 expenses within the framework and guidelines of the financial Prepaid fee for credit facility 3.2 4.1 policy, iii) ensuring that the Group has access to liquidity of a satisfactory level and that its payment capacity is secured in the 6 Prepaid project expenses 12.1 6.3 short and long term and iv) ensuring that the financial operaPrepaid ground rent – 3.0 tions are conducted with good internal control. Prepaid insurance premiums 9.4 8.5 7 Periodised rent discounts 30.7 38.6 Financial targets Target 2019 Outcome 2019 Accrued income 7.5 10.9 In the long-term, dividends 8 should amount to 50% of Total 68.1 75.3 profit from property management less standard rate tax. SEK >246.3 M SEK 245.0 M 9 Average debt maturity >2 years 1.3 years Note 18. Equity and earnings per share Credit providers >5 10 10 Total Interest coverage ratio >1.75 multiple 4.1 multiple Number of number of Equity/assets ratio >30% 35.6% Number of registered shares shares shares 11 New share issue May 17, 1999 490,754 11,555,662 Income Bonus issue March 9, 2006 8,838 11,564,500 Interest-bearing liabilities in Catena consist primarily of tra12 Private placement Oct 18, 2013 13,630,952 25,195,452 ditional loans from credit institutions but also of bonds and Private placement March 10, 2014 446,469 25,641,921 commercial papers. On 31 December 2019, interest-bearing 13 Private placement Jan 22, 2016 7,246,971 32,888,892 liabilities amounted to SEK 8,784.6 million (8,516.8), of which SEK 75.3 million (70.5) under existing agreements will be amorPrivate placement Feb 15, 2016 346,614 33,235,506 tised in 2020. The financing is secured entirely through property 14 Private placement Oct 11, 2016 2,500,000 35,735,506 mortgages. In some cases, the subsidiaries’ shares are also Private placement Dec 19, 2017 1,678,017 37,413,523 pledged and guarantees are provided by the Parent company. 15 Private placement Jul 9, 2018 285,330 37,698,853 Some of the loan agreements include financial covenants and, if the Company were to violate any of these commitments, this Number of registered shares 37,698,853 could result in the loan or loans being terminated, with payment 16 being required immediately or the relevant creditor claiming the secured assets. The principal covenants include an interest Earnings per share, calculated coverage ratio of at multiple of at least 1.5-2.0, a loan-to-value 17 on earnings attributable to the ratio of not less than 60-75 percent and an equity/assets ratio Parent Company’s shareholders of at least 25 percent. The Group’s companies met all covenants during the year, 18 during the year. (expressed in SEK per share) 2019 2018 Earnings per share Liquidity risk 19 A liquidity risk prevails if Catena is unable to meet its payment Profit for the year 1,223.8 823.4 commitments due to a shortage of cash and cash equivalents Ordinary shares outstanding 37,698,853 37,698,853 or these can only be met by borrowing funds at a significantly 20 Weighted average of ordinary higher cost than normal or by the assets having to be sold at a shares outstanding 37,698,853 37,549,847 price below market level. Catena monitors cash flow develop21 Earnings per share, SEK 32.46 21.93 ments closely to ensure adequate cash and cash equivalents at all times. In addition, Catena renegotiates confirmed loan com(There is no dilution effect, as no potential shares exist.) mitments further safeguarding capital needs in the short term. 22 As at 31 December 2019, lines of credit totalling SEK 9,209.6 million (9,056.5) were available, of which SEK 425.0 million (539.8) was unutilised. 23 24 25 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 97 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP The table below shows when the financial assets and liabilities fall due taking contractual amortisation into account. Maturity structure of financial assets and liabilities, 31 December 2019 1 Financial liabilities Payment flows Financial Associated Unutilised Interest on Interest on assets Loans Supplier company Accrued lines of credit loans1) derivatives1) 2 0-3 months 155.3 1,660.7 125.5 – 68.0 – 27.4 28.0 3-12 months 100.1 2,339.1 – – – 100.0 57.6 84.0 3 1-2 years 72.7 3,641.1 – – – 325.0 42.3 104.2 2-5 years 7.6 1,143.6 – – – – 40.0 82.1 4 More than 5 years 21.3 – – – – – – 179.8 Total 357.0 8,784.6 125.5 – 68.0 425.0 167.3 478.1 5 1) At current interest rates. 6 Maturity structure of financial assets and liabilities, 31 December 2018 7 Financial liabilities Payment flows Financial Associated Unutilised Interest on Interest on assets Loans Supplier company Accrued lines of credit loans1) derivatives1) 8 0-3 months 293.9 683.1 105.4 1.0 87.0 – 25.1 24.9 3-12 months 24.0 1,610.7 – – – 539.8 58.4 74.6 9 1-2 years 115.0 3,772.8 – – – – 41.4 99.5 2-5 years – 2,389.0 – – – – 9.3 92.2 10 More than 5 years – 61.2 – – – – 11.1 206.7 11 Total 432.9 8,516.8 105.4 1.0 87.0 539.8 145.3 497.9 1) At current interest rates. 12 Loan maturity structure Financing and refinancing risk Refers to the risk that financing of investments or renegotiated 13 Year of maturity 2019 2018 financing cannot be obtained or that these can only be obtained 2019 – 2,293.8 under terms that are unfavourable for the Group. To safeguard 14 2020 3,960.0 3,772.8 financing today and in the future and to minimise the cost of 2021 2,690.8 2,389.0 borrowing, Catena uses several sources of financing with varying 2022 978.6 – debt maturities. In addition, Catena’s finance policy states that 15 the Company must at all times maintain certain levels in terms >2023 1,155.2 61.2 of loan-to-value ratio, equity ratio and interest-coverage ratio to Total 8,784.6 8,516.8 ensure a high credit rating. 16 Maturity structure for recognised long-term interest-bearing Interest-rate risk 17 The interest-rate risk refers to the risk of changes in market interliabilities est rates impacting borrowing costs or the fair value of financial 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 18 assets and liabilities. Interest expenses are affected mainly by the Maturity, 1-5 years from level of current market interest rates and the banks’ margins, as balance-sheet date 4,784.7 6,109.0 well as the chosen strategy for fixing the interest on borrowed 19 Maturity later than five years capital. Most of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities have a short from balance-sheet date – 61.2 interest maturity, and Catena mainly uses fixed-rate loans and Total 4,784.7 6,170.2 interest rate derivatives to adjust the aggregate interest maturity 20 in its loan portfolio. Interest rates on variable loans are typically based on the 3-month STIBOR with the addition of a margin. 21 Loan terms, interest and maturity structure Average 22 Nominal amount interest rate 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2019 2018 2019 2018 23 Interest-bearing liabilities 8,784.6 8,516.8 2.6% 2.7% 24 The average interest rate takes interest-rate derivatives into consideration. The margin is distributed evenly across the term to 25 interest rate maturity. For interest-rate swaps, the total volume outstanding amounted to SEK 4,521.7 million (4,528.6). 26 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Interest rate maturity structure Year SEK M Effective interest rate, %1) Share in % 2020 4,263.0 1.1 48.5 1 2021 755.7 5.0 8.6 2022 500.0 3.9 5.7 2 2023 500.0 3.3 5.7 2024 500.0 3.0 5.7 2025 1,122.0 3.9 12.8 3 2026 1,143.9 4.3 13.0 Total 8,784.6 2.6 100.0 4 1) Refers to the current average interest rate per 31 December 2019. The margin is distributed evenly across the fixed-interest period. 5 Fair value (excl. Nominal value accrued interest) Carrying amount 6 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Interest-rate swap contracts (receive floating, pay fixed interest) 4,521.7 4,528.6 -381.1 -410.5 -381.1 -410.5 7 The full carrying amount, SEK -381.1 million (-410.5) pertains to the non-current portion. 8 The fair values of other contracted financial assets and liabilities Credit and counterparty risk in the Group and the Parent Company also correspond to their Credit and counterparty risk refers to the risk that tenants and 9 carrying amounts as per 31 December 2019. suppliers are unable to meet their obligations to Catena and partly to the risk that Catena is unable meet its commitments, which can greatly reduce the Company’s creditworthiness. In the first case, 10 Net profit/loss on financial instruments recognised in profit the credit risk can mainly be attributed to outstanding accounts or loss receivable, although it may nonetheless mean that major suppliNet profit/loss comprises earnings attributable to financial 11 ers, such as banks and/or contractors fail to meet their commitinstruments excluding interest. For information about interest ments. In this regard, the credit risk is considered low as, at the income and interest expense, refer to Note 9 Financial income and aggregate level, Catena’s customers and suppliers have a high 12 expenses. creditworthiness. Credit checks are normally performed regarding customers and, in the event of any uncertainty, Catena often reNet profit/loss quires a bank guarantee or guarantee commitment. In the second 13 2019 in profit or loss case, Catena guarantees its own creditworthiness by maintaining Loan receivables and accounts receivable -3.0 a stable cash flow, satisfactory liquidity and secure levels in its key 14 Financial assets and liabilities performance indicators with regard to loan-to-value ratio, equity measured at fair value via profit or loss 29.3 ratio and interest coverage ratio. 15 Net profit/loss 2018 in profit or loss Credit risk exposure 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Loan receivables and accounts receivable -2.8 16 Cash and cash equivalents 131.2 281.2 Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value via profit or loss 35.0 Accounts receivable 16.6 12.7 17 Other current receivables 191.4 125.6 Other non-current receivables 94.1 61.2 Total 433.3 480.7 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 99 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 20. Classification of financial instruments 2019 Measurement categories 1 Measured at fair value Measured at fair value via Measured at Carrying Financial assets via profit or loss other comprehensive income amortised cost amount 2 Other non-current receivables – – 90.3 90.3 Accounts receivable – – 16.6 16.6 3 Other current receivables – – 111.4 111.4 Accrued income – – 7.5 7.5 4 Cash and cash equivalents – – 131.2 131.2 Total – – 357.0 357.0 Non-financial assets 17,413.1 5 Total 17,770.1 6 Financial liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – -4,784.7 -4,784.7 7 Lease liability – – -327.8 -327.8 Interest-rate derivatives -381.1 – – -381.1 8 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – -3,999.9 -3,999.9 Accounts payable – – -125.5 -125.5 9 Other current liabilities – – -24.5 -24.5 Accrued expenses – – -68.0 -68.0 10 Total -381.1 – -9,330.4 -9,711.5 Non-financial liabilities -1,740.6 11 Total -11,452.1 Carrying amounts correspond, to all intents and purposes, to fair values for all balance-sheet items. 12 During the year, Catena has renegotiated financing agreements with a total framework of approximately SEK 2.7 billion. 13 2018 Measurement categories 14 Measured at fair value Measured at fair value via Measured at Carrying Financial assets via profit or loss other comprehensive income amortised cost amount Other non-current receivables – – 59.3 59.3 15 Accounts receivable – – 12.7 12.7 Other current receivables – – 79.7 79.7 16 Cash and cash equivalents – – 281.2 281.2 Total – – 432.9 432.9 17 Non-financial assets 15,473.0 Total 15,905.9 18 Financial liabilities 19 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities – – -6,170.2 -6,170.2 Interest-rate derivatives -410.5 – – -410.5 20 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – -2,346.6 -2,346.6 Accounts payable – – -105.4 -105.4 Current liabilities to associated 21 companies – – -1.0 -1.0 Other current liabilities – – -24.4 -24.4 22 Accrued expenses – – -86.1 -86.1 Total -410.5 – -8,733.7 -9,144.2 23 Non-financial liabilities -1,452.9 Total -10,597.1 24 Carrying amounts correspond, to all intents and purposes, to fair values for all balance-sheet items. 25 26 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 21. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 2019 2018 Transactions with the Group’s Pledged assets 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 associated companies Property mortgages for liabilities Sales 0.4 0.7 1 to credit institutions 9,745.8 8,950.2 Interest income 1.4 0.4 Shares for liabilities to credit * Current receivables 34.9 20.1 2 institutions1) 5,831.9 4,876.5 Non-current receivables 37.5 9.7 Guarantee obligations – – Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 1.0 Total 15,577.7 13,826.7 3 Current liabilities – – Guarantees given 76.7 35.0 Contingent liabilities 4 Transactions with other related parties Responsibility for Group Purchases 0.2 0.1 companies’ liabilities (HB/KB) 357.3 355.3 5 Guarantees given for Group Other information companies 8,104.3 7,590.9 Liabilities and receivables with related parties pertain to the settlement account, to which interest is charged. 6 Guarantee obligations for the Transactions with related parties are priced at market rates. benefit of associated companies 110.7 35.0 7 Other contingent liabilities 48.1 – Total 8,620.4 7,981.2 Note 24. Significant events after the end of 1) Pertains to shares in Group companies. the financial year 8 On 9 January, Catena acquired three properties in Hilleröd, Horsens and Odense, in Denmark, from PostNord, which is also a 9 Note 22. Accrued expenses and deferred income tenant in the relevant properties. The acquisitions were conducted 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 as a corporate transaction at a total underlying property value of 10 SEK 235 million following the deduction of deferred taxes. The Advance payment of rents 135.2 104.7 properties are situated on plots with a combined area of approxiAccrued operating expenses 11.8 11.9 mately 61,000 square metres and have a combined lettable area 11 Prepaid media expenses 0.1 0.9 of ​​12,700 square metres. Development rights for about 20,000 square metres are also associated with the properties, offering Accrued interest expenses 28.8 33.4 opportunities for future expansion. PostNord is signing a ten-year Accrued salary-related expenses 15.1 14.9 lease in connection with the transaction and the estimated net 12 Accrued selling expenses 3.9 17.0 operating surplus for the properties amounts to approximately SEK Other items 3.9 8.9 12.7 million. The acquired properties are modern, space-efficient, 13 terminal-style distribution hubs, strategically located near access Total 198.8 191.7 roads to urban areas, making them suitable for handling last-mile deliveries. Catena took possession of the properties in Hilleröd and 14 Horsens on 31 January. The building in Odense is under construcNote 23. Related parties tion, with Catena being scheduled to take possession on 1 September 2020. 15 Related-party transactions Catena and Coop Logistik have agreed to continue discussions The Group is under a significant influence from Erik Paulsson, with the intention of Catena acquiring a property and constructing with his family and companies. At 31 December 2019, his hold16 an approximately 105,000 square-metre automated warehouse in ing amounted to 29.8 percent (29.8) of the voting rights in the the Municipality of Eskilstuna. For Catena, this statement of intent Group’s Parent Company. Erik Paulsson’s influence means that entails acquiring part of the Aspestahult 1:1 property in Eskilstuna the Group has related-party transactions with Erik Paulsson’s 17 Logistik Park, and constructing and automating the new facility. wholly owned company, Hansan AB. Related-party transactions Catena’s total investment is estimated at between SEK 3.7 billion have also taken place with companies owned by Board members and SEK 3.9 billion. If the planned schedule holds, the facility is 18 Ingela Bendrot and Katarina Wallin. expected to be brought into operation in 2023. The process will In addition to the above related-party transactions, Catena continue with negotiations on the final terms of the collaboration. AB itself or via Group companies, has holdings in the followThe parties involved with disclose further information in connec19 ing associated companies: Törsjö Logistik AB, Urban Services tion with the signing of a binding agreement. Sweden AB, Foodhills Fastighet AB and joint operations in the Johan Franzén will be stepping down effective 1 April 2020 and form of a holding in SFF Holding AB. Transactions in the form will continue in his current role as Regional Manager for Gothen20 of shareholder contributions, loans and interest with SFF have burg and Jönköping during his period of notice. The process of been eliminated in the consolidated accounts. Reported instead recruiting a successor has been initiated. is Catena’s share of SFF’s external involvement in the consoli21 On 14 February, Catena signed an agreement to acquire the dated financial reports. See Note 14 Participations in associated Magasinet 3 property, with a plot area of slightly more than 66,100 companies and shared operations. square metres. The property is situated adjacent to the 1,000,000 22 In 2019, no Board Member or senior executives in Catena AB square-metre Gerstaberg 1:7 site that Catena intends to develop or its subsidiaries have themselves, via companies or related through its partnership holding in the company Södertuna utveckparties, had any direct involvement in business transactions ling AB. The property now being acquired encompasses building 23 carried out by Catena that were or are unusual in their nature or rights of approximately 10,000 square metres and a lettable their terms and conditions. See Note 8 Employee and personnel area with tenants of approximately 21,000 square metres. The expenses. combined rental value amounts to approximately SEK 12 million. 24 In one case, Catena has given guarantees for Group compaThe acquisition is being conducted as a corporate transaction at a nies’ associated companies, see Note 21 Pledged assets and value of SEK 130 million. The site is being sold by Folkpolarna AB. contingent liabilities. 25 The Nomination Committee has submitted a proposal regarding the composition of the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 April 2020. It is proposed that Magnus 26 Swärdh, Katarina Wallin, Tomas Andersson and Hélène Briggert be re-elected and that Gustaf Hermelin be re-elected as the Chairman of the Board. In addition, the new election of Vesna Jovic and Caesar Åfors is proposed, as Henry Klotz and Ingela Bendrot have declined re-election. No other significant events affecting the Group’s financial ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB position have taken place following the balance sheet date. 101 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 25. Cash-Flow Statement 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 Supplementary disclosures to the cash-flow statement -31 Dec 2019 -31 Dec 2018 1 Interest paid and dividends received Interest received 2.4 2.9 2 Interest paid -237.9 -231.3 Adjustments for non-cash items 3 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment of assets 0.6 0.9 Change in value of investment properties -791.2 -329.1 Change in value of derivatives -29.3 -35.0 4 Participations in the profits/losses of associated companies 11.5 -8.5 Net capital loss from the divestment of non-current assets -74.5 -3.5 5 Net capital loss from the divestment of operations -13.1 -1.2 Other non-cash profit/loss items 1.1 0.8 -894.9 -375.6 6 Acquisition of assets via subsidiaries All acquisitions during the year have been classified as asset 7 acquisitions with net proceeds comprised of the following items: Assets acquired and liabilities assumed: 8 Investment properties 82.1 495.3 Deferred tax assets – 2.6 9 Operating receivables 0.7 8.2 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 25.2 Loans -63.4 -347.3 10 Operating liabilities -0.7 -33.5 Total net assets 19.3 150.5 11 Purchase consideration paid 19.3 150.5 Non-cash issue and new share issue through settlement of 12 pre-acquisition liabilities – -50.0 Total 19.3 100.5 13 Less: Cash and cash equivalents in the acquisition -0.6 -25.2 Impact on cash and cash equivalents 18.7 75.3 14 Divestment of operations Divested assets and liabilities: Investment properties 82.5 44.9 15 Operating receivables -0.1 0.4 Loans -75.4 -19.3 16 Operating liabilities – -2.9 Capital gain 0.6 1.2 Total 7.6 24.3 17 Purchase consideration received 7.6 24.3 Total 7.6 24.3 18 Less: Cash and cash equivalents in the acquisition – – Impact on cash and cash equivalents 7.6 24.3 19 Acquisitions of other financial assets Investments in associated companies -60.0 -62.4 20 Changes in interest-bearing items -15.1 -29.6 Total investments in financial assets -75.1 -92.0 21 Divestment of financial assets Disposals of associated companies – 99.3 22 Settlement of financial receivables 16.3 20.8 Total divestment of financial assets 16.3 120.1 23 Cash and cash Liability to associated Reconciliation of net debt equivalents companies Property loans Total 24 Net debt as at 31 December 2018 281.2 -1.0 -8,516.8 -8,236.6 Cash flow -150.9 1.0 -203.3 -353.2 25 Acquisitions – – -63.4 -63.4 Disposals – – 0.1 0.1 26 Exchange rate differences 0.9 – -1.2 -0.3 Net debt as at 31 December 2019 131.2 0.0 -8,784.6 -8,653.4 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP Note 26. Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Formula 1 Reference reference Property-related Surplus ratio, % 2 Net operating surplus IS A 902.8 827.6 Rental income IS B 1,182.9 1,090.7 3 Surplus ratio = A/B 76.3% 75.9% Loan-to-value ratio, % 4 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities BS A 4,784.7 6,170.2 Current interest-bearing liabilities BS B 3,999.9 2,346.6 5 Investment properties BS C 16,270.5 14,721.1 Loan-to-value ratio = (A+B)/C 54.0% 57.9% 6 Financial Return on equity, % 7 Profit for the year IS A 1,223.8 823.4 Total equity at beginning of the year BS B 5,308.8 4,596.5 8 Total equity at end of the year BS C 6,318.0 5,308.8 Return on equity = A/((B+C)/2) 21.1% 16.6% 9 Return on total capital, % Profit before tax IS A 1,522.5 940.1 10 Reversal of financial expenses IS B 228.2 238.6 Reversal of unrealised changes in value of derivatives IS C -29.3 -35.0 11 Total assets at beginning of year BS D 15,905.9 14,246.6 Total assets at end of year BS E 17,770.1 15,984.9 Return on total capital = A+B+C/((D+E)/2) 10.2% 7.6% 12 Interest-coverage ratio, multiple 13 Profit before tax IS A 1,522.5 940.1 Reversal of financial expenses IS B 228.2 238.6 Reversal of unrealised changes in value of investment properties IS C -791.2 -329.1 14 Reversal of changes in value of goodwill IS D – – Reversal of changes in value of derivatives IS E -29.3 -35.0 15 Interest coverage ratio = (A+B+C+D+E)/B 4.1 3.4 Average interest rate, % 16 See Interest rate maturity structure in Note 19 2.6 2.7 Term to interest rate maturity, years 17 See Interest rate maturity structure in Note 19 2.3 3.0 Interest-bearing liabilities concerning properties, SEK M 18 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities BS A 4,784.7 6,170.2 Current interest-bearing liabilities BS B 3,999.9 2,346.6 19 Interest-bearing liabilities concerning properties =A+B 8,784.6 8,516.8 Capital tied-up, years 20 See loan agreement maturity structure in Note 19 1.3 1.4 Debt/equity ratio, multiple 21 Interest-bearing liabilities concerning properties, SEK M A 8,784.6 8,516.8 Total equity at end of the year BS B 6,318.0 5,308.8 22 Debt/equity ratio = A/B 1.4 1.6 Equity ratio, % 23 Total equity at end of the year BS A 6,318.0 5,308.8 Total assets at end of year BS B 17,770.1 15,905.9 24 Equity ratio =A/B 35.6% 33.4% Equity/assets ratio, excluding goodwill and right-of-use assets, % 25 Total equity at end of the year BS A 6,318.0 5,308.8 Total assets at end of year BS B 17,770.1 15,905.9 26 Deductions, goodwill BS C 503.0 503.0 Less right-of-use assets for leaseholds BS D 330.2 – Equity ratio excl. goodwill = A/(B-C-D) 37.3% 34.5% ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 103 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – GROUP 1 2 3 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 4 Formula Reference reference Share-related 5 Dividend yield, % Dividend per share, SEK A 6.50 5.75 6 Share price at year-end B 413.50 220.50 Dividend yield = A/B 1.6% 2.6% 7 Total return on the share, % Dividend per share, SEK A 5.75 4.50 8 Property portfolio at beginning of year B 220.50 155.50 Share price at year-end C 413.50 220.50 9 Total return on the share = (C-B+A)/B 90.1% 44.7% Equity per share, SEK 10 Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders, SEK M BS A 6,318.0 5,308.8 Number of shares outstanding at year-end B 37,698,853 37,698,853 11 Equity per share = A/B 167.59 140.82 Profit from property management per share, SEK 12 Profit from property management, SEK M IS A 626.8 571.3 Total No. of shares outstanding B 37,698,853 37,549,847 13 Profit from property management per share = A/B 16.63 15.21 P/E ratio 14 Earnings per share, SEK A 32.46 21.93 Share price at year-end B 413.50 220.50 P/E ratio = B/A 13 10 15 Cash flow before change in working capital per share, SEK 16 Cash flow before change in working capital, SEK M CFS A 612.5 550.8 Total No. of shares outstanding B 37,698,853 37,549,847 Cash flow before change in working capital per share, SEK 16.25 14.67 17 Long-term net asset value per share, EPRA NAV Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders, SEK M BS A 6,318.0 5,308.8 18 Goodwill as an effect of deferred tax BS B -503.0 -503.0 Deferred tax assets, SEK M BS C -85.1 -96.9 19 Fair value of interest-rate derivatives, SEK M Note 19 D 381.1 410.5 Deferred tax liability, SEK M BS E 1,537.0 1,271.6 20 Number of shares outstanding at year-end F 37,698,853 37,698,853 Non-current net asset value per share, EPRA NAV = (A+B+C+D+E)/F 202.87 169.53 21 BS=Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. CFS=Consolidated Cash-flow Statement. 22 IS=Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. 23 24 25 26 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – PARENT COMPANY Financial statements – Parent Company Parent Company Income Statement 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 SEK M Note -31 Dec 2019 -31 Dec 2018 Net sales 4 50.6 47.6 Cost of services performed 5,6,7,8 -85.0 -78.1 Operating profit/loss -34.4 -30.5 Financial income and expenses 9 Interest income and similar profit/loss items 212.4 149.4 Profit from participations in Group companies 58.1 1,219.1 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items -109.3 -248.4 Profit before tax 126.8 1,089.6 Appropriations – -7.0 Tax on profit for the year 10 -37.0 -58.8 Comprehensive income for the year 89.8 1,023.8 No items in the Parent Company are recognised in other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income is therefore consistent with profit for the year. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 105 FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – PARENT COMPANY Balance Sheet, Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets Equipment 11 1.0 1.5 Financial non-current assets Participations in Group companies 12 3,235.2 3,235.2 Participations in associated companies 13 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax assets 10 78.9 84.8 Receivables from associated companies 20.0 – Other non-current receivables 5.4 2.7 Total financial fixed assets 3,340.5 3,323.7 Total non-current assets 3,341.5 3,325.2 Current assets Current receivables Accounts receivable 14 – 0.8 Receivables from Group companies 15 3,728.5 3,900.5 Receivables from associated companies 34.9 20.1 Other receivables 18.3 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income 16 6.4 5.1 Total current receivables 3,788.1 3,926.5 Cash and bank balances 90.0 195.7 Total current assets 3,878.1 4,122.2 TOTAL ASSETS 22 7,219.6 7,447.4 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders’ equity 17 Restricted equity Share capital 165.9 165.9 Statutory reserve 10.0 10.0 Total restricted equity 175.9 175.9 Unrestricted equity Share premium reserve 1,996.6 1,996.6 Profit brought forward 645.2 -161.9 Comprehensive income for the year 89.8 1,023.8 Total unrestricted equity 2,731.6 2,858.5 Total equity 2,907.5 3,034.4 Untaxed reserves Excess depreciation 0.1 0.2 Tax allocation reserve 24.0 24.0 Total untaxed reserves 24.1 24.2 Provisions Other provisions 18 2.1 1.0 Total provisions 2.1 1.0 Liabilities Long-term liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 15,20 674.3 898.6 Interest-rate derivatives 15 381.1 410.5 Total non-current liabilities 1,055.4 1,309.1 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 15,20 – – Accounts payable 3.6 4.1 Liabilities to Group companies 15 3,194.0 3,025.1 Liabilities to associated companies – 1.0 Other liabilities 2.4 2.1 Tax liability – 15.3 Accrued expenses and deferred income 19 30.5 31.1 Total current liabilities 3,230.5 3,078.7 Total liabilities 22 4,285.9 4,387.8 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,219.6 7,447.4 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – PARENT COMPANY Parent Company changes in shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity CompreShare hensive Share Statutory premium Accumulated income for Total SEK M capital reserve reserve profit the year equity Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2018 164.6 10.0 2,116.2 2.9 -164.8 2,128.9 Transfer comprehensive income – – – -164.8 164.8 – New share issue 1.3 – 48.7 – – 50.0 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 1,023.8 1,023.8 Dividend – – -168.3 – – -168.3 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2018 165.9 10.0 1,996.6 -161.9 1,023.8 3,034.4 Equity brought forward 1 Jan 2019 165.9 10.0 1,996.6 -161.9 1,023.8 3,034.4 Transfer comprehensive income – – – 1,023.8 -1,023.8 – Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 89.8 89.8 Dividend – – – -216.8 – -216.8 Equity carried forward 31 Dec 2019 165.9 10.0 1,996.6 645.2 89.8 2,907.5 Parent Company Cash Flow Analysis 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 SEK M Note 21 -31 Dec 2019 -31 Dec 2018 Operating activities Profit before tax 126.8 1,089.6 Adjustments for non-cash items -27.6 -33.1 Tax paid -11.3 -0.1 Cash flow before changes in working capital 87.9 1,056.4 Changes in working capital Change in operating receivables -10.3 2.1 Change in operating liabilities 2.7 -0.5 Cash flow from operating activities 80.3 1,058.0 Investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment -0.2 -0.4 Sales and net amortisation of financial assets 255.3 -1,191.9 Cash flow from investing activities 255.1 -1,192.3 Financing activities New share issue*) – – Borrowings 134.9 898.6 Amortisation of loans -359.2 -439.0 Dividend -216.8 -168.3 Cash flow from financing activities -441.1 291.3 Cash flow for the year -105.7 157.0 Opening cash and cash equivalents 195.7 38.7 Closing cash and cash equivalents 90.0 195.7 *) The preceding year’s new share issue for SEK 50 million has been offset against acquisition liabilities. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 107 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY Notes – Parent Company 1 Note 1. Accounting policies Note 3. Significant estimates and assumptions 2 for accounting purposes Amounts in SEK million unless otherwise specified. Estimates and assessments are continually evaluated and are 3 Catena AB (publ), 556294-1715, is the Parent Company of a based on historical experience and other factors, including Group comprising companies that own and operate properties expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable or run property-related projects. All inter-Group functions are under the circumstances. 4 centralised to the Parent Company. For accounting purposes, the Group’s descriptions of key The Parent Company has prepared its Annual Report in estimates and assessments are also applicable to the Parent accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Company. 5 Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation no. RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities, which entails that the Parent 6 Company in its annual report for the legal entity applies all of the EU-approved IFRS and statements, to the fullest extent Note 4. Net sales possible, within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act, and 7 Turnover primarily comprises intra-Group administration fees. taking into consideration the connection between accounting and taxation. Recommendations indicate the exceptions and the 8 supplements to be made to the IFRS. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as Note 5. Cost of services performed the Group, detailed in Note 2 for the Group, except in the cases 9 stated below. 2019 2018 Personnel expenses 55.9 50.6 Differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s Other external expenses 28.5 26.6 10 accounting policies Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.9 The following accounting policies for the Parent Company have been applied consistently for all periods presented in the Parent Total 85.0 78.1 11 Company’s financial reports, unless specifically stated otherwise 12 Financial instruments Note 6. Employee and personnel expenses In the Parent Company, IFRS 9 shall also to be applied to intraGroup receivables and liabilities. Since the market value of the Average number of of whom of whom 13 employees 2019 men 2018 men underlying assets in the subsidiaries to a significant extent exceeds the carrying amount, no loss risk reserve has been made Employees in Sweden 42 72% 38 76% 14 on intra-Group transactions. This assessment is updated for each new accounting period and is set in relation to the prevail2019 2018 2019 2018 ing market situation. 15 Gender balance of Board of Senior senior management Directors executives Subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures Participations in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint Men 57% 57% 86% 86% 16 ventures are recognised in the Parent Company under the cost Women 43% 43% 14% 14% method. 17 2019 2018 Shareholder contributions and Group contributions Salaries, fees, benefits and other remuneration Shareholder contributions are recognised directly in equity by 18 the recipient and capitalised in shares and participations by the Chairman of the Board 0.3 0.3 payer. Group contributions paid to subsidiaries are recognised as Chairman of the Board an increase in the shares in the subsidiary and, thereafter, tested (special fee, Jan-Apr 2018) – 0.6 19 to identify whether any impairment need exists. The tax effect is Other Board Members 1.0 0.9 recognised in profit or loss. Group contributions received from Chief Executive Officer 20 subsidiaries are treated as dividends and are recognised as Base salary 2.2 1.9 financial income in profit or loss. The tax effect is recognised in profit or loss. Other remuneration 0.5 0.5 21 Other senior executives Presentation of Income Statement and Balance Sheet (6 and 6 individuals respectively) 22 The Parent Company follows the presentation format in the Base salary 6.8 6.4 Swedish Annual Accounts Act for the Income Statement and BalOther remuneration 1.7 1.5 ance Sheet, which means that a different presentation format 23 for equity and that other provisions are reported as a separate Other employees 22.2 19.8 item in the Balance Sheet. Total 34.7 31.9 24 Note 2. Financial risk management The Group applies common risk management for all units. Consequently, the description included in Note 19 is, to all intents and purposes, also applicable to the Parent Company. 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY 2019 2018 Note 9. Financial income and expenses Pension expenses Interest income and similar Chief Executive Officer 1.4 1.1 profit/loss items 2019 2018 1 Other senior executives Interest income, Group companies 205.6 134.2 6 (6) individuals 2.6 3.0 Interest income, other 1.2 0.3 Other employees 3.7 3.2 2 Exchange gain 5.6 14.9 Total 7.7 7.3 Total 212.4 149.4 3 Statutory social security contributions incl. Profit from participations payroll tax in Group companies 2019 2018 4 Chairman of the Board 0.1 0.1 Dividends from subsidiaries – 1,000.0 Chairman of the Board Group contributions received 172.5 376.8 (special fee, Jan-Apr 2018) – 0.2 5 Impairment of shares in subsidiaries -114.4 -157.7 Other Board members 0.3 0.2 Total 58.1 1,219.1 Chief Executive Officer 1.4 1.0 6 Other senior executives (6 and 6 individuals respectively) 3.1 3.1 Interest expense and 7 similar profit/loss items 2019 2018 Other employees 7.5 6.8 Interest expenses, Group companies -15.9 -147.8 Total 12.4 11.4 8 Interest expenses, derivatives -110.2 -125.5 Total 54.8 50.6 Interest expenses, other -3.1 -1.9 For information about directors’ fees, the terms and conditions Interest-rate derivatives, changes in value 29.3 34.7 9 governing the employment and dismissal of senior executives, Other financial expenses -9.4 -7.9 remuneration of related parties, bonuses, pensions, severance Total -109.3 -248.4 10 pay, etc. please refer to Note 8 for the Group. Net financial items 161.2 1,120.1 11 Note 7. Fees and expenses to auditors 2019 2018 12 Audit engagement 1.5 1.3 Note 10 Tax Audit activities in addition to the Recognised in profit or loss 2019 2018 13 audit engagement – – Current tax Tax consultancy 0.3 0.2 14 Tax for the year -31.1 -45.5 Total 1.8 1.5 Deferred tax Fees for audit engagements pertain to fees for the statutory Deferred tax regarding temporary 15 audit, that is, all work necessary to prepare the auditors’ report, differences -5.9 -13.3 as well as audit advice provided in conjunction with the audit Total recognised tax -37.0 -58.8 16 engagement. Audit activities in addition to the audit engagement pertain to fees for various types of quality assurance services. 17 Costs for audits and other assignments from PwC pertaining Reconciliation of effective tax 2019 2018 to all subsidiaries were charged to the Parent Company. Profit before tax 126.8 1,082.6 Tax according to current rate: 21.4% (22%) -27.1 -238.2 18 Effect of changed tax rate 0.4 -5.7 Non-taxable dividends – 220.0 19 Note 8. Leasing Offsetting of net interest 14.7 – Catena AB mainly has use of cars through leasing agreements. Non-deductible expenses -25.0 -34.9 20 The cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease Recognised effective tax -37.0 -58.8 period. 21 2019 2018 The recognised effective tax rate in percent totalled 29.2 (5.4). Leasing cost 1.6 1.4 22 Future undiscounted cash outflows related to the lease agreements are distributed as follows: 23 Within one year 1.2 1.3 Between one and five years 0.5 1.0 24 Total 1.7 2.3 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 109 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY Recognised Recognised in profit or Acquisitions/ in profit or Acquisitions/ Deferred tax assets OB 2018 loss 2018 disposals 2018 CB 2018 loss 2019 disposals 2019 CB 2019 1 Pension provisions 0.2 – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.4 Derivative instruments 96.6 -13.3 1.3 84.6 -6.1 – 78.5 2 Total deferred tax assets 96.8 -13.3 1.3 84.8 -5.9 – 78.9 3 Note 11. Tangible fixed assets 4 Equipment 2019 2018 Opening cost 5.0 4.6 5 Acquisitions 0.1 0.4 Sales and disposals -0.1 0.0 6 Closing cost 5.0 5.0 7 Opening depreciation -3.5 -2.6 Sales and disposals 0.1 0.0 8 Depreciation for the year -0.6 -0.9 Closing depreciation -4.0 -3.5 Carrying amount 1.0 1.5 9 Depreciation is distributed over the following items in profit 10 or loss 2019 2018 11 Central administration 0.6 0.9 12 Note 12. Participations in Group companies 13 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Accumulated cost 14 Opening balance 3,870.1 3,759.7 Acquisitions – – 15 Disposals – -24.6 Group contributions paid1) 114.4 135.0 16 Capital contribution made – – Closing balance 3,984.5 3,870.1 17 Accumulated write-downs Opening balance -634.9 -499.9 1) Group contributions paid to subsidiaries are recognised as an increase in the 18 shares in the subsidiary and, thereafter, tested to identify whether any impairImpairment for the year2) -114.4 -135.0 ment need exists. Group contributions received from subsidiaries are treated Closing balance -749.3 -634.9 as dividends and are recognised as financial income in profit or loss. 19 Carrying amount at year-end 3,235.2 3,235.2 2) Impairment for the year is included in profit or loss under “Profit from participations in Group companies”, see Note 9. 20 Specification of Parent Company’s direct holdings of shares in subsidiaries 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 21 Number Holding Carrying Carrying Subsidiary Corp. No. Registered office of shares in %1) amount amount 22 Catena Logistik AB 556922-7365 Helsingborg 1,000 100.0 1,154.8 1,154.8 Catena Fastigheter AB 556754-0843 Helsingborg 1,000 100.0 0.1 0.1 Catena Obl. Holding AB 556984-8467 Helsingborg 1,000 100.0 15.1 15.1 23 Tribona AB 556870-4646 Helsingborg 48,657,051 100.0 2,065.2 2,065.2 Total 3,235.2 3,235.2 24 1) Pertains to the percentage of share capital, which corresponds to the proportion of voting rights. 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY Specification of indirectly owned subsidiaries Registered Registered Name Corp. Reg. No. office Name Corp. Reg. No. office 1 Catena Adaptern 1 AB 556606-3631 Helsingborg Catena Misteln AB 559011-1307 Helsingborg Catena Backa 23:5 KB 916624-0797 Helsingborg Catena Morup 5 AB 556632-3621 Helsingborg 2 Catena Backa 23:9 AB 556822-2433 Helsingborg Catena Mosås AB 556710-4459 Helsingborg Catena Backa 97:10 AB 556595-0002 Helsingborg Catena Målås 4:4 AB 559083-7133 Helsingborg Catena Backa Invest AB 556758-6838 Helsingborg Catena Mölnlycke AB 556990-3379 Helsingborg 3 Catena Backanet AB 556720-9035 Helsingborg Catena Obl. AB 556984-8426 Helsingborg Catena Basfiolen AB 556697-7129 Helsingborg Catena Projekt AB 556824-7570 Helsingborg 4 Catena Batteriet AB 559083-7182 Helsingborg Catena Rollsbo AB 559053-0266 Helsingborg Catena Björröd AB 559106-8829 Helsingborg Catena Rosersberg 11:81 AB 559130-9629 Helsingborg Catena B-Kråkebo 1:56 AB 559016-9198 Helsingborg Catena Rosersberg 11:116 AB 556893-9325 Helsingborg 5 Catena Borlänge AB 556605-0620 Helsingborg Catena Service AB 556750-7917 Helsingborg Catena Borås Tre AB 556691-3223 Helsingborg Catena Skogskojan 1 AB 556972-7547 Helsingborg Catena Borås Två AB 556537-6141 Helsingborg Catena Slottshagen 2:1 AB 556703-2809 Helsingborg 6 Catena Bronsringen AB 556702-8153 Helsingborg Catena Slätthög 1 AB 556929-6873 Helsingborg Catena Bråta AB 559211-4259 Helsingborg Catena Slätthög 4 AB 556872-7639 Helsingborg 7 Catena Bröndby A/S DK 30926080 Copenhagen Catena Slätthög 6 AB 556929-6881 Helsingborg Catena Bulten 1 AB 556968-2478 Helsingborg Catena Smeden 1 AB 556950-7584 Helsingborg Catena Bunkagården M 1 AB 556445-0087 Helsingborg Catena Snesholm 1:16 AB 559043-5995 Helsingborg 8 Catena Bunkagården M 2 AB 556912-0339 Helsingborg Catena Sockret 4 AB 559025-6698 Helsingborg Catena Burlöv AB 556605-0992 Helsingborg Catena Sockret 7 AB 559029-1208 Helsingborg 9 Catena Dansered AB 556537-6166 Helsingborg Catena Statorn AB 559130-9637 Helsingborg Catena Drivremmen 1 AB 559083-7117 Helsingborg Catena Stenvreten AB 556791-3982 Helsingborg Catena Däcket 1 AB 559083-7166 Helsingborg Catena Stockholm AB 556519-4148 Helsingborg 10 Catena Ekeby 2:2 AB 559081-1880 Helsingborg Catena Sundsvall AB 556605-0596 Helsingborg Catena Fosie 4 AB 556775-7819 Helsingborg Catena Sunnanå 5:16 AB 559071-0090 Helsingborg Catena Fräsaren 12 AB 556987-6773 Helsingborg Catena Sunnanå AB 556699-7788 Helsingborg 11 Catena Fröträdet 1 AB 556605-2139 Helsingborg Catena Sunnanå Tre AB 556809-9955 Helsingborg Catena Fördelaren 1 AB 556605-2097 Helsingborg Catena Sunnanå Två AB 559023-3911 Helsingborg 12 Catena Förmannen AB 556667-7299 Helsingborg Catena Södertälje AB 556524-7433 Helsingborg Catena Generatorn 11 AB 556720-9043 Helsingborg Catena Söderåsen Fastighets AB 556634-8776 Helsingborg Catena Godsvagnen AB 556740-8801 Helsingborg Catena Tahe AB 556102-5304 Helsingborg 13 Catena Gävle AB 556697-7194 Helsingborg Catena Tankbilen 9 AB 556956-0690 Helsingborg Catena Haninge AB 556660-1596 Helsingborg Catena Terminal AB 559081-1948 Helsingborg 14 Catena Holding 6 AB 556877-4250 Helsingborg Catena Terminalen 1 AB 556312-0236 Helsingborg Catena Holding 9 AB 556912-0313 Helsingborg Catena Tostarp AB 556667-8784 Helsingborg Catena Holding I AB 556707-7580 Helsingborg Catena Tostarp Tre AB 559211-5124 Helsingborg 15 Catena Hästhagen AB 556252-1616 Helsingborg Catena Tostarp Två AB 559025-2259 Helsingborg Catena Invest AB 556649-9108 Helsingborg Catena Transportstaden Örebro AB 556591-2309 Helsingborg 16 Catena Jakobsberg AB 556607-0925 Helsingborg Catena Tågarp 16:22 AB 559018-0880 Helsingborg Catena Jordbromalm 4:41 AB 556731-8554 Helsingborg Catena Umeå AB 556605-0562 Helsingborg Catena Järfälla AB 556605-0737 Helsingborg Catena Umeå Två AB 556708-3422 Helsingborg 17 Catena Jönköping AB 556536-7587 Helsingborg Catena Vanda AB 556672-1402 Helsingborg Catena Jönköping Två AB 556691-3215 Helsingborg Catena Varalöv AB 556663-0025 Helsingborg Catena Karlstad AB 556605-0695 Helsingborg Catena Vasslan AB 556697-7137 Helsingborg 18 Catena Klarinetten 1 AB 556720-9050 Helsingborg Catena Vindtunneln 2 AB 556685-3064 Helsingborg Catena Klippan AB 556536-7579 Helsingborg Catena Vissol AB 556140-0135 Helsingborg 19 Catena Klippan Mega AB 556594-2603 Helsingborg Catena Vissol Två AB 556717-7653 Helsingborg Catena Konen AB 556802-4771 Helsingborg Catena Vångagärdet AB 559086-8021 Helsingborg Catena Kopparverket AB 556700-1275 Helsingborg Catena Välingen KB 969728-6160 Helsingborg 20 Catena Korsberga 1 AB 556834-6539 Helsingborg Catena Värdshuset AB 556697-7145 Helsingborg Catena Kristianstad AB 556697-7202 Helsingborg Catena Värnamo AB 556950-7592 Helsingborg 21 Catena Kungsbacka AB 556969-5439 Helsingborg Catena Växjö Ett AB 556222-2595 Helsingborg Catena Källstalöt AB 556499-4076 Helsingborg Catena Årsta AB 556605-0760 Helsingborg Catena Köpingegården HB 916626-8806 Helsingborg Catena Ättehögen AB 556659-9360 Helsingborg 22 Catena Lagret 1 AB 556660-1539 Helsingborg Catena Örebro AB 556636-3270 Helsingborg Catena Lagret 4 AB 559007-5544 Helsingborg Catena Östanvinden AB 556697-7111 Helsingborg Catena Linköping AB 556605-0471 Helsingborg Hallsbergs Kombiterminal AB 556643-8023 Helsingborg 23 Catena Logistikposition 556688-6635 Helsingborg Hallsbergs Terminal AB 556317-5966 Helsingborg Helsingborg AB Logistikposition Karlshamn AB 556752-6040 Karlshamn 24 Catena Magneten 6 AB 559090-1715 Helsingborg Logistikposition Katrineholm AB 556692-4147 Katrineholm Catena Mappen 4 AB 559100-3776 Helsingborg Queenswall AB 559001-6696 Helsingborg Queenswall Två AB 559164-2979 Helsingborg ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 111 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY Pertains to the percentage of share capital, which corresponds Note 13. Participations in associated companies to the proportion of voting rights. Associated companies 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Urban Services Sweden AB is owned by Catena as an associAccumulated cost ated company together with Fabege, Ragnsells and Servistik, 1 with 25 percent each. The Company will develop and coordinate Opening balance 1.0 1.0 logistics for the transport of products and goods into and out of Acquisitions – – Arenastaden in Solna. 2 In addition to the proportion of ownership and the Parent Carrying amount at year-end 1.0 1.0 Company’s recognised values, the following table displays the 3 associated companies’ summary income statements and balance sheets, SEK million (100 percent). 2019 4 Joint ventures/ Associated Registered Carrying companies Corp. Reg. No. office Participation Assets Liabilities Income Profit amount 5 Urban Services Sweden AB 559108-8397 Solna 25.0% 5.2 2.0 16.0 0.7 1.0 6 Total 5.2 2.0 16.0 0.7 1.0 7 2018 Joint ventures/ 8 Associated Registered Carrying companies Corp. Reg. No. office Participation Assets Liabilities Income Profit amount Urban Services 9 Sweden AB 559108-8397 Solna 25.0% 1.5 0.7 2.4 -0.2 1.0 Total 1.5 0.7 2.4 -0.2 1.0 10 For more information, see Group Note 14, Participations in associated companies and collaborative arrangements. 11 Note 14. Accounts receivable 12 The Parent Company’s accounts receivable amounted to SEK 0.0 million (0.8). Of these, SEK 0.0 M (0.6) has not fallen due. No 13 bad debt losses arose for the Parent Company during the year. 14 Note 15. Financial instruments and financial risk management 15 Financial policy The Parent Company’s assumption of financial risk is governed 16 by the risk mandate set by Catena’s Board. The policy and targets are detailed in Note 19 for the Group. 17 Financing and financing risks 18 Loan terms, interest and maturity structure Nominal amount Average in original currency interest rate 19 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Commercial papers* 674.3 898.6 0.9% 0.7% 20 Liabilities to Group companies 3,194.0 3,025.1 3.0% 3.0% Liabilities to associated 21 companies – 1.0 3.0% 3.0% * The average interest rate is stated with regard to the cost of the backup facility. 22 The Group’s interest-rate risk is hedged in the Parent Company. All carrying amounts in the Parent Company correspond to fair 23 values. The carrying amounts on the closing date are shown in the following table. 24 Nominal value Carrying amount 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Interest-rate swap contracts 4,521.7 4,528.6 -381.1 -410.5 A one percentage-point rise in the interest rate for interest-bearing liabilities, assuming unchanged loan volumes and fixed-interest terms in line with valid derivative agreements, would have a positive impact on earnings of SEK 6.6 million (6.1). 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY Note 16. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Prepaid fee for credit facility 3.2 2.8 1 Prepaid rent 0.7 0.7 Other prepaid expenses 2.5 1.6 2 Total 6.4 5.1 3 4 Note 17. Shareholders’ equity Number of shares in issue at 31 December 2019 5 Number of Quotient value per Total value per Number of votes Total Class of shares registered shares share, SEK share, SEK per share votes 6 Ordinary shares 37,698,853 SEK 4.40 SEK 165,874,953.20 1 37,698,853 All shares confer equal rights to participate in the Company’s assets and earnings. 7 Development of share capital 8 Increase in Increase in number Total number Total number share Total share of registered of registered of shares 9 Year Transaction capital, SEK capital, SEK shares shares outstanding 1999 New share issue 49,075,400 50,000,000 490,754 11,555,662 11,555,662 10 2006 Bonus issue 883,800 50,883,800 8,838 11,564,500 11,564,500 2013 Private placement 59,976,189 110,859,989 13,630,952 25,195,452 25,195,452 11 2014 Private placement 1,964,464 112,824,452 446,469 25,641,921 25,641,921 2016 Private placement 31,886,672 144,711,124 7,246,971 32,888,892 32,888,892 2016 Private placement 1,525,102 146,236,226 346,614 33,235,506 33,235,506 12 2016 Private placement 11,000,000 157,236,226 2,500,000 35,735,506 35,735,506 2017 Private placement 7,383,275 164,619,501 1,678,017 37,413,523 37,413,523 13 2018 Private placement 1,255,452 165,874,953 285,330 37,698,853 37,698,853 The dividends adopted by the Annual General Meeting and dismillion. The dividend amount corresponds to 99.5 percent of the 14 bursed in 2019 were SEK 5.75 per share or a total of SEK 216.8 dividend target in Catena’s financial targets, SEK 246.3 million. million. For 2019, the Board proposes an ordinary dividend of The Parent Company’s target for asset management and the 15 SEK 6.50 per share. Based on the number of shares outstandfinancial targets correspond with the Group’s and are detailed in ing entitled to receive a dividend for the 2019 financial year, the Note 19 for the Group. proposed dividend means a total dividend amount of SEK 245.0 16 17 Note 18. Other provisions Note 19. Accrued expenses and deferred income 18 2019 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Pension commitments 1.7 0.8 Accrued salary-related expenses 15.1 14.4 19 Special payroll tax 0.4 0.2 Accrued interest expenses 11.9 12.9 Total other provisions 2.1 1.0 Other accrued expenses 3.5 3.8 20 Total 30.5 31.1 Payments 2019 2018 21 Amount for which a provision is expected to be paid after more than 12 months 2.1 0.9 22 Note 20. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 2019 2018 Pledged assets 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 23 Opening balance 1.0 0.2 Guarantee obligations – – New provision 1.2 0.9 Total – – 24 Settled commitments -0.1 -0.1 Closing balance 2.1 1.0 Contingent liabilities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Guarantees given for Group companies 8,104.3 7,590.9 Guarantees given for associated companies 110.7 35.0 Total 8,215.0 7,625.9 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 113 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY Note 21. Cash-Flow Statement 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 1 Supplementary disclosures -31 Dec 2019 -31 Dec 2018 Interest paid and dividends received 2 Interest received 206.8 134.5 Interest paid -130.3 -276.1 3 Adjustments for 4 non-cash items Amortisation, depreciation and 5 impairment of assets 0.6 0.9 Change in value of derivatives -29.3 -34.7 6 Other non-cash profit/loss items 1.1 0.7 Total -27.6 -33.1 7 InterestReconciliation of Cash and cash bearing 8 changes in net debt equivalents liabilities Total Net debt as at 9 31 December 2018 195.7 -898.6 -702.9 Cash flow -105.7 224.3 118.6 10 Net debt as at 31 December 2019 90.0 -674.3 -584.3 11 12 13 Note 22. Classification of financial instruments 14 2019 Measurement categories Measured at Measured at fair fair value via value via other Measured at Carrying 15 Financial assets profit or loss comprehensive income amortised cost amount Other non-current receivables – – 1.7 1.7 16 Accounts receivable – – – – Other current receivables – – 3,763.4 3,763.4 17 Cash and cash equivalents – – 90.0 90.0 Total – – 3,855.1 3,855.1 18 Non-financial assets 3,364.5 Total 7,219.6 19 Financial liabilities 20 Commercial papers – – -674.3 -674.3 Interest-rate derivatives -381.1 – – -381.1 21 Accounts payable – – -3.6 -3.6 Other current liabilities – – -3,194.0 -3,194.0 22 Accrued expenses – – -30.5 -30.5 Total -381.1 – -3,903.0 -4,284.1 23 Non-financial liabilities -4.5 Total -4,288.0 24 Carrying amounts correspond, to all intents and purposes, to fair values for all balance-sheet items. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTES – PARENT COMPANY 2018 Measurement categories Measured at Measured at fair fair value via value via other Measured at Carrying Financial assets profit or loss comprehensive income amortised cost amount 1 Other non-current receivables – – 0.8 0.8 Accounts receivable – – 0.8 0.8 2 Other current receivables – – 3,925.7 3,925.7 Cash and cash equivalents – – 195.7 195.7 3 Total – – 4,123.0 4,123.0 Non-financial assets 3,324.4 Total 7,447.4 4 Financial liabilities 5 Commercial papers – – -898.6 -898.6 Interest-rate derivatives -410.5 – – -410.5 6 Accounts payable – – -4.1 -4.1 Other current liabilities – – -3,026.1 -3,026.1 7 Accrued expenses – – -31.1 -31.1 Total -410.5 – -3,959.9 -4,370.4 8 Non-financial liabilities -18.4 Total -4,388.8 9 Carrying amounts correspond, to all intents and purposes, to fair values for all balance-sheet items. 10 11 Note 23. Significant events after the end of the Note 24. Related parties financial year 12 Related-party transactions Catena and Coop Logistik have agreed to continue discussions In addition to the related parties detailed for the Group in Note 23, with the intention of Catena acquiring a property and conthe Parent Company exercises controlling influence over its 13 structing an approximately 105,000 square-metre automated subsidiaries, see Note 12 Participations in Group companies. warehouse in the Municipality of Eskilstuna. For Catena, this 14 statement of intent entails acquiring part of the Aspestahult 1:1 2019 2018 property in Eskilstuna Logistik Park, and constructing and autoTransactions with subsidiaries mating the new facility. Catena’s total investment is estimated 15 Purchases 2.8 2.6 at between SEK 3.7 billion and SEK 3.9 billion. If the planned schedule holds, the facility is expected to be brought into operaSales 49.0 46.0 tion in 2023. The process will continue with negotiations on Interest income 205.6 134.2 16 the final terms of the collaboration. The parties involved with Interest expenses 15.9 147.8 disclose further information in connection with the signing of a Dividends received – 1,000.0 17 binding agreement. Group contributions received Johan Franzén will be stepping down effective 1 April 2020 are reported as dividends 172.4 376.8 18 and will continue in his current role as Regional Manager for Gothenburg and Jönköping during his period of notice. The proGroup contributions paid 89.1 202.1 cess of recruiting a successor has been initiated. Current receivables 3,728.5 3,001.9 19 The Nomination Committee has submitted a proposal regardInterest-bearing liabilities 3,194.0 3,025.1 ing the composition of the Board of Directors to the Annual Guarantees given 8,104.3 7,590.9 General Meeting to be held on 29 April 2020. It is proposed 20 that Magnus Swärdh, Katarina Wallin, Tomas Andersson and Transactions with the Group’s associated companies Hélène Briggert be re-elected and that Gustaf Hermelin be reelected as the Chairman of the Board. In addition, the new elecSales 0.4 0.7 21 tion of Vesna Jovic and Caesar Åfors is proposed, as Henry Klotz Interest income 1.4 0.4 and Ingela Bendrot have declined re-election. Current receivables 34.9 20.1 22 No significant events affecting Catena’s financial position Non-current receivables 37.5 9.7 have taken place following the balance sheet date. Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 1.0 23 Guarantees given 76.7 35.0 Transactions with other related parties Purchases 0.2 0.1 24 Other information Liabilities and receivables with related parties pertain to the settlement account, to which interest is charged. Transactions with related parties are priced at market rates. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 115 FINANCIAL INFORMATION APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS AND MARKET OUTLOOK Appropriation of earnings The Board assesses that the financial status of the Company and the Group is sufficiently sound to both develop the operations and propose a cash dividend in accordance with the Company’s dividend policy. Appropriation of earnings financial year, which entails a total dividend payment of The Board of Directors’ statement pursuant to Chapter 18, SEK 245,042,544.50 (216,768,404.75). From the annual acSection 4 of the Companies Act. counts it can be seen that Catena’s consolidated equity ratio amounts to 35.6 percent. After deduction of the proposed Proposed appropriation of accumulated profit dividend, the Group’s equity ratio amounts to approximately The following amounts are at the disposal of the Annual 34.2 percent. One of Catena’s financial targets is that the General Meeting: consolidated equity ratio should be a minimum of 30 percent. SEK Explanatory statement by the Board Profit brought forward 2,641,760,535.36 In light of the aforementioned, the Board believes that the Profit for the year 89,847,046.71 proposed dividend to shareholders is warranted considerTotal 2,731,607,582.07 ing the stipulations in Chapter 17, Section 3, Paragraph 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies Act. The Board is of the The Board of Directors and CEO propose that the available opinion that there is full cover for the Company’s restricted profit be distributed in the following manner: equity following the proposed dividend. After the proposed dividend, the Board believes that the Company’s and Group’s SEK equity and liquidity will be sufficient considering the nature, To be distributed to shareholders: SEK scope and risk of the operations. The Board is of the opinion 6.50 per share 245,042,544.50 that the proposed dividend will not affect Catena’s capacity To be carried forward 2,486,565,037.57 to meet its short or long-term commitments. Moreover, the Total 2,731,607,582.07 Board believes that the investments required for the Company’s operations will not be adversely impacted. As regards The Board of Directors’ proposal the Company’s earnings and overall financial position in In the proposed appropriation of earnings, the Board of other regards, please refer to the financial statements in this Directors proposes to the 2020 Annual General Meeting that report and the notes to the financial statements on pages Catena pay a dividend of SEK 6.50 per share for the 2019 75–115. Market outlook The area of logistics faces an exciting future – and this also graphical areas, not seldom where it is needed most. This applies to properties linked to the sector. New technologies provides good conditions for growth in leasing over time and pave the way for more efficient and intelligent solutions. for achieving profitable new production. Over time, the market for logistics properties is ultimately In 2019, the transaction market for logistics properties driven by the supply and demand of goods and the cargo reached new heights, confirming an underlying strong flows that these forces generate. The function and composidemand for improved and more intelligent logistics. Over the tion of the properties are, in turn, influenced increasingly by past year, we witnessed how a greater proportion of foreign laws, infrastructure, purchasing behaviour and demographcapital found its way to Sweden, both from pure investors ics. An adaptation of the logistics property portfolio is curand from property companies seeking out Swedish logistics rently required for it to fit better in a modern society, globally properties at ever-lower yields. We believe this trend will and nationally. To date, the market has not had a problem continue given the low interest rates and a relatively weak absorbing additional properties – rather, the availability of SEK. modern and strategically located logistics premises has Having a good spread of financiers causes us to feel sebeen limited, which we believe will impact the letting ratio cure in the refinancing processes that await in 2020. We are positively in the future. monitoring developments in the world’s financial markets Access to appropriate land is limited in certain geoand are well-prepared regardless of the direction these take. 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION SIGNATURES Signing of the Annual Report The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the Annual fair view of the development of the Group’s operations, Report has been prepared in accordance with generally acfinancial position and performance and describes significant cepted accounting standards in Sweden and that the consolirisks and uncertainty factors facing the Group. dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the The annual accounts and consolidated financial stateinternational accounting standards referred to in Regulation ments were approved for release by the Board on 20 March (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the 2020. The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive InCouncil of 19 July, 2002 on the application of international come, the Consolidates Statement of Financial Position and accounting standards. The annual accounts and consolithe Parent Company’s Income Statement and Balance Sheet dated financial statements provide a true and fair view of the are subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting on financial position and performance of the Parent Company 29 April 2020. and Group. The Administration Report provides a true and Helsingborg, 20 March 2020 Gustaf Hermelin Tomas Andersson Ingela Bendrot Chairman of the Board Board Member Board Member Hélène Briggert Magnus Swärdh Henry Klotz Katarina Wallin Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Benny Thögersen Chief Executive Officer Our auditors’ report was submitted on 20 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Mats Åkerlund Authorised Public Accountant ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 117 FINANCIAL INFORMATION AUDITORS’ REPORT Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Catena AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number: 556294-1715 Report on the annual accounts and Our audit approach Audit focus and scope consolidated financial statements We structured our audit by determining the materiality level and assessing the risk of material misstatements in the fiStatements nancial statements. We paid particular attention to the areas We have audited the annual and consolidated accounts for where the CEO and Board made subjective judgements, such Catena AB (publ) for the year 2019 with the exception of the as important accounting estimates made based on assumpCorporate Governance Report and the Sustainability Report tions and forecasts of future events, which are uncertain by on pages 122-135 and 48-71 respectively. The Company’s nature. As in all audits, we also took into account the risk Annual Report and consolidated accounts are included in that the Board and the CEO neglect internal control, and pages 18-117 and 122-135 of this document. among other things have considered if there is evidence of In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in systematic deviations that have given rise to a risk of mateaccordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present, in all rial misstatements as a result of improprieties. material respects, a fair portrayal of the financial position of We adapted our audit to carry out an appropriate review the Parent Company as of 31 December 2019 and its finanwith the aim of being able to express an opinion on the financial performance and its cash flows for the year in accordcial statements as a whole, considering the Group’s strucance with the Annual Accounts Act, and that the consolidatture, accounting processes and controls and the industry ed financial statements have been prepared in accordance within which the Group is active. Catena’s property portfolio with the Annual Accounts Act and provide, in all significant consists primarily of logistics properties with a concentrarespects, a true and fair representation of the Group’s finantion on Stockholm, Gothenburg and the Öresund region. For cial position at 31 December 2019 and of its earnings and various reasons, Catena is structured and legally organised cash flows for the year pursuant to International Financial into a number of legal entities. In practice, however, Catena Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual is considered to be a single company that owns properties Accounts Act. Our statements do not include the Corporate in various locations in Sweden. All accounting and consoliGovernance Report and Sustainability Report on pages 122dation is performed centrally at the headquarters. Based 135 and 48-71 respectively. The Board of Directors’ report is on this, in the audit, we have viewed the Group as a single consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and company and have included all properties and companies in the consolidated accounts. the population from which we select our sample. In addition, We therefore recommend that the General Meeting adopt the Group team has performed the audit of the Parent Comthe Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet of pany, the consolidation, the Annual Report and significant the Parent Company, and the Consolidated Statement of assumptions and assessments. Based on the review measComprehensive Income. ures mentioned above, it is our view that we have obtained Our statements in this report on the annual and consufficient audit evidence to be able to express our opinion on solidated accounts are consistent with the content of the the financial statements as a whole. supplementary report that has been submitted to the Parent Company and the Group’s Audit Committee in accordance Materiality with Article 11 of the Auditors’ Regulation (537/2014). The scope and focus of the audit was influenced by our assessment of materiality. An audit is structured to achieve Basis for the statements a reasonable degree of certainty as to whether or not the We conducted our audit in accordance with International financial statements contain any material misstatements. Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditMisstatements can arise as a result of fraud or error. They ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility according to are viewed as material if they individually or together can these standards is described in more detail in the section on reasonably be expected to affect the financial decisions the Auditors’ responsibility. We are independent in relation to users make based on the financial statements. the Parent Company and Group in accordance with generally Based on professional judgement, we determined quanaccepted auditing standards in Sweden and have otherwise titative materiality figures for the financial statements as a fulfilled our professional ethics responsibility according to whole. Using these and qualitative considerations, we deterthese requirements. This means that, based on our best mined the audit’s focus and our audit measures’ nature, timknowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in ing and scope. The quantitative materiality figures are also Article 5.1 of the Auditors’ Regulation (537/2014) have been used to assess the effect of any misstatements, individually provided to the audited company or, as the case may be, its or together, on the financial statements as a whole. parent company or any company under its control within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have gathered is sufficient and appropriate as a basis for our statements. 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION AUDITORS’ REPORT Particularly significant areas Areas of particular significance to the audit are those that in our professional opinion were the most significant to the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements for the period in question. These areas are addressed within the scope of the audit of, and in our opinion on, the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole, but we make no separate statements regarding these areas. PARTICULARLY SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW OUR AUDIT TOOK PARTICULARLY SIGNIFICANT AREA INTO ACCOUNT Valuation of properties See page 35 in the Administration Report and Notes 2 With the help of our specialists in property appraisal, we (Accounting and valuation policies) and 12 (Investment assessed the Group’s process and method for internal approperties). praisal. We studied the external appraisals and compared The Group recognised SEK 16.3 billion related to investthem with appraisals done by Catena and checked that no ment properties. In 2019, the Group recognised SEK 791 material differences are unexplained or unadjusted. million in positive value changes on properties. The Group’s We challenged the management team regarding the exproperty portfolio primarily consists of logistics properties planations they have for differences for which they have not with a concentration to Stockholm, Gothenburg and the corrected. Öresund region. We compared material assumptions, such as required return The Group makes quarterly appraisals of all properties and future growth in rental income, with external transacusing a consistently applied model. The Group also has tions and industry data. Newsec and Cushman & Wakefield make appraisals accordWe assessed the independence, expertise and integrity ing to a rolling schedule. In 2019, a total of 59 percent of the of the external appraisers. We also studied the assignment properties were appraised at some time by external appraiscontract with the appraiser to assess if it may contain condiers. Every quarter, the internal appraisal and the external tions, such as fee terms, that may cause the independence appraisals are compared and any differences to the internal and integrity to be questioned. values are explained or corrected for. We spot-checked data used regarding investments, rental In recent years, as a result of the low-interest environment income and operating costs against the budgets established we are in, the required rate of return has steadily declined, or presented to the Board. which has had a large positive impact on the property values. We did not note any material deviations in connection with An appraisal is associated with material assessments and the examination that was made. estimates. The most significant are assumptions of required rate of returns and future rental income. The Group has also a principle of solely focusing on logistics properties, which is why assumptions of the average vacancy rate are also material assumptions. Acquisition and sale of properties See Note 2 (Accounting policies) and Note 12 (Investment We studied the management’s analysis of transactions made properties) and assessed the accuracy of the accounts of transactions Purchases and sales of properties are a natural part of made. Catena’s business and it is therefore not unusual that such We studied agreements entered and read through them to transactions include complex contractual terms that may identify any terms that could lead to a different recognition. demand an assessment and analysis regarding the time of We checked disclosures in the annual accounts on transacquisition, acquisition price or if the transaction shall be actions made during the year to assess completeness recognised as a business combination or asset acquisition. and accuracy in material disclosures. We studied acquisition analyses and checked correct recognition of the acquisitions and sales. We did not note any material deviations in connection with the examination that was made. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 119 FINANCIAL INFORMATION AUDITORS’ REPORT PARTICULARLY SIGNIFICANT AREA HOW OUR AUDIT TOOK PARTICULARLY SIGNIFICANT AREA INTO ACCOUNT Income tax See Note 2 (Accounting and valuation policies) and Note 10 With the help of our tax specialists, we have randomly (Income taxes). checked the model Catena uses to calculate the tax expenses For the 2019 financial year, the Group reported tax exof the individual property companies, the consolidated tax penses of SEK 298 million and deferred tax receivables of expense and the current tax liability. SEK 85 million, attributable mainly to unrealised losses on We have, with the help of our tax specialists, reviewed the derivative instruments, and SEK 1,537 million in deferred tax assessments made by Catena in applying the new regulaliabilities attributable mainly to temporary differences betions regarding interest deduction restrictions. tween taxed values of properties and their carrying amounts. We have examined the calculation of deferred tax assets In 2019, new tax legislation limited the possibility of and tax liabilities against the underlying temporary differobtaining tax deductions for interest expenses exceeding a ences in derivatives and properties. given level. The application of the new regulations is inherWe have randomly examined the data used in the calculaently complex and the large number of legal entities that tion of current and deferred tax. Catena, as a property company, comprises further increases We have reviewed the calculation of the Group’s effective this complexity as the calculation is to be performed for each tax rate. legal entity. We have reviewed relevant notes in the financial reports. An incorrect assessment of how the new regulations We did not note any material deviations in connection with should be applied or errors in the tax calculations made in the examination that was made. the individual companies could lead to significant errors in the reported tax expense for the year. Information other than the annual accounts and that do not contain any material misstatement, whether due consolidated financial statements to error or impropriety. This document also contains information other than the anIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated nual accounts and consolidated financial statements and can financial statements, the Board and CEO are responsible for be found on pages 1-17 and 136-139. The other information the assessment of the Company’s and the Group’s ability to does not form part of the Annual Report. It is the Board and continue the operations. They provide information, when the CEO who have the responsibility for this other informaappropriate, concerning conditions that may affect the ability tion. to continue operations and to use the going concern assumpOur statement regarding the annual accounts and tion. The going concern assumption is not, however, applied consolidated financial statements does not comprise this if the Board and CEO intend to liquidate the Company, cease information and we make no statement confirming this other operations or have no realistic alternative than to do either. information. The Board’s Audit Committee shall, without it affecting In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and the Board’s responsibility and duties otherwise, monitor the consolidated financial statements, it is our responsibility to Company’s financial reporting, among other things. read the information identified above and consider if the information to a material extent is inconsistent with the anAuditors’ responsibility nual accounts and consolidated financial statements. In this Our objective is to achieve a reasonable degree of certainty review, we also take into account the information we colwhether or not the annual and consolidated accounts, as a lected otherwise during the audit and assess if the informawhole, contain any material misstatements, whether due to tion otherwise appears to contain material misstatements. error or impropriety, and to provide an Audit Report containIf we draw the conclusion based on the work done regarding our statements. Reasonable certainty is a high degree of ing this information that the other information contains a certainty, but is no guarantee that an audit done according material misstatement, we are obliged to report it. We have to ISA and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden nothing to report in this respect. will always discover a material misstatement if such exists. Misstatements can arise due to impropriety or error and are Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the CEO considered to be material if they individually or together can It is the Board of Directors and the CEO who are responsible reasonably be expected to affect financial decisions that for the preparation of the Annual Report and consolidated users make based on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they provide a fair view according to the accounts. Annual Accounts Act and, with regard to the consolidated A further description of our responsibility for the audit of accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements is the Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors and the CEO available on the website of the Swedish Inspectorate of Audiare also responsible for the internal control that they deem tors: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This necessary in preparing annual and consolidated accounts description is a part of the audit report. 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB FINANCIAL INFORMATION AUDITORS’ REPORT Report on other legal and regulatory Reasonable certainty is a high degree of certainty, but no guarantee that an audit done in accordance with generally requirements accepted auditing practices in Sweden will always discover Statements actions or negligence that can lead to liability to pay damagIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and cones to the Company, or that a proposed appropriation of the solidated financial statements, we have also examined the Company’s profit or loss is not consistent with the Swedish proposed appropriations of the Company’s profit or loss and Companies Act. the administration of the Board and CEO of Catena AB (publ) A further description of our responsibility for the audit of for 2019. the management is available on the website of the SuperWe recommend that the General Meeting appropriate visory Board of Public Accountants: www.revisorsinspekCompany’s profit or loss in accordance with the proposal tionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is a part of the presented in the Administration Report (Board of Directors’ audit report. Report) and that the directors and the CEO be discharged from liability for the financial year. Auditor’s review of the Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate GovBasis for the statements ernance Report on pages 122-135 and for it being prepared We have conducted our audit in accordance with generally in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility Our examination has been conducted in accordance with according to these is described in more detail in the section FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination on Auditors’ responsibility. We are independent in relation to of the corporate governance statement. This means that our the Parent Company and Group in accordance with generally review of the Corporate Governance Report, as required by accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have otherwise law, has another focus and is substantially less in scope than fulfilled our professional ethics responsibility according to an audit conducted in accordance with International Standthese requirements. ards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing practices We believe that the audit evidence we have gathered is in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us sufficient and appropriate as a basis for our statements. with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance report has been prepared. DiscloResponsibility of the Board of Directors and the CEO sures in accordance with chapter 6, Section 6, second paraThe Board of Directors has the responsibility for the proposal graph, items 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and Chapter 7, on the appropriation of the Company’s profit or loss. In the Section 31, second paragraph of the same Act are consistent event of a proposed dividend, this includes an assessment of with the other parts of the Annual Report and consolidated whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requireaccounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts ments set by the Company’s and Group’s nature of operaAct. tions, scope and risks on the size of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory Sustainability and position otherwise. Report The Board is responsible for the Company’s organisation The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory Susand the management of its affairs. This includes continuoustainability Report on pages 48-71, and that it is prepared in ly assessing the Company’s and Group’s financial situation, accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. and ensuring that the Company’s organisation is structured Our examination has been conducted in accordance with so that accounting, asset management and the Company’s FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion refinancial affairs otherwise are controlled in a satisfactory garding the statutory Sustainability Report. This means that manner. The CEO shall take care of the operating manageour examination of the statutory Sustainability Report is difment according to the Board’s guidelines and instructions ferent and substantially less in scope than an audit conductand take the actions necessary for the Company’s bookkeeped in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ing to be performed in accordance with law and for asset and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We management to be managed in a satisfactory manner. believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Auditors’ responsibility A statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. Our objective regarding the audit of the management, and thereby our statement regarding discharge from liability, is PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Box 4009, SE-203 11 Malmö, to collect audit evidence to be able to assess with a reasonSweden, was elected as the Auditor for Catena AB (publ) by able degree of certainty if any Board Member or the CEO to the Annual General Meeting of 25 April 2019 and has been any material respect: the Company’s Auditor since 26 April 2012. • took any action or committed any negligence that may lead to a liability to pay damages to the Company, or • in any way acted counter to the Swedish Companies Act, Malmö, 20 March 2020 the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Our objective regarding the audit of the proposed appropriation of the Company’s profit or loss, and thereby our stateMats Åkerlund ment regarding this, is to assess with a reasonable degree Authorised Public Accountant of certainty if the proposal is consistent with the Swedish Companies Act. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 121 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Active and transparent corporate governance lays the foundation for continued value creation Since its inception, Catena has demonstrated its capacity opportunities and to identify and manage the risks that a to generate strong cash flow from its continuing operacomplex and dynamic external environment entails. For tions and to combine this with profitable growth. As we this reason, Catena’s corporate governance includes a further consolidated our position as the leading player in clear structure with overall objectives, instructions and logistics properties, 2019 proved to be no exception. This guidelines for the Company’s ongoing work, but also was largely a result of the year’s active project developwell-balanced restrictions that set the framework for the ment efforts, with significant new leases taking effect at operations and ensure that the Company is managed in Logistics Positions Sunnanå and Tostarp, among others. In the most focused, efficient, ethical and sustainable manaddition, the forward-looking land acquisition agreements ner possible. signed in Järna and Stockholm Syd also grant Catena the I am therefore pleased with the momentum and strong opportunity to become a leading player at the southern focus embodied in Catena’s sustainability work. In adapproach routes to Stockholm. dition to value-creating energy efficiency improvements The market for logistics properties continues to show and environmental certifications, I perceive opportunities strong development, which is reflected in the high level in our ability to help our customers with those critical of activity among investors and the capital markets. An last-mile deliveries. With optimal logistics locations and important driving force is the singularisation we are now customised facilities, Catena is able to improve flows, seeing even more clearly in our customers’ cargo flows ensure that customers’ vehicles are as completely loaded and those of their customers. Where pallets were previas possible, thereby reducing the environmental impact. ously handled, deliveries are now measured in terms All of this rests on an established corporate culture and of parcels and individual consignments. The underlying core values. We want to be able to exceed our customfactor is the powerful transformation that e-commerce ers’ often complex demands by means of our knowledge, has entailed, where the same warehouse will both serve commitment and a sustainable approach that is of benefit larger deliveries to shops, as well as deliveries direct to to all. Catena’s strength lies in our ability to combine and consumers, while demands for faster and utilise our local property management and knowledge of cheaper deliveries further increase the market with a coordination of the Group’s businessthe need for efficient logistics. Not critical processes. only does Catena provide properties Following a few years with a controlled rejuvenation in optimum locations, the Company process, Catena has a well-balanced Board of Directors has considerable and long-term with the skills, experience and qualities to cover all of the experience in all aspects of customkey areas of operations. With three women and four men ising logistics facilities. We act as a and a breadth of life experience, we gain a balance and speaking partner and, increasingly, different perspectives assuring well-informed decisions. also as a facilitator of collaboraThe work of the Board of Directors is constantly evolving tion between different areas of and new for this year are the processes and work devoted expertise in logistics to achieve to the remuneration to senior executives. Over the year, the optimum solution for the we also engaged external consultants to assess the Board customer – with regard to of Directors and its work. I am pleased with the excellent automation, for example, manner in which the Board of Directors was deemed to which is increasingly an have conducted its duties in 2019, while, at the same time, important component. we continue to define new value-creating processes develWith growth-driven oping this work. operations like Catena’s Responsible corporate governance is a cornerstone of comes a responsibility to Catena’s efforts to build confidence with, not only customsafeguard value-generaters, employees and shareholders, but with all stakeholding growth. Accordingly, ers. This confidence is a prerequisite for our continued an important aspect of success as we now, with both financial and organisational the work of the Board of capacity, continue to consolidate our position as a leader Directors, is to keep an in logistics properties. eye on long-term trends, to maintain a favourHelsingborg, March 2020 able balance between Gustaf Hermelin, the Group’s business Chairman of the Board 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance All business decisions at Catena must be justifiable from a financial and ethical perspective. Through transparency and availability, shareholders and other stakeholders are afforded insight into decision paths, responsibility, powers and control systems. In this way, the confidence is generated that is central to Catena’s continued successes. SHAREHOLDERS NOMINATION COMMITTEE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AUDITOR REMUNERATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ECONOMY/FINANCE CEO BUSINESS AND CSR GROUP MANAGEMENT PROJECT DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION REGION REGION REGION REGION REGION GOTHENBURG HELSINGBORG JÖNKÖPING MALMÖ STOCKHOLM A Elections C Targets, strategy, policies, instructions B Evaluation and ongoing reporting D Reporting, ongoing evaluation Catena’s organisation is based on a customer-oriented External rules Internal rules management structure, consisting primarily of the enterSwedish Companies Act prise-driven Property Management and Business and ProjArticles of Association ect Development functions and divided into five regions. Annual Accounts Act The Board’s formal work plan There are also Group-wide functions for Economy/Finance Other applicable Position instructions and CSR, which encompasses HR, IR, Communications legislation and Sustainability. Group management has the overall Values IFRS responsibility for development, financial management, Code of Conduct earnings follow-up and communication with all of the Nasdaq’s Rule Book for Issuers Financial policy Company’s stakeholders. Economy/Finance is responsible for the continuous reporting that is based on in internaSwedish Code of Personnel policy tional standards and the Group’s financing. The functions Corporate Governance Environmental policy are also responsible, alongside the CEO, for the Group’s Global Compact Information policy profiling and its communications with the financial marEU Market Abuse kets and society. Other policies and instructions Regulation (MAR) ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 123 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Deviations from the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Catena is a Swedish public limited liability company listed The Company follows the Swedish Code of Corporate Govon NASDAQ Stockholm. The applicable regulations for ernance with the following exceptions: the Company has governance and control of the Group are primarily the no separate internal audit function. The Board assesses Articles of Association, the Swedish Companies Act, the need for such a function annually and has determined the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s that ongoing internal control efforts, which should preferRegulations for Issuers, the Swedish Code of Corporate ably be performed by management, constitute a sufficient Governance, internal guidelines and policies, as well as audit function in terms of the Company’s business and size. other applicable laws and regulations. Catena’s Board and executive management endeavour to ensure that Shareholders Catena complies with the requirements imposed by the At 31 December 2019, the share capital in Catena AB stock exchange, shareholders and other stakeholders. totalled SEK 165,874,953.20 distributed between The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the “Code”, 37,698,853 ordinary shares. available at www.bolagsstyrning.se, is aimed at ensuring The largest shareholder, as per 29 February 2020, is the favourable conditions for active and responsible ownBackahill Group with 29.8 percent (29.8) of the capital. No ership. It is based on the principle of comply or explain. other shareholders held 10 percent or more of the shares Deviations from the Code must be justified and explained. outstanding. Each share confers one vote and each person This Corporate Governance Report describes how Catena entitled to vote at the General Meeting of shareholders applied the Code in 2019. may vote for the full number of shares held and represented. Read more about Catena’s shares and shareholders on pages 44-45. Ownership structure, 29 February 2020 No. of shares, Votes, thousands % Backahill 11,221 29.8 PGGM Pensioenfonds 3,531 9.4 Länsförsäkringar Fonder 3,100 8.2 Gustaf Hermelin 1,310 3.5 Fjärde AP-Fonden (AP4) 977 2.6 Vanguard 831 2.2 BlackRock 704 1.9 SEB Fonder 575 1.5 Cohen & Steers 568 1.5 Norges Bank 541 1.4 BMO Global Asset Management 433 1.2 Swedbank Robur Fonder 347 0.9 Degroof Peterkam 344 0.9 Other shareholders 13,217 35.0 Total 37,699 100.0 Source: Monitor (Modular Finance) Shareholder distribution by holding, as of 29 February 2020 Owners Number Share, % 1-500 13,523 94.5 501-1,000 365 2.6 1,001-5,000 230 1.6 5,001-10,000 48 0.3 10,001-15,000 26 0.2 15,001-20,000 20 0.1 20,00196 0.7 Total 14,308 100 Catena continuously provides information through a number of activities to investors, lenders and shareholders. Source: Euroclear 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual General Meeting Board, directors’ fees, policies for appointing the NomiThe Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the Company’s highnation Committee, the Chairman at the AGM and, when est decision-making body. At the AGM, all shareholders applicable, auditors and auditors’ fees. Catena’s Annual are provided with the opportunity, not subject to limitation, General Meeting on 25 April 2019 decided to appoint a to exercise influence over the Company corresponding Nomination Committee consisting of representatives of to their respective share-holdings. The Company applies the four largest shareholders and the Chairman. If any no special arrangements concerning the function of the one of the four largest shareholders declines to appoint a AGM – neither based on any provisions in the Articles representative, the Chairman shall urge the next-largest of Association or, insofar as the Company is aware, any shareholder to appoint a shareholder representative. Since agreements between shareholders. The AGM appoints the two of the major shareholders have declined participation, Board and auditors and adopts principles for the remuthe Nomination Committee was constituted, in accordance neration of the Board, auditors and Group management. with a press release issued on 28 October 2019. Due to When necessary, the AGM also makes decisions regardchanges in Catena’s shareholder composition when Kilen ing amendments to the Articles of Association, dividends 134 Strängnäs AB, represented by Jan Persson, reduced and changes in share capital. At the AGM, which must be its shareholding in February, the Nomination Committee held within six months of the close of the financial year, has the following composition, in accordance with a press resolutions must be passed on the adoption of the Balance release issued on 9 March 2020. Sheets and Income Statements, the appropriation of Catena’s profit or loss and the discharge of responsibility of the Name Appointed by Board and the CEO. Anders Nelson Backahill Kil AB Johannes Wingborg Länsförsäkringar Nomination Committee Fondförvaltning AB The Nomination Committee is tasked with preparing and Olof Nyström Fjärde AP-Fonden (AP4) submitting proposals for the Board, Chairman of the Gustaf Hermelin Chairman, SFU Sverige AB ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, 25 APRIL 2019 Following the adoption of the balance sheet and amount of SEK 40,000 (previously SEK 40,000), to be income statement in the Annual Report, the Meeting distributed with SEK 20,000 being paid to the chairman resolved, in accordance with the Board’s proposal, to of the committee and SEK 10,000 each being paid to approve payment of a dividend of SEK 5.75 per share. the other two members; that remuneration for work in The record date was set as 29 May 2019 and the divithe Audit Committee would be added in the amount of dend was expected to be paid on 3 May 2019. SEK 100,000 (previously SEK 100,000), to be distribThe AGM resolved that the number of Board Memuted with SEK 50,000 being paid to the chairman of bers elected by the Annual General Meeting should be the committee and SEK 25,000 each being paid to the seven ordinary members with no deputies. The Meeting other two members. It was resolved that fees to the adopted Nomination Committee’s proposal that Henry auditors be paid according to customary standards Klotz, Gustaf Hermelin, Katarina Wallin, Hélène Brigand approved invoicing. The Board’s proposal for gert, Tomas Andersson and Ingela Bendrot be re-electremuneration principles for senior executives was also ed as ordinary Board Members, that Magnus Swärdh approved. The Annual General Meeting resolved that be newly elected as ordinary Board Member, and that no changes be made to the instructions for, or the comGustaf Hermelin be re-elected as the Chairman of the position of, the Nomination Committee and that fees Board. The auditing firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB should not be paid to the members of the Nomination was appointed auditor, with authorised public accountCommittee. ant Mats Åkerlund as the principal auditor. The AGM In accordance with the proposal presented, the Andischarged the Board members and CEO from liability nual General Meeting authorised the Board to acquire for the 2018 financial year. and divest treasury shares. Acquisitions and divestThe AGM approved the Nomination Committee’s ments may not exceed one-tenth of the Company’s proposal for remuneration of SEK 330,000 (previously total shares. The AGM also authorised the Board to SEK 300,000) for the Chairman of the Board and SEK decide on a new share issue not exceeding one-tenth of 165,000 (previously SEK 150,000) for each of the the total number of shares outstanding. other Board members not employed by the Company. The complete minutes can be found at The AGM resolved that remuneration for work in the www.catenafastigheter.com/about-us/corporateRemuneration Committee would be added in the governance/general-meetings/. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 125 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Chairman of the Nomination Board of Directors Committee is Anders Nelson, The Board’s overriding task is to manage Catena’s and the while the Chairman of the Group’s activities on behalf of the owners in a way that Board, Gustaf Hermelin, conbest secures the owners’ interest in a favourable longvenes the Committee. Comterm return on capital. The members are elected annually bined, the four shareholders at the AGM for the period up to the end of the following represented hold approximately AGM. 44 percent of the votes in CateThe Board’s work is carried out in compliance with na as of 29 February 2020. statutory provisions, regulations, the Articles of AssociAll members of the Nomination ation and the formal work plan. The formal work plan is Committee have thoroughly discussed at the statutory Board meeting and is set annuconsidered whether there is ally. The composition of the Board includes expertise and any conflict of interest in experience from the areas that are of major importance as accepting the assignment as a member of Catena’s part of efforts to support, monitor and control operations Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee has in a property company. Board Members have expertise in addressed the issues incumbent on it to address in accorproperties, the real estate market, and financing, digital dance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance trade and business development, for example. and has, among other topics, discussed: In accordance with the Articles of Association, Catena’s • The size of the Board of Directors Board is to comprise not fewer than five and not more than nine members with no deputies. Catena’s Board com• Areas of expertise that the Board of Directors should prises seven members who were elected at the AGM on 25 embody April 2019. For further information on the members of the • How the current Board of Directors meets the requireBoard of Directors, see the presentation of the Board and ments that will be imposed with regard to Catena’s Management on pages 134-135. future development • The composition of the Board of Directors, taking The work of the Board experience, gender and background into account, as The Chairman of the Board is responsible for leading the well as the regeneration of the Board of Directors and work of the Board in an efficient and appropriate manner. any conflicts of interest in its work In addition to leading the work, the Chairman monitors the • Election of auditors and their remuneration Group’s development on an on-going basis through contact with the CEO on strategic issues. During 2019, eight • Decision on principles for the appointment of the minuted Board meetings were held, one of which was Nomination Committee statutory. The members’ attendance is shown in the Board The Nomination Committee has strived to achieve an even Presentation on pages 134-135. gender distribution, versatility and a broad expertise in During the year, the CFO acted as the secretary of the Catena’s Board of Directors. In the view of Catena’s NomBoard. In addition to the above items, Board meetings ination Committee, the members of the Board are highly have addressed market issues, plans and strategies for skilled and experienced in the areas of property, logistics the Group’s development and the on-going follow-up of and sustainability. The area of sustainability concerns results and position, valuations of the Group’s properties, not only the direct environmental issues, such as energy liquidity and financing as well as investment decisions. use and choice of materials, but also the major socioCatena’s auditor in charge, Mats Åkerlund, PwC, was economic areas, including infrastructure, the final part of co-opted to attend Board meetings on 14 February 2019 a transport, the location of logistics properties, etc. and 5 July 2019. Board meetings in 2019 6 14 February 7 20 March 8 25 April Year-end report with dividend AGM In connection with AGM. Q1. proposal. Preparation of AGM docudocumentation. ments. Current transactions. Report Approval of the 1 25 April from Remuneration Committee. Annual Report. In connection with AGM. Statutory. Adopts Auditor presents audit review. the Board of Directors’ formal work plan. Distribution and appointment of committees. Audit Committee 5 February 16 April Accounting issues. Accounting issues, audit plan. Year-end report. AGM and interim report. Remuneration Committee 14 February Draft remuneration policy, framework Ongoing contacts for salary setting and evaluation of over the year remuneration to the CEO and senior executives prior to the meeting. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Formal work plan planning and the expectations of the member as well The Board of Catena works in accordance with a formal as the member’s expectations on the Board. Based on work plan consisting of instructions in respect of the is assessment of the Board, the Nomination Committee, division of duties and financial reporting. The formal work which also has discussions with the Company’s CEO and plan represents a complement to the provisions of the auditor, proposes to the Annual General Meeting, among Swedish Companies Act and Catena’s Articles of Associother things, a Board of Directors for the coming financial ation and is reviewed annually. The Board appoints the year. This process has proven to work well, taking the balCEO and assesses his/her work. The CEO does not attend anced composition of the Board into account, with regard this assessment. The Board is responsible for continuprimarily to expertise, but also gender and age. ously monitoring and controlling Catena’s operations. Consequently, it is the duty of the Board to ensure there is Board Committees a functioning reporting system. The systems, which were Remuneration Committee evaluated during the year, and have proven appropriate The Board of Catena has established a Remuneration and effective. Regular reports concerning Catena’s and the Committee. The Remuneration Committees shall address Group’s economic and financial position, current market issues regarding, for example, remuneration and other issues, project reporting, and, in certain cases, underlying terms of employment for the CEO and senior executives, information for investment decisions and property sales, as well as remuneration frameworks for other employare presented at Board meetings. ees and questions regarding any variable remuneration In addition to being responsible for Catena’s organisaprogrammes within the Group. In 2019, the Remuneration tion and administration, the Board’s key task is to make Committee consisted of Katarina Wallin (Chairman), Hendecisions on strategic issues. Each year, the Board sets ry Klotz and Magnus Swärdh. the overall goals for the Group’s operations and decides on strategies to attain these goals. The CEO’s instructions Audit Committee and internal policy documents are also reviewed annually. Catena’s Board has established an Audit Committee. The task of the Audit Committee is to maintain and add to effiAssessment of the work of the Board ciency in contacts with the Group’s auditor and to superEach year, the Chairman of Catena’s Board has performed vise the procedures for auditing and financial reporting. an evaluation of the Board’s ability to perform its duties, The Committee also evaluates the its working methods and composition in relation to the work of the auditor and monitors direction and challenges facing the Company. This is a how accounting principles and process that the Chairman of the Board continued and requirements are progressing. developed over the year. The individual Board Members’ During 2019 the Committee competence, commitment and suitability (from a variety consisted of Henry Klotz (chairof perspectives) are tested by means of a small number of man), Hèléne Briggert and Inopen questions that each member is required to respond gela Bendrot. Peter Andersson to. Questions that also concern the composition of the (CFO), Anders Holmqvist (Chief Board, its function, including its structure and processAccountant) and Carl Fogelberg es, as well as collaboration with Management. That is, (Auditor, PwC) also participated in questions that assess the Board’s function and capacity to the Committee’s meetings. make correct decisions and manage the Company responsibly. These considerations form the basis of a private Auditor dialogue between the Chairman, the Nomination CommitThe auditor reports the results of his examination to the tee and the individual member, based on the Company’s shareholders in the auditor’s report. This is presented at 2 5 July 3 27 August 4 24 October 5 21 November Six-month report. Budget preparations. Q3. Budget prepaAdoption of budget. Current transactions. Current transactions. Deterrations. Current Current transactions. mination of business plan. transactions. 3 July 17 October Accounting issues. Accounting issues. Six-month report. Interim report. Whistleblower function. Sustainability Report, log book and MAR. JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 127 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the AGM. In addition, the auditor prescontrol environment in which the work ents a detailed report to the Board of the Board and executive managetwice annually. In conjunction with ment is set. The Board has adopted this report, a discussion is also a number of important policies held concerning the observaand basic guidelines for internal tions of the audit. In addition control programmes, such as a to auditing, PwC has also financial policy, an ethics and provided services in the areas OPERATIONAL crisis management policy and of taxes and accounting. PROCESSES information policies. S N The CEO presents regular REP PO ON CEO LI SA reports to the Board on the baThe CEO leads operations on the OR CIE TI C TIO sis of established routines and SA basis of the CEO’s instructions TI N D I N ST R U RI documents. Catena’s internal drawn up by the Board. According G, N O control structure is based on a EV H to the instructions, the CEO is tasked ALU A UT clear division of responsibility and with ensuring that the Board Members ATIO N A N D work between the Board and CEO, as receive regular information and reports well as within operational activities. Operon Catena’s progress to enable them to make ational activities include business control and sound assessments and well-founded decisions. The business planning processes. Examples of these inCEO must also ensure that Catena observes the obligaclude tools for monitoring operations, preparations ahead tions regarding information and so forth that arise from of the purchase and sale of properties/companies, and the listing agreement with NASDAQ Stockholm. The CEO’s underlying data for property valuations. Control activities duties also include supervising compliance with the goals, are conducted at both the property level and the regional policy and strategic plans established by the Board and level through continuous performance monitoring. Key ensure that they are submitted to the Board for updating performance indicators are also analysed within the legal or review whenever necessary. Group structure. To prevent and detect errors and deviations, there are, Stock market information for example, systems for attestation rights, reconciliations Catena submits prompt, simultaneous, correct and reliand reporting of business transactions, reporting temable information to existing and potential shareholders plates as well as accounting and valuation policies. These and other stakeholders. The Company submits quarterly systems are continuously updated. Internal information interim reports, a year-end report and an Annual Report and external communication are regulated at the overall for the entire financial year. Catena’s website, www. level by means of the information policy. Internal informacatenafastigheter.com, presents current information on tion in disseminated through regular information meetCatena, such as press releases and financial statements. ings. Shareholders can download financial information from See also page 124, deviations from the Swedish Code of the Company via the website. This information can also be Corporate governance. ordered directly from Catena by telephone or by post. Internal control The Board is responsible for internal control pursuant Helsingborg, March 2020 to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. This Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 6 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Item 10 in the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, and is thus limited to internal control and risk management related Contacts Gustaf Hermelin, Chairman of the Board gustaf.hermelin@catenafastigheter.se to financial reporting. The basis of internal control is the 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT Catena’s risk management Successful business operations are built on the responsible and controlled management of risks. Well managed, risks can generate value, while risks that are not managed properly can lead to damage and losses. Accordingly, risk management is an important part of the governance and control of Catena’s business operations. Responsibility for Catena’s risk management lies with the Board. The GREAT ongoing management and monitoring of risk management has been delegated to the CEO and regional managers. For identified risks that may arise in the operations and from behavImpact iours that could affect the Company’s brand and reputation, there are developed policies, instructions and mandates that are continuously reviewed. Risks based on events beyond the Company’s control and which could SMALL disrupt business are evaluated on an ongoing basis. To reduce potentially harmful effects, the Company takes out carefully considered insurance coverage. The risk of personal injury or harm to property that could be inLOW Probability HIGH curred as a consequence of Catena’s actions is treated in the same way. RISK MANAGEMENT EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT PROPERTY MANAGEMENT AND PORTFOLIO Vacancies The letting ratio is influenced by factors Catena’s lease portfolio is long term. The Economic letting ratio + including general economic conditions, majority of the Company’s properties are % Impact the pace of production for new properalso modern and located at key logistic 100 ties, infrastructure changes as well as hubs by ports and along the major Europopulation growth and employment. pean motorways adjacent to population 75 Changes in these factors can impact centres. This makes Catena less sensitive 50 Probability + vacancy rates and rent levels. to market fluctuations and their impact There are no seasonal effects affecton the overall letting ratio. 25 ing income. New leases are generally signed for a After a tenant vacates a property, term of more than five years. Local asset 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 there is a risk pertaining to the length of management in close collaboration with time that elapses before a new tenant is tenants reduces the risk of unexpected in place. The risk of substantial changes termination of leases. in vacancies and rental income increases Catena monitors vacancies and in line with the number of individual terminated contracts. An increase in the major tenants a property company has. vacancy rate by 5 percent is defined as a risk. Increasing operating and maintenance costs Surplus ratio + Earnings can be impacted if increases in Changes in regulations can have a major % Impact operating and maintenance costs outimpact. Leases for logistics properties are 80 pace growth in compensation to Catena normally linked to the Consumer Price in the form of contractual rents. UnforeIndex (CPI). Catena also works continu60 seen and extensive renovation needs can ously to identify cost-efficient solutions, Probability + 40 also have an impact. particularly in the area of energy. Property belonging to Catena can be Unforeseen renovation needs arise 20 destroyed by fire, theft or other damage. primarily when damage has been Similarly, through, for example, negliincurred, for which Catena has secured 0 gence Catena can cause injury to another insurance policies. Insurance has been -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 person or another person’s property. contracted to cover liability or property damage claims. The properties are covered by unlimited buildings insurance. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 129 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT Properties – changes in value Catena reports its property portfolio at Payment of reasonable acquisition + its assessed market value. This means prices and a thorough analysis based on Impact that changed market values as a result extensive experience reduces the risk of of changed rent levels and vacancy rates, impaired property values, which is also balchanged yield requirements and detailed anced by the favourable earnings potential. development plan processes, etc., imEach quarter, Catena performs an internal Probability + pacts Catena’s financial statements. valuation of its properties. External valuations and completed transactions confirm Catena’s internal valuations. TRANSACTIONS AND INVESTMENTS Acquisitions Catena acquires some properties in the Ahead of each acquisition, thorough due + form of companies. In 2019, three propdiligence is performed. In addition to a Impact erties were acquired through companies. thorough financial examination, this also Historical decisions and actions, as well includes a number of other areas, includas the future financial performance of ing customer relationships, commitments the acquired companies could affect and the environment. Probability + Catena’s earnings. Sales New consumption patterns, cargo flows In addition to a well-thought-out sales + and other factors mean that, as time process, under which the properties are Impact passes, logistics properties become sold to responsible buyers, the focus is better suited to other purposes. Catena on risk description and management disposes these properties to responsible enabling the guarantees provided to be buyers. Other disposals are driven by covered in connection with sales. Probability + individual customers’ wishes to own the property in which they operate. This resulted in a total of one property being divested during the year at a value of SEK 82.6 million. Project Catena pursues active project developCost control and follow-up of calculations Investments in project development + ment, through both new development are important instruments in identifying SEK M Impact 800 and remodelling, which is important and managing the risks. Development for the Company’s continued growth. rights and options represent a capital-ef600 Investments are often made several years ficient method for safeguarding a project before to the completed property can be portfolio that can be activated when the 400 Probability + put into operation. Project development time is right and the customer is in place. risks include weather conditions during 200 the construction period, shortages of 0 skills/continuity with regard to project -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 managers and construction workers, official decisions that are delayed or fail to pass (planning approval, for example). EMPLOYEES Personal injury Catena could, through negligence for Risks of personal injury are handled via Over the past few years, no + example, cause personal injury. This also procedures in Catena’s work environment company in the Catena Group Impact includes psychosocial harm/issues. policy. For contractors and consultants, has incurred any significant construction and liability insurance exists. personal injuries. Probability + Shortage of skills Catena’s future development depends Catena’s executives all have comprehenPersonnel turnover + extensively on the knowledge, experience sive knowledge of property development % Impact and commitment of a limited number of and management. On-going dialogues 20 individuals in senior management and and development together with market 15 other key persons. terms also contribute to low employee turnover. The Company also actively Probability + 10 applies an order of succession for key individuals. 5 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT Deficient procedures and irresponsible behaviour + The Company may suffer harm as The Company has developed procedures Over the past ten years, the Impact a result of criminal or irresponsible for how executives should be bound Company has not suffered any behaviour by the its employees or other to the Company and duties should be damage attributable to criminal representatives. Catena’s projects extend delegated. In addition, there are clear or irresponsible behaviour. over long periods of time and include policies and instructions regarding how Probability + numerous sub-contractors and other all processes should be implemented. stakeholders. Despite the Company’s Well-developed internal control monitors zero tolerance policy, applicable to all operations continuously . In the event involved, regarding unsound business that damage nonetheless occurs, the practices, whether these involve working Company is insured. Subcontractors are conditions, corruption and restraint of initially checked so that any financial competition, there is always the risk that discrepancies are discovered as soon as an individual operator fails to live up to possible. The partnership is then evaluCatena’s requirements. ated on a continuous basis. Catena’s suppliers are also encouraged to check their subcontractors. The slightest suspicion of any deviation is investigated promptly. FINANCIAL RISKS Bad debt losses Commercial tenants are not always able Risk decreases through a solid underBad debt losses + to discharge their obligations. standing of customers. In certain leases, SEK M Impact tenants’ obligations are guaranteed by 3 a parent company or by way of bank guarantees, Accordingly, Catena’s bad 2 debt losses have been minor over the Probability + past five years. 1 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Financial instruments As part of managing interest-rate risk, Inefficient hedging exists where interest Catena’s average interest rate + Catena utilises financial instruments rate swaps do not have STIBOR floors and 5-year swap interest rate Impact in the form of interest-rate derivatives, while the loans do. % 4 primarily interest-rate swaps. 3 2 Probability + 1 0 -1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Catena SEKSwap5Y Liquidity risks + Insufficient access to the liquid funds or On the balance sheet date, Catena had Available liquidity credit facilities necessary to meet payunutilised lines of credit and overdraft Impact SEK M ment obligations could negatively impact facilities of SEK 425.0 million and a cash 900 Catena’s earnings and financial position. balance of SEK 131.2 million. 600 Probability + 300 Lines of credit Overdraft facilities 0 Cash balances -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Refinancing The properties owned by Catena are The Group’s financial policy stipulates Debt maturity + financed by a combination of loans and how funding and liquidity is to be secured Contract Impact volume, Utilised, Unutilised, equity. There are no guarantees that through a diversified spread of loan Year SEK M SEK M SEK M existing credit providers will renew loans agreements, banks and strong owners. 2020 4,060.0 3,960.0 100.0 when they fall due. Catena targets a minimum period for 2021 3,015.8 2,690.8 325.0 2022 978.6 978.6 – which capital is tied up of at least two Probability + > 2023 1,155.2 1,155.2 – years. As per 31 December 2019, existing Total 9,209.6 8,784.6 425.0 loan frameworks entailed capital being tied up for a period of 1.3 years. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 131 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT Loan-to-value ratio The balance between interest-bearing Catena maintains a historically low Loan-to-value ratio + liabilities (relating to properties) and loan-to-value ratio. When property % Impact carrying amounts for properties is of values decline, this allows the Company 80 importance from a risk perspective. Most to minimise the risk of contravening the 60 of Catena’s financing consists of bank covenants on its loan agreements and, loans. as a consequence, having to repay those 40 Probability + loans. 20 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Interest Catena’s single largest cost item is Catena’s properties have been financed Fixed interest, years + interest, which can vary over time. These at market interest rates and financing Year SEK M Interest rate, %1) Share, % Impact changes can substantially impact Catcosts are secured through fixed-rate 2020 4,263.0 1.1 48.5 ena’s earnings. Property values are also loans and derivatives equivalent to 61 2021 755.7 5.0 8.6 impacted by raised interest rate levels. percent of the Group’s liabilities. The 2022 500.0 3.9 5.7 Company expects to be able to maintain 2023 500.0 3.3 5.7 Probability + a low interest rate level that follows 2024 500.0 3.0 5.7 changes in the market with a time lag. 2025 1,122.0 3.9 12.8 The derivatives are specified in the com2026 1,143.9 4.3 13.0 ments on the Consolidated Statement of Total 8,784.6 2.6 100.0 Comprehensive Income. 1) Refers to the current average interest rate per 31 December 2019. The margin is distributed evenly across the fixed-interest period. CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS Increased financial focus on + sustainability issues As climate changes in our environment Through systematic sustainability efforts, increase, risks from climate effects both the risks can be turned into competitive Impact on our assets and the transition to a advantages. CO2-free economy increase. We expect that the financial market will increasProbability + ingly price in climate risks, with the risk that investors find the Catena share less attractive relative to other investments. In addition, borrowing can become more expensive and insurance premiums could increase. Sharpening of political control signals Globally and nationally, requirements are Catena is actively working to reduce CO2 + expected to increase for companies to greenhouse gas emissions, through 10,000 Impact reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. environmental certification, for example, 7,500 The transition to a CO2-free society can and increasing the energy-efficiency of lead to increased expenses, for example our properties, as well as purchasing 5,000 through CO2 taxation, higher material renewable electricity and increasing the Probability + 2,500 expenses and rising energy prices – proportion of renewable electricity generparticularly from fossil sources. ated in-house. 0 -17 -18 -19 Physical risks Greater variations in weather, with Protecting assets from damage that + extremes of heat and cold, large amounts could be caused by climate change is Impact of precipitation with the risk of leaks/ conducted both strategically and opflooding also entail increased needs for erationally. New buildings are environcooling and snow removal, for example. mentally certified in accordance with Miljöbyggnad Silver, imposing, among Probability + other things, requirements on the choice and documentation of building materials and inspections by moisture experts. Operational risk management involves insurance cover and advance planning with effective procurement of snow removal, etc. Catena’s customer-oriented property management also means that new needs can quickly be identified, thereby avoiding problems. 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT Indirect CO2 emissions Catena operates in a context that unOffering strategically located logistics posi+ equivocally impacts the climate as our tions makes us an attractive landlord who Impact tenants’ operations consist extensively of helps reduce fuel costs while reducing emistransport. sions from fossil fuels. Catena also participates in the development of new concepts for peri-urban logistics, such as at Arenastaden, Probability + with more efficient handling of both goods deliveries and waste management. OTHER RISKS Economic trend and demand Global trade conflicts or other political Catena performs continuous analyses + tensions around the world are examples and studies and performs active business Impact of societal changes that can affect trade intelligence to protect its interests and routes and trade patterns. This can, in those of its customers. turn, affect the conditions for Catena’s operations. Probability + Infrastructure changes Catena’s customers are dependent on Catena performs continuous analyses and + proximity and secured access to Scandistudies and performs active business intelliImpact navia’s cargo flows. These cargo flows gence to protect its interests and those of its can be impacted by altered conditions customers. An important aspect in evaluating with regard to motorways, railways, current and future logistics locations involves ports and airports due to inadequate the diversity in the modes of transport acProbability + maintenance, severe damage or political commodated as this improves the spread of decisions. risk, both financially and from an environmental perspective. Contamination According to the Swedish Environmental Prior to each acquisition, Catena Despite in-depth analyses, no + Code, those who conduct operations conducts a thorough analysis and risk complete investigation of possible, Impact that contribute to contamination are assessment. hitherto unknown environmental responsible for the ensuing treatment contamination in the property and remediation thereof. If the party that portfolio has been carried out. It has conducted such operations cannot cannot be precluded that environProbability + carry out or defray the cost of subsequent mental contamination exists that treatment and remediation, then the could result in costs and/or claims party that acquired the property – and for compensation on Catena. who at the time of acquisition was aware of or should have been aware of the contamination – is liable. Taxes Changes in tax legislation have occurred Catena maintains a high level of preTax expenses + or have been proposed in recent years, paredness and monitors developments SEK M Impact mainly in terms of limits on interest closely. 300 deductions and so-called packaging in connection with acquisitions. There is a 200 risk of further changes in legislation. Probability + 100 0 -15 -16 -17 -18 -19 Disputes It cannot be excluded that Catena may The risk is reduced through diligently Over the past five years, Catena + become involved in a legal dispute or prepared contracts and agreement. has not had any significant disImpact arbitration proceedings that have sigputes over the last six years, nor nificant impact on Catena’s earnings or does it currently have any. financial position. Probability + IT disruptions Interruptions or targeted attacks (overContinuous monitoring of the IT enviThree incidents reported to the + load attacks, ransomware or the like) can ronment, ongoing checks with our IT Swedish Data Protection AuthorImpact affect Catena’s operational security as provider to ensure a relevant and updated ity in 2019, all of a less serious well as IT security. level of security. nature. Probability + Sensitivity analysis Impact on The table presents the theoretical effect Factor Change, % earnings, SEK M on pre-tax profit of Catena’s annual earnContractual rental income +/1.0 12.0 ings capacity after financial items with full Economic letting ratio +/1.0 percentage point 12.6 disclosure of an isolated change in each Interest rate level for interest-bearing liabilities with regard to swaps +/1.0 percentage point -27.5 / -24.1 variable. The sensitivity analysis applies to Property expenses +/1.0 2.8 all risks covered in this section. Changes in value of investment properties +/1.0 162.7 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 133 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors Gustaf Hermelin Tomas Andersson Ingela Bendrot Born, year 1956 1956 1962 Position on the board Chairman Member Member Year elected 2013 2018 2018 Training Business administration studies, Business administration studies , Chemical engineer. Stockholm School of Economics. Stockholm University. Law studies. Principal occupation Board work. Own company. CEO Nya Ostkustbanan. CEO Bendrot Kommunikation AB. Other assignments Board Member of a large number Board Member of Tuve Bygg. of subsidiaries within, or related to, the Catena Group. Board Member of Vectura Fastigheter AB and companies wholly or partly owned by SFU Sverige AB. Terminated assignments CEO and Board Member of Klövern AB, Brinova Fastigheter AB. Board Member of AMF Fastigheter AB, Diös Fastigheter AB, Fabege AB and Platzer Fastigheter Holding AB (publ). Own shareholdings and shareholdings 1,312,400 shares via companies and – 200 shares. of related parties in 2019 related parties. Dependent in relation to: the Company Yes No No major shareholders Yes Yes No Attendance at Board meetings 8/8 8/8 8/8 Attendance, audit committee 3/4 Attendance, remuneration committee Company management Benny Thögersen Peter Andersson Sofie Bennsten Born, year 1966 1966 1969 Position CEO CFO and Deputy CEO HR Manager Employee since 15 November 2016 1 October 2013. 1 October 2013. Training Halmstad University M.Sc. in Business Administration. M.Sc. Economics. Previous positions CEO of Knapp AB and several assignCFO at Brinova Fastigheter AB and Head of Administration at Brinova ments at, e.g. Consafe, Ica and Akzo CFO at Fastighets AB Skånehus. Fastigheter AB. Former Head of Nobel. Accounting at Brinova Fastigheter AB. Own shareholdings and shareholdings 1,600 shares. 500 shares. 200 shares. of related parties in 2019 Additional and updated information on assignments and holdings is available at www.catenafastigheter.com 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD AND MANAGEMENT Hélène Briggert Magnus Swärdh Henry Klotz Katarina Wallin 1985 1968 1944 1970 Member Member Member Member 2017 2019 2007 2013 M.Sc. in Business Administration, M.Sc. in Business Administration. Engineer in property engineering, M.Sc. in Engineering, Royal Institute Lund University. M.Sc. Economics. of Technology. Behavioural Science and Business Administration, Stockholm University. Partner in HEG & Partners Fastigheter CFO Backahill AB. Strategy Consultant and Partner at 5 AB and HEG Invest AB. Evidensgruppen. Board Member of companies in the Chairman of the Boards of DestinaChairman of the Boards of Belatchew HEG Group. tion Bjäre AB and Lima Timmerhus Arkitekter AB, Evimetrix AB, Bernow AB. Member of the Boards of Rögle Lindqvist Wallin AB and Au Point AB. BK and Foodhills Fastigheter AB. Board Member of Evidens blw AB and Sveafastigheter Utveckling AB, Kavaljer AB and Nordisk Byggdag. Head of Marketing at Gymgrossiten CEO Evidens blw AB. Chairman of the Sweden AB. Management consultant Board of REIM AB, Ekologigruppen at Business Sweden. AB and Evidens Fastighetsutveckling AB. Board Member of Temaplan AB and others. 800 shares. 800 shares. – – No No No No No Yes No No 8/8 6/8 6/8 8/8 4/4 4/4 1/1 1/1 1/1 Jörgen Eriksson Maths Carreman Johan Franzén1) Göran Jönsson 1972 1958 1978 1961 Regional Manager, Malmö Regional Manager, Stockholm Regional Manager, Gothenburg and Regional Manager, Helsingborg Jönköping 15 August 2016. 1 October 2013. 1 October 2013. 1 October 2013. M.Sc. in Business Administration, Structural Engineer. Business administration studies, Structural Engineer. Örebro University. School of Economics, Business and Law, Gothenburg University. Controller at Catena and Finance Regional Manager/Business DeBusiness Development at Brinova Head of Business Area Residential/ Manager at Helsingborgs storbildsveloper at Brinova Fastigheter AB, Fastigheter AB and District Manager Commercial in Brinova Fastigheter bolag. Unit Manager at Klövern and Works at Jungheinrich Svenska AB. AB and CEO of Maintech Forvaltning Manager/Purchasing Manager and Syd. Project Developer at Skanska. – 500 shares. – – 1) Leaving the Company on 1 April 2020. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 135 OVERVIEWS AND INFORMATION MULTI-YEAR SUMMARY Multi-year overview Alternative performance measures enable assessment of the Company’s performance. Since not In the report, the Company presents certain financial measall companies calculate financial measurements in the same ures beyond those defined in accordance with IFRS. The way, these are not always comparable to measurements used Company believes that these measures provide valuable by other companies. additional information to investors and management as they Calculation of alternative performance measures can be found in Note 26 Alternative performance measures. Key financial figures for the Group 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ACCORDING TO IFRS Rental income, SEK M 1,182.9 1,090.7 892.0 786.6 464.2 Net operating surplus, SEK M 902.8 827.6 671.2 578.1 351.3 Profit from property management, SEK M 626.8 571.3 440.1 316.0 259.3 Pre-tax profit, SEK M 1,522.5 940.1 758.6 386.6 590.3 Profit for the year, SEK M 1,223.8 823.4 634.7 338.4 571.5 Earnings per share, SEK 1) 32.46 21.93 16.08 10.20 22.11 Cash flow before change in working capital, SEK M 612.5 550.8 418.7 294.3 241.5 Fair value of the properties, SEK M 16,270.5 14,721.1 13,131.1 10,786.4 5,340.3 Total assets, SEK M 17,770.1 15,905.9 14,246.6 12,344.9 6,947.9 Number of shares outstanding, millions 37.7 37.7 37.4 35.7 25.6 Average number of shares outstanding, millions 37.7 37.5 35.8 33.2 25.9 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Property-related Surplus ratio, % 76.3 75.9 75.2 73.5 75.7 Loan-to-value ratio, % 54.0 57.9 57.6 59.9 70.3 Financial Return on equity, % 21.1 16.6 14.9 10.6 25.6 Return on assets, % 10.2 7.6 7.1 6.9 10.5 Interest-coverage ratio, multiple 4.1 3.4 3.5 2.3 4.8 Average interest rate, % 2.6 2.7 3.2 3.6 2.6 Term to interest rate maturity, years 2.3 3.0 4.1 3.5 3.1 Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK M 8,784.6 8,516.8 7,568.2 6,457.2 3,754.1 Debt maturity, years 1.3 1.4 1.9 1.5 2.5 Debt/equity ratio, multiple 1.4 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.5 Equity ratio, % 35.6 33.4 32.3 31.6 35.7 Equity/assets ratio, excluding goodwill, % 37.3 34.5 33.4 33.3 35.7 Share-related Dividend yield, % 1.6 2.6 2.9 2.7 2.6 Total return on the share, % 90.1 44.7 23.7 14.3 12.3 Equity per share, SEK 167.59 140.82 122.86 109.13 96.46 Profit from property management per share, SEK1) 16.63 15.21 12.30 9.53 10.03 P/E ratio 13 10 10 13 5 Cash flow before change in working capital per share, SEK 1) 16.25 14.67 11.70 8.87 9.43 Long-term net asset value per share, EPRA NAV 202.87 169.53 149.85 135.80 115.00 OTHER KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Property-related No. of properties 109 107 109 94 55 Lettable area, thousand sq. m. 1,842.7 1,792.5 1,661.6 1,490.9 816.8 Rental value, SEK M 1,264.8 1,216.1 1,109.9 925.7 511.5 Economic letting ratio, % 95.0 95.9 94.7 93.0 95.5 Share-related Share price, SEK 413.50 220.50 155.50 128.50 115.75 Market capitalisation, SEK M 15,588 8,313 5,818 4,592 2,968 Highest price paid during the year, SEK 421.50 224.50 158.50 145.00 141.00 Lowest price paid during the year, SEK 213.00 148.00 128.50 109.25 103.00 Dividend per share, SEK 6.50 2) 5.75 4.50 3.50 3.00 Other No. of employees 42 38 38 33 22 Calculation of alternative performance measures can be found in Note 26 Alternative performance measures. 1) Prior to and after dilution 2) Board proposal. 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OVERVIEWS AND INFORMATION MULTI-YEAR SUMMARY Definitions Rental income according to Statement of comprehensive income Income from property less operating and maintenance costs, property tax, ground rents and property administration costs. Pre-tax profit with reversal of changes in value. Profit before tax in accordance with Statement of comprehensive income. Profit for the year in accordance with Statement of comprehensive income Profit for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders in relation to the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Cash flow for the year before change in working capital according to the cash-flow statement Number of shares on the balance sheet date Weighted average number of shares. Net operating surplus as a percentage of income from property. Interest-bearing liabilities attributable to the properties as a percentage of the carrying amounts of the properties at the end of the year. Net profit for the year as a percentage of average equity. Pre-tax profit plus financial expenses as a percentage of average total assets. Pre-tax profit before reversal of financial expenses and unrealised changes in value in relation to financial expenses. Average interest on the loan portfolio with derivatives being taken into account. Average remaining period of fixed interest on the loan portfolio with derivatives being taken into account. The average remaining period of fixed interest in the loan portfolio. Interest-bearing liabilities divided by equity at year end. Equity including non-controlling interests as a percentage of total assets. Equity including non-controlling interests as a percentage of total assets less goodwill. Proposed dividend in relation to the share price at year-end. The change in share price change over the year plus dividends paid in relation to the share price at the beginning of the year. Equity attributable to Parent Company shareholders in relation to the number of shares outstanding at year end. Profit from property management in relation to the number of shares outstanding at year-end. Share price at year end in relation to earnings per share for the year. Shareholders’ equity with reversal of the fair value of interest rate derivatives and deferred taxes in the balance sheet and goodwill associated with the deferred tax, calculated per share. Total area available for letting. Contractual rents (including property tax, electricity and heating) on an annual basis plus a supplement for assessed market rents for vacant space. Contractual rents under valid leases at year end as a percentage of rental value. The number of shares outstanding multiplied by the latest price paid on the specified day. Dividend for the financial year in relation to the number of shares outstanding on the record date. Average number of employees. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 137 OVERVIEWS AND INFORMATION CATENA THROUGH THE YEAR Catena through the year Catena seeks to facilitate the market’s valuation of the Company by providing clear information. Catena works for fast and transparent reporting to shareholders, financial markets and other stakeholders. Information is published in accordance with current legislation, Nasdaq’s regulations, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the Company’s insider policy. Annual General Meeting Follow Catena Shareholders are cordially invited to attend the Annual The Company’s website, General Meeting on 29 April. The announcement of the www.catenafastigheter.com, Annual General Meeting was published on 25 March 2020 presents up-to-date inforand is available at www.catenafastigheter.com – see also mation the operations. All information in the front cover fold-out. financial reports and press releases are available there Important dates in Swedish and English and, 29 April 2020 Interim Report, January – March 2020 to receive information on an 29 April 2020 2020 Annual General Meeting ongoing basis, a subscrip7 July 2020 Interim report April – June 2020 tion service is also available via the Company’s website. 28 October 2020 Interim report July – September 2020 Financial information can 19 February 2021 Year-end Report 2020 also be ordered directly 29 April 2021 2021 Annual General Meeting from Catena by telephone or post. Capital market information In connection with the publication of the interim reports, a By following Catena on presentation of the interim financial statements is broadLinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter or Instagram, addicast via the Internet. It is also presented to investors in tional information about what is happening within the connection with meetings arranged by banks and Catena Company can be obtained. also plans its own, one-on-one meetings with investors and banks (for example at the Capital Markets Days in Båstad in conjunction with the half-year report), as well as participating in shareholder meetings. Interim and Annual Reports are sent by post to those who request this. At the forefront Catena leads development in both the field of logistics area and in the property sector by partnering in innovation and development in various ways and in different forums. In addition, the Company arranges the annual LogistikTrender seminar – a much-appreciated meeting place for new knowledge and inspiration. 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB OVERVIEWS AND INFORMATION PRESS RELEASES AND GLOSSARY Selection of press releases from 2019 Glossary Logistics properties 20 Dec 2019 Catena invests in extension for DHL at Logistics Property constructed with a terminal and/or warePosition Sunnanå, Malmö house intended for goods handling and distribution 26 Nov 2019 Ground broken on new air cargo warehouse for for logistics companies’ customers. DHL Express at Logistics Position Sunnanå Terminals/Container terminals 22 Nov 2019 Catena secures additional strategic logistics Properties that are primarily designed for transshiplocation south of Stockholm ment operations. This type of property includes container terminals, where possibilities of moving goods 31 Oct 2019 Management change at Catena from one mode of transport to another are optimised. 14 Oct 2019 Catena sells logistics land in Nykvarn Logistics warehouses 2 Oct 2019 Catena invests SEK 132 million in an extension These are defined as properties with inventories of at Logistics Position Tostarp, Helsingborg finished goods and importers’ stocks of goods awaiting sale. 20 Sep 2019 Catena invests SEK 193 million in new logistics facility at E-City Engelholm Logistics location Generally recognised locations considered well suited 20 Sep 2019 Ekoligens establishes operations at Catena’s for logistics in view of, for example, freight flows, infrapremises in Umeå structure, proximity to consumer markets and skills. 4 Sep 2019 Catena released from option agreements Logistics Position 3 Sep 2019 Catena extends several leases with ICA Particularly prominent hub in Catena’s property network. 12 Jul 2019 Catena applies for building permit in Ängelholm 11 Jul 2019 Catena invests an additional SEK 150 million at Distribution centres Sunnanå Logistics Position A property with goods that are stored for a shorter period to then be transported onward. 18 Jun 2019 Catena extends property in Rosersberg City logistics 10 Jun 2019 Christoffer Bööj becomes new Business Developer A distribution centre that is optimised for rapid and at Catena short-distance transports, of fast moving goods such 29 May 2019 Catena acquires property in Kungälv as perishable goods. 23 May 2019 Helén Lindskog new Business Controller at Catena Omni warehouse 22 May 2019 Catena leases to Alvestaglass in Växjö Facility including multiple logistics features. 3 Apr 2019 Catena constructs new facility for PostNord in E-commerce Katrineholm E-commerce is defined as when a company or consumer buys or sells a product, normally over the Internet or 28 Mar 2019 Catena puts its name on Rögle’s arena other computer networks. 1 Mar 2019 New Sustainability Manager at Catena 26 Feb 2019 Catena invests SEK 250 million in Helsingborg and signs lease with PostNord Catena AB is a Swedish public limited-liability company. The Company is incorporated and registered under Swedish law with the company name Catena AB (publ) and the corporate registration number 556294-1715. The Company has its registered office in Helsingborg, Sweden. Catena’s Annual Report is available in Swedish and English with the Swedish version as the official version. The Annual Report is published on the Company’s website www.catenafastigheter.com from 30 March 2020. Printed copies are distributed to shareholders and other stakeholders on demand. The Administration Report comprises pages 18–71 and 122–135. The financial reports comprise pages 75-121 and were prepared in accordance with IFRS. All amounts are stated in SEK million unless otherwise specified. The figures in parenthesis pertain to 2018 unless otherwise stated. Market information is based on Catena’s assessment unless another source is specified. Assessments are based on the highest quality of data available at the time of preparing the Annual Report. This report also contains forward-looking statements. Even if Catena’s management assess these statements as reasonable, no guarantees can be provided that these SWAN ECO expectations will prove correct. Accordingly, actual future results can vary compared with what is shown in the forwardIC LA NOR looking statements depending on, items including, changing conditions for the economy, market and competition, changes in D B EL the regulatory environment and other government actions as well as fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors. For financial and operational definitions, please refer to page 137. This Annual Report was produced in collaboration with RHR Corporate Communication in Malmö. It was printed by DanagårdLitho on environmentally certified paper, with vegetable-based pigments based on renewable raw materials and 1234 5678 using 100-percent renewable energy. ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB 139 OVERVIEWS AND INFORMATION Catena is a listed property company that, through collaboration sustainably develops, owns and manages efficient logistics facilities. Its strategically located properties supply the Scandinavian metropolitan areas and are adapted for both current and future goods flows. The overall objective is to generate strong cash flow, enabling stable development and providing shareholders a favourable total return in the long term. Catena’s shares are traded on NASDAQ Stockholm, Mid Cap. Head office Regional office Catena AB (publ) Stockholm Helsingborg Box 5003 Östra Längdgatan 1 Landskronavägen 23 SE-250 05 Helsingborg, Sweden SE-611 35 Nyköping, Sweden SE-252 32 Helsingborg, Sweden Switchboard: Switchboard: Switchboard: +46 (0)42 449 22 00 +46 (0)42 449 22 00 +46 (0)42 449 22 00 Visiting address: Gothenburg/Jönköping Malmö Landskronavägen 23 Fibervägen 2 Lagervägen 4 SE-252 32 Helsingborg, Sweden SE-435 33 Mölnlycke, Sweden SE-232 37 Arlöv, Sweden catenafastigheter.com Switchboard: Switchboard: 140 +46 (0)42 449 22 00 +46 (0)42 449 22 00 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 | CATENA AB
