Beckers Sustainability Report 2019 2 What is inside Beckers Overview Beckers at a glance ................................................................................................. 2 Beckers is a company born out of innovation. CEO message ........................................................................................................... 3 We are passionate explorers, driven by at a glance Highlights from 2019 ................................................................................................ 4 commitment and science. We know new 1.0 Towards 2030 ........................................................................................... 5 ideas can catalyse solutions to the world’s 1.1 The big picture ................................................................................................. 6 1.2 The way ahead ................................................................................................. 7 biggest challenges. 1.3 Our roadmap to 2030 ...................................................................................... 9 2.0 Products with impact ..................................................................... Our world is at a turning point. To continue 3 000+ 13 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 Sustainable solutions at a glance ............................................................... The true cost of sustainable solutions ....................................................... Pushing the building envelope for far-reaching positive impact .......... MSK Plast: A sustainable partner to Beckers........................................... 14 24 25 26 to thrive, we need to ensure a balanced climate, strong ecosystems and create 1 843 employees suppliers healthy living spaces. We must make 3.0 Operations with impact ............................................................... 461 1 382 8 27 sustainability our business. women men 3.1 Our results: climate impact, energy and waste ....................................... 28 3.2 Driving down our value chain emissions .................................................. 32 3.3 Drumming up the circular economy ........................................................... 33 sustainability 3.4 Keeping our people safe and well .............................................................. 34 In close collaboration with our customers reports 24 3.5 Adding value from sustainability to service .............................................. 94% 36 3.6 Chain up! CSR assessment of our supply chain .................................... 38 and stakeholders, we push the boundaries production sites for surface performance and deliver value 4.0 People with impact ........................................................................... 4.1 Accelerating along our Social Sustainability Roadmap ......................... 39 40 beyond the expected. With science as our in 18 countries engagement in employee survey 4.2 4.3 4.4 Taking our pulse ............................................................................................. A company-wide commitment to learning ................................................ Change from within ....................................................................................... 41 43 44 foundation, our courage and commitment move us forward. Together, we generate on 5 continents 4.5 Our holistic approach to health, happiness and diversity ..................... 45 32% 4.6 Local social initiatives ................................................................................... 46 impact beyond the surface. 78% 4.7 Beckers Sustainability Award 2019 ............................................................ 47 serving customers in over renewable 5.0 We are Beckers Group ................................................................. In this report, we will explain how 60 48 energy 5.1 Who is Beckers Group .................................................................................. 5.2 Our global network ........................................................................................ 49 51 Beckers has taken practical steps of operations with local community 5.3 Introducing our Board of Directors and the Executive Group .............. 52 towards sustainable development. engagement countries 5.4 Our sustainability journey ............................................................................. 53 6.0 GRI Report 2019 .................................................................................. 56 6.1 6.2 6.3 About the report ............................................................................................. Managment Approach ................................................................................... Our Stakeholders ........................................................................................... 57 58 60 53% reused and 170 000 6.4 General Disclosures ...................................................................................... 61 recycled 6.5 Material Topics ................................................................................................ 63 waste tons of product 6.6 Glossary ........................................................................................................... 68 produced 2019 Contact ........................................................................................................................ 69 3 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Welcome Our purpose is to transform our industry by developing solutions I am proud to present the 2019 Beckers Sustainability Report, which shows how far we have come on our sustainability journey, and summarises the main achievements and challenges relating to our social and environmental impact. The report also shows our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. that give surface new meaning Dear stakeholders, The Covid-19 crisis that emerged at the beginning of this year has and create maximum positive shown us that everything can change in the blink of an eye. Let us 2019 was a key year for Beckers regarding sustainability. With impact for our customers, for be humble and modest in consideration of our planet and the life the start of a new decade ahead, we took some time to reflect on it. Beckers is agile and during the crisis, we have demonstrated society, and for the planet. on our journey this far and define our contribution for the future. our ability to shape and adapt. We will learn from it and create With a multi-national stakeholder workshop, many interviews, value through sustainability for our employees, our customers brainstorming sessions and discussions, we laid the foundation and our owner. for our new sustainability strategy. It has become increasingly apparent that the winners of tomorrow understand how to create 2020 will be challenging year, but it’s also the start of our journey customer value while securing sustainable impact, and are able towards 2030. We are committed to deliver on our promise. By to make it their business. This is now more important than ever new opportunities to collaborate with our suppliers and customers building on the strong foundation of our values and combining our and it reflects in our purpose and the 2030 sustainability strategy. on sustainable products, and work together to deepen our long-held dedication to sustainability with our vision for the future, understanding of the value chain and market trends. We will share we will create sustainable value for our customers, our business Our purpose is to transform our industry by developing solutions updates on product innovation in this report. and our world. that give surface new meaning and create maximum positive impact for our customers, for society and for the planet. To fulfil At the same time, we will strive to minimise our environmental this purpose, we will use three levers of change: leadership, impact with carbon-neutral sites and drastically reduced VOC innovation and people. We will take the lead in our industry, we will emissions. We will focus first on scaling up the use of renewable push the boundaries for surface performance beyond protection energy across our business, while working to create positive Best regards, and beauty, and we will recognise and honour that passionate impact in our production and along our supply chain. people are the key to success. We will cascade sustainability down into every level of the organisation with all of us playing Our progress is rooted in the creativity, passion and dedication an active part. of our people, and in the close collaborative relationships we have with our customers. To step up to the opportunities and Christophe Sabas Our 2030 strategy is ambitious, pragmatic, and commits to challenges ahead, we will follow up on our engagement surveys CEO and President Coil Coatings EA&A specific actions. This commitment starts with our products. We to create a great company to work for, support safety initiatives Berlin, Germany will invest even more in R&D, listen to our stakeholders, create on sites, and merge our social efforts behind one cause. June 2020 4 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Highlights Adding value from sustainability from 2019 to service Year after year, our commitment to and implementation of the principles of operational We are proud to present the excellence continue to deliver following highlights from our Setting our 2030 strategy benefits. Read about a few of our highlights from 2019. sustainability work. The start of a new decade is an opportunity to formulate and See the full story on p.36 formalise plans and ambitions. In 2019, we took stock of where we’ve come from and came together to develop and agree our sustainability strategy for the years ahead. Constructing See the full story on p.7 a better future A good relationship requires The more collaboration. Find out how we’re saving energy, materials and costs we know, the better in partnership with an expert in building envelopes. See the full story on p.25 we grow Our Change With a 94% participation rate, our global employee survey sets a Innovators Drumming up the circular new standard for engagement. Thanks to the input of our people around the world, we can identify more opportunities to improve Given the right opportunity, we can economy how we all work together. See the full story on p.41 all be powerful agents of change. Find out how we’re helping our As we transition towards the circular economy, there are opportunities people work together to fulfil their along our supply chain for new ways of working that reduce our impact. potential, while making Beckers an Here, we’ll tell the story of how we’re working with partners to reduce the even better place to work. impact of our steel drum use. See the full story on p.44 See the full story on p.33 5 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group The big picture We look at what happened in 2019, what challenges our world faces, and what steps we and other businesses are taking to help overcome them. Towards Our roadmap to 2030 2030 Our new roadmap to 2030 is based on three focus areas that will guide our actions and deliver positive impact in the decade ahead. We used 2019 as an opportunity to look to the future – building on what we know to deliver positive impact for our customers, our people and our planet. The way ahead In 2019, Beckers took its vision, goals and development strategy to the next level. The process involved a stakeholder workshop, internal surveys, internal workshops, and a company-wide Beckers conference. 6 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Eighteen of the last 19 years have been ambition to create peace and prosperity for people and the warmest on record. 2019 saw polar ice the planet, now and into the future. 1.1 receding at an unprecedented rate, while all seven continents experienced recordMany of the measures needed to achieve this are already understood, available and economically viable. The big picture breaking temperatures. As global carbon Many businesses are already implementing them – from emissions continue to rise, so does the cutting their emissions to securing renewable energy need for urgent action. for their operations. But we must also go beyond these solutions, to make sustainability core to our mission In line with this, 2019 was also the year of climate – from the products we develop to the services we protests and youth strikes. Around the world, millions of provide. Businesses that fail to move quickly or boldly We take a step back to look at what happened in people came together to raise the alarm and demand enough in their commitment and action on sustainability 2019, what challenges our world faces as it enters a action – from their governments and the businesses risk losing market relevance. At the other end of the that serve their needs. scale, those driving change in their industry can new decade, and what steps businesses – including become leaders. ours – are taking to help overcome them. At Beckers, we recognise this; our ambition is all about rising to the challenge. Our long history of commitment to sustainable development puts us in a strong position to drive a system change in our sector and lead our industry as it transitions to a sustainable, circular economy. While Beckers is committed to continuing our efforts to do ‘less harm’ – cutting carbon emissions, reducing waste and using fewer natural resources – we know our greatest contribution comes from the impact of our products. We aim to further develop products that can deliver positive impact beyond the surface. Our goal is to transform our industry by developing solutions that Climate countdown at gasometer on EUREF Campus in Berlin: the clock runs create maximum positive impact for our customers, for backwards and symbolises the remaining carbon budget for the 1.5-degree target. society, and for the planet. Across all sectors, businesses are acting to meet the Our strategy work in 2019 outlines our roadmap to Paris Agreement target to limit global warming to 1.5 2030. In 2020, we will set targets and KPIs against this degrees Celsius. Like Beckers, many are doing this by roadmap, which will drive continuous improvement in aligning with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. the years ahead and put sustainability at the heart of By delivering these goals, we will help society fulfil its our business. Nasa, Unsplash 7 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group A shared focus on the future their ideas and concerns seriously. We therefore Growing global issues continue to impact businesses knew their input had to be central to the development and society in complex and challenging ways. of our 2030 sustainability strategy. 1.2 The next ten years will be critical and will see new markets, strong legislation, innovative business In May 2019, we conducted a stakeholder workshop, models and greener production techniques take convening participants from within Beckers and along centre stage. our value chain, including customers and suppliers. The way ahead We also brought in NGOs, UN representatives, Although Beckers has already achieved considerable sustainability and academic experts, and success in our approach to sustainability, it is now representatives from our parent company. time to move to the next level. We want to position our company as part of the solution for a sustainable The purpose of this workshop was to gain as world. In 2019, we followed a careful, considered much insight and input as possible. The result At Beckers, we are determined to ensure our process to develop and deliver our 2030 strategy. was a creative and fruitful dialogue about future company is part of the solution for a sustainable A key part of this was drawing on our stakeholders sustainability challenges and how best to tackle them. We explored strategies for further developing future. In 2019, we worked with passion and energy for ideas and inspiration. We also conducted our industry, started to define what success in 2030 to develop and agree on our 2030 sustainability internal surveys, workshops and a company-wide Beckers conference. might mean for Beckers, and sketched a roadmap for strategy. Read on to find out more about last year’s the next decade. These outcomes were invaluable in strategy work, and to take a closer look at the strong helping us define our 2030 sustainability strategy. Learning from our stakeholders foundations on which it is built. We recognise and respect our stakeholders and take Image courtesy of: Färgfabriken 8 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Envisioning the Together, we envisaged ourselves in 2030, trying to anticipate Beckers’ likely role and 1.2 future with our possible achievements. It was a unique and profoundly inspiring experience; I am full of stakeholders hope and energy for the decade ahead. The way ahead ” – Nicklas Augustsson, Global Sustainability Director At Beckers, we are determined to ensure our company is part of the solution for a sustainable future. In 2019, we worked with passion and energy to develop and agree on our 2030 sustainability strategy. Read on to find out more about last year’s strategy work, and to take a closer look at the strong foundations on which it is built. We chose a beautiful location for our stakeholder workshop impressions and takeaways they gained from looking to Image courtesy of: Färgfabriken – Färgfabriken. Our suppliers, customers, a representative the future. of our owner and a UN Global Compact representative all contributed to the workshop. In this clip, we hear what Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel 9 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our roadmap to 2030 At Beckers, we create solutions powered by commitment and science. In close collaboration with our customers, we make it possible to generate positive impact beyond the surface. Our 2030 roadmap is our strategy for fulfilling our Everything we do must have a purpose. Following the strategy work described purpose. That’s why our three above, we have outlined three streams of work going streams of doing business are: forward: products, operations and people. As a next step, we will set ambitious goals and actionable KPIs 1. Products with impact to guide and drive action in each of these streams and define how we will win in the long term. 2. Operations with impact 3. People with impact 10 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our 2030 ambitions: Our products are our legacy. They always have an Products with impact in terms of how they look and the protection they offer. Our ambition for the decade ahead is that the paint we provide delivers sustainability value. impact We will strive: For our coatings to be materially sustainable and to use components that are inherently safe and responsibly developed. This could mean that our coatings are derived from minerals that are sustainably mined and not scarce in nature. Or that they are based on renewable raw materials, and free from persistent and toxic substances. Innovative value creation For our coatings to provide functional We want to make our customers the winners of sustainability benefits for our customers tomorrow by putting innovation at the heart of and society. progress and powering it with commitment and For example, coatings that offer improved UV durability or other functions that reduce maintenance. Additionally, science. We shall deliver positive impact: pushing this could be coatings that help solve global challenges the boundaries for surface performance that help by generating energy and depolluting local air. advance society while protecting our planet. To leverage our value chain by collaborating with partners to create breakthrough innovation. We collaborate closely with customers, suppliers and other players along the value chain to develop more sustainable coatings. It could also involve bringing more stakeholders in our sustainability work. 11 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our 2030 ambitions: We have a long and complex value chain, which depends on Operations with one of the most challenging sectors in terms of sustainability – the chemical industry. We therefore need to push the boundaries for what can be done. Our ambition is to ensure our production and supply chain activities go beyond impact expectations to create positive impact. We will strive: For our sites to be carbon neutral. For example, reducing our total energy consumption and increasing our share of renewable energy. It could also mean reducing our emission of VOCs, and reducing CO2 emissions in our operations and along our supply chain. Positive value loop For our operations to cultivate the principles We want to drive our industry’s transformation by of the circular economy, in which resources creating a net positive value loop in our production and are conserved and repurposed. along our supply chain. We will transition from doing This could mean, by collaborating along the value chain to recondition used drums and reuse packaging material. ‘less bad’ to doing ‘more good’, and continue driving circular economy principles in our operations and with our supply chain partners. For our supply chain partners to operate according to the same standards as Beckers. To encourage this, we take a holistic value chain approach to sustainability, recognising that our suppliers have a significant impact on our own performance. We monitor and audit our suppliers’ social and environmental sustainability. 12 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our 2030 ambitions: We want to make a positive contribution to society People with in everything we do. We engage actively with the communities around us and empower our colleagues to grow. Their well-being is important to us, as we see people as the cornerstone of a sustainable business. impact We will strive: For all our employees to feel motivated, happy and empowered. We establish a unique culture based on our values. We also aim to regularly survey our employees’ motivation and happiness, and act where necessary. Our ambition is to create a gender-balanced and inclusive business. People as value creators Passion and commitment sit at the heart of progress. We For our sites to be role models for health want our colleagues to feel motivated and empowered to and safety. take the lead on the challenges of tomorrow. And we want We aim to consolidate a robust system of safety focused on behaviour, while continuing our focus on zero the communities we operate in to benefit from our presence. accidents and global safety actions (e.g. Global Safety By taking joint ownership of the challenges as individuals Day). We also have an ambition to systematically address – and as a society – we know we are more likely to succeed. psychosocial factors affecting health and safety. To stand for purpose-driven community and social engagement. We aim to maintain close dialogue with all stakeholders and create common cause for employee engagement. 13 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group The true cost of sustainable We take a fresh look at the value of our coatings by exploring the true cost of ownership. solutions Products with impact Sustainable solutions at a glance MSK Plast: A sustainable partner to Beckers After years of commitment to focused How long-term collaboration With our bold ambitions from the first chapter R&D, we have a range of sustainable creates opportunities to experiment in mind, here we summarise how 2019 took us coatings available. and succeed. closer to our ambition to provide coatings that deliver value beyond the surface. Pushing the building envelope for far-reaching positive impact Discovering the full sustainability potential of our panel coatings. 14 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our future is in the pipeline We have a future-proof R&D strategy and are excited about the products in our pipeline. Of course, this strategy is only possible because of our team of passionate 2.1 and dedicated chemists, working in our labs to develop solutions fit for the future. R&D is a core function at Beckers, and we greatly value our team and its achievements. Sustainable This video looks to the future, demonstrating our proactive approach to product sustainability, and emphasising the complementary aspects of material and functional sustainability. It shares a few examples of what we’re excited about in years to come. solutions at On the following pages, we share a few examples of our more sustainable coil coatings and industrial coatings, which are already available on the market. a glance We are proud of our track record on research and development when it comes to our coatings. Thanks to the vision and continuous efforts of our R&D department, we have a wide range of sustainable coatings to offer our customers, with several more in the pipeline. We speak to two key members of Beckers’ R&D team about Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel how sustainability is inextricably linked to their work, what innovations they’re currently focusing on and what they’re excited about. 15 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance Our coil coatings are applied to metal before Coil Coatings it’s fabricated into end products. Coil coated steel or aluminium is mainly used for roofing, facades, roller shutters or domestic appliances. Materially sustainable topcoats Materially sustainable PVC plastisol Over the years, we have eliminated heavy metal stabilisers, lead chromate pigments and phthalates and introduced renewable raw materials, so that our Beckry®Plast 510 is one of the most materially sustainable PVC plastisols available today. > Beckry®Plast High solid topcoat We offer Beckry®Pol 3000 as a higher solids, lower VOC versions of our principal polyester melamine range. > Beckry®Pol Bio-based topcoat Our Beckry®Pol Bio range (with > 25% bio-based organic content) is available in RUV2 and RUV3 qualities backed up by more than three years of real-time outdoor testing. > Beckry®Pol Bio 16 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance Our coil coatings are applied to metal before Coil Coatings it’s fabricated into end products. Coil coated steel or aluminium is mainly used for roofing, facades, roller shutters or domestic appliances. Mouse-over for interaction High-durability topcoats High-durability RUV4 topcoat systems Our highest durability (RUV4) systems can contribute to significantly lengthening the lifetime of the building envelope and do so with minimum maintenance impacts. We are now working to replace significant portions of their organic content with renewable raw materials. > Beckry®Tech and Beckry®Duro High-durability textured topcoats Our family of textured, low gloss Beckry®Tex coatings have outstanding longevity compared with many other residential roofing systems and lengthen the time before replacement of metal roof tiles. > Beckry®Tex 17 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance Our coil coatings are applied to metal before Coil Coatings it’s fabricated into end products. Coil coated steel or aluminium is mainly used for roofing, facades, roller shutters or domestic appliances. Mouse-over for interaction Easy-to-clean topcoats Our latest development, Beckry®Fresh 2000, is applied using a simpler and cheaper process, compared to the previous two-coat system. It enables the building envelope to look as fresh as possible for as long as possible. > Beckry®Fresh 18 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance Our coil coatings are applied to metal before Coil Coatings it’s fabricated into end products. Coil coated steel or aluminium is mainly used for roofing, facades, roller shutters or domestic appliances. Mouse-over for interaction Chromate-free primers The use of chromate anticorrosive pigments was finally prohibited in Europe in 2019 for unauthorised uses. Alternative chromate-free systems like Beckry®Prim 243, have a natural exposure track record of over ten years and today can meet the demanding corrosion testing requirements, such as RC5. > Beckry®Prim 19 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance Our coil coatings are applied to metal before Coil Coatings it’s fabricated into end products. Coil coated steel or aluminium is mainly used for roofing, facades, roller shutters or domestic appliances. Solar-control systems Solar reflective system Our solar reflective Beckry®Therm is now used worldwide for a range of applications – from large projects to small agricultural operations and domestic dwellings. There is growing appreciation that its cooler surface offers new opportunities in optimising building design, in addition to reducing heat build-up and heat island effects and lowering building running costs. > Beckry®Therm > Beckry®Low-e Solar absorbing system Our solar absorbing technology has now successfully completed more than three years of demanding outdoor testing. It can significantly increase the solar energy harvesting properties of solar thermal systems and transpired solar collectors, while offering an attractive palette of colours. > Beckry®Therm 20 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance In industrial coatings, we supply a range of specially manufactured coatings for preformed Industrial Coatings metal parts and plastic components. These are used for vehicles, heavy-duty machinery, railways and consumer devices. Mouse-over for interaction Agricultural, Construction and Earth-moving Equipment Waterborne, chromate-free system Our chromate-free coatings have been developed as effective, safe and environmentally responsible alternatives to traditional coatings without sacrificing performance and durability. These coatings extend the life of our customers’ products without impacting the recyclability of the metal and plastic substrates that they protect. > Beckqua®Prim and Beckqua®Lac Ultra high-solid system Our 2K Beckry®Sol-Ultra provides outstanding protection with a very low environmental impact. This formulation has VOC emissions similar to waterborne coatings. In addition, the product cures at very low temperatures and, because it is a one-coat finish, generates less waste than traditional two-coat systems. > Beckry®Sol-Ultra 21 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance In industrial coatings, we supply a range of specially manufactured coatings for preformed Industrial Coatings metal parts and plastic components. These are used for vehicles, heavy-duty machinery, railways and consumer devices. Mouse-over for interaction Railway Waterborne system We offer a complete product range, from primer to 2K polyurethane finish coatings, including specialties, using waterborne technology. All products are approved by France’s national railway company SNCF, as well as different European state railways and the private rail vehicle industry. > Beckqua®Prim, Beckqua®Fill, Beckaqua®Lac, Beckqua®Base and Beckqua®Clear 22 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance In industrial coatings, we supply a range of specially manufactured coatings for preformed Industrial Coatings metal parts and plastic components. These are used for vehicles, heavy-duty machinery, railways and consumer devices. Mouse-over for interaction Automotive Plastics Exterior NMP-free waterborne basecoat Our NMP-free, high solid content concept was successfully introduced to the market in 2018, showing enhanced appearance through a smoother film surface and excellent concealing power. > Beckqua®Color 23 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.1 Sustainable solutions at a glance In industrial coatings, we supply a range of specially manufactured coatings for preformed Industrial Coatings metal parts and plastic components. These are used for vehicles, heavy-duty machinery, railways and consumer devices. Mouse-over for interaction Consumer Design Finishes Waterborne clearcoat The clearcoat adds protection to the product and basecoat Waterborne Polyurethane Monocoat to prevent damage from accidents, humidity, sunlight and We offer a range of 1K and 2K monocoats for coffee normal use. The solvent content is a low 20-22% (depending machines and other appliances, approved by major on gloss level), compared to 50-60% for conventional consumer electronics and appliance manufacturers. solvent-borne finishes. A higher solid content requires 20Superior performance and stylish options are combined 25% less material and results in an improved efficiency rate. with meeting two sustainability targets at once: minimising > Beckqua®Dur VOCs and reducing the number of layers customers have to apply. This also results in cost savings. Waterborne UV-curable monocoat > Beckqua® We have launched a new generation of waterborne Waterborne basecoat with covering function UV Monocoats for lifestyle appliances and consumer electronics that have a similar metallic effect as some Unlike conventional solvent-borne paints with 70-80% of our solvent-borne systems. solvents, this basecoat contains only 6-8% solvents with > Beckqua®Lux a 100% higher efficiency rate. For products with sensitive substrates, the coating covers moulding defects more effectively and lowers scrap rates. Topcoat with low aromatic content > Beckqua®Flex We have developed new topcoats with low aromatic solvent (<5%) for Polyurethane and UV-topcoats, without compromising product performance on consumer electronics and lifestyle appliances. > Beckry®Dur and Beckry®Lux 24 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group When we invest in something, it is smart to consider excellent performance in our weathering tests means 2.2 both what it costs up front and what it costs to own in the long run. For example, expensive maintenance it also demonstrates high functional sustainability. We started testing our Beckry®Pol Bio topcoat system and repairs can mean a cheap car ends up costing a three years ago. Following extensive trials in tropical, The true cost lot. The construction industry is learning that the same subtropical and temperature environments, the coating rule applies, because up to 85% of the lifetime costs of is even more durable than we had hoped. It performs a building come from its operation, maintenance and well in the RUV4 category and is clearly superior to the end-of-life impacts – whether demolition, recovery or reference petroleum-based commercial RUV3 standard of sustainable reuse. As a result, any building product that can help to we used. reduce these add-on lifetime costs must bring value to the project. Like all our sustainable coatings, Beckry®Pol Bio is solutions designed to offer long-term benefits to everyone across Rather like the holistic approach of life-cycle assessour value chain – for our customers, the product’s end ments, life-cycle costing considers not only a product’s users and, of course, for our environment. initial costs, but also the additional costs that are spread throughout its whole life cycle. This approach is called total cost of ownership (TCO) and it goes beyond the How do you put a price on sustainability? Increasingly, price tag to understand the true cost and impact of 15-20% Upfront costs the coating. when assessing the cost of sustainable products, we need a metric that is smarter than a traditional upBy reducing the costs of maintenance and operation, End of life Initial design and build Abrasion-resistant, front purchasing price. a sustainable coating is valuable in a way that goes anti-graffiti coatings beyond the obvious. Highly durable products are more Repair and renewal sustainable not only because they last longer, but also Operational and Highly durability, self-cleaning, maintenance because they require less maintenance, repair and depolluting coatings ultimately don’t have to be replaced as frequently. 75-85% While these products may cost more initially, their Lifetime costs increased longevity actually reduces life-cycle costing. Utilities What’s more, their performance also reduces the environmental impacts associated with maintenance and repair programs. Energy management In this way, our Beckry®Pol Bio topcoat system is coatings sustainable in more ways than one. Firstly, having bio-based organic content around 35-40% means it This graph shows the full life-cycle costings of a building and the impact our coatings can have. At the beginning of a building project, the reduction of the much larger has strong material sustainability. And secondly, its lifetime costs should be priority. 25 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2.3 Pushing the building envelope for far-reaching positive impact A panel coating with hidden benefits not only makes a building’s interior more comfortable Our range of thermal control coatings, Beckry®Therm, during hot weather, but it also reduces energy consumption and CO2 emissions. After choosing Beckry®Therm for its thermal was developed almost 20 years ago to reduce the cost control qualities to develop a new panel of air conditioning. However, although the functional sustainability of this coating is a huge advantage in The additional advantage of using Beckry®Therm to coating, we discovered the product has an extra very cold or very warm regions, the European demand coat a building panel is an improvement in its thermal sustainability benefit. This article demonstrates for such a product was – initially – low. At this time, stability. The coatings lower the surface temperature of a building up to 15-20°C, which reduces thermal how it sometimes takes patience, perseverance global warming was neither as well recognised nor as visible as it is today; average temperatures in tension in the metal and the envelope structure. and partnership to realise the full potential of A panel with greater thermal stability requires fewer Europe were increasing but were still acceptable. sustainable solutions. Air conditioning was not widely used, and most steel supports to remain stable once in situ, and it architects and investors were not convinced that is possible to be more flexible in the design of the sustainable coatings were worth the extra cost. building, despite exposure to lots of sun and heat. Despite this, we were confident demand would rise This example shows us how partnership and and started a joint collaboration with a global leader in collaboration provide the opportunity to get the full high-performance insulation and building envelopes, potential of sustainable solutions, and we now see an to run tests and line trials to find the perfect solution for increasing demand in Beckry®Therm even in Europe. the European market. Thanks to this cooperation, we discovered that Beckry®Therm 26 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group The most elegant solutions to sustainability challenges supplying MSK Plast with sustainable waterborne 2.4 often involve greater efficiency, proving the old saying that ‘less is more’. We have been working with our paints, in a variety of colours, for several years. We also offer extra quality and productivity services, such long-term partner and customer MSK Plast to deliver as line audits to improve factory efficiency. MSK Plast: greater efficiency – and therefore greater sustainability – for them and their customers for several years. MSK Plast is a Finnish company that makes the plastic A sustainable parts for Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) in Beckers and MSK Plast always the Agriculture, Construction and Earth-moving (ACE) focus on working together as equipment sector. Their customers include Valtra, partners, sharing experiences and partner to VCE and Metso. key learnings, and trying to solve In 2017, we started to develop a new monocoat to challenges together. further improve adhesion properties and to fulfil stricter Beckers painting standards. Soon after, MSK Plast was looking – Jaakko Lipponen, Managing Director, MSK Plast to add a new paint line at its factory but were short on space. Following the success of the 2017 monocoat trial, they decided to remove the primer step from their new line – saving space, time and resources. MSK also invested in a new heat recovery ventilation system Our customers are a huge part of our sustainability alongside the new paint line, which aligned with their journey – both where we have come from, and where environmental values. we are going. Here, we share how our long-term Since then, they have moved two of their OEMs from part-nership with MSK Plast created the trust required a two-layer system to our waterborne monocoat to implement a breakthrough innovation and a solution. So far, this has been an excellent move. Not significant, ongoing saving in time, space only does the monocoat meet performance standards, and resources. the need for fewer layers, less overspray and less energy for curing makes it more sustainable and economical. This breakthrough is just one example of how Beckers MSK Factory during a visit in September 2019: Jukka Risikko (MSK Plast), Michal Stasiak and MSK Plast support each other to reduce impact. (Beckers), Karl-Heinz Edinger (Beckers), Katrin Boström (Beckers), Teemu Ritala (MSK In another example of this cooperation, we have been Plast) and Christian Vogel (Beckers). 27 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Drumming up the Keeping our people circular economy safe and well Our French team is working How a simple reporting mechanism is the along the value chain to nurture building block for a safer working environment. circular economy solutions. Operations with impact Adding value from sustainability to service Driving down our value chain In the first chapter, we look to the future emissions How our holistic approach to problemwith our 2030 ambitions. In this chapter, solving drives progress. What does it take to reduce we examine our 2019 work to positively impact the impact of transport? our production and supply chain activitites – from reducing transport emissions to investing in the circular economy. Our results Chain up! CSR How our focus on assessment of reducing our energy, waste and climate 2019 our supply chain impact is paying off. Connecting with our suppliers to join up the sustainability dots along our supply chain. 28 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 3.1 Our results: climate impact, energy and waste In 2019, the total production of Beckers Group targets for energy use, VOC emissions and waste. Our increased by almost 6%, with a new record in terms latest results illustrate the progress we are making in of tons of production. This increase was not evenly this long journey. spread out: global market changes meant some regions significantly increased production, while On the following pages, we will look at our environothers saw a slight decrease. mental key performance indicators (EKPIs), the impact the changes in business operations had on Our long-term ambition is to grow our business while those EKPIs, and how they were influenced by other reducing our environmental impact. To track and environmental factors as well as our site initiatives. encourage progress towards this goal, we set annual 29 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 3.1 Carbon emissions by activity*, % Premises Business travel Results: Climate & VOC Direct emissions from consumption Indirect emissions from movement of fuel (on-site), purchased energy of employees and external people, 5% 4% excluding vehicles owned by the and water, including their indirect Business Company-owned vehicles company. Our 2019 carbon savings upstream emissions. travel 1% Outbound third-party deliveries Company-owned vehicles Waste Indirect emissions from transportation Direct emissions from consumption 10% of finished goods using third-party of fuel in the company’s own and Clear reduction in emissions Production services. long-leased vehicles including their gases indirect upstream emissions. As global carbon emissions continue to rise, we must all keep striving to reduce our impact. Beckers has been communicating Inbound third-party deliveries carbon data since 2011, when we were measuring emissions Indirect emissions from transportation Waste 40% of raw materials using third-party from our 18 sites. In 2019, we had 25 sites to monitor, including Indirect emissions from the our headquarters in Berlin and our new site in Nghe An, Vietnam. Premises services. processing and disposal of all forms of waste. Production gases In 2019, our total market-based emissions reduced by 7% 24% Direct emissions from purchased compared to last year, despite an increase in production. Inbound solvents that are considered Volatile Compared to our 2013 base year, market-based emissions third-party Organic Compounds. reduced by 8%. 16% deliveries Outbound This reduction can be traced to two main activities. The 28% third-party deliveries reduction in emissions from outbound deliveries came from Our VOC results better planning, reduction in air freight and improved partner We continue to measure and target VOC emissions from all our production sites. coordination to increase delivery by rail. The 7% reduction in Over the years, we have reduced our absolute emissions thanks to a combination emissions from our premises came mainly from the switch to Carbon emissions intensity*, ton CO2e/ton product of activities such as low-solvent cleaning systems, solvent recirculation and certified renewable electricity sources (which has a one-year on-site distillation. lag for actual impact). 0.50 Due to changes in the types of product we manufacture and our production The Emission Factors (EF) we use to assess our climate impact volume, we remained at the same level of emissions per ton of product in 2019. are in our tool, Our Impacts. These convert units of business 0.40 activity into equivalent CO2 amounts. The EFs are constantly VOC intensity, kg/ton product updated based on new science and fluid factors, such as grid 0.30 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 electricity; they are provided by international agencies on climate change, such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 0.02 (IPCC). As per our Recalculation Policy there is no need to recalculate the base year, since the changes to the emission factors in 2019 do not significantly impact the results. 0.10 For our climate impact, please see our Climate Assessment Summary for 2019 on our website. For data on our climate and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 5 4 3 3 3 3 3 environmental impact, please see our GRI Appendix on p.56. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 * All climate data of 2019 is as per market-based approach 30 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 3.1 Results: Energy Renewable energy of total 32% Greater efficiency and 2013 7% 2014 12% 2015 23% Renewable green energy outlook 93% 88% 77% Although Beckers’ total electricity consumption 2019 increased in 2019, our electricity per ton of product fell by 3%. This shows an improvement in efficient resource use. This improvement follows the 27% 30% 33% 2016 2017 2018 68% implementation of an energy reduction program at 73% 70% 67% our biggest site, combined with the optimisation of Non-renewable production planning. We also saw a good reduction in the use of other forms of energy. This reduction came as a result of the use of heat pumps and air destratifiers, as well as an energy recovery program and the optimisation Total energy consumption, MWh Energy intensity, MWh/ton product of heating space. It was also linked to warmer winters in Europe. 70 000 We sourced a slightly lower percentage of renewable electricity in 2019 than in 2018. This reduction was 65 000 caused by lower energy demand at those sites 0.5 using renewable electricity. For 2020, we foresee 60 000 an increase in the ratio of renewable energy we 0.45 use, because we have new contracts in place for 55 000 0.41 0.40 additional sourcing of renewable electricity. 0.39 0.39 0.39 0.4 50 000 0.37 45 000 40 000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 31 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 2019 total weight of waste by type 3.1 Results: Waste and disposal method Domestic waste and certain Materials used back into Less waste, more reuse industrial waste that is not considered a risk to human Total Non-Hazardous 2 570 tons 31% 25% Reused 2 029 tons the market without major re-manufacturing processes health and environment as to alter it. of which 1 080 tons per regulations in country come from reused. In 2019, our total waste, including reuse, only of operation. increased by 2%, despite a 6% increase in production. Used materials that are broken Recycled 28% down to make raw materials for 2 323 tons manufacturing of new products. Following the waste hierarchy, we prevent and minimise waste by reusing cleaning solvents, as well as adjusting returned or leftover products while Waste from chemicals or Total Hazardous Incinerated Combustion of waste maintaining product specifications and quality. contaminated by chemicals 5 617 tons 69% that have a risk to human 3 511 tons with the possibility to Whenever possible, we also ensure packaging of which 949 tons 43% recover energy from heat health or environment as come from reused. of which 2 846 tons materials are kept in a ‘closed loop’ between our was with heat recovery. generated. per regulations in country suppliers and customers – which ensures they are of operation. reused as much as possible before disposal. Landfilled Disposal by dumping waste in 4% 324 tons government-designated areas. We encourage the reuse of waste, which we monitor separately from other forms of disposal. For the first Total waste, tons Waste intensity, kg/ton product time in 2019, we tracked our reuse waste as either hazardous or non-hazardous. We have diverted 10 000 70 10% more material towards reuse and away from conventional disposal methods, such as incineration, 8 000 recycling or landfilling compared to 2018. The disposal 60 by these conventional methods has been reduced by 49 tons in 2019 compared to 2018. 6 000 50 4 000 40 2 000 0 30 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total waste excluding Reused waste. Share of Total waste excluding reused waste Total waste including reused waste reused waste the total waste reported for the first time in 2017 32 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group En route to reducing our transport impact our production site in Montbrison with a combination The faster we can switch to less carbon-intensive of rail and road shipment. The effect is significant: CO2 emissions are reduced by 71% or 146 tons/year 3.2 forms of transport, the smoother the transition to a low-carbon economy. In practice, this means moving compared to standard road deliveries. away from road transport as the default towards using a combination of rail, ship and road – known as Looking at our inbound supply chain we have been Driving down intermodal transport. successful with a similar project. Our solvent supplier DHC routinely serves our production sites in Italy, Switching to intermodal transport to ship products to England and Sweden from Germany with combined rail, ship and road transports, reducing CO2 emissions our value chain our customers requires close cooperation with external partners, as well as greater organisation and flexibility by 32% versus a truck using a ferry. from our business and from our customers. However, with the right mindset, change is possible. We are always on the lookout for more opportunities emissions to cooperate in a similar fashion – either upor For example, we serve our customers ArcelorMittal downstream in our value chain. and Tata Steel in Northern France and Belgium from To measure, reduce and report on our carbon footprint, we must address the carbon emissions created along our value chain. One area with a lot of potential for improvement – both upand downstream – is transport. 33 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group An award-winning circular solution it will save 250 tons of CO2. We are now expanding the Have you ever considered the impact of how we deliver initiative to our bigger production sites in France and Germany where we use more than 120,000 drums per 3.3 our paint? Paint is mainly sold in steel drums and manufacturing a new one creates around 30kg of CO2 year, which could mean an annual saving of 2,500 tons emissions. Given that we use hundreds of thousands of of CO2 emissions. steel drums every year, this adds up to a big footprint. Drumming up Investing in circular economy solutions is an essential In 2019, we were thrilled to receive a sustainability award step to fulfilling our sustainability vision. And, by its from the French National Chemical Industries Association nature, the circular economy requires collaboration along the value chain. We are therefore grateful to the circular for a pilot scheme that significantly reduces the impact of our steel drums. The project involves reconditioning our customers and suppliers for working with us to used steel drums so we can fill them again and again. overcome obstacles and deliver this project. We hope it A reconditioned drum creates just under 10kg of CO2 sets a new standard for drum use across our industry. economy emissions – a third of what it takes to create a new one. The numbers and calculations in this text are based on input from We tested the project at our site in the north of France the following sources: DRUMDRUM, Serred and a study from in Feignies in June 2019 and are confident that in 2020, Tauw Group It is increasingly clear that our economy must shift from a linear model of production, consumption and disposal to a more circular model of use and reuse. But although everyone is talking about the circular economy, examples of success are still rare – which makes this project even more important to share. Meet the team behind the reconditioned drum Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel project, and find out how they worked together to implement a circular economy solution. 34 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Proactive engagement in Environment, small setback, which we still take very seriously. 3.4 Health & Safety (EHS) The best way for us to deliver our goal of zero We take a range of actions to look after our people, LTIs is by taking collective ownership of EHS at and help them look after themselves. This includes every level of our business. We are developing this Keeping our organising our Global Safety Day and implementing culture through a robust framework and continuous new checks and processes that ensure EHS issues progress. We recognise this is a process and it will are at the front of everyone’s mind – whether you’re take time to truly embed the right behaviours. working in our boardroom or on the factory floor. people safe At the heart of this commitment is the ongoing development of a culture of safety at Beckers. A closer look at our LTI rate and well Lost Time Injury (LTI) is an injury that leads to someone taking time off work and is calculated per 1 million worked hours. Our ultimate goal is to achieve an LTI score of zero. However, as you can see in the graph below, despite making good In 2019, we continued to strive towards providing a progress towards that goal in 2018, we suffered a safe and healthy working environment by focusing on the prevention of workplace accidents and Lost time injuries / LTI rate illnesses in all our facilities. As ever, our goal is zero 35 accidents or incidents worldwide. 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 LTIs LTI rate This graph shows our LTI rate from 2010 through to 2019. Although we have Usually, every year all Beckers entities dedicate one day to health and safety. The 2019 safety seen progress, we still have work to do – particularly given the small but serious day had the motto ZERO LTI. increase from 2018 to 2019. 35 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group An increase in reporting indicates progress Our safety reporting mechanism report is tracked One of the foundations of our EHS work is our safety and distributed to our country heads on a monthly 3.4 reporting mechanism, which provides every Beckers’ basis, providing the first-hand information they need employee with a centralised platform to report on to identify and proactively address any issues. This safety observations and near misses. A strong safety means we can investigate and deal with issues as quickly as possible to avoid repeating any exposure Keeping our culture encourages employees to continuously report safety observations, which in turn reduces near misses to risk, while also sharing any learning and action with and, in the end, accidents. other sites. We are tracking the number of reports we receive and will report on this going forward. people safe Our approach is grounded in the theory of the ‘Accident Pyramid’: by minimising the number of The Beckers Loss Prevention Standard unsafe behaviours and minor incidents you will To prevent accidents, we focus on people. However, we and well reduce major accidents. Therefore, the better we also need to look at our facilities – which is why we have get at reporting, following up and addressing even the Beckers Loss Prevention Standard (BLPS). The the smallest issues, the better our safety behaviour BLPS is a risk management standard that helps us take becomes. better care of our people and our community by ensuring we are taking good care of our properties and assets. In 2019, we continued to strive towards providing a Global Safety Day 2019 safe and healthy working environment by focusing The roadmap we developed to keep improving EHS on the prevention of workplace accidents and Fatality at Beckers includes holding a Global Safety Day. For the last few years, this event has been focused on illnesses in all our facilities. As ever, our goal is zero embedding ‘We Own EHS’ to continue building our accidents or incidents worldwide. Lost Workday Cases safety culture. This theme continued in 2019: the tagline for our Recordable Injuries Global Safety Day was our shared goal of ‘ZERO LTI’. Following an increase in our 2019 LTI rate, we must continue to further embed safety practices, particularly Injuries reporting any observations or near misses. Our Global Safety Day provides an important check-in At-Risk Behaviours point, bringing colleagues together at all sites for a day of health and safety activities. Different sites organise The Accident Prevention Pyramid illustrates how a reduction in risk leads to a reduction in serious accidents. It is based on general statistics, and does not relate different activities, according to their needs. In 2019, to Beckers' numbers. these included activities such as ‘Show me your Source: graphic adapted from ConocoPhillips Marine Safety Pyramid. workplace’ and ‘360 degrees methodology’. 36 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Bringing Operational Excellence to life at Beckers 3.5 Operational Excellence creates a culture that helps us produce valuable products and services for our customers and achieve long-term sustainable growth. Adding value It means embedding a mindset of working together to solve problems as we continue to build an agile organisation that partners with our customers to reduce from sustainability inefficiencies in time, resources and costs. These savings transfer directly into sustainability gains – both for Beckers and for our customers. to service We have two approaches to identify and action these opportunities to reduce inefficiencies – Greenbelt projects and Kaizen events. Greenbelt projects are larger in scope, often cross-functional and the employees The team uncovered several root causes, including are certified to be Lean Six Sigma Greenbelts after forecast inaccuracy. By devising new and improved At Beckers, our spirit of innovation and collaboration completion; Kaizen events are targeted, intense, rapid processes and putting control measures in place, means we are continuously improving operations activities with a smaller scope. In 2019, we ran 11 we reduced unmarketable stock levels by 65% and successful Greenbelt projects and eight Kaizen events. increased forecast accuracy by 30%. This improves across our value chain. Our approach is grounded in We explain each approach below, and share a few our sustainability performance because it helps the principles of Operational Excellence, which employ highlights from 2019. prevent unmarketable stock going to waste. a range of methodologies to help us keep improving our operational processes and company culture. Greenbelt in action Optimising forklift truck flow at Beckers France A Greenbelt project embraces problem-solving and Montbrison is a large French site that significantly leadership as the key to continuous improvements. The expanded over time. This meant that as the site goal is for every employee to see and actively improve grew, the flow of transportation became increasingly the flow of value to their internal and external customers, suboptimal. The local EHS coordinator applied tools creating a culture that helps us produce valuable and techniques learned in the Greenbelt training products and services for our customers and achieve and analysed forklift traffic to identify opportunities long-term sustainable growth. for efficiency improvements. She found various inefficiencies and reduced overall traffic by 26%, which Reducing unmarketable stock at Beckers China in turn reduced both energy use and safety issues. She In 2018, stock levels at our Guangzhou site had reached also halved the number of forklift trucks required, which critical levels. We launched a Greenbelt project, run not only saves costs, but also decreases the initial by the local supply chain manager, to understand the material use. causes behind this increase and develop solutions to reduce levels of slow-moving and obsolete stock. 37 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Kaizen in action Kaizen is a Japanese term meaning ‛change for better’. 3.5 It describes the mindset of constant improvement – in everything from products and processes, to costs, safety, skills and morale. A Kaizen project will focus on Adding value short actionable improvement cycles grounded in testing and the implementation of solutions. Decrease in PVdF dispersion process temperature from sustainability at Beckers UAE High temperatures were causing inefficiencies, like to service long batch cycle times, at our Ras Al-Khaimah (RAK) site.The production executive initiated a Kaizen event with the local team to investigate the reasons for this problem and the potential solutions. Through a mixture of process and equipment-setting changes, the team decreased the temperature by 17%, which shortened At Beckers, our spirit of innovation and collaboration overall batch cycle time by around 40 minutes. This means we are continuously improving operations resulted in energy savings of 80 kW per batch and a reduced solvent use of 1.6% per batch – both of which across our value chain. Our approach is grounded in improve the sustainability of our production. the principles of Operational Excellence, which employ a range of methodologies to help us keep improving Packing efficiency and ergonomic improvements at Beckers India our operational processes and company culture. At our Indian site, our team was packing 1,500 20-litre cans by hand every month, which took a long time and caused lots of back pain. By observing the shop floor, the production team noticed the suboptimal design of the filling machine and suggested a modification that allowed workers to stand up straight instead of bending down to fill every can. Along with a few other improvements, this resulted in a significant decrease of back pain and injury. It also increased output by 30%, freeing up two hours a day for other activities. 38 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 3.6 Chain up! CSR assessment Our suppliers play a key role in our sustainability efforts and therefore represent an important stakeholder group. We invited a selection of suppliers to take part of our supply chain in our stakeholder workshop in 2019, as part of the development of our 2030 sustainability strategy. Engaging with our suppliers to improve Step 2: Conduct third-party assessments Step 3: Conduct in-house audits We ask our key suppliers to conduct EcoVadis We conduct our own in-house audits on Because we take a holistic value chain approach to assessments. Although these assessments selected key suppliers – primarily operating in sustainability, our suppliers have a significant impact on are user-friendly, they are in depth and require higher risk regions – to verify their compliance our own performance. We use a three-step process to suppliers to provide proof for all their claims. A with our Corporate Social Responsibility and monitor the social and environmental sustainability of all our supplier must score a minimum of 40 points in each of the four quality expectations. suppliers and empower them to improve their performance. segments of the assessment to achieve full approval. Those who fail must work through a transparent corrective action We select which suppliers to audit based on a risk assessment Step 1: Sign and adhere to the Supplier plan towards a reassessment. that includes factors such as geographic location, industry Code of Conduct or sector, self-assessment results, length of relationship and We introduced our Supplier Code of Conduct This process allows us to take our suppliers with us as we previous performance. We work together with the audited in 2017. It is essential we have an effective way move our industry in the right direction. In 2019, our EcoVadissupplier to improve, sharing improvement proposals and to manage the 3,000+ accredited suppliers that assessed raw material suppliers covered 78% of our total raw requesting action plans within a specific time period. We support us at different locations around the world. To do this, material purchase value (up from 72% in 2018). Our EcoVadishave seen remarkable improvement in quality control and we have launched a new collaborative tool to help our sites approved (which means suppliers that score 40 or above four sustainability performance in recent years. manage this process locally and monitor the status of every times) purchase value was 68% (up from 62% in 2018). single supplier. One additional supplier was audited in 2019 and we did EcoVadis selected Beckers as a case study to demonstrate intensive follow-ups with four suppliers that were audited In 2019, 84% of our external global spend was covered how medium-sized companies can lead sustainable in previous years. by suppliers that declared their adherence to our Supplier procurement. You can read this case study on the EcoVadis Code of Conduct. Today, it is a fundamental part of how we website. communicate and collaborate with our suppliers. 39 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Accelerating along our Our holistic approach to health, happiness Social Sustainability and diversity Roadmap We are committed to a fair and How we’re fulfilling our social sustainability diverse workforce, in which ambitions. every employee feels safe, People included and fulfilled. with impact Taking our pulse Beckers Sustainability Change The results of our first Award While the first chapter saw us sharing our 2030 global employee survey ambitions, in this chapter we take a closer look at from within give us unprecedented Our 2019 winners of our social and the work we did in 2019 to support our colleagues A team of innovators is insight and opportunity environmental awards. and communities to thrive as we work together changing Beckers for for growth. for a more sustainable future. the better. Local social A company-wide initiatives commitment to An overview of our learning local impact around An exchange program at the heart of the world. our operations. 40 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Empowering Diversity 4.1 employees A diverse organisation Accelerating is a creative and resilient We are committed to one. This work stream supporting every employee involves recruiting the along our Social to learn and grow while best talent, optimising they work at Beckers. This involves investing in development collaboration across a large team and supporting healthy opportunities for our employees, using a progressive work-life choices. Sustainability organisational model and continuing to nurture our valuebased culture. In 2019, we saw good progress in our gender diversity as a Roadmap In 2019, our US site launched a new initiative called Change Innovators. This project empowers employees to identify challenges or opportunities at work, and supports them in result of training our recruiters on how to avoid unconscious bias. Find out more on page 45. the implementation of creative solutions. Read more about Change Innovators on page 44. We launched our new Social Sustainability Roadmap in 2018 and are pleased to report that we are progressing Community well towards our goals. Well-being and safety engagement The roadmap was designed to help our employees thrive in Around the world, every their work. However, the scope of the roadmap is not limited Our roadmap focuses Beckers site is connected to our own company – it also seeks to address issues on three levers to keep to its local community. concerning the societies and cultures in which we operate. our employees safe and We are engaged in local activities and projects, supporting well: providing tools for everything from schools and sports clubs, to charitable and We put a lot of time and effort into developing our Social employees to improve cultural events. Sustainability Roadmap, drawing on ideas, concerns and their health, offering training opportunities from a wide range of stakeholders and expert opportunities to managers, resources. The roadmap is structured in four streams, and safety role modelling to inspire and inform. In 2019, we donated to an orphanage in Vietnam, raised funds described to the right, and is anchored in our values, for Macmillan Nurses in the UK and helped brighten up the our Code of Conduct and our respect for human and local community in Chicago. Read more about these stories children’s rights. In 2019, did a pilot mindfulness training with managers at one of and others on page 46. our sites. We continued to embed a culture of safety at Beckers with a focus on increasing safety reporting – no matter how minor the issue – to further reduce the risk of more serious incidents. You can read more about our approach on page 45. 41 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our first global employee survey In 2018, we launched a global engagement survey to 4.2 ask everyone at Beckers the same questions, wherever they work. We wanted to deepen our understanding of our strengths as an employer and identify where Taking our pulse we need to improve. We conducted the survey in three waves over the course of 15 months, based on the best timing for those sites that had previously carried out local surveys. By the end of 2019, we had collected a global overview We want Beckers to be a great place to work, but it’s of Beckers. not always obvious how our employees feel about We asked questions about the big topics, using the working for us. Our global engagement survey gives latest research on what leads to the greatest employee us that visibility and with it, the opportunity to engagement and therefore to business success. We plan to run our global employee engagement survey keep improving. every two years, along with more frequent ‘pulse checks’ ‛We were overwhelmed by the fantastic to keep track of our performance and progress. These response rate, with over 94% of colleagues will be easier to conduct thanks to the myBeckers app (see box), which every employee can access on their giving us input – far above any benchmark.’ smartphone. The survey revealed our greatest strengths, which include our common values, clarity on goals and The a positive and respectful work environment. At the same time, the survey showed us we can improve on myBeckers team efficiency, managing conflict and development app opportunities. The myBeckers app is our internal employee We are using these results to challenge ourselves app. It went live in 2019 and make further improvements. For example, we will and replaced different soon be implementing regular team ‘check-ins’ as an legacy systems – unifying opportunity to celebrate our strengths, talk about issues HR information, Intranet that require attention and ensure everyone is on the and performance management in one app. It allows users to see performance same page. The purpose of these meetings is to provide management and targets, and to submit pulse checks. It also more feedback and communication, which in turn will allows employees to share feedback and give recognition to fuel a cycle of continuous improvement – much like the colleagues for outstanding behaviour at work – a tool that has approach we use to keep improving our products and quickly become very popular! processes. 42 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group A closer look at Sweden as a result of the Swedish team acting in response A journey without waymarkers is much harder to to the 2017 survey results. This included making 4.2 navigate. Regular employee surveys provide essential information on where we’ve come from, where we’re improvements to how we articulate, communicate and share goals; better task planning; more useful weekly meetings; and a more effective feedback loop. heading and how we’re getting on. Beckers Sweden Taking our pulse carried out the first iteration of today’s global employee engagement survey in 2017. Having conducted the We believe this dedication to acting on the 2017 same survey in 2019, we can now compare the results survey results also led to 2019’s high participation rate: between the two and therefore check we are heading in employees could see a clear link between their input the right direction. and follow-up activities, and became more engaged as a result. We want Beckers to be a great place to work, but it’s We are pleased to report that Beckers Sweden has scored higher in almost all areas surveyed, in particular Sweden’s 2019 survey results have already led to action not always obvious how our employees feel about plans involving objectives around following up on work, on Leadership and Engagement. Similarly, it is great to working for us. Our global engagement survey gives see our employee Net Promoter Score – where we ask, more frequent and structured information-sharing from us that visibility and with it, the opportunity to ‛Would you recommend Beckers as an employer?’ – managers to employees, and more structured systems has almost doubled. for feedback. In 2020, Sweden will train its management keep improving. team in giving and receiving feedback, as will all other It seems clear that much of this improvement came Beckers entities. 43 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group A mutually rewarding exchange develop from the experience. The exchange led to a 4.3 In 2019, we ran an exchange program for three colleagues from France. Julien Blondeau, a production rewarding sharing of knowledge, understanding and practices between the sites. operator, and Diane Hardy and Marlène Gagnaire, both The initiation and success of this exchange shows the A company-wide laboratory workers, spent several summer months on strength of teamwork between our French and Swedish exchange working at our Swedish site. teams. The program is an example of us at Beckers living our values. We believe it’s important that everyone commitment to This was an amazing opportunity – both for the – no matter their role within the company – benefits from employees involved, and for each country to learn and our unified approach to learning and development. learning Beckers is investing in the continuous development of our employees across our company – whether they work in our boardroom or at one of our factories. Watch this video to find out the motivation behind our Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel exchange initiative, and hear first-hand the positive impact it had on those involved as well as the difference it made to our company. 44 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Introducing the Change Innovators Beckers-sponsored scholarship fund, installed a break In 2019, we spotted an opportunity to solve two room, facilitated the switch to compostable tableware, restructured a parental leave policy and improved 4.4 challenges with one solution. Firstly, we wanted to increase employee engagement among on-site staff a paint manufacturing process. Looking ahead, the in the US. And secondly, we wanted to experiment with Change Innovators are organising a Sustainability some creative solutions to local challenges. Day for 2020. Change from The answer? A new initiative called Change Innovators. The role of this small, cross-functional team is to As well as solving challenges, the group helps its members learn how to turn creative concepts into tangible results. The initiative also helps improve our within generate ideas, policies and solutions to complex challenges facing Beckers. company culture, providing an opportunity for better communication and a smoother flow of ideas across So far, their results have been impressive. Guided by a different functions. The Change Innovators is a strong coach who taught techniques to optimise collaboration, example of how we are nurturing our company culture the group has already kickstarted an annual and continuously improving our performance. We believe in the power of our people to effect change – in their lives, their communities and their workplace. We also understand that giving people the opportunity to solve problems is hugely rewarding, both for themselves, their team and our company. Watch to find out where this innovative project Find the video on the Beckers Group YouTube channel began and to hear about the journey those involved went on to make it such a success – for themselves, for their team and for our company. 45 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 4.5 Our holistic approach to health, happiness Promoting mental well-being As you will read in other parts of this report, our focus on the health and safety of everyone at Beckers Levelling up our gender diversity Gender diversity is an opportunity for every company, and we recognise it as key to our ongoing business and diversity remains strong. Our commitment to the well-being of our employees extends to equipping them with the knowledge and skills success. Our objective is to increase the proportion of women working for Beckers at every level of our organisation. We measure and closely monitor our progress towards this goal and, during the last few to care for their mental health. Following feedback from years, have seen some good results. Taking care of our people doesn’t just mean acting on our 2019 employee engagement survey, we decided to run stress management training for our team in RAK. In the five years since 2015, our gender diversity rate health and safety issues. We must also ensure a fair has increased by 11% among new hires; in 2019, and diverse workplace, in which everyone can feel We organised a one-day training program on 32% of all new hires were women. As a coatings happy and well. ‘Resilience and Stress Management’ in September manufacturer, we are especially proud to have a 40% 2019, which was run by an excellent facilitator from female workforce in our technological functions, such as Mindfulness Dubai. Sixteen employees attended innovation and R&D. Our employee survey also gives the training, where they learned basic mental health some insight into our progress. From last year’s results, techniques – such as breath control, empathy, journal we know that most of our female colleagues feel they writing and focused attention patterns. can influence their work situation and have enough opportunities for growth. The training was well received, and we plan to offer the same resource to the rest of our employees in RAK. While we are proud of our ongoing progress, we know Those who attended the training are checking in with there is more we can do. For the last two years, we have each other to encourage an ongoing practice of the been training our HR managers on unconscious bias in techniques learned. They are also sharing mindfulness recruiting, which creates awareness from the beginning resources with the rest of their team. of the hiring process and embeds behaviours that will further level up our gender diversity. 46 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Vietnam Poland United Kingdom Beckers made a donation of nappies and milk We support Proactive, a local foundation Our UK team runs an annual cake bake 4.6 to the Nghe An orphanage, which is home to 50 disabled children and young people. The orphanage is run by volunteers and has little that helps young people into work. In 2019, we recruited two interns as part of our collaboration with Proactive and were sale to raise money for McMillans Nurses, a charity that provides invaluable support to people with cancer. They also support access to funding or other support. thrilled to employ them both after they Circus Star, an organisation that puts on Local social completed our six-month program. We are circus performances for disabled children. hoping to see the same success in 2020! initiatives Beckers has a significant global presence, but we never forget how important it is to be part of our local community. That’s why we’re proud to support a range of local initiatives that help others to thrive. Explore a few examples of the programs and projects we support here. United States Germany Several Beckers’ employees and their families support Paint a Brighter Chicago, Beckers continues to support the Dormagen contributing time and paint to brighten up community schools that could otherwise Lerntraining project, which helps children and not afford to keep their buildings looking fresh. young people cope better at school as well as in everyday life, through mentoring and targeted coaching. 47 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 4.7 Presenting the 2019 winners Beckers The Change Innovators: Adil Sandhu, Eddie Baron, Justin Jansen, Sustainability Social Sustainability Award: Danyelle Dalitto, Eli Lara and Mike Pratt of Beckers US. Adil Sandhu, Eddie Baron, Justin Jansen, Danyelle Dalitto, Eli Lara and Mike Pratt of Beckers US The Change Innovators team is extremely Award 2019 The Change Innovators is an agile interdisciplinary honored to be receiving this award. I am group, made up of representatives from various earnestly grateful for the recognition functions within Beckers US. The team exists we have received for our work, because to generate ideas and creative solutions, and is I know how hard we strived as a team dedicated to internal progress around culture and to make the Change Innovators a processes. The group has already successfully constructive and successful endeavor. We are pleased to announce the winners of ” initiated (and closed) various projects – from the annual Beckers Sustainability Award 2019. introducing compostable tableware, to organising a – Danyelle Dalitto of Beckers US, winner of the Social Sustainability Award Every year, we are impressed by the standard of sustainability day and to implementing a new parental nominations – something that makes the job of leave policy (see page 44 for more on this). choosing finalists and winners even harder for our judges. Economical & Environmental Award: Frank Beaurez of Beckers Mexico I’m proud of this strategic collaboration with our customer Ternium and of Before we share the overall category winners, By working in close collaboration with our customer sharing this award with them. With we’d like to acknowledge and congratulate all Ternium, Beckers Mexico has moved all residential bringing this high-range, sustainable contributors, especially the finalists. We had 28 roofing coatings to Beckry®Therm. This is a product to the market, all involved lighthouse project for sustainability at Beckers. As nominations from 12 sites – a considerable increase a result, over 118 tons of Wrinkle Cool Roof have parties are winners, not least the from last year. Thanks to them, we keep improving residents of the buildings who are been sold within two years, which is more than 10% reducing energy consumption due to our sustainability value proposition, and our social of the total topcoat share for this customer. This is a our coating and benefiting from lower or environmental impact. great example of how we can benefit from strategic temperatures inside. collaboration with our customers. – Frank Beaurez of Beckers Mexico, winner of the Economical and Environmental Award 48 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Who is Beckers Group Our company structure, financial performance, business segments and core values. We are Beckers Our global network Group An overview of our presence around the world. An overview of how Beckers works as a business, providing sustainable coating solutions to customers around the world. Our Sustainability Journey Take a trip from 2009 – the start of our sustainability journey – to today, where we decide the future of our business. 49 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Financial performance customer relationships. Global reach and local presence Net sales 2019: MSEK 6,488 are key for our future success, including our sustainability work. We set financial performance targets, which are followed up in our financial reporting system. Capitalisation 5.1 Equity: MSEK 853 Equity ratio: 22% Our Chief Financial Officer is responsible for managing financial risks and for the correct reporting of Beckers Net interest-bearing debt: MSEK 891 Who is Group’s financial performance. The Group net interest-bearing debt is interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for defined benefit pension Our business units Beckers Group obligations, less interest-bearing receivables and Coil Coatings cash & cash equivalents. As the leading global supplier of coil coatings, we set industry standards for high-performance liquid Stable financial results are key for Beckers to develop coatings applied to sheet metal. our operations, to maintain good stakeholder relations and to be a valued corporate citizen. Industrial Coatings Beckers is a global coatings company that develops highWe supply a complete range of specially Striving for outstanding financial results ensures that we manufactured coatings for preformed metal parts and quality, environmentally compatible paint systems. Our strengthen our owners’ trust and the opportunity to extend plastic components as well as consumer devices. expertise is based on our long history dating back over our operations in new locations while creating fruitful 150 years. In 2019, 1,800 people worked at 24 production sites in 18 countries, providing products and custommade solutions to customers in over 60 countries around the world. The spirit of Beckers The company is structured into two business units: Our values and culture are our spirit. As well as Coil Coatings and Industrial Coatings. Our aim is to be providing the foundation for our business, they are a a solutions provider that offers more value than the major reason for our ongoing success. sum of our products. Environmental responsibility is an integral part of Beckers’ mission. We are committed to Our values represent our guiding principles and help shape our business culture. Our values guide setting new standards in product innovation, customer our priorities, actions and behaviour; they are longrelationships and environmental sustainability and thus term and define the character of the company. invest heavily in research and development to produce state-of-the-art coating solutions. While culture has many aspects and may change over time, its core consists of a clear sense of purpose derived from our values. Our culture also creates the foundation for our strategy. 50 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Our Core Values Our purpose rights and environmental laws and practices, monitor their We will transform our industry by developing solutions that give ethical performance, and take immediate and thorough steps in surfaces a new meaning and create maximum positive impact cases where this ethical performance comes into question. Customer focus for our customers, for society and the planet. By understanding our customers’ requirements The UN Global Compact today and in the future, we provide competitive, The UN Global Compact has been a fundamental part of our sustainable solutions that create real value. Our Code of Conduct values and Code of Conduct for many years. By signing the The Beckers Code of Conduct defines key ethical principles Global Compact, we take responsibility within the areas of that guide us in our daily business. The Beckers Code of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, Team spirit Conduct applies at all levels: from executives and managers and make an even stronger commitment to taking action and We are passionate about our business, and to line employees. We consistently apply our core values with reporting on our progress. act as a true team towards our shared goals. respect to children’s rights and human rights, labour standards, Fairness is important to us, and all our business environmental standards and anti-corruption. These conditions Anti-corruption and bribery dealings are based on mutual trust and respect. are defined in the United Nations Global Compact. No one may, directly or indirectly, demand or accept, offer Compliance with our Code of Conduct is continuously or give any kind of bribe, kickback or any other unlawful or monitored by the Management of the Group. The Chief unethical benefit to employees or other representatives or Shape and adapt associates of the Beckers Group or its companies or any Building on our history, we strive for operational Financial Officer oversees compliance on a global level. third party. excellence by benchmarking and continuously optimising our processes. In this way, we Our online Code of Conduct training has been further rolled out and is available in five languages. Coverage is now 45% There were no legal actions for corruption in 2019. prepare for the future in everything we do. of all employees. Anti-competitive behaviour Trust and integrity We support the open and fair discussion of issues and All companies within our Group compete vigorously but Our actions are guided by the strong moral concerns. We encourage and expect our employees to report honestly for business and uphold the highest standards of compass of a responsible company. any incidents of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance business ethics. We respect anti-trust and fair competition laws with our Code of Conduct. We have established several ‛whistle that prohibit certain actions that unfairly and dishonestly harm blowing’ channels to protect the anonymity and confidentiality competitors. We also act in accordance with fair business, of those reporting. marketing and advertising practices. Our Supplier Code of Conduct There were no legal actions for anti-competitive conduct, antiOur Supplier Code of Conduct defines our basic requirements for trust or monopoly practices in 2019. all suppliers of goods and services, in particular concerning their responsibilities towards their stakeholders and the environment. Beckers expects its suppliers to adhere to international human 51 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group This global presence was not built in a day – it is the result of our 150-year-long 5.2 history in paint making. Beckers was founded in Stockholm in 1865 by a German chemist, Carl Wilhelm Becker. Since then, our company has grown and evolved from Our global Beckers operates a global network of a one-man consumer paint shop, to a successful Swedish enterprise, to a world leader in industrial surface finishes. manufacturing sites to follow customer demands and stay as geographically network Although Beckers started as a consumer paint company, today our focus is entirely close to them as possible. on industrial coatings. With 24 production sites in 18 countries and five continents, we act as one global Beckers Group, serving customers in over 60 countries. Corporate headquarters: Berlin, Germany Manufacturing sites Additional markets served 52 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group Executive Group 2019 Board of Directors 2019 Dr. Boris Gorella Paul Menezes Paul Schrotti Malin Persson 5.3 CEO Dr. Karsten Eller President Coil Coatings Asia & Middle East Chairman Jenny Lindén Urnes CEO and owner, Accuracy AB Chief Operating Officer Christophe Sabas Owner Suzanne Thoma Introducing our Judith Jungmann President Coil Coatings Europe, Africa & Americas Dr. Boris Gorella CEO, BKW AG Board of Directors Chief Human Resources CEO, Beckers Group Leonardo Franconeri Officer Christian Vogel Labour Representative President Industrial Georg Brunstam and the Executive Group Olivier Laune Chief Financial Officer Coatings Chairman, Hexpol AB Mark Hamlin Päivi Kukkonen Labour Representative Chair, Organisation Resource UK Beckers Group is owned by Lindéngruppen, a Swedish family business with a focus on the long-term development of industrial companies. Our corporate headquarters are located in Berlin, Germany. Beckers Group is governed by its Board of Directors, which has four meetings a year. Our CEO and selected Executive Group members participate in these meetings. The Executive Group consists of the Global Leadership Team and Presidents of all business units; it meets once a month. Our Global Leadership Team consists of our CEO, CFO, CHRO and COO, and meets twice a month. Sustainability is part of the Chief Human Resources Officer’s agenda and thus the Global Leadership Team’s agenda. This is fuelled by a team led by a Global Sustainability Director. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for strategy development, stakeholder engagement and alignment. The Executive Group: (From left to right) Christian Vogel, Olivier Laune, Board of Directors: (From left to right) Päivi Kukkonen, Mark Hamlin, Georg committee is chaired by the Global Sustainability Director and Christophe Sabas, Judith Jungmann, Paul Menezes, Dr. Boris Gorella, Brunstam, Dr. Boris Gorella, Jenny Lindén Urnes, Paul Schrotti, Suzanne consists of representatives from all key functions and regions. Dr. Karsten Eller. Thoma, Malin Persson, Leonardo Franconeri. 53 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 5.4 Our As we enter a new decade, we look back on over ten years of commitment sustainability to sustainability. Many of our original goals remain at the heart of our vision journey today. And, having set a new 2030 strategy in 2019, we look forward with anticipation, ambition and confidence. From past to future • Beckers Sustainability Index app • Aligning with the SDGs • Sustainability roadmap 2022 • Conducted stakeholder workshops • Supplier Code of Conduct • BeckryTherm app • Developed 2030 strategy and roadmap. • Sustainability committee • EcoVadis Gold rating • Started using the four established • Sustainability e-learning • Improved gender diversity for new hires system conditions for • Global sustainability • Ecolabel certified products in sustainability manager • Coil coatings with bio-resin • GRI G4 reporting Malaysia and India • Finalised global employee survey 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 + beyond • Sustainable • First GRI report (G3.1 • EcoVadis Silver rating • Beckers Sustainability Index • Beckers signs UN • Final agreement and kick-off of 2030 targets product definition guidelines) Global Compact • GRI materiality analysis • GRI Standards reporting • Work on go-to-market strategy for sustainable • Climate report • Social Sustainability Roadmap products • Global loss prevention • Code of Conduct e-learning • EKPI reporting system standard • Relaunch of Beckry® Therm app • Framework for community engagement • Further formalise stakeholder activities • Fully integrate sustainability in our business 54 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group 5.4 Building on strong foundations We recognised a long time ago how important movement to work together for change. In 2018, we confirmed and further deepened our connection with the UN’s sustainability approach when we signed the sustainability would be for Beckers. Everything we do Our today has evolved from our long-term commitment to 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, joining the sustainability and is built on the frameworks, systems initiative as a signatory. and strategies that have guided our journey so far. While we recognise all 17 SDGs are sustainability The sustainability topics relevant to our business have evolved over time and today include product stewardship, employment, occupational health and important, we have identified eight goals as a priority for our business. In 2020, we will review those eight SDGs and find relevant journey safety, training and education, local communities, energy, emissions and waste. sub-targets, while also looking closely at how we are currently impacting the goals. In 2017, we aligned our strategy and material topics with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and thereby became part of a global As we enter a new decade, we look back on over ten years of commitment to sustainability. Many of our original goals remain at the heart of our vision today. And, having set a new 2030 strategy in 2019, we look forward with anticipation, ambition and confidence. 55 Towards 2030 Products Operations People Beckers Group SDG 4: Quality education SDG 11: Sustainable cities and communities Creating opportunities for all Contributing with our products Increasing access to quality education and training, in the Creating products that positively impact the sustainability underprivileged areas of the world in which we operate, of our built environment and the infrastructure we all use. and among our own workforce. SDG 5: Gender equality SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production Empowering girls and women Creating sustainable supply chains and operations Improving equality for the people and communities where Addressing sustainability issues along our value chain – from we do business, and addressing the gender balance partners and resource use, to the waste we create. across our own company. SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth SDG 13: Climate action Offering good lives for employees and their families Improving our impact along the value chain Providing decent work along our supply chain and Reducing and mitigating climate impact along our value chain, including working to decouple economic growth from environmental through the education and empowerment of our employees. degradation. SDG 10: Reduced inequalities SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Respecting and caring for employees Working together for the greater good and communities Building partnerships and cooperating with companies, Respecting human rights and working on remuneration, associations, universities, NGOs, UN bodies and organisations. diversity, equality and economic inclusion. 56 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics About Management the Report Approach Since 2011, Beckers has been reporting its This section presents the management of GRI Report sustainability performance. This report our material topics for sustainability. When covers the operations of the Beckers Group shifting to GRI Standards for 2016 reporting, for 2019 and is the communication on our we decided to review our material topics, Progress on the UN Global Compact. reflecting our roadmap for fulfilling our vision. 2019 Our Beckers has identified the following stakeholders as the most important focus Stakeholders for our communication, engagement and activities: customers, employees, suppliers, regulators and communities. General Material Disclosures Topics This report has been prepared in accordance We report according to the topic-specific with the GRI Standards: Core option. GRI Standards for each of our material topics and thus disclose the information and data from 2019. 57 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics 6.1 The material topics have been identified based on their relevance to the business in terms of impacts and in relation to the stakeholders, which refers to The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact About stakeholder dialogue conducted in 2015. Starting in 2016, the reporting practices were adapted to Human Rights enable the transition to the GRI Standards and then Businesses should support and respect 1 the material topics were reviewed. In 2019, Beckers the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. the Report conducted an extensive stakeholder dialogue. Based on this process, we reviewed our material topics and Make sure that they are not complicit in human developed the 2030 strategy. 2 right abuses. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Labour GRI Standards: Core option. The reporting consists of Business should uphold the freedom of association and the sustainability report and this GRI report. Both are 3 Since 2011, Beckers has been reporting its the effective recognition of the right to collective published together on Beckers’ website. bargaining. sustainability performance. This report covers the operations of the Beckers Group for 2019 and All of Beckers’ 31 legal entities in 21 countries are 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. is our Communication on Progress (COP) on the included in the report. The GRI Index in this document UN Global Compact. compiles disclosure information and explains any The effective abolition of child labour. 5 omissions to the reported data. The data have not been externally audited. The elimination of discrimination in respect of 6 employment and occupation. Beckers Group became a signatory is a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2018 and our Environment sustainability report and this GRI report serve as our Business should support a precautionary approach 7 Communication on Progress. To us, the ten principles to environmental challenges. of the UNGC define the foundation on which a Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsible business should stand. Starting from that 8 responsibility. foundation, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) define the future we all want and that we need Encourage the development and diffusion of 9 to strive for in our business. environmentally friendly technologies. In the section Management Approach 6.2, we link Anti-corruption each one of our material topics to the relevant UNGC Business should work against corruption in all its forms, 10 principles as well as to the SDGs. including extortion and bribery. 58 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics This section presents the management and requirements. During 2017, Beckers reviewed and of our material topics for sustainability. prioritised the UN SDGs. The prioritised goals in this GRI report are also linked to each material topic. When shifting to GRI Standards for 2016 6.2 reporting, we decided to review our material topics, which was in line with Compliance related to human rights, children’s rights, Management environment, health and safety, anti-corruption, antiour roadmap for fulfilling our mission. competitive behavior, protection of personal data and privacy is clearly regulated by the law and our Code of The creation of the topic ‘Product Stewardship’ enabled Conduct (CoC). Compliance to our CoC is continuously Approach us to condense the number of material topics from 17 to followed by the Management of the Group. The Chief eight. We still have the same focus on sustainability; this Financial Officer together with the General Counsel is reorganisation of our topics makes them simpler and more in charge of compliance on a global level. To us, legal structured for our stakeholders. This section evaluates compliance is not a GRI topic, but an absolute minimum our management approach, and is included in our yearly level of performance. GRI reporting as we review any changes in impact, risks Topic description and boundary Policies and grievance mechanisms Actions Responsibilities and resources Product stewardship and materials UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Beckers Code of • Supply chain targets. Business unit managers, COO (RM and We created Product Stewardship as one of our eight material topics. Ultimately, this Conduct and Beckers Supplier Code of Conduct. • Chain up supply chain initiatives for CSR at suppliers. suppliers). Incentive programs are linked topic will help us to develop more products for our customers that meet their needs to performance. • The development of the Beckers Sustainability Index tool for and fulfil our shared vision of sustainability. Our most vital areas to improve are measuring product sustainability. choice of raw materials, suppliers’ environmental and social performance, product • Project on reuse of drums. performance for applicators and end user, and finally what happens with scrapped painted materials. UN Global Compact Principles 7 8 Boundary: Impact across the whole value chain from raw materials suppliers to Beckers’ operations applicators and end users. Note that customer health and safety is covered by this topic. It means taking responsibility for sustainability issues along the length of the product value chain. Energy UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct • 18% reduction (total energy used per ton produced) Local Managing Director. Incentive As a chemical industry manufacturer, energy efficiency is material – both in terms and EHS Policy. 2019 from 2013 baseline. programs are linked to performance. of efficiency and climate change – and is measured and targeted. To support • We have an energy management system according to sustainable development globally, we need to use energy from renewable sources. ISO 50001 at three sites. •S  olar panels installed 2017 covers 10% of energy used in Boundary: Impact in own operations, energy consumed at Beckers’ sites. Malaysia. UN Global Compact Principles •T  ransition to renewable electricity realised at some sites. 8 9 Emissions UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct • 40% reduction (VOC kg emitted/ton produced) 2019 from Local Managing Director. Incentive Climate impact is material and we already measure and assess it. Energy use and EHS Policy. 2013 baseline. programs are linked to performance. at operations and transportation of goods has a major climate impact targets. • Climate assessment yearly since 2012 to follow emissions VOCs have significant climate impact and may also affect health. Hence, our focus and be able to target and limit our impact. is on greenhouse gases and VOC emissions, and we have set a target on reduction. UN Global Compact Principles Boundary: Impact in own operations and value chain, contributed by Beckers. 8 9 59 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics Topic description and boundary Policies and grievance mechanisms Actions Responsibilities and resources Effluents and Waste UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct • 41% reduction (total waste kg/ton produced) 2019 from Local Managing Director. Incentive As a chemical industry manufacturer, resource usage is material and is already and EHS Policy. 2013 baseline. programs are linked to performance. measured and targeted. This means minimising wasted materials and closing packaging material loops. Boundary: Impact on own operations, caused by Beckers. UN Global Compact Principles 8 9 Employment UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct, • Engagement surveys measuring employee satisfaction and CFO (for CoC), CHRO and global and Our employees are the driving force behind our success. We are striving for a Recruitment Policy and Local HR handbooks, opportunities. local HR. diverse workforce with equal opportunities for each and every employee. We are Equal employment and anti-harrassment policy. • Working on gender balance and diversity and thus increased measuring employee turnover to identify opportunities for improvement. female hires to 32% of all new hires in 2019. Boundary: Impact on own operations, caused by Beckers. UN Global Compact Principles 1 2 3 4 5 6 Occupational Health and Safety UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct • Focus on health and safety with roadmap for EHS. Local and global EHS, according to The health, safety and well-being of our employees, partners and customers and EHS Policy. • Trainings to minimise the number of unsafe behaviours. regulation. Incentive programs are linked is of ongoing, critical importance, and we endeavour to reduce the number to performance. • Improved hazard identification & assessment and of accidents or incidents worldwide to zero. accident elimination. • Global Safety Day. Boundary: Impact on own operations, caused by Beckers. UN Global Compact Principles 1 2 Training and Education UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Beckers Code • E-learnings rolled out broadely in the organisation CFO (for CoC training), CHRO and global We care about the professional development of our employees in the short of Conduct. on sustainability and on CoC. and local HR. and long term. It is only through the know-how of our employees that we can •L  ocal seminars on sustainability at site visits. accelerate our progress towards a more sustainable business. •Internal webinars on specific topics, eg. BSI tool. • A company-wide commitment to safety. Boundary: Impact on own operations, caused by Beckers. UN Global Compact Principles 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Local Communities UN Sustainable Development Goals Beckers Sustainability Policy, Beckers Code • Local social initiatives. (e.g. support to local schools, Local Managing Director. Social engagement with local stakeholders is an important part of sustainable of Conduct and Lindéngruppen guidelines. children’s homes by donations as well as scholarships development in the communities where we are active. This is because we are and apprenticeships.) interdependent with our stakeholders and rely on their contribution to our success. Boundary: Impact on own operations and local communities, contributed by Beckers. UN Global Compact Principles 1 2 60 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics Beckers has identified the following stakeextensive stakeholder dialogue process in 2019, with a 6.3 holders as the most important to focus on for our communication, engagement and two-day multinational workshop as a core event. All key groups were represented. Read more about the process on p.7. Our Stakeholders activities: customers, employees, suppliers, regulators and communities. Key feedback from stakeholders It is important to understand our stakeholders’ needs and The stakeholders gave positive feedback on Beckers’ requirements so we can work together along the value commitment to sustainability and confirmed that chain, find opportunities and address risks. While we are sustainability is a primary topic at the customer and constantly in touch with them through the channels supplier level. However, they see the need for a profound described in the table on the left, we also established an system change in the industry, and think leaders should work together to create fundamental change. They stated that the industry is facing challenges in relation to raw Customers Employees materials and linear business models. Customer focus means we serve our customers by creating We live our values. We share the Beckers’ spirit, we have a strong value through sustainable solutions that encompass both sense of belonging. We are conscious about assuming responsibility. Here are other important comments from the stakeholder products and services. We offer our employees valuable opportunities to grow personally workshop on what Beckers’ priorities should be: and professionally. We aspire to become an employer of choice. • The need for a bold, long-term vision and goals. • Local, flexible and professional customer service •U  nion representation in many countries • Fully integrating sustainability into the business at How we •C  losely and directly connected to customers • EWC (European Works Council) all levels of the organisation. engage and •M  arket research and business development •R  egular individual performance reviews and training programs • Clear challenge to change material input; the communicate raw material base must move away from fossil • Health & safety committees with them and towards green chemistry. •G  lobal employee surveys • Climate responsibility is self-evident: carbon-neutral, water and energy positive, emission-free. Suppliers Regulators and Communities • Partnering with value chain for systems change. Beckers relies on the products and services provided by our We are deeply engaged when it comes to our environmental and • Sustainability work needs to shift to even more crucial partners and we cooperate for better synergies. social responsiblities. We comply with or exceed all applicable circular thinking. regulations in countries where we operate. Beckers Group wants • Building on team spirit, engagement and awareness to positively contribute to our communities by providing reliable amongst employees in all regions. employment and by giving back through charitable donations • Purpose-driven community engagement. and social responsibility programs. •A ll regular suppliers are asked to sign our supplier code of conduct • Reporting (GRI report and local environmental reporting) The outcome of the process and input are key How we components for our 2030 strategy and can be engage and •P articipation in EcoVadis assessment and acting upon its results •L  ocal social activities and initiatives summarised in the three streams: products, operations communicate •O n-site supplier audits and people. Beckers’ ambitions for sustainability can be with them • J oint development projects with selected partners found on p.9. 61 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics 6.4 General Disclosures This report has been prepared in All of Beckers’ 31 legal entities in 21 countries are accordance with the GRI Standards: included in the report. The GRI Index in this document compiles indicator information and explains any Core option. The reporting consists of a omissions to the reported data. The data has not separate sustainability report and this been externally audited. appendix published on Beckers’ website. Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference Organisational 102-1 Name of the organisation Beckers Group profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services See Who is Beckers Group Beckers does not sell any products that are banned in p.49 the specific market 102-3 Location of headquarters Berlin 102-4 Location of operations Argentina, Bangladesh, China (3), France (2), Germany, Great Britain, India (2), Indonesia, 31 December 2019 Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, Sweden, Turkey, UAE, USA (2), Vietnam (2) 24 production sites in 18 countries 102-5 Ownership and legal form See Introducing our Board of Directors and the Executive Group p.52 102-6 Markets served Austria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Including countries where we have production sites Chile, China, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, UAE, UK, USA, Vietnam 102-7 Scale of the organisation Total number of employees 1 843 Number of employees as headcount by 31 December 2019 Total number of operations 24 Number of production sites by 31 December 2019 Net sales MSEK 6 488 Total capitalisation Equity: MSEK 853, Equity ratio: 22%, Net interest bearing debt: MSEK 891 Quantity of products provided 170 000 tons produced 102-8 Information on employees and other workers a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and Total number of employees: 1 843. Permanent: 1 667 in total; 1 262 men, 405 women temporary), by gender Temporary: 176 in total; 120 men, 56 women b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and EA&A: Permanent: 1 228, Temporary: 45 temporary), by region A&ME: Permanent: 439, Temporary: 131 c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), Full time: 1 803 total; 1 376 men, 427 women by gender Part time: 40 total; 6 men, 34 women d. Whether a significant portion of the organisation’s activities are performed N/A by workers who are not employees 62 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, None 102-8-b, and 102-8-c f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any We use an in-house HR information system. This is maintained and updated by assumptions made our HR representatives at each site. There are no exclusions. 102-9 Supply Chain See Chain up! CSR assessment in supply chain p.38 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Relocation to new plant in Bangladesh Read more on p.16 of Beckers Magazine:: https://www.beckers-group.com/-/media/files/about-us/publications/ beckers-magazine-2019.pdf 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach As a chemical industry organisation with high standards of environmental performance and security, Beckers performs mandatory risk analysis for new processes and materials that take the precautionary principle into account 102-12 External initiatives Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, since 2018 102-13 Membership of associations CEPE (European Council of Paint, Printing Ink and Artists' Colours Industry), ECCA (European Coil Coating Association), NCCA (North America Coil Coatings Association) and other national paint organisations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker See CEO message p.3 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour See Beckers Group Code of Conduct, Our core values https://www.beckers-group.com/about-us/our-values/code-of-conduct/ p.50 Governance 102-18 Governance structure See Introducing our Board of Directors and the Executive Group p.52 Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups See Our stakeholders p.60 engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 55% 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders See Our stakeholders p.60 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement See Our stakeholders, The way ahead p.7 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised See Our stakeholders, The way ahead p.7 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 31 In 21 countries (including operations sites and offices) 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries See About the Report p.57 102-47 List of material topics See Management Approach p.58 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2019 31 December 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 7 June 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report See Contact p.69 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index This Index 102-56 External assurance No external assurance 63 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics 6.5 Material Topics GRI Standard Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference OWN TOPIC: Product 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 stewardship Percentage of raw material purchase value evaluated as 79% per standardised CSR guidelines against total raw material purchase turnover Percentage of raw material purchase approved as per standardised 68% CSR guidelines against total raw material purchase turnover (>40) Percentage of global supplier turnover that signed our Supplier CoC 84% The number of direct and indirect suppliers that signed out of total supplier turnover the Sustainability CoC GRI 301: Materials 2016 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach In the management approach, this topic is combined with p.58 the topic product stewardship 301-1 Materials used 151 221 tons From Top 100 suppliers a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and Non-renewable materials used: 150 115 tons package final products: non-renewable b. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and Renewable bio-based content is 1 106 tons Biobased 0.73% of raw materials purchased package final products: renewable GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation a. Total fuel consumption from non-renewable 19 180 MWh b. Total fuel consumption from renewable sources 0 c. Total consumption of i. Electricity 37 685 MWh Of which renewable: 14 561 MWh Self-generated solar energy: 123 MWh ii. Heating 7 071 MWh Of which renewable: 6 388 MWh iii. Cooling 0 iv. Steam 0 d. Total sold i. Electricity 13.72 MWh Self-generated solar energy not used at site and sold 64 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics GRI Standard Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference ii. Heating 0 iii. Cooling 0 iv. Steam 0 e. Total energy consumption 63 936 MWh 32% renewable of total f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, We calculate energy use and greenhouse gas emissions from all operations as well as from calculationtools used certain aspects of our transports. We use the calculation tool Our Impacts. The calculations follow the GHG Protocol and are performed by experts. g. Source of the conversion factors used The emission factors are included in the tool Our Impacts and are updated and revised regularly. For GWP, IPCC 2007 values are used. 302-3 Energy intensity a. Energy intensity ratio 0.37 MWh/ton product b. Organisation specific nominator Tons of volume produced on-site c. Types of energy included, or all All Includes renewable energy generated on-site d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the Energy consumption within the organisation only organisation or outside or both GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions a. Gross direct emissions 10 646 tons CO2e b. Gases included CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, NF3, SF6 and PFCs (when applicable) c. Biogenic emissions None d. Base year 2013 e. Source of emission factors and GWP used The emission factors are included in the tool Our Impacts and are updated and revised regularly. For GWP, IPCC 2007 values are used. f. Consolidation approach Operational control g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, calculation tools used We calculate energy use and greenhouse gas emissions from all operations as well as from certain aspects of our transports. We use the calculation tool Our Impacts. The calculations follow the GHG Protocol and are performed by experts. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions a. Gross location-based indirect emissions 13 926 tons CO2e b. Gross market-based indirect emissions 13 795 tons CO2e c. Gases included CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, NF3, SF6 and PFCs (when applicable) d. Base year 2013 e. Source of emission factors and GWP used The emission factors are included in the tool Our Impacts and are updated and revised regularly. For GWP, IPCC 2007 values are used f. Consolidation approach Operational control 65 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics GRI Standard Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, calculation tools used We calculate energy use and greenhouse gas emissions from all operations as well as from certain aspects of our transports. We use the calculation tool Our Impacts. The calculations follow the GHG Protocol and are performed by experts. 305-3 Other indirect (Sc3) GHG emissions a. Gross other indirect emissions 28 152 tons b. Gases included CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, NF3, SF6 and PFCs (when applicable) c. Biogenic emissions N/A d. Base year 2013 e. Source of emission factors and GWP used The emission factors are included in the tool Our Impacts and are updated and revised regularly. For GWP, IPCC 2007 values are used. f. Consolidation approach Operational control g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, calculation tools used We calculate energy use and greenhouse gas emissions from all operations as well as from certain aspects of our transports. We use the calculation tool Our Impacts. The calculations follow the GHG Protocol and are performed by experts. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity a. GHG emission intensity ratio 0.31 tons CO2e/ton product b. Organisation specific denominator Volume produced c. Types of GHG emissions included (Sc1, Sc2, Sc3) Scope 1 + Scope 2 + Scope 3 d. Gases included CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, NF3, SF6 and PFCs (when applicable) 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions a. Significant air emissions for VOC VOC 503 tons Other air emissions N/A Intensity 3 kg/ton b. Source of emission factors used The emission factors for the climate impact are included in the tool Our Impacts and are updated and revised regularly. c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, calculation tools used Climate impact of the VOC emissions are included in our climate assessment in Our Impacts d. Gases included Various Volatile Organic Compounds such as Xylene, Ethanol, Butylacetate, We report on emissions of volatile organic compounds Methoxypropylacetate etc. (VOCs) from our operations. We do not report emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx) since it is not directly applicable to our business operations. GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method a. Total weight of hazardous waste by disposal methods: i. Reuse 949 tons ii. Recycling 1 337 tons iii. Composting N/A 66 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics GRI Standard Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference iv. Recovery, incl. energy recovery 2 622 tons v. Incineration 663 tons vi. Deep well injection None vii. Landfill 46 tons viii. On-site storage None ix. Other None b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste by disposal method: i. Reuse 1 080 tons ii. Recycling 986 tons iii. Composting N/A iv. Recovery, incl. energy recovery 224 tons v. Incineration 2 tons vi. Deep well injection None vii. Landfill 278 tons viii. On-site storage None ix. Other None 306-3 Significant spills a. Total number and total volume 0 b. Additional information for each spill N/A, since 0 significant spills GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 401-1 Employees new and turnover a. Total number and rate of new employee hires by age, gender Total hires: 239 and region Age: <30 103 (43%), 30–50 116 (49%), >50 20 (8%) Gender: Women 80 (33%), Men 159 (67%) Region: AME 92 (38%), EAA 147 (62%) b. Total number and rate of employee turnover by age, gender Total leavers: 235 and region Age: <30 70 (30%), 30-50 130 (55%), >50 36 (15%) Gender: Women 65 (28%), Men 170 (72%) Region: AME 113 (48%), EAA 122 (52%) GRI 403: Occupational Health 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 and Safety 2016 403-1 Workers representation in health and safety committees a. Level of operation of the committee At local facilities / site level b. Percentage of workers represented in committees 100% of all employees at a site 67 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics GRI Standard Disclosure 2019 input Comments Page Reference 403-2 Work-related injuries, diseases, lost days etc a. Injury, injury rate, occupational disease rate, lost day rate, 5 injuries/accidents in group: Man-hours not captured on gender level (lost days and sick absentee rate, work-related fatalities, by region and gender LTI (injury rate): a) 1.50 for the group, b) 1.44 for EAA and leave) c) 1.61 for AME Occupational disease not reported on group level Lost day rate: a) 12.01 for the group, b) EAA at the rate of 17.89, c) AME is at 1.66 Sick leave rate: 3% Sick leave rate not measured at regional or gender level No work-related fatalities Gender split – N/A b. The same for workers controlled but not employed 0 injuries/accidents in group Lost day rate not calculated for contractors No work-related fatalities c. Rules for recording and reporting accidents An injury/accident that results in an absence from the next working day or shift GRI 404: Training and education 103-1 103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 2016 Own disclosure: E-learnings completion Code of Conduct training to 45% of all employees We do not have any recent numbers for sustainability training due to the platform provider discontinuing the service; search for new provider in progress GRI 413: Local communities 2016 103-1103-3 Management approach 2016 See Management Approach p.58 413-1 Local community engagement a. Percentage of operations with local community engagement 78% Different calculation than for 2018 report Omission: we do not have the information for each project to report on the details of this indicator, thus omitting to report on i viii 68 About the Management Our General Material Report Approach Stakeholders Disclosures Topics Glossary the equivalent global warming impact for any coating system helps with challenges in Material Sustainability are labelled RUV3 and RUV4 must fulfil high type of greenhouse gas. our society, such as pollution or energy Material sustainability indicates how standards for UV resistance under natural generation. It adds to the product lifetime sustainably a coating system is made – and artificial testing conditions, such as Code of Conduct and/or its energy efficiency; it reduces from its component raw materials, to its maintaining their colour and gloss. Details in A Code of Conduct is a set of principles, material use or improves the well-being of processing and manufacture. Coatings are the European standard EN 10169:2010. values, standards or rules of behaviour that people coming in contact with it. considered materially sustainable when they 1K Coating guide the decisions, procedures and systems are derived from sustainably mined minerals Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 1K is used for coatings that do not require a of an organisation in order to respect human GHG that are not scarce in nature. They must be Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions separate hardener, catalyst or activator. The rights and environmental standards. GHG stands for greenhouse gas and free from persistent and/or toxic substances from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 term is used to describe ready-to-use paints. describes a gas that absorbs and emits and based on renewable or recycled organic emissions are indirect emissions from the CSR radiant energy. Greenhouse gases cause raw materials. They are manufactured with generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 2K Coating Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is the greenhouse effect and are therefore minimal climate impact. emissions are all indirect emissions 2K is a term that describes coatings that need a business approach that contributes to responsible for climate change. (not included in Scope 2) that occur in the to be mixed by the user before application, sustainable development by delivering NMP value chain. with hardener, catalysts or activators. economic, social and environmental benefits GHG Protocol N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) is a reported for all stakeholders. The purpose of CSR is The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol toxic chemical. According to co-ordinated SDGs ACE to drive change towards sustainability. provides standards for accounting and classification and labelling (ATP09) approved In late 2015, the United Nations published 17 Beckers supplies coatings to the Agriculture, reporting, sector guidance, tools and by the European Union, NMP may harm global Sustainable Development Goals, to Construction and Earth-moving (ACE) EcoVadis training. It represents a global framework for unborn children and cause serious eye, skin be achieved by 2030. The SDGs are a call to equipment sector, which means everything EcoVadis is an independent ratings platform measuring and managing emissions. and respiratory irritation. action for all countries to promote prosperity from tractors to trucks. used by organisations of all shapes and sizes while protecting the planet. to assess CSR and sustainable procurement GRI OEM APE practices. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) TCO Automotive Plastics Exterior (APE) refers to is a global, network-based non-profit are typically companies that make parts and The total cost of ownership (TCO) looks the coatings we design that ensure bumpers EKPI organisation that publishes the world’s most equipment that are used and marketed by at the lifetime costs of a product – from and other moulded plastic components have EKPI stands for Environmental Key commonly-used guidelines on sustainability another manufacturer. the initial upfront costs, to the ongoing the same appearance, colour and durability Performance Indicator and describes reporting. maintenance and eventual end-of-life costs. as a vehicle’s metal bodywork. indicators that measure important RC5 environmental objectives, such as energy LCA RC5 is the highest category in the Circular economy use, waste generation and VOC emissions. A life-cycle assessment or analysis classification that indicates how resistant UN Global Compact The circular economy is an economic calculates the environmental impact of a coating is to natural outdoor corrosion. The Global Compact is an initiative of the system that seeks to design out waste Emission calculation approach a product or service at every stage of its The products must pass outdoor exposure United Nations and is based on ten principles through continual use of resources. To do A location-based method reflects the manufacture, use and disposal. tests in a variety of sites representing rural, for responsible action by companies. this, circular systems involve reuse, repair, average emissions intensity of grids on urban, industrial, maritime, pollution and refurbishment and recycling, minimising which energy consumption occurs, whereas Lean Six Sigma humidity and sea front environments or VOC resource use and reducing waste, pollution a market-based method reflects emissions Lean Six Sigma is a method that relies combinations thereof. Volatile organic compounds (VOC), are and carbon emissions. from electricity that companies have on a collaborative team effort to improve chemicals that have a high vapour pressure purposefully chosen. performance by systematically removing RUV3 / 4 at room temperature. This high vapour CO2e waste and reducing variation. It combines RUV3 and RUV4 are categories in the pressure results from a low boiling point, CO2e stands for carbon dioxide equivalent Functional Sustainability lean manufacturing/lean enterprise and Six classification that indicates resistance of a which causes large numbers of molecules and is a term to describe different Functional sustainability is what the coating Sigma to eliminate the eight kinds of waste. coating to natural outdoor UV radiation. The to evaporate into the surrounding air, a trait greenhouse gases in a common unit. CO2e system does for the overall sustainability of scale is from RUV1 to RUV4, with the latter known as volatility. signifies the amount of CO2 that would have the object it coats. A functionally sustainable being the highest category. The coatings that Adding value beyond the surface Sustainability Report 2019 Beckers Group Global Headquarters Wilh. Becker Holding GmbH Kurfürstendamm 57 10707 Berlin, Germany www.beckers-group.com © 2020 AB Wilh. Becker Contact: Nicklas Augustsson Global Sustainability Director Judith Jungmann Chief Human Resources Officer sustainability@beckers-group.com Beckers, Beckers rainbow logotype, Beckry® and Beckqua® are trademarks owned by AB Wilh. Becker, registered in the European Union and other countries.
